
    
      The Bariatric Surgery Registry (BSR) is a population based observational quality improvement
      study of patients with obesity undergoing bariatric surgery and collects identifiable data
      obtained from participants' medical records, the participants themselves and from surgeons or
      hospitals. When mature, the registry will collect data from all public and private hospitals
      in Australia and New Zealand that perform bariatric surgery (estimated to be around 152 sites
      in Australia and 12 in NZ). Contributing surgeons or public hospital clinics are required to
      make patients who will undergo bariatric procedures aware that information related to their
      procedure will be provided to the BSR. Surgeons and public hospital clinics are required to
      display a poster that advises their practice/clinic contributes to the Bariatric Surgery
      Registry and give all bariatric patients a registry information flyer. Upon the registry
      receiving patient demographic and procedure information from the surgeon or the hospital,
      bariatric patients are posted a Participant Fact Sheet (PFS) further advising that
      participation in the registry is voluntary and their decision not to participate in the
      registry or to participate and later opt out, will not affect their relationship with their
      treating surgeon or the hospital, and their surgeon will be unaware of their participation
      status. After the PFS are posted, bariatric patients have two weeks to contact the Registry
      staff via the free call telephone number to opt out. Their participation will be presumed if
      no contact is made within that period. There are three options for participation: full
      participation; partial opt out - data is included on the registry but registry staff will not
      contact the participant during the follow-up period; or, complete opt out - no clinical data
      is included on the registry. All participants retain the right to opt out at any time. For
      those who choose to opt out, their information is disposed of in accordance with the National
      Statement for Ethical Conduct in Human Research 2007 (2015). Data are provided using one of
      the following options: web browser with secure authorised entry using the Bariatric Surgery
      Registry Interface (BSR-i); paper based data forms securely faxed or posted; or, secure
      electronic record transfer from surgeons' or hospitals' electronic medical record. In New
      Zealand, data will only be collected through direct entry through the BSR-i. Completeness and
      accuracy of the eligible population captured by the Registry will be assessed using hospital
      International Classification of Disease 10-Australia Modified (ICD-10-AM) codes.
      Cross-checking with ICD-10-AM codes allows for complete data capture at each hospital site
      and provides data validation for each procedure submitted by the surgeon. Hospital
      Information Services (HIS) at each hospital site or of a private hospital group provide
      regular ICD-10-AM coding reports for bariatric procedures performed by surgeons who
      participate in the Registry. These reports are sent to the registry at regular intervals by
      the administering organising and will only contain data of contributing surgeons. The reports
      are sent to the registry using a secure file transfer platform (SFTP). In the case where the
      surgeon or hospital had not previously provided information of a bariatric patient, the
      reports will be the primary source of data. When ICD-10-AM coding is the primary source,
      surgeons are asked to complete the missing data elements not made available from the
      hospitals (e.g. device/stapling information, whether it is a primary or revision operation,
      height/ weight information and diabetes treatment). If the surgeons are providing the missing
      operation data with the ICD-10-AM report verification process, they will also be asked to
      provide their perioperative follow-up data at the same time to enable efficiency. Patients
      whose details are obtained from ICD-10-AM reports will be sent a PFS and the opt-out approach
      is followed. If the surgeons do not supply the missing data elements, registry staff will
      contact the patient to confirm whether the procedure was a primary or revision and to
      ascertain the participant's height, weight, diabetes status and treatment prior to surgery.
      If surgeons or public data collectors indicate they have not seen the participant for
      follow-up and are unable to provide post-operative data, registry staff will contact the
      participant for a brief phone call to collect the information related to the perioperative
      period and/or 12 month intervals after surgery. This call may also include the missing data
      elements about their procedure if the surgeon or data collector had not provided them. Five
      attempts will be made to contact the patient before they are allocated to "Lost to
      Follow-Up." A waiver of consent has been granted by 40 ethics committees for the time during
      the data acquisition process when patients' data may be held without providing them the
      opportunity to opt out. The waiver covers from the time when the surgeons and hospitals
      provide patients' information before the PFS is posted and two weeks have passed; and, from
      the time when the BSR receives the Health Information Services discharge coding (ICD-10-AM
      reports) and when patients are identified whose data was not provided by surgeons or
      hospitals until the PFS is posted and two weeks has passed. Further, a waiver of consent has
      been also granted by the same ethics committees in the event that the patient dies following
      bariatric surgery so as not to burden next of kin. Information related to a mortality is
      essential to determine if the death is likely to have been caused by the bariatric surgery.
      Data collected are defined in the BSR's data dictionary and governed by the Steering
      Committee with any changes managed through a data element variation process. The data
      elements collected include: Patient Identifiers-full name, address, date of birth, unit
      record (UR) number/hospital, Individual Healthcare Identifier (IHI) number when available,
      email address; Patient Demographic Information-Medicare, or Department of Veterans' Affairs
      (DVA) number, National Health Index number (NHI) in New Zealand, phone numbers, gender, and
      indigenous status/ethnicity; Procedural information-surgeon name, procedure date, procedure
      type, primary or planned/unplanned revision status, reason for revision, bariatric procedure
      prior to revision, procedure abandoned or not, length of hospital stay, mortality status and
      if death likely related to bariatric procedure; Clinical details: start weight (for primary
      patients only), day-of-surgery (DOS) weight, height, diabetes status and treatment, and
      whether there was a concurrent renal and liver transplant; Device or staple details: type,
      brand, model, port fixation method, and buttressing; Peri-operative (up to 90 days
      :post-surgery) outcome data: date patient examined for follow-up; defined adverse events
      (unplanned return to theatre, unplanned admission to an intensive care unit, unplanned
      re-admission to hospital, prolonged hospital stay and reason or complication that caused the
      adverse event); mortality status and if death likely related to bariatric procedure; Annual
      Outcome data (for primary patients only) up to 10 years after surgery: weight, diabetes
      status and treatment, re-operation and reason; mortality status and if death likely related
      to bariatric procedure; and, Participant Feedback For quality assurance purposes, and as a
      basis for the potential development of the SMS/Secure Portal platform as described above,
      participants will be given the opportunity to provide feedback on their experience with the
      Registry and to advise how the BSR could better support their journey as bariatric patients.
      Perioperative follow-up data refers to the period between 20 and 90 days post-surgery. Annual
      follow-up refers to the period between 9 months prior to anniversary or 3 months following.
      Participants are identified as "primary" if they are entered the Registry with their first
      bariatric procedure or as "legacy" if they are entered with a revision bariatric procedure.
      The Bariatric Surgery Registry data dictionary defines each of the items on which data is
      collected and provides information on how the required data is sourced and entered in the
      database. The dictionary consists of a contents page that groups data items according to data
      that is collected from same source and refers to a particular phase of patient's care. Data
      completeness and accuracy are optimized through in-built validation and completion checks in
      the registry database to minimize data entry error. These include data entry controlled by
      form logic and limited to feasible data; the use of built in edit checks to ensure data meet
      required formats and ranges; accuracy enhanced by the use of exhaustive drop down lists
      providing all possible answers to minimize free text entry where applicable; the use of hide
      and show mechanisms to guide data entry to required fields; use of explanatory texts to
      assist data entry; validation rules applied at the time of submission with alerts to assist
      with errors and missing data; and the use of a participant management system to list
      incomplete data and other actions required. Additional quality checks post data entry
      includes checks for duplicate data, missing data, and data consistency. Data quality and
      completeness are checked at a number of stages of the data management process. Errors in data
      quality, when identified, may be referred back to contributing surgeons or sites for review.
      Case ascertainment as well as both brief and comprehensive audit processes will be performed
      on site by Monash University registry staff (Australia only). Registry staff will perform
      regular remote audit checks to verify the accuracy of data received from surgeons. This will
      be done during the course of a follow-up phone call from the call centre or by registry staff
      directly contacting surgeons' rooms. In Australia, it is intended that the BSR will
      periodically link to other repositories, or datasets, of health information which can
      validate registry data. This is to verify critical quality data such as patient mortality,
      defined adverse events and other outcome measures are completely captured, minimising the
      risk of surgeons selectively choosing whom they enter on the BSR. Requests to link New
      Zealand BSR data to national data sets will be considered by the Steering Committee on a case
      by case basis. For data linkages in Australia and New Zealand, the necessary approvals from
      an ethics committee will be sought when required. All statistical analyses of this registry
      will be undertaken with the support of the Biostatistics unit at Monash University.
      Non-identifiable data for both Australia and New Zealand will be provided to an independent
      biostatistician employed by the Monash University, Department of Epidemiology and Preventive
      Medicine by secure file transfer for review on at least a six monthly basis. Participants,
      hospitals and surgeons will not be identified in this dataset. The results will be provided
      to the Monash by the registry's Project Manager. Only non-clinical registry staff will have
      access to identifiable data. All data to be used in reports or publications are to be cleaned
      and verified prior to analysis. Routine, re-analysis of data will be undertaken by the
      Project Manager to ensure findings are reproducible. The governance of how the data
      activities are undertaken lies with the Steering Committee. The Terms of Reference of the BSR
      Steering Committee outline specific roles of the Steering Committee in relation to data as
      follows- monitor the registry's data quality management processes and timeliness of
      reporting; develop and monitor policies for access to data and responses to quality of care
      issues identified; review and advise on outputs from the registry; and review all research
      and data requests for identifiable data.
    
  