
    
      Childhood obesity is a major public health problem in the US among racial and ethnic
      minorities, including among the US's growing Latino population. One promising but
      understudied policy for addressing childhood obesity is requiring pictorial warnings on the
      front of sugar-sweetened beverage containers. The impact of pictorial warnings in real-world
      food retail environments on parents' sugar-sweetened beverage purchasing behavior for their
      children is unknown. This study will assess the impact of pictorial warnings on parents'
      sugar-sweetened beverage purchases for their children in a real-world randomized controlled
      trial. The investigators focus on parents as they are the primary decision-makers and
      purchasers of food products for children and exert strong influence over their children's
      dietary intake and food attitudes. Half of participants will be Latino as childhood obesity
      is a major public health problem among the US's growing Latino population.

      Setting: The trial will take place in a mock convenience store setting created for
      researchers to examine how store and product characteristics influence consumer purchases in
      a controlled but realistic environment. The store reflects a convenience store's
      characteristics, with foods, beverages, and household items set at real-world prices.

      Recruitment: Participants will be recruited locally via methods including community subject
      pools, printed flyers posted, and online listings. Interested potential participants will
      complete a screening questionnaire online, in person, or over the phone to determine their
      eligibility. If eligible, they will be invited to schedule a time to visit the mock store for
      the trial.

      Informed Consent: At the beginning of the in-person study visit, study staff will explain the
      consent form. The study staff will ask the participant if he or she has any questions; once
      the participant consents to the study, both parties will sign the consent form and the
      participant will receive a copy of the consent form.

      Randomization: After the participant signs the consent form, study staff will randomly assign
      participants to one of the two study arms. Randomization order will be determined a priori.
      Participants will have an equal chance of being randomized to either arm of the trial.

      Assessment: Using an established protocol, participants will visit the mock study convenience
      store and be given a shopping task to select 1 beverage and 1 snack to purchase for their
      child ages 2-12. If the participant has more than one child age 2-12, the investigators will
      randomly select the child they should shop for. At check-out, study staff will record the
      products selected. Participants will then complete 1 computer-based survey immediately after
      completing the shopping task. The visit will take approximately 45-60 minutes. At the end of
      the study, participants will receive an informational handout about sugar-sweetened beverages
      and healthier alternatives.

      Detailed description of the trial arms: Participants will be assigned to either a pictorial
      warnings arm or a control arm. In the pictorial warnings arm, all sugar-sweetened beverage
      products in the mock store will be labeled with a pictorial warning label (two different
      warning labels will be displayed at the same time, but only 1 warning label per product).
      Investigators developed the text and design of these warning labels using a pre-test. In the
      control arm, all sugar-sweetened beverage products will be labeled with a neutral label, also
      developed by the investigators. In both arms, labels will be adhered directly on the
      front-of-package of sugar-sweetened beverage containers.
    
  