
    
      Water polo is a high-intensity team sport that originated in England in the 1860's as a sort
      of water rugby. The national team of water polo, which is one of the oldest team sports
      included in the Olympic programme, was formed in our country in 1934. Water polo is a sports
      branch in which basic and auxiliary biomotor skills are used high level in accordance with
      its technical and tactical features. Water polo players; are performing actions which consist
      of a combination of movements such as rising, diving, blocking, sprinting, controlling the
      ball, agility and shooting. The most important action among major movements that determines
      the result of the match is the skill of shooting. Water polo training, swimming, scissors,
      shooting and passing. After all of these, the players continue the technical-tactical team
      training in the water for the matches.

      The essential physical suitability parameters of water polo players during performance are
      muscle endurance, flexibility,joint stabilization, muscular strength, muscle-strength balance
      and skills specific to water polo. It has been suggested that, in the case of weakness in
      these basic parameters, a risk factor for pain and injury may occur. The mostly injured parts
      of water polop players are; shoulder, hand, head, elbow and groin respectirely. It was
      reported that 13% of 260 water polo players were injured in London Summer Olympic
      Games(2012). Water polo players have their injuries mostly in the shoulder area and the
      reason is; the shoulder area carries 70% of the whole body weight while the legs carry 30%.
      Considering this ratio, it is seen that the risk of injury is inevitable. Among teh risk
      factors for shoulder injuries there take place insufficient shoulder stabilizaiton,
      hypermobility, repetitive throwing, rapid rotational movements for grasping and defensive
      movements.

      In determining the rate and strength of shooting, shoulder joint stabilization is important.
      To optimize the function of the shoulder, scapula supports optimal muscle activation,
      increases the muscle strength and transfers the muscle strength and energy through the
      kinetic chain during shoulder movements, the dynamic movement of the scapula increases the
      stability of the glenohumeral joint. Scapular stabilization exercises are neuromuscular
      control exercises which support the posterior curvature and external rotation of the scapula
      and aims to develop the stabilization of the scapula and the shoulder and improve the motor
      control usually including visual, verbal and kinesthetic feedback. Studies done in the
      literature have shown that scapular stabilization exercises reduce the pain and disability in
      shoulder problems and increase the strength of the muscle in shoulder area.

      Proprioception is an important part of shoulder stability and neuromuscular control.
      Disruption of the proprioceptive system leads to malfunctions in muscular activity and badly
      affected joint stabilization. The joint, whose stabilization and protective muscular activity
      is impaired, becomes vulnerable to external traumas. Deficiencies in the proprioceptive sense
      have been associated with a decrease in sporting performance. Also, repetitive throwing
      activities increase the risk of injury in the shoulder complex by causing a short-term
      weakening in shoulder muscle strength and proprioceptive functions. It has been claimed that
      greater sensory acvity contributes to the motor control of the joint through improved
      proprioception.
    
  