
    
      Nutrition and diet have been shown to have a direct impact on the health of the population
      and of selected patient groups. These beneficial effects have been attributed to the
      reduction of oxidative damage caused by the normal or excessive free radical production.

      Antioxidants (AOX) are substances which inhibit or delay oxidation. The most important source
      of AOX is dietary intake. The trace elements copper, selenium, manganese, and zinc are all
      essential components of endogenous AOX defences. Nutritional antioxidants act through
      different mechanisms but are mainly free radical scavengers.

      Oxidative stress occurs when there is an imbalance between generation of reactive oxygen
      species and inadequate antioxidant defence systems. Oxidative stress can cause cell damage
      either directly or through altering signalling pathways. Oxidative stress is a unifying
      mechanism of injury in many types of disease processes, including gastrointestinal diseases.
      Not surprisingly, many studies have investigated the potential clinical benefits of
      administering AOX to various patient groups. These results indicate that AOX nutrients do
      have a role in the intracellular prevention of AOX related damage and of proximity damage
      propagation. AOX, in particular appear effective in reducing damage which occurs as a result
      of ischaemia reperfusion injury.

      The evidence suggests that the timing of AOX supplementation is important. It is unlikely
      that AOX will be able to reverse pathological change but they may limit its extension. In
      acute conditions the concept of a therapeutic window is essential. There appears to be an
      optimal early timing during which supplementation may have a "preventative" effect. The
      magnitude of this is probably determined by premorbid state. It is interesting to speculate,
      therefore, that pre loading with AOX might mitigate against severity of oxidative damage
      following a defined injury including surgery. There are theoretical reasons to consider that
      preoperative antioxidant therapy may be beneficial however there are no data available to
      date that confirms benefits in clinical practice and in particular as a preoperative
      supplement. Most studies to date have looked perioperative or postoperative supplementation
      with the antioxidants alone. No attempt has been made to do this using a palatable biscuit
      that would facilitate preoperative oral supplementation.

      The rationale for this study is to establish whether or not Fitabisc, a biscuit that contains
      key antioxidants can be tolerated for up to 5 days before surgery in patients undergoing
      abdominal operations.

      If this study confirms palatability and adherence to eating the biscuit then it would be our
      aim to set up a prospective randomised study in which the potential efficacy of Fitabisc
      would be evaluated.
    
  