
    
      Tooth loss or edentulism is a major dental problem worldwide, particularly among the senior
      population. A recent study in Singapore found that approximately one third of adults aged
      over 60 are living with complete edentulism. Prevalence of partial edentulism in this
      population is estimated to be even higher. The high prevalence of tooth loss has resulted in
      great needs and demands of prosthetic replacements, posing challenges to the public dental
      care system in Singapore. Removable denture prosthesis is the most commonly used device to
      replace missing teeth and restore oral functions. The removable denture prosthesis possesses
      a metal framework that connects the clasps, retainers, base and acrylic teeth, to ensure
      rigidity and stability while in function. However, the current way of fabricating denture
      frameworks using casting method is a time consuming, complex, error-prone, and expensive
      process. Due to the inherent inaccuracies in the materials and technique, the fit of the
      framework is compromised and undesirable to meet patients' satisfaction. With recent
      developments in computer aided design and additive manufacturing, commonly known as 3D
      printing or rapid prototyping, the techniques allow for printing of complex metal structures
      of high strength, stiffness and chemical resistance. This proposal aims to compare the
      precision and fit, and patient's satisfaction, of 3D printed denture frameworks and
      eventually translate this to a more efficient denture fabricating process.

      The removable denture prosthesis is the most commonly used device to replace missing teeth
      and restore oral functions in patients with partial and complete edentulism. The fabrication
      of framework using conventional methods is time consuming and inaccurate. Thus the ultimate
      goal of this study is to enhance the workflow efficiency, improve the fabrication precision
      of the device, reduce treatment cost and time, and promote oral function and overall quality
      of life of patients. At the same time, the research methods developed from this study is a
      platform for the study of new dental devices, with potential applications for new digital
      dental practices. Thus, if successful, the deliverables from this research will both advance
      dental research, and extend applicable knowledge to the clinic.
    
  