
    
      Static magnetic therapy is increasingly used to alleviate pain; however, its efficacy has not
      been determined yet. The aims of this proposal are to evaluate the effect of magnetic therapy
      on pain intensity levels, opioid requirements, and opioid side effects.

      A randomized, double blind, controlled trial is proposed. Patients from 8 years old and older
      subjected to a variety of surgical procedures with pain of intensity at least 5/10 will be
      randomized into two groups: Magnetic therapy or Placebo.

      The devices will be placed around the surgical wound for 2 hours. Every ten minutes, patients
      will rate their pain intensity on a 0-10 numerical rating scale, and morphine will be
      administered until pain intensity is ≤ 4/10. Pain intensity will be the primary outcome.
      Opioid requirements and opioid side effects will be secondary outcomes.

      To detect a difference of 1 unit (from 0 to 10) between the groups with 80% power, assuming
      that the baseline pain intensity is 7.9 ± 2.0, we estimated the need for 70 patients per
      group.

      We will use an intention-to-treat analysis. To analyze the effect of the treatment on pain
      intensity, an analysis of repeated measures using generalized estimating equations will be
      used. The proportion of subjects in each group who exhibit 50% or more pain relief one hour
      after application of the magnetic devices and the number needed to treat will also be
      calculated. To analyze the effect of the treatment on opioid requirements, a difference in
      morphine requirements between groups two hours after placement of the magnets will be
      estimated. To analyze the effect of the treatment on opioid side effects, a variable that
      summarizes the presence of any side effect two hours after the placement of the magnets will
      be created, and the absolute risk difference for developing any side effect will be
      estimated. Ninety five percent confidence intervals will be reported.

      This proposal would contribute substantially to the complementary medicine field, not only
      because of its scientific rigor, but also because the pain model that it evaluates
      strengthens the validity of the results.
    
  