
    
      Anastrozole (Arimidex®) is a selective aromatase inhibitor (a drug that interferes with the
      making of oestrogens). Reduction in serum oestrogen levels in a hormone-receptor positive
      breast cancer patient is clearly beneficial in delaying the regrowth of breast cancer cells
      in the body. Anastrozole is effective in reducing serum oestrogen levels which results in
      several significant side-effects with 2 being of significant importance; joint pain and
      stiffness and bone thinning or osteoporosis. The question being asked in this trial is if
      replacement of testosterone to women receiving Anastrozole can have a reduction in these 2
      common side-effects. Women normally have circulating in their blood 3 major sex hormones:
      oestrogen, testosterone and progesterone. Each of these is produced by the ovaries. Oestrogen
      is also made throughout the body but particularly in body fat. Testosterone can also be made
      in other parts of the body from hormones (DHEA and DHEAS) that are produced by the adrenal
      glands. At the time of natural menopause, surgical removal of the ovaries or destruction of
      the ovaries by chemotherapy, oestrogen and progesterone levels fall precipitously.
      Testosterone levels however fall more gradually with increasing age such that a woman in her
      forties has on average only half of the testosterone circulating in her bloodstream as does a
      woman in her twenties. After a woman has her ovaries removed by surgery or destroyed by
      chemotherapy testosterone levels can fall by up to fifty percent. However testosterone does
      not change across menopause, although this varies somewhat between women. Testosterone is
      known to have many physiological roles in women. Firstly, oestrogen is actually made from
      testosterone, and without the ability of our bodies to make testosterone we cannot make
      oestrogen. Testosterone appears to have direct independent effects in different parts of the
      body, and some women may experience a variety of physical symptoms when their blood levels
      fall. Anastrazole almost completely blocks the formation of oestrogen from testosterone. Thus
      the question being asked in this trial is, can increasing the blood level of testosterone
      reduce specific side-effects caused by reduction availability of hormones in joints and
      bones.
    
  