
    
      This study is testing a process (rEEG)for selecting the most appropriate medication(s) to
      treat a patient's depression versus a control group being treated according to a standardized
      method, the modified Star*D Algorithm. Qualified subjects will be randomized to the
      experimental (rEEG guided) group, or the control group and treated for 10 weeks. Medications
      utilized in this study are currently marketed. All visits, physical exam, rEEG, labs, rating
      scales and medications are provided at no cost to the patient.

      To qualify for entry into the study, patients must be:

        1. 18 years of age or older.

        2. Diagnosis of Major Depressive Disorder. Subjects may meet criteria for both melancholic
           and atypical depression.

        3. Have failed 1 or more SSRIs, or have failed 2 or more antidepressants in at least 2 drug
           classes.

      And patients must not have:

        1. History of: closed head injury with unconsciousness, craniotomy, cerebral metastases,
           cerebrovascular accident; no current diagnosis of seizure disorder, bipolar disorder,
           schizophrenia, dementia, mental retardation, substance abuse, or major depression with
           psychotic features; or use of depot neuroleptics in last 12 months.

        2. Known pregnancy and/or lactation, or intent to become pregnant during this study.

      Medications that can be used in this study are:

      Anti-depressants: fluoxetine, sertraline, paroxetine, desipramine, imipramine,
      nortriptyline,amitriptyline, clomipramine, bupropion, venlafaxine

      Stimulants & MAO Inhibitors: moclobemide, tranylcypromine, selegiline, methylphenidate,
      dextroamphetamine, dexlevoamphetamine, pemoline, lamotrigine, topiramate

      Benzodiazepines: lorazepam, clonazepam, alprazolam

      Anti-convulsants: carbamazepine, lithium, divalproex, gabapentin

      Beta Blockers: metoprolol, propranolol, atenolol
    
  