
    
      Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive and debilitating lung disease
      characterized by interstitial fibrosis with decreasing lung volumes and pulmonary
      insufficiency eventually resulting in death. Patients with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis
      (IPF) typically present with complaints of sub acutely progressive dyspnea and non-productive
      cough, often accompanied by digital clubbing. Due to the insidious onset of symptoms,
      however, most patients are diagnosed at late stages of the disease after significant fibrosis
      has occurred. Physical exam is characterized by hypoxemia, "dry" inspiratory crackles on
      auscultation, and occasional digital clubbing (6). Pulmonary function tests (PFTs) usually
      reveal restrictive lung physiology with progressive decline of forced vital capacity (FVC),
      diffusion capacity (DLCO) and six-minute walk distances. Diagnosis is established by the
      pathologic finding of usual interstitial pneumonia (with sub epithelial fibroblastic foci) by
      open lung biopsy (7), and/or by high resolution CT (HRCT) demonstrating the characteristic
      findings of peripheral/basal sub pleural reticulonodular changes with fibrosis, honeycombing,
      and traction bronchiectasis (8, 9).

      The prognosis for patients with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) is uniformly poor. The
      natural history of the disease is characterized by inexorable progressive decline
      interspersed with "exacerbations" or periods of accelerated disease which are often fatal
      (5). There are no FDA approved treatment options for patients with Idiopathic Pulmonary
      Fibrosis (IPF) and thus no standard of care. In cases of patients under the age of 60 with
      limited comorbid disease, lung transplant may be offered. Patients with Idiopathic Pulmonary
      Fibrosis (IPF) receive empiric treatment, supportive care alone, and more recently, are
      offered enrollment in clinical trials.

      The pathogenesis of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) is characterized by epithelial cell
      injury and activation with interstitial inflammation, fibroblast proliferation with
      extracellular matrix collagen deposition, and eventual loss of function. Because mesenchymal
      stem cells are known to home to sites of injury, inhibit inflammation, and contribute to
      epithelial tissue repair, their use has been suggested as a novel therapy for the treatment
      of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF).
    
  