
    
      This is a prospective, multicenter, open-label, single arm study. Patients will be considered
      "on study" upon signing the written informed consent form (ICF). The study consists of a
      baseline period, followed by a treatment period, consisting of 14-day treatment cycles, which
      will end by a 30-day Follow-up visit, which in turn, will be followed by a post-treatment
      follow-up period.

      Patients will be evaluated for PFS then be followed on study until death or until cut-off
      date for final analysis of OS has been reached, whichever comes first.

      During the 21-day baseline period, all baseline procedures will have to be performed within
      defined timelines, including review of eligibility criteria During the treatment period, the
      study treatment, aflibercept combined with FOLFIRI will be administered every 2 weeks unless
      a definitive treatment discontinuation criterion is met. Cycle lengths may be extended in
      case of unresolved toxicity.

      Imaging to document tumor response and progressive disease will take place every 6 weeks and
      will continue to be done during the follow-up period in case of early study treatment
      discontinuation (i.e. prior to documented progression). Once disease progression is
      documented, patients will be followed every 2 months for survival status and collection of
      data regarding further anticancer therapy, until death or until the study cutoff date,
      whichever comes first.

      The patients will be followed for safety for a minimum of 30 days following the last
      administration of the study treatment (30-day Follow-up visit). Beyond this date, all study
      drug related AEs and all SAEs should be followed until resolution/stabilization. Study
      drug-related AEs brought to the attention of the investigator at any time after the 30-day
      Follow-up visit should be recorded in the case report form (CRF).
    
  