
    
      Approximately 13% of all children (2 - 19 years old) are afflicted with NAFLD with the
      prevalence of NAFLD increasing to 60-80% among youth with obesity. NAFLD is characterized by
      excessive deposition of fat in the liver, which is an independent risk factor for the
      development of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Unchecked,
      NAFLD can progress into more severe forms of liver disease, including NASH, cirrhosis, and
      hepatocellular carcinoma, which eventually can lead to liver transplantation or death.
      Unfortunately, treatment of NAFLD through lifestyle interventions is extremely challenging
      and minimally effective even under intensive conditions. Bariatric surgery has shown promise
      as a treatment approach in adults, but remains controversial for a treatment of NAFLD in
      pediatrics.Even if bariatric surgery is proven effective, the overall impact will be low
      since a very small proportion of adolescents with obesity opt for this extreme treatment.
      Moreover, surgery is not indicated in youth with milder forms of obesity or younger children
      and since NAFLD occurs across the entire age-spectrum and is not exclusive to youth with
      obesity, a large need would be unmet by surgical treatment options. Therefore, novel
      non-surgical approaches that complement lifestyle modification therapy are needed in order to
      advance the field in a meaningful way and to provide care to a wide-range of youth with
      NAFLD. However, no safe or effective pharmacotherapy treatment options are presently
      available for youth with NAFLD, leaving a tremendous gap in care. Therefore, altering the gut
      microbiome through administration of a prebiotic dietary fiber is an attractive treatment
      option.

      To date, no medications have been successful at producing meaningful improvements in NAFLD
      among youth. Similarly, in adults, existing pharmacotherapy options elicit some improvement
      in liver enzymes and/or histology but have failed to demonstrate widespread efficacy.
      Moreover, most medications are not indicated for children under the age of 12, and
      pediatricians are adverse to using them until all other treatment options have failed.
      Therefore, alternative approaches must be taken in this difficult-to-treat clinical
      population to identify more effective treatment options. A prebiotic dietary fiber may offer
      a potential novel treatment option for NAFLD in children with obesity.

      Subjects who are interested in participating in the study will be asked to come in for a
      screening visit where their parent will sign a parental consent form and the child will sign
      an assent form. Blood will be drawn for safety tests and biomarker sampling. Urine and stool
      will also be collected. A portable glucose monitor will be placed to collect timed glucose
      results. Subjects will have an MRI to confirm their NAFLD and their BMI will be calculated.
      Subjects will undergo a dual x-ray absorptiometry (iDXA) scan and lifestyle counseling.
      Subjects enrolled in this study will be randomly assigned (1:1) to receive either polylactose
      or the placebo. Subjects will take the polylactose or the placebo in foods provided by the
      study team (made in a food-grade space utilizing good manufacturing practices to minimize
      cross contamination). Subjects will take polylactose/placebo for 26 weeks. They will come
      have blood drawn for safety tests and biomarkers at weeks 8 and 26. They will have urine and
      stool samples collected at weeks 8, 20 and 26. Assessments of their glucose levels will be
      done via a wearable glucose monitor between the screening/randomization and week 4, and again
      between week 20 and week 26. MRI scans of the liver iDXA scans will be repeated at weeks 8
      and 26. Lifestyle counseling and assessment of adverse events, compliance with taking the
      study product/placebo and tolerability of the intervention will take place at weeks 4, 8, 13,
      20 and 26.
    
  