
    
      Synthetic glucocorticoids (GC) are used in the treatment of numerous inflammatory or
      auto-immune diseases, in particular the intestinal chronic inflammatory diseases (Crohn's
      disease, chronic ulcerative colitis). In case of discontinuation of a prolonged (superior to
      3-4 weeks) and systemic treatment, deleterious side effects are frequent, with in particular
      a risk of adrenocortical insufficiency and withdrawal cortisonic syndrome. Our protocol of
      medical research concerns these two complications, and aims at optimizing the evaluation of
      the adrenal function.

      The adrenocortical insufficiency after prolonged corticotherapy is the most frequent cause of
      secondary adrenocortical insufficiency. It is due to the braking of the
      hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis which controls the endogenous secretion of cortisol.
      It is mostly transient, but can last several months, and exposes to a risk of acute
      decompensation. An adapted coverage with replacement doses of hydrocortisone (natural GC) is
      thus necessary during the treatment discontinuation, together with regular hormonal
      revaluations to track down the recovery of the adrenal function. These evaluations are based
      on biological measurements, because of the absence of specific clinical symptoms. At first,
      basal plasma cortisol at 08:00 am (physiological peak of the hormone) is assayed. A value
      lower than 8 µg / dl (220 nmol / l) allows to do the positive diagnosis of adrenal
      insufficiency and a value superior to 20 µg / dl (550 nmol / l) to exclude it. Between these
      2 values, a doubt remains on the capacities of the adrenal glands to secrete enough cortisol
      in case of stress, and the realization of a dynamic test of stimulation is then necessary.
      The standard test used in common practice is the "short" synacthene stimulation test
      (fragment 1-24 of the ACTH, the hormone secreted by the pituitary gland and stimulating the
      secretion of cortisol) using an IV injection of 250 µg of immediate synacthen. The study
      (forward-looking and opened) will concern 70 subjects having had a systemic prolonged
      treatment with corticosteroids for intestinal chronic inflammatory disease, recruited in the
      services of gastroenterology and endocrinology of the North Hospital of Marseille (France).
      The primary objective of the study is to estimate a new test, the "long" synacthen
      stimulation test, using an IM injection of 1 mg of delate synacthen, with regard to the
      definitive standard. Indeed, this long test could be realized in ambulatory conditions, and
      turn out more contributory than the definitive standard to estimate the capacities of answer
      of the adrenal glands in front of a prolonged stress, as it is the case during a surgical
      procedure for example.

      The secondary objectives are: 1) to determine the relation between the value of basal
      cortisol and the peak of stimulation of cortisol during short and long tests. This could
      allow to clarify better the conditions in which it is absolutely necessary to realize a
      dynamic test, 2) to determine the relation between cortisol assay in the plasma (classically
      used) and in the saliva ( which is validated for the evaluation of the other adrenal
      pathology as the Cushing's syndrome, but not still in the adrenocortical insufficiency after
      prolonged corticotherapy). The sample of saliva is simple and non-invasive, and presents the
      advantage to be able to be realized in ambulatory conditions and by the patient himself.

      The cortisonic withdrawal syndrome is another complication which can arise when a prolonged
      corticosteroid therapy is discontinued. Clinically, it looks like a chronic adrenocortical
      insufficiency, but with normal ranges of plasma cortisol. It is probably in touch with a
      physical dependence to the taking of above physiological doses of GC over a long period. Its
      physiopathology remains badly known, but could bring in a deficit of secretion of DHEA-S
      (dehydro-epiandrosterone sulphate), another hormone secreted by the adrenal glands. One of
      the secondary objectives of the study will consist in informing the variations of DHEA-S
      after a prolonged corticotherapy, in the basal state and after stimulation by the long
      synacthen stimulation test.
    
  