
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Physical inactivity is related to many health problems, including increased risk of
      cardiovascular disease, hypertension, and cancer. Despite the health consequences of a
      sedentary lifestyle, only 25 percent of Americans meet the recommended levels of physical
      activity. Researchers postulate that theory-based interventions effectively influence
      physical activity behavior by changing theoretical constructs believed to be important for
      behavior change (i.e., potential mediators), such as self-efficacy (i.e., confidence in one's
      ability to be physically active). Unfortunately, previous studies have generally failed to
      adequately test the mediating effect of theoretical constructs using appropriate statistical
      mediator analyses as recommended by leading behavioral scientists and statisticians.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study will examine the mediating effect of theoretical constructs based on the
      Transtheoretical Model (TTM) and Social Cognitive Theory (SCT). The study will address the
      methodological, measurement, and statistical limitations of previous studies. The
      investigators will randomly assign 420 healthy sedentary individuals to either a theory-based
      physical activity intervention or a contact control group. Physical activity behavior and the
      potential mediators will be assessed monthly over 12 months. They hypothesize that constructs
      based on the TTM and SCT (i.e., behavioral processes, cognitive processes, self-efficacy, and
      decisional balance) will mediate the relationship between group assignment (intervention vs.
      contact control) and physical activity behavior, such that the effect of the intervention on
      physical activity behavior relative to the contact control group will be attenuated when
      controlling for the mediators. They will also examine the importance of particular mediators
      for different population groups (e.g., age, gender), which will help to create more effective
      interventions for these groups. Finally, they will conduct a cost analysis to not only inform
      policy makers of the cost of delivering the intervention within our study but also to
      estimate the cost of delivering each component of the intervention (i.e., mediator). The
      analysis will estimate the cost of future refined interventions that incorporate those active
      components that affect the mediators and physical activity in this study. In summary, the
      study will identify which mediators (i.e., theoretical constructs) are most effective for
      increasing physical activity, which will have an important public health impact given that
      this will likely lead to more efficacious and less costly interventions.
    
  