
    
      Inadequate pain relief following cardiac surgery increases morbidity, length of stay in the
      intensive care unit, persistent pain, and costs. Moderate to severe pain is common after
      cardiac surgery, peaking during the first and second postoperative day, then decreasing after
      the third day.

      Regional anesthesia as part of a multimodal pain management strategy has become a key feature
      of cardiac surgery enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) protocols. A technique
      consolidating the pectoralis nerve block (PECS) and serratus anterior plane block (SAPB) into
      a single injection has been described, also called the serratus anterior plane (SAP) block.
      Given the relative paucity of evidence assessing the utility of continuous serratus anterior
      plane block (cSAP) in cardiac surgery, we decided to assess the feasibility of a placebo
      controlled randomized controlled trial (RCT) with a pilot study.

      Primary Pilot Study Objective To assess feasibility of a larger intervention study by
      measuring recruitment rate, adherence rate, retention rates and continuous serratus anterior
      plane block (cSAP)-related adverse events following cardiac surgery via median sternotomy.

      Methods This study will include patients undergoing valvular replacement/repair and/or
      coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) at the QEII Health Sciences Center in Halifax, Nova
      Scotia. The study will include a maximum of 50 participants, randomly assigned to 2 study
      arms of 25 participants. A computer-generated random number will be assigned by the central
      pharmacy to randomize patients on a 1:1 basis to the Ropivacaine and placebo groups.

      cSAP block procedure - Study Intervention A member of the cardiac anesthesia or regional
      anesthesia team will place bilateral serratus anterior catheters under ultrasound guidance
      within 2 hours of arrival to the cardiovascular intensive care unit. A bolus of study drug
      20ml (either ropivacaine 0.2% or normal saline) will be delivered at the time of the block. A
      18g multiholed catheter will be inserted and secured to the patients' skin. The same
      procedure will be followed on the contralateral side. The study drug will be administered by
      programmed intermittent bolus (PIB) 10ml every 2 hours to each side in a staggered,
      alternating fashion. The PIB study drug will to be continued for 72 hours post-insertion.

      Feasibility endpoints The study will be deemed feasible if it meets the following
      predetermined endpoints: 1. Recruitment of 4 patients per month; 2. The adherence rate to
      protocols is >90%; 3. Primary outcome measurement rate is >90%; 4. Combined major
      catheter-related adverse event rate (pneumothorax + LAST + allergic reaction) is <2%.
    
  