
    
      Objective: To determine genetic variants as well as behavioral measures across different
      study group populations. Results of these will be used as regressors to help explain
      inter-individual differences in data collected across IRP protocols.

      Study Population: The study population will include 1) healthy non-smoking, participants with
      no substance use disorders 2) healthy individuals with nicotine use disorder 3) healthy
      individuals with other substance use disorders 4) individuals with other psychiatric
      disorders and 5) treatment-seeking individuals with substance use disorders. Participants
      must be under evaluation for another NIDA-IRP protocol, generally healthy, and age 18 or
      older.

      Design: The main study will require approximately 5-8 hours. Main study procedures may be
      done in 1 visit or multiple visits, and may be done in conjunction with another NIDA-IRP
      study. After being consented into the main study, the participant will be asked to submit a
      blood sample, an MRI scan, complete various questionnaires, characterization instruments and
      several behavioral tasks. Blood will only be drawn once, provided there are no technical
      problems (such as sample damage during collection, preparation, shipping or assay) requiring
      a repeat draw. If participants enroll in other NIDA-IRP imaging protocols, they will be asked
      to repeat a few of the time- sensitive questionnaires in this protocol during the MRI visits
      of the other protocols. Data acquired in this protocol will be compared to data acquired in
      other NIDA-IRP protocols.

      An arm of this protocol will be used to pilot test a phenotyping battery developed by the
      NIDA CTN. This battery overlaps with several of the assessments in the main protocol.
      Participants in the NIDA CTN pilot study who also meet criteria for the main study may
      participate in the main study as well. The CTN Pilot procedures require approximately 4-6
      hours to complete.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome measures in this study are the genetic, behavioral and
      phenotypic factors that are related to addiction. Secondary outcome measures are to compare
      the genetic, behavioral and phenotypic factors to imaging and behavioral data acquired across
      other IRP protocols.
    
  