
    
      The majority of perinatally infected infants are infected during the labor and delivery
      process, but recent studies suggest that additional factors, such as postexposure
      prophylaxis, are likely to be involved in the prevention of MTCT of HIV. It is possible that
      antiretroviral dosing only during labor and short-term dosing to newly born infants would be
      sufficiently effective to prevent MTCT of HIV. TDF is a nucleoside reverse transcriptase
      inhibitor that has demonstrated significant effectiveness in preventing MTCT of simian
      immunodeficiency virus (SIV) in a primate model of HIV. FTC/TDF is a combination of two NRTIs
      being studied because this combination has the potential to prevent MTCT, while protecting
      the mother from developing resistance that may develop with single drug therapy. This study
      will evaluate the safety, tolerance, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of single doses of TDF and
      FTC/TDF in both HIV infected pregnant women and their newborn infants.

      Cohort 1 is now closed. Each participant in Cohort 1 received a single 600 mg oral dose of
      TDF at the start of active labor or 4 hours prior to C-section, with concurrent
      administration of standard intravenous zidovudine (ZDV) prophylaxis and/or other
      antiretrovirals prescribed by her physician. The infants from Cohort 1 received only the
      standard 6 weeks of oral ZDV prophylaxis postpartum. PK blood samples were taken from mothers
      at predose and 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, and 24 hours postdose and at the time of delivery; PK blood
      samples were taken from infants at 12, 24, and 36 hours after birth.

      Pregnant women with HIV infection entering this study will be assigned to Cohort 2, as all
      infants in Cohort 1 have completed the 6 to 8 week study visit and all Cohort 1 data have
      been reviewed. Mothers in Cohort 2 will receive a single dose of 900 mg of TDF combined with
      600 mg emtricitabine, along with standard ZDV prophylaxis and/or other antiretrovirals
      prescribed by her physician. Infants will receive a single dose of TDF at 4 mg/kg combined
      with 3 mg/kg emtricitabine as soon as possible after delivery and within 6 hours of age as
      well as the standard 6 weeks of oral ZDV prophylaxis after birth. Blood samples from mothers
      and infants will be taken as for Cohort 1.

      Mothers will be followed for 12 weeks postpartum or for 2 years after giving birth if viral
      resistance to TDF or FTC/TDF is demonstrated at Weeks 1, 6, or 12. In addition to the PK
      studies, blood collection will occur around the time of delivery, at screening, study entry,
      at delivery, and after delivery at various times up to Week 12. Physical exams will be done
      at screening, study entry, at delivery, and after delivery at various times up to Week 8.
      Infants will be followed until age 2. Blood will be collected and physical exams will be done
      at birth and at various times up to Week 96. Mothers are encouraged to coenroll in PACTG
      P1025, Pharmacokinetic Study of Anti-HIV Drugs During Pregnancy.
    
  