
    
      We propose a pilot study that will inform, provide inputs and reduce the risk of a larger
      implementation. The project consists of three phases: The pre-intervention phase, the
      intervention phase, and the post-intervention phase. The pre-intervention phase includes the
      recruitment and selection of participants, and a one-month collection of baseline blood
      pressure and medication adherence levels of participants before they are assigned to a
      treatment arm. All participants will receive compensation for participation.

      In the intervention phase participants will be randomly assigned to one of the three
      treatment arms and they will receive the financial incentive that corresponds to their
      treatment arm. Data will be collected for four months and all participants will continue
      receiving a compensation for participation.

      During the post-intervention phase, contingency payments will be cut off, and only
      compensation for participation will remain. Data will be collected for three months in the
      post-intervention phase.

      The primary outcome of the study is medication adherence which will be measured using two
      different methods. The first method is through the use of eCaps (electronic caps). The second
      method is through a monthly randomized phone call during which the participant will be asked
      to perform a pill count of their medication.

      The secondary outcome of the study is blood pressure which will be measured using two
      different instruments . The first instrument will be the ambulatory blood pressure monitor
      (ABPM). The second instrument will be a home blood pressure monitor (HBPM) which researchers
      will provide to the participant to use for the duration of the study.

      All participants of the study will receive an unconditional payment each time they provide a
      blood pressure reading from the ABPM. Financial incentives (contingent to change in behavior
      -conditional to change in adherence). In addition to the unconditional payment, participants
      in the ICM and GCM treatment arms will receive a financial incentive that is conditional to
      medication adherence.
    
  