
    
      Propionic acidemia (PA) is one of the most common inborn errors of organic acid metabolism.
      Although this disorder is now routinely detected in the immediate neonatal period on the US
      newborn screen, clinical outcomes are poor despite timely and aggressive medical intervention
      [Kolker, Cazorla, et al 2015; Leonard et al 2003]. Worldwide, the incidence of PA varies
      widely. The estimated live-birth incidence of PA is 1:105,000-130,000 in the US [Chace et al
      2001; Couce et al 2011], 1:166,000 in Italy [Dionisi-Vici et al 2002] and 1:250,000 in
      Germany [Schulze et al 2003]. Affected patients are medically fragile and can suffer from
      complications such as failure to thrive, intellectual disability, basal ganglia strokes,
      seizures, cardiomyopathy, cardiac arrhythmias, pancreatitis, impaired gut motility, and
      hematological complications. The frequency of these complications in the US patients and
      their precipitants remain undefined. Furthermore, current treatment outcomes have continued
      to demonstrate substantial morbidity and mortality in the patient population. Specific
      treatments include dietary modification to reduce propiogenic precursor load, levocarnitine
      to facilitate excretion of propionate, and oral antibiotics to suppress propiogenic gut
      flora. More recently, solid organ transplantation (liver and/or kidney) has been used to
      treat PA patients. However, optimal transplant strategy and posttransplant

      management are incompletely understood.

      Several survey-based and retrospective studies describing the natural history of propionic
      acidemia have been published in the last decade [Baumgartner et al 2014; Kolker, Cazorla, et
      al 2015; Kolker, Valayannopoulos, et al 2015; Kraus et al 2012; Nizon et al 2013; Pena &
      Burton 2012; Pena, Franks, et al 2012]. While these publications added to our understanding
      of the clinical course of this disease, the studies have not systematically focused on the US
      population using prospective analysis and reflect largely European experience, where many
      developed countries do not routinely screen for PA using newborn screen. Thus, the benefits
      of newborn

      screening on the PA outcomes require further clarification [Grunert et al 2012].

      Under proposed NIH protocol, we will prospectively evaluate patients with propionic acidemia
      with special emphasis on the US population. Routine inpatient admissions and outpatient
      evaluations will last 4-5 days and involve blood drawing, urine collection, stool
      collections, genomic studies, ophthalmological examination, cardiology evaluation,
      radiological procedures, brain and cardiac MRI/MRS, dietary assessment and neurobehavioral
      evaluation. In some patients skin biopsies will be pursued.

      The study objectives will be to describe the natural history of propionic acidemia in the US
      patients by delineating the spectrum of phenotypes and querying for genotype, enzymology,
      microbiome, and phenotype correlations. The population will consist of patients previously
      evaluated at NIH, physician referrals, and families directed to the study from
      clinicaltrials.gov, Organic Acidemia Association and Propionic Acidemia Foundation. Patients
      will be evaluated at the NIH Clinical Center. Outcome measures will largely be descriptive
      and encompass correlations between clinical, microbiological, biochemical and molecular
      parameters.
    
  