
    
      Elderly persons with mild cognitive impairment experience a cognitive decline that is
      confirmed by a neuropsychological examination but do not meet the clinical criteria for
      dementia. However, longitudinal studies have shown that up to 75% of these persons develop
      dementia of the Alzheimer type after 5 years of follow-up. A significant proportion of these
      persons are thus in a prodromal phase of the disease. This phase is likely to represent a key
      moment in which to apply appropriate interventions. Indeed, these persons have the cognitive
      capabilities to benefit from such interventions. Cognitive training has been shown to be
      effective in improving the memory function of older persons without cognitive decline and
      increasing evidence indicates that persons with MCI might also benefit from such
      interventions. However, there is few researches have focused on the Mild Cognitive Impairment
      population in spite of the fact that they are at-risk of experiencing significant cognitive
      problems in the next few years while still having the potential to benefit from
      non-pharmacological interventions. In a number of pilot studies, the investigators compared
      cognitive and psychosocial intervention to a control intervention in persons with MCI. The
      participants' performance improved on proximal outcomes and on distal outcomes (activities of
      daily living). The purpose of this project is to study the efficacy of the cognitive
      intervention in a larger group of participants, compare it with a non-cognitive intervention,
      assess the long term maintenance of the improvement and measure the potential implication of
      cognitive and psychosocial factors.

      Persons with Mild Cognitive Impairment will first receive a comprehensive clinical assessment
      to determine whether they meet the research criteria for Mild Cognitive Impairment. They will
      then be randomly allocated to one of three groups. One group will receive cognitive training,
      one group will receive psychosocial intervention and one group will receive no intervention.
      The two interventions will be offered on a one-session per week basis during an 8-week
      period. The cognitive intervention will include training of attention and episodic memory.
      This intervention is based on recently acquired knowledge regarding the nature of the
      deficits in mild cognitive impairment as well as factors that are known to optimize memory.
      The psychosocial intervention will focus on goal management. Booster sessions will be offered
      to the intervention groups after 3 and 6 months. Each intervention will act as social contact
      control group for the other intervention. The third group will receive no intervention and
      will be used as a no-contact control group.

      All groups will undergo one pre-intervention assessment (1-2 week before beginning of
      intervention), one post-intervention assessment (1-2 week after end of intervention) and
      additional assessments one week after before the booster sessions and nine month following
      end of training. This last assessment will measure long-term retention of training and will
      assess the degree of change in the clinical profile of patients.
    
  