
    
      Background: The experience of psychosis and hospitalization may be highly distressing. In
      fact, a significant proportion of FEP patients show posttraumatic stress symptoms during
      their recovery, which has been conceptualized as a posttraumatic postpsychotic syndrome
      (PPS). Moreover, the prevalence of childhood trauma in psychotic patients is four times
      higher than in general population. It is currently recognized the clinical implications of
      trauma in psychosis, as well as the need for treatment. Eye Movement Desensitization and
      Reprocessing (EMDR) therapy is a well stablished trauma treatment. EMDR is an eight- phase
      treatment protocol that includes bilateral stimulation to desensitize the discomfort caused
      by traumatic memories. Initial evidence suggests that EMDR is safe, well tolerated and
      beneficial in chronic patients with severe mental illness and comorbid psychological trauma.

      Objectives: To assess if EMDR therapy leads to: 1) reduce post-traumatic stress symptoms; 2)
      reduce positive, negative and affective symptoms; 3) improve overall functioning; and 4)
      improve quality of life.

      The hypothesis of this trial is that subjects of the EMDR group will experience an overall
      clinical improvement after therapy and will suffer from less admissions and relapses at 12
      months of follow-up.

      Design:

      This is a multicenter phase II rater-blinded randomized controlled trial in which 80 FEP
      patients and psychological trauma will be randomly assigned to EMDR (n=40) or to TAU (n=40).
      Patients in the EMDR condition will receive up to 20 psychotherapeutic sessions of 60
      minutes,

      Clinical and diagnostic variables:

        1. Traumatic events will be measured by Global Assessment of Posttraumatic Stress
           Questionnaire, Cumulative Trauma Screening, the Impact of Event Scale-Revised, the
           Dissociative Experiences Scale, Childhood Trauma Questionnaire, The Holmes-Rahe Life
           Stress Inventory and the Dissociative Experiences Questionnaire.

        2. Clinical symptomatology will be assessed by using:

             -  Suicide and Drug Consumption module of the International Neuropsychiatric Interview

             -  Structured Clinical Interview for Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale

             -  Young's Scale for Mania Evaluation

             -  Beck Depression II Questionnaire.

        3. Functionality will be assessed with the Global Assessment of Functioning questionnaire.

        4. Cognitive insight and adherence to the treatment will be measured using the Beck
           Cognitive Insight Scale and the Drug Attitude Inventory.

        5. Quality of Life will be assessed with the Standardized Instrument developed by the
           EuroQol Group.

      All variables will be measured at baseline, post-treatment and 12 months of follow-up.

      Randomization procedure All patients meeting the inclusion criteria will receive the baseline
      (T0) assessment. After T0, participants will be assigned to the EMDR or TAU group following a
      biased coin procedure: (1) the first two patients will be randomly allocated to EMDR with p =
      0.5, (2) the next patient will be allocated as follows: (b1) if one group already includes at
      least two more patients than the other group, the patient will be randomly allocated to EMDR
      with p = 0.8 is this is the smallest group and with p = 0.2 if it is the largest group, (b2)
      otherwise, we will first simulate that the patient is allocated to EMDR and calculate the sum
      of the between-group square standardized differences in site, age, sex, diagnosis and before
      the clinical trial between groups, we will then simulate that the patient is allocated to TAU
      and recalculate the sum, and finally randomly allocate the patient to EMDR with p = 0.8 if
      this was associated to the smallest sum and with p = 0.2 if not. For example, if we had
      already included 10 patients to the EMDR group and 8 patients to the TAU group, the 19th
      patient would be randomly allocated with p = 0.2 for EMDR and p = 0.8 for TAU. If he/she was
      allocated to TAU, for the 20th patient we would calculate the above sum of covariates after
      simulating that the he/she is allocated to EMDR and after simulating that he/she is allocated
      to TAU, and if the sum of the EMDR simulation was larger than the sum of the TAU simulation,
      we would randomly allocate the 20th patient with p = 0.2 for EMDR and p = 0.8 for TAU.
      Following this procedure, the final groups should be balanced in size and matched in site,
      age, sex and diagnosis. All steps of the randomization process will be automatically carried
      out by an independent researcher in a central location using a computer program.

      Computation of sample size The study aims to assess the relative efficacy of an EMDR
      intervention protocol for patients with PEP versus TAU mainly in stabilization and clinical
      improvement - reduction of anxious, depressive, somatic and/or psychotic symptoms, among
      others. For this reason, the main variable used is the number of clinical relapses after the
      intervention, with a follow-up of up to 12 months. Taking into account previous studies, the
      calculation of the sample size has been calculated based on a survival analysis with the
      statistical package "powerSurvEpi" for R, using an alpha = 0.005 instead of 0.05 to allow
      correction for multiple comparisons. The number of patients required to detect a hazard ratio
      = 2 in a Cox regression with a statistical power of 80% and alpha = 0.005 is n = 36 per
      intervention group (two groups, total n = 72). According to Chambless and Hollon, a sample of
      this size should show clinically relevant differences. Assuming a loss percentage of
      approximately 10-15% of the patients in the study, it would be necessary to recruit
      approximately 80 patients, 40 for each branch of intervention.

      Statistical analysis:

      Dropouts and follow-up:

      If a participant requires an inpatient stay due to an acute episode of a psychotic disorder
      during the 6-month intervention period, the patient will be excluded from the trial and
      considered as dropout because the hospital admission will mean the patient cannot continue
      with the EMDR psychotherapy during the acute phase. In the case of relapse during follow-up,
      patients will be maintained in the trial to obtain maximum information on the course of the
      illness.
    
  