
    
      Community Health Navigators (CHNs) are defined as community health workers that provide
      patient navigation. Based on evidence to date, CHNs for chronic disease management are likely
      to beneficially impact patient experience, clinical outcomes and costs; however, contextual
      evidence is lacking given that most studies to date have been conducted in the United States.
      In Canada, patient navigation programs currently exist in only a few settings (primarily
      cancer treatment and transitional care), with few navigation programs implemented in chronic
      disease care.

      The ENCOMPASS program of research was initiated in 2016, when researchers with the University
      of Calgary's Interdisciplinary Chronic Disease Collaboration partnered with Mosaic Primary
      Care Network (PCN) to develop, implement and evaluate a community health navigation program
      for patients with multiple chronic conditions. The program was based on a systematic
      literature review and refined in consultation with key stakeholders. A cluster-randomized
      controlled trial is currently ongoing with Mosaic PCN to determine the impact of the program
      on acute care use, patient-reported outcomes and experience, and disease-specific clinical
      outcomes (NCT03077386).

      Alberta Primary Care Networks (PCNs) are comprised of groups of family physicians and other
      health care professionals working together to provide comprehensive patient care to
      Albertans. To understand if the community health navigator program can be feasibly scaled and
      spread to PCNs across Alberta, we are expanding research to examine and evaluate community
      health navigation program implementation to other geographic areas and populations. This
      study expands the ENCOMPASS program of research to select Calgary West Central PCN primary
      care clinics. The current study employs the RE-AIM framework (reach, effectiveness, adoption,
      implementation, and maintenance) to examine the scalability of the community health
      navigation program.

      The objectives of this study are to (1) assess the impact of the intervention on the target
      population and health system (effectiveness); (2) explore the feasibility and appropriateness
      of practical intervention scale-up (reach, adoption, implementation, and maintenance), and
      (3) identify the required resources and infrastructure necessary to maintain and scale the
      intervention provincially.

      The effectiveness of the community health navigator program will be studied using a
      two-armed, pragmatic, randomized controlled trial. This study will employ patient-level block
      randomization stratified by study site. Randomization will be concealed and
      computer-generated, and research staff will be blinded to block size. Primary outcomes will
      be assessed using administrative health data. Secondary outcomes will be measured using a
      patient health survey administered by a research assistant at baseline, 6 months, and 12
      months. A concurrent qualitative study will provide contextual information on the
      effectiveness of the community health navigator program from patient, provider, and CHN
      perspectives. Process evaluation metrics and interviews with program stakeholders will inform
      the feasibility and sustainability of the community health navigator program in Alberta PCNs.
    
  