
    
      Background and Importance: Managing a spinal cord injury (SCI) is a life-long process. Within
      the first year of injury, more than 50% of people discharged with a SCI may require
      re-hospitalization due to a secondary complication, such as a urinary tract infection,
      pressure ulcer or pneumonia. Even 20 years post-injury, re-hospitalization rates remain over
      30%. While re-hospitalization rates in Canada have remained high for more than 10 years, the
      length of stay in inpatient rehabilitation has decreased dramatically, thereby limiting the
      time for provision of health information and skill acquisition in the inpatient
      rehabilitation setting. There is growing evidence from two recent pilot trials to suggest
      that self-management programs that provide appropriate health information, skills and
      telephone-based support for community-dwelling patients with SCI improves health behaviors
      and leads to reductions in re-hospitalization.

      Goals/Research Aim: To conduct a pilot RCT (feasibility study) that will inform the design of
      a definitive RCT to determine whether an online self-management program incorporating trained
      peer health coaches (called "SCI&U") compared to usual care will result in improved
      self-management skills (short-term outcome) and lead to reduced days of hospitalization
      (long-term outcome) due to secondary complications.

      Secondary outcomes include self-efficacy for self-management, depression, resilience, number
      and severity of secondary conditions, health-related quality of life, and patient-reported
      unplanned ED visits.

      Methods/Approaches/Expertise: This pilot study is a two-group RCT with an embedded
      qualitative component. The target population is adults with SCI who have been discharged from
      inpatient rehabilitation and living in the community. Sixty subjects will be recruited from
      across Canada with a focus on British Columbia and Ontario and randomly assigned to the SCI&U
      intervention or usual care.

      Evaluations will occur at 0, 2, 6, and 12 months. At 6 and 12 months, interviews will be
      conducted with SCI&U participants and at 12 months focus groups with health coaches, consumer
      organizations, and rehabilitation hospital staff to explore the feasibility of the study
      protocol, understand perceived costs and benefits of SCI&U, and sustainability
      considerations. The creation of the SCI&U online self-management program is based on a number
      of studies conducted by the research team. The investigators initially determined
      implementation considerations in terms of need, content and mode of delivery in a mixed
      methods study of individuals with SCI, their family members, and hospital managers. The SCI&U
      team includes rehabilitation researchers, persons with SCI, community-based organizations
      (SCI BC, SCI Ontario and Praxis Spinal Cord Institute) and clinicians from across Canada. The
      investigators used an integrated knowledge translation approach where users with SCI
      co-designed and developed the prototype. The investigators have completed usability testing
      on 20 participants and trained 5 health coaches and had an additional 11 individuals living
      with SCI complete 6 sessions of health coaching using the SCI&U prototype.

      Expected Outcomes: The findings from this feasibility study are integral to the development
      of a definitive RCT. It is anticipated that SCI&U would not only reduce secondary
      complications and subsequent inappropriate health care use, but also improve the quality of
      life for individuals with SCI.
    
  