
    
      "SUPOC is a monocentric, prospective, open-label, controlled study, randomized into one-week
      inclusion periods, with 2 types of period: period POC (biological analysis performed as POC
      in a dedicated emergency room implemented with POC devices) and period control (analysis
      performed sent and processed in the central laboratory). Randomisation will be carried out by
      periods of one week (periods of a whole week 24h/24 from Monday 8am to Sunday 8 pm: control
      period or POC period, with a wash-out period between Sunday 08 pm and Monday 8am before each
      change of period (in order to limit the patients overlap on 2 periods). The entire medical
      care including the clinical examination, the prescriptions for additional radiological or
      biological examinations, requests for specialist advice, as well as the conclusion of the
      medical file will be left to the sole discretion of the emergency physician in charge of the
      patient and dictated solely by the reason for consultation and the patient evolution. The
      comparability of the POC and control periods will be verified, quantitatively (number of
      patients, average number of paramedical personnel present, the number of medical personnel
      being fixed) and qualitatively (triage scale applied by the triage nurses into 5 classes).

      Despite the randomization of the two periods, the study type is best described as
      "Observational" because there is no specific intervention or health outcome at the subject
      level at all. The fact that blood samples are sent in the central laboratory or in the POC
      platform are both considered as routine medical care. No investigator assigns a specific
      intervention to the study participants; it is the emergency department itself which changes
      its internal organization (the destination of the biologic samples) every week. In
      conclusion, the purpose of the study is to examine the effect of a health provider
      intervention (POC vs central laboratory use) on a health provider outcome (mean length of
      stay according to the study period), and there is no health outcomes at the patient level.
      According to the ICMJE guidelines, this type of study should not be considered as an
      interventional clinical trial
      (http://www.icmje.org/about-icmje/faqs/clinical-trials-registration/).

      For organizational reasons, 3 laboratory technicians will be recruited and trained
      specifically for the study. They will be in charge of biological testing during POC periods.

      Primary evaluation criteria: length of stay (LOS) of patients consulting the ED, defined by
      the time between the administrative registration and the medical decision of discharge or
      hospitalization of the patient. This LOS for each patient meeting the eligibility criteria
      will be extracted by the hospital's informatic department from the emergency file database.
      Secondary endpoints: - -the feasibility of an expanded POC menu in the ED will be assessed by
      the ""converted"" analysis rate, i.e. the number of analyses sent to the central laboratory
      in the POC period divided by the total number of analyses performed as POC during the period,
      the rate of unavailability of each POC device for maintenance or breakdown, i.e. the
      cumulative number of minutes of unavailability for all the POC equipment compared to the
      total duration of the POC group's periods.

      ED's crowding will be evaluated by: the waiting time in each period (time in minutes between
      emergency registration and first medical contact), the occupancy rate defined by - at time t-
      the number of patients present / ED's capacity. The capacity of the service is estimated on
      the basis of the total number of boxes and beds, including short-term hospitalisation units.
      An overcrowding is set to an occupancy rate> 150%. In practice,it will be extracted by the
      informatic department from emergency database every day of the study at 12pm, 6pm, 12am and
      8am.

      The time to results in each period and by biological parameter will be extracted from the
      laboratory software.

      The health-economic impact of the expanded implementation of POC will be assessed by the
      average total cost of an ED's visit in each period. The costs and consequences of the
      implementation of the POC will be estimated in a comparative way in the two periods, taking
      into account on the one hand the point of view of the establishment and on the other hand
      that of the healthcare system. The investigators will estimate an average cost per patient
      and per emergency room visit.

      The satisfaction of staff and patients will be evaluated by an anonymous questionnaire
      including satisfaction scales on the overall quality of care in emergency department and on
      the results of biological analyses, among patients (on a sample) and all staff (emergency
      physicians and biologists, ED's nurses).

      Sample size calculation: This is a one-week randomized cluster study. A preliminary study of
      the first 6 months of 2016, using ED's software to extract data from emergency department
      visits, estimated an average cluster size of 1100 patients, with a size variation coefficient
      of 0.2, as well as a standard deviation of 2 hours and 20 minutes.

      Assuming an average reduction of 20 minutes of the main judgement criterion, and an
      intraclass correlation coefficient of 0.01, with a bilateral alpha equal to 5%, study will
      have to include 9 clusters in each period to obtain a power of 80% - 18 weeks total duration
      of inclusion.

      For a monocentric study including all patients consulting in an adult emergency department
      with a total of 60,000 visits per year, each month will allow the inclusion of at least 4,400
      patients.
    
  