
    
      Study Purpose: To investigate the impact of motivational interviewing in the adherence of
      patients with AF to oral anticoagulation (OAC) regimens

      Trial Design: Prospective, two-arm, single-center, randomized controlled clinical trial

      Sample Size: 1000 subjects

      Population: Adults with Non-valvular Atrial Fibrillation (NVAF) hospitalized in the
      cardiology ward for any reason who receive OAC at hospital discharge.

      Intervention

        1. Motivational Interview - Baseline: At hospital discharge or one day before, patients
           assigned to the intervention group will be contacted in person by a study physician for
           an interactive session and will be given an educational leaflet. Both methods will aim
           to educate them about the risk for stroke and the importance of adherence to OAC
           medication, and motivate them to adhere to their OAC treatment plan.

        2. Motivational Interview - Follow-up: Patients assigned to the intervention group will be
           contacted via telephone for a pre-specified interview at 1 week, 2 months, 6 months and
           1 year after discharge. The delegated study personnel will assess whether an
           intervention is required and provide specific support tailored to the needs of the
           patient, focusing on maintaining or improving patients' adherence to OAC

      Control Patients assigned to the control group receive usual treatment, corresponding to
      standard practice and management of hospitalized patients with AF. Patients assigned to the
      control group will be contacted via telephone for a pre-specified interview at 1 year after
      discharge for outcome assessment.

      Primary Outcome: The primary outcome is overall adherence to OAC in the year after
      hospitalization for any reason, reported as Proportion of Days Covered (PDC) by OAC regimens.
      Patients with a PDC >80% will be classified as adequately adherent.

      Secondary Outcomes: The secondary outcomes include:

        -  The rate of persistence: the proportion of patients who are on OAC after hospital
           discharge and continue receiving OAC at the end of the study period.

        -  OAC treatment gaps: the percentage of patients who have i) continuous OAC use (no
           treatment gaps or gaps <7 days), ii) transient treatment gaps (7-89 days), and iii)
           major treatment gaps (3 months or more)

        -  Clinical outcomes such as death, thromboembolic event, myocardial infraction or bleeding
           after hospitalization.

      Clinical Duration:The total study duration (concerning the primary outcome) is expected to be
      3-4 years.
    
  