
    
      The OPTIMAL Study in its entirety aims to provide a more personalized treatment for
      metastases in the long bones based on expected survival and impending fracture risk in order
      to improve functioning and the quality of life for the remaining lifetime in patients with
      disseminated cancer. The OPTIMAL Study will provide the infrastructure for a prospective
      cohort (OPTIMAL cohort) and multiple independent trials. The specific aims of the cohort are
      discussed in this protocol. The objectives and plan of the first trial (Post-Operative
      Radiotherapy; PORT study) are discussed in a separate protocol.

      The primary aim of the cohort is to describe the quality of life and pain perception of
      patients after local treatment (radiotherapy and/or surgery) of metastases of the long bones,
      for both the entire cohort as well as for specific treatments separately.

      Secondary aims are to describe the complication rate and survival of patients after local
      treatment (radiotherapy and/or surgery) of metastases of the long bones.

      The specific aims of further future individual trials will be described in separate protocols
      and submitted to the medical research ethics committee (METC) independently. In general
      however, all trials will be pragmatic research trials in search of answers to which treatment
      (radiotherapy or surgery) fits specific patients (categorised by metastasis location,
      expected survival and fracture risk) best.

      STUDY DESIGN The cohort will be prospectively collected and multicentre, including all
      consecutive patients with bone metastases of the long bones (BMLB) who have signed informed
      consent. These patients will be followed prospectively, and data concerning patient and
      treatment characteristics as well as patient reported outcomes on quality of life will be
      collected. Baseline data will be collected by the physician and entered into the OPTIMAL
      database. These baseline data match the information that is obtained for standard care. For
      the assessment of patient reported outcomes a set of internationally and nationally validated
      questionnaires will be used.

      At moment of inclusion baseline patient data will be collected for the OPTIMAL cohort, which
      will also be used for the Post-Operative RadioTherapy (PORT) study. Data will comprehend
      information concerning demographics, medical history, and clinical status and functioning.
      Details concerning the treatment(s) will be reported when relevant.

      Patients will be invited to fill out questionnaires about quality of life (QoL) at baseline
      (pre-treatment; if possible), and 4, 8, 12, and 24 weeks after initial treatment, then every
      six months for minimal two years or until death. All subsequently or concomitantly
      symptomatic metastases will be registered (including treatment and follow-up), but a new
      course of questionnaires will generally not be initiated. These outcome measures will be
      applied in the entire OPTIMAL cohort.

      Pain:

      Pain has been chosen as primary endpoint because it can act as a proxy for mechanical
      complications (i.e. loosening). Mechanical complications are only relevant for these patients
      if they give clinical complaints needing treatment.

      To measure the primary endpoint patients will be asked to score the worst pain in the past 24
      hours on a numeric rating scale (NRS) from 0-10. In addition, patients will be asked to list
      their usual pain medication and the escape medication they used the previous 24 hours. These
      questions are derived from the Brief Pain Intervention (BPI) score, which is advised by the
      International Consensus Statement for Bone Metastasis Research. The BPI is a pain assessment
      tool for use with cancer patients developed by the Pain Research Group of the World Health
      Organization (WHO) Collaborating Centre for Symptom Evaluation in Cancer Care and is also
      available in Dutch. However, multiple questions are similar to questions in the European
      Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of life questionnaire for
      palliation (QLQ-PAL15) and EORTC Quality of life questionnaire for bone metastases (QLQBM-22)
      (described below). Thus to spare patients answering the same questions twice, the
      investigators have selected only 2 questions from the BPI.

      Quality of life:

      For longitudinal assessment of quality of life after treatment, the investigators will use
      nationally and internationally used, validated and recommended questionnaires: European
      Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C15-PAL and EORTC QLQ-BM22. In
      addition, the EQ-5D (5 dimension) questionnaire will be conducted. The EORTC is currently
      developing a utility scoring instrument for the EORTC QLQ-C30 (from which the QLQ-C15-PAL
      originates). The investigators expect this scoring instrument will also be applicable for the
      QLQ-C15-PAL. After validation of this scoring instrument has taken place, the investigators
      plan to apply it to the data. This would make the addition of the EQ-5D questionnaire
      redundant and it will then be withdrawn.

      Function:

      For assessing improvements in functional outcomes after treatment, the Toronto Extremity
      Salvage Score (TESS) for upper and lower extremities will be used.

      Observational clinical data will be collected at baseline (pre-treatment; if possible) and at
      first, and possibly second, post-operative follow-up (generally, patients are subsequently
      only seen if there are complications or new complaints):

      Complications:

      For complication rate, the Henderson classification of complications will be applied. This
      classification identifies five primary modes of endoprosthetic failure: soft tissue failure
      (type 1), aseptic loosening (type 2), structural failure (type 3), infection (type 4), and
      tumour progression (type 5). Wound complications with clinical consequences will be
      registered separately. Re-operations due to complications will be registered as such in the
      treatment field as a new operation.

      Radiological status:

      Progression of BMLB will be monitored with conventional radiography and on indication with CT
      scan. This is according to usual care, generally at six weeks and 3 months. No additional
      outpatient visits or imaging will be requested for study purposes only. The radiological
      images will be used to place the subjective reports of pain (as reported by the patient on a
      numeric rating scale) into perspective.

      Survival:

      Dates of death will be derived from the Hospital Electronic Patient Registry, which is linked
      to the Municipal Personal Records Database. If this is not possible or not up to date, data
      will be derived from the general practitioner. The utmost will be tried to prevent sending
      questionnaires to deceased patients.
    
  