
    
      Very low birth weight (VLBW) preterm infants (birth weight < 1,500g) sustain a high risk of
      neuromotor disability, as exemplified by delayed walking attainment. Spontaneous kicking and
      supported stepping have been proposed as the early precursors to independent walking. The
      continuity of these early leg movements with independent walking has been established in
      normal term infants, but such relations remain unclear in VLBE premature infants. Therefore,
      the purposes of this one-year follow-up study are twofold: (1) to prospectively examine the
      spontaneous kicking and the supported stepping movement in VLBW premature infants until
      attainment of independent walking; and (2) to assess factors (i.e. gross motor development,
      cardiopulmonary function, anthropometry, body composition and cognition) that could
      potentially influence walking attainment in VLBW premature infants. This study will enroll 15
      VLBW premature infants born at National Taiwan University Hospital. Infants will be scheduled
      for spontaneous kicking examination at 2 and 4 months of corrected age, followed by supported
      stepping examination at 9 and 11 months of corrected age and recorded their age of walking
      attainment. Age of walking attainment is defined as the time when the child is first able to
      move for five successive steps without support. At each visit, infants will be examined for
      spontaneous kicking or supported stepping movements (with three-dimensional kinematic
      analysis of Peak Motion Analysis System), gross motor function (with the Alberta Infant Motor
      Scale), cardiopulmonary function (with a pulsed oxymeter), anthropometry (with scale and tape
      measure), body composition (with the Pediatric Plicometric System) and cognition (with the
      Chinese Child Development Inventory- Cognitive Subscale). The results of this study will
      provide important information to help reveal the maturation process of early leg movements
      prior to walking attainment in premature infants. Furthermore, the identified early
      neuromotor markers and influencing factors for walking attainment will provide physical
      therapists useful guidance in making early treatment plans for those premature infants who
      will develop motor delays.
    
  