
    
      Background: Malignant ascites is common in ovarian cancer and often causes symptoms such as
      abdominal pressure and shortness of breath, resulting in an decreased quality of life for the
      patient. Paracentesis is a safe and easy method for symptom relief. But no guidelines exist
      on the management of ascites drainage in ovarian cancer. In many cases a partial paracentesis
      is performed, due to fear of hemodynamic instability or kidney failure, with partial drainage
      of the intraperitoneal fluid on the first day and subsequent drainage on the next day. As
      there is no study that reported a deteriorated health due to full paracentesis in ovarian
      cancer, the decision whether a partial or total paracentesis is performed depends entirely on
      the department or the physician.

      Since a total paracentesis can be performed as an out-patient treatment, this approach is
      often preferred by the patient. Full paracentesis is also more efficient and cost-effective.

      The objective of the ATLANTIS-study is to prove the safety of total paracentesis regarding
      hemodynamic changes and kidney failure.

      Methods: ATLANTIS is a randomized, prospective, clinical study that aims to include 60
      patients. Patients with histologically confirmed epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube and
      peritoneal cancer are randomized into two arms: Partial (3 Liter) and total paracentesis.
      Before, during and for two hours after the paracentesis, an advanced hemodynamic monitoring
      is performed to ensure the patients' safety. The monitoring includes mean arterial pressure
      and stroke volume. After the initial phase of extensive monitoring (2 hours), the blood
      pressure is measured for a period of 24 hours to evaluate not only short term, but also
      long-term hemodynamic changes. Before and 24 hours after the paracentesis, blood samples are
      analyzed to detect a potential acute kidney failure.
    
  