
    
      Mitochondrial diseases comprise a group of relatively rare (~1 in 5000 adults) but very
      serious genetic disorders. Mitochondria are often called the "powerhouses of the cell"
      because they provide the energy our cells need to live. Mitochondria have their own DNA
      (mtDNA), but they also rely on DNA from the nucleus (nDNA). Mitochondrial diseases are caused
      by mutations in either mitochondrial or nuclear DNA that result in poorly functioning
      mitochondria. This can cause a variety of symptoms including muscle weakness, seizures,
      mental retardation, dementia, hearing loss, blindness, strokes, diabetes, and premature
      death. Most mitochondrial diseases are progressive, and we are unable to cure most of these
      diseases with currently available treatments.

      Research into mitochondrial diseases has been hampered by the low frequency of these
      disorders and by under-diagnosis by clinicians. This has hindered patient recruitment for
      research studies and clinical trials. The North American Mitochondrial Disease Consortium
      (NAMDC) was established to help surmount these issues. Led jointly by Drs. Michio Hirano and
      Salvatore DiMauro, NAMDC is a consortium of several clinicians and researchers with an
      interest in mitochondrial disease research in the United States and Canada.

      By creating a mechanism for the sharing of patient samples with researchers, data and patient
      contact information, NAMDC will make it easier to conduct clinical and basic laboratory
      research.

      Patient information will be shared through the use of the "Patient Data Registry," a
      specially-designed database, and patient tissue samples will be shared through the use of the
      "Patient Sample Biorepository", a storage facility in which patient-derived biological
      samples will be maintained. The Registry and the Biorepository will hopefully accelerate
      progress in the understanding and treatment of mitochondrial disease.

      Patients can enroll at any of the NAMDC member sites. A web-based remote enrollment is also
      available at www.namdc.org for eligible patients who reside far from any of the NAMDC
      participating sites.
    
  