
    
      Methods Prior to surgery the patient will be assessed in the pre-anesthesia clinic, study
      protocol will be explained, questions answered and informed consent form will be signed by
      one of the investigating physicians. In case of an urgent case with no pre-anesthetic clinic
      visit, the process will take place in the entrance to the surgery room. Following surgery,
      patients will be assessed for eligibility and randomized to one of the study arms.

      The control group will receive standard care which includes fluid maintenance program as
      dictated by the operating room anesthesiologist and as needed boluses through the PACU stay.

      Study Arm:

      The GDT group will not receive any maintenance fluid. Fluid boluses will be given according
      to the flowchart attached.

      Baseline MAP and HR will be measured in the pre-anesthetic clinic or if not available will be
      recorded according to community medical record.

      Blood products will be administered according to departmental guidelines and clinician
      decision unrelated to participation in the study.

      Patients will be extubated, either in the operating room or postoperatively, when they
      fulfilled standard clinical criteria (adequate protective reflexes, adequate oxygenation, and
      stable hemodynamics), according to clinical indication unrelated to the participation in the
      study.

      Measurements of hemodynamic variables including heart rate and automatic non-invasive blood
      pressure measurements as well pulse oximetry as routine procedures will be recorded and
      stored by Metavision system (iMDsoft company) at regular intervals, all according to standard
      clinical practice.

      Blood gases measurement will be performed upon admission and at discharge. Urine output will
      be measured and recorded every hour.

      Other laboratory exams will be taken based on the physician discretion unrelated to the
      participation in the study.

      Data Collection:

      For each participating patient the following data will be collected and recorded:

        1. Demographic data

        2. Medical history including regular medications

        3. Hemodynamic data including heart rate, automatic non-invasive blood pressure
           measurements, temperature as well pulse oximetry as routine procedures will be recorded
           and stored by Metavision system

        4. Anesthetic data including anesthetic method, anesthetic drugs, total fluid intake,
           anesthetic complications.

        5. Laboratory values

        6. Length of stay in PACU

        7. Length of stay in hospital

        8. Post-operative pulmonary complications

        9. Acute kidney injury
    
  