
    
      Botulinum toxins are a well-established group of neurotoxins that have a wide variety of FDA
      approved clinical uses including muscle relaxation, headache prevention and bladder control.
      Despite the abundance of anecdotal evidence supporting their use in pain management, double
      blind placebo control studies examining the efficacy of botulinum toxins in the treatment of
      chronic neck and back pain have reported mixed findings. Several smaller studies have shown
      significantly positive outcomes while other studies have found no efficacy of neurotoxins
      compared to placebo. The existing literature reveals that most negative outcome studies were
      based on the Visual Analogue Scale, which is a purely subjective measure. We propose a more
      objective set of measures that might better reflect patients' deficits and levels of
      discomfort.

      Our proposal is a prospective, open-label, pilot study that will examine chronic neck and
      back pain among veterans. Our primary specific aim is to test three novel methods for
      evaluating clinical deficits in patients who have chronic neck and back pain:
      electromyographical (EMG) activity (primary outcome) and cervical/lumbar range of motion
      (CROM & LROM) (primary outcome) as well as skin surface temperature (thermography) (secondary
      outcome). Our hypothesis is that most patients with chronic neck and back pain significantly
      from sustained muscle spasms. As a result, patients may exhibit surplus EMG activity in
      affected areas due to spontaneous muscle twitch. And consequently, they may show signs of
      decreased range of motion due to increased muscle tone. They may also experience a rise in
      skin surface temperature due to excess heat production from sustained muscle contraction. We
      will measure these three phenomena using three different biophysical measurement tools.
      Electromyographic data will be collected with a surface EMG device, and cervical and lumbar
      range of motion with a gravity inclinometer. Skin surface temperature will be assessed with a
      medical grade digital thermography camera.

      The second specific aim of this study is to examine the efficacy of botulinum toxins in
      reversing the anomalies in the above measured parameters: to reduce excessive
      electromyographic activity, to increase range of motion in cervical and lumbar joints and to
      reduce elevated skin surface temperature. We will measure outcomes of 60 study subjects (30
      for neck pain and 30 for low back pain) who will all be treated once with botulinum toxins
      and then followed up at 1 month, 2 months and 3 months. We will also correlate our findings
      with the more commonly used pain and function scales: the Visual Analogue Scale, Neck
      Disability Index and the Oswestry Low Back Pain Scale.
    
  