
    
      Review of literature :

      Databases and websites as PubMed, Google were searched for relevant literature in English
      until October 2017 with key words "Child abuse, Child maltreatment, Physical child abuse,
      Violence against children, Dentists, pediatric dentists" Sonbol et al., 2011 conducted a
      study to assess Knowledge, educational experiences and attitudes towards child abuse amongst
      Jordanian dentists, using structured self-administered questionnaire. The target population
      was all dentists registered in the Jordanian Dental Association Council (general dentists and
      specialists) , the respondents were 256, 34% of them said that they had formal training in
      recognizing and reporting child abuse, and 42% had continuing education training on the
      topic, 50% of the dentists suspected a case of child abuse in the past 5 years, but only 12%
      reported their suspicions. The main reasons for not reporting suspicions of abuse were fear
      from anger of parents (43%), uncertainty about diagnosis (41%) and uncertainty about referral
      procedures (41%). Those dentists who had formal training in dental school and
      post-qualiﬁcation courses in child abuse were signiﬁcantly more likely to report suspicions.

      Sousa et al., 2011 conducted a study to assess the attitudes and perceptions of dentists
      regarding child abuse, and to investigate professional characteristics associated with the
      identification of suspected child abuse. A self-administered questionnaire was sent to the
      276 dentists (general dentists and specialists) in Pelotas, Brazil with response rate 68%.
      Most dentists (85.7%) had never suspected child abuse cases. Among those who suspected, 76.0%
      didn't report the cases to authorities. No differences were observed between sexes, years of
      graduation, types of licenses, and the frequency at which children were treated.

      Harsimran et al., 2015 conducted a cross-sectional survey to general dentists in Moradabad
      city in India to assess their knowledge and attitude regarding child abuse and to identify
      the barriers in reporting these cases using self-administered questionnaire sent by mail to
      120 of them the response rate was 97%. Questions pertaining to knowledge of dentists showed
      that nearly 89.7% of them were able to distinguish between accidental injury and physical
      abuse. The rate of detecting cases of child abuse by respondents was (60%), Lack of knowledge
      about dentist's role in reporting child abuse accounted to 55% in the reasons for hesitancy
      to report.

      Rodrigues et al., 2015 conducted a systematic review to assess the perception, knowledge and
      attitude of dentists towards the detection and management of domestic violence against
      children (DVAC) cases. A systematic search was performed in 6 databases: PubMed,
      ScienceDirect, LILACS, SciELO, GoogleScholar, and OpenGrey. No restriction of language, time,
      and publication status was considered. The search resulted in 1.024 articles, of which 18 fit
      the eligibility criteria. The knowledge for detecting cases of DVAC obtained during the under
      graduation course was classified by the dentists (in 39% of the articles) as "insufficient".
      When suspecting of cases involving domestic violence, most of the dentists (in 77.75% of the
      articles) considered reporting to the competent authorities. However, the dentists were not
      sure about who these authorities are (in 31.25% of the articles).

      Mogaddam et al., 2016 conducted a study to assess Knowledge, attitudes and behaviors of
      dentists regarding physical child abuse in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, the target populations for
      this study were pediatric dentists, pediatric dentistry residents, and dental interns
      practicing in all of the dental schools in Jeddah. 270 self-administered questionnaires were
      distributed; the response rate was 77%. The participants showed insufficient knowledge of the
      signs and symptoms of child physical abuse, actions that should be taken in suspected cases,
      circumstances in which to report such cases, and the legal authorities to which they should
      be reported. The attitudes of participants towards detecting and reporting cases were
      generally positive. Only 11% of the participants had suspected a case of child abuse, and
      only 3% of them reported it. The main causes of under-reporting were lack of knowledge about
      referral procedures and fear of anger from family members.

      Aim of the study :

      The aim of this study is to:

      Assess knowledge, personal views and experiences of a group of dental interns toward physical
      child abuse.

      PO:

      (P) Population: Dental interns that completed their Pediatric Dentistry round in Pediatric
      Dentistry and Dental Public Health Department , Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University.

      (O) Outcomes: Knowledge, personal views, experiences of dental interns toward physical child
      abuse.

      Research question :

      What is the knowledge, personal views and experiences of a group of dental interns toward
      physical child abuse

      Study design: Cross-sectional study.

      Study settings:

        -  Questionnaires, Appendix 1 will be distributed to the dental interns and give them 30
           minutes to answer it.

        -  All questionnaires will be collected at the same day, to prevent any of the participants
           to search for the answers of questions that related to their knowledge.

        -  Participants during answering the questionnaire are not allowed to ask their colleagues,
           to ensure accuracy of the answers of knowledge questions.

        -  The researcher is not allowed to help the participant in answering the questions.

        -  Participants are allowed to ask the researcher any question either to clarify any part
           of the questions or anything about the survey.

        -  The researcher will deal with the participant personally, so there is no risk of the
           same dentist to complete more than one questionnaire.

        -  After the participants finish answering the questionnaires, it will be collected and
           subjected to statistical analysis.

        -  Data will be collected during 6 months.

      Study size:

      We are going to apply a convenient consecutive sampling; it will include all Dental interns
      at Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University. Dental interns will be invited to complete the
      questionnaire. All number of interns will be reported, response rate will be calculated and
      no attempt is made to follow up with dental interns who were absent in the day of the survey.

      Statistical methods:

      Scores will be calculated according to the options selected by the intern dentists. The data
      will be analyzed using the statistical analysis software SPSS version 20. The individual
      scores will be summed up to yield a total score. Descriptive statistics will be calculated as
      mean scores, standard deviation and frequency distribution.

      The difference of the oral health knowledge, attitude and practice between different
      categories will be assessed by Student's t-test or ANOVA according to the number of
      categories. The difference between male and female doctors will be assessed by student's
      t-test. P value < 0.05 will considered significant, All test will be 2 tails.

      Ethical consideration

        -  A permission letter, explaining the aim of the study will be presented to the head of
           Pediatric Dentistry and Dental Public Health Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo
           University granting approval to conduct this survey .

        -  An informed consent explaining the aim of the study will be signed by the participants.
    
  