
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the impact of amifostine on the acute tolerance of combined
      hyperfractionated radiation therapy and fluorouracil, cisplatin, and paclitaxel with
      amifostine, in terms of the grade and duration of acute mucositis and dermatitis, and acute
      hematologic tolerance in patients with stage III or IV unresectable head and neck carcinoma.
      II. Determine the local control and survival associated with this regimen in these patients.
      III. Determine the long term chronic toxic effects of this regimen in terms of swallowing
      dysfunction, PEG dependency, and xerostomia in these patients. IV. Determine the quality of
      life post therapy by assessment of speech and swallowing function in these patients. V.
      Determine if radiation dose escalation in patients with treatment interruption achieve an
      isoeffect on locoregional control. VI. Determine the safe optimal dose of paclitaxel to be
      combined with hyperfractionated radiation therapy, fluorouracil, cisplatin, and amifostine in
      these patients. VII. Determine the correlation of p53 chromosome expression on locoregional
      control and survival of these patients. VIII. Quantitate tumor volumetrics and correlate with
      stage, resectability status, and locoregional control and survival of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation of paclitaxel, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      by performance status, stage, institution, tumor volumetrics, resectability, and p53
      expression. Patients receive amifostine IV over 10 minutes on Monday of weeks 1, 5, and 9,
      and over 5-7 minutes Tuesday through Friday of weeks 1, 5, and 9 and Monday through Friday of
      weeks 2, 3, 4, 6, and 7. Within 10-15 minutes of amifostine administration, patients receive
      paclitaxel IV over 3 hours, cisplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1, 29, and 56, and fluorouracil
      IV over 72 hours on days 1-4, 29-33, and 56-60. Starting on day 2, patients receive
      hyperfractionated external beam radiotherapy twice daily over 6.5 weeks, following amifostine
      IV over 5-7 minutes Monday through Friday. Cohorts of 6-20 patients each receive escalating
      doses of paclitaxel. Quality of life is assessed. Patients are followed monthly for 1 year,
      every 2 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter until
      death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 36 patients will be accrued for this study within 20 months.
    
  