
    
      Delirium during critical illness is, to date, the primary potentially modifiable risk factor
      for acquired dementia after critical illness (ADRD). There are, however, no Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) approved medications to mitigate delirium. Benzodiazepines are
      ineffective at reducing the incidence or duration of delirium, and on the contrary, increase
      the risk. Furthermore, large randomized controlled studies have shown that antipsychotic
      agents have no effect (vs. placebo) on delirium duration, mechanical ventilation, hospital
      length of stay, or death. Therefore, current clinical practice guidelines no longer recommend
      routine use of benzodiazepines or antipsychotics for treatment of delirium. Despite these
      recommendations, benzodiazepine, antipsychotics, and other drugs are routinely prescribed to
      critically ill patients due to the urgent clinical need to control delirium symptoms. The
      alpha-2 agonist dexmedetomidine is the most successful agent for delirium identified to date.
      However, it is typically administered as a continuous infusion and requires ICU-level
      monitoring due to hypotension and bradycardia risks. The delirium sparing benefits of
      dexmedetomidine have been postulated to result from alpha-2 agonist mediated modulation of
      CNS inflammation, microcirculatory blood flow, and biomimetic sleep.

      The alpha-2 agonist guanfacine, an FDA-approved medication for use in hypertension and
      attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, has a higher selectivity for the alpha-2A receptor
      in the central nervous system. Thus, delirium sparing benefits may be improved with
      guanfacine while reducing systemic effects. Further, instead of a continuous infusion, the
      pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of guanfacine favor a twice a day bolus dosing
      schedule. This Maximizing trEatment of Neurological Dysfunction using INtravenous Guanfacine
      (MENDING) study will investigate the benefits of intravenous (IV) guanfacine. In this phase
      II proof-of-concept trial of IV guanfacine vs. placebo for the treatment of critical illness
      delirium, the following specific aims will be tested in critically ill patients with
      delirium:

      Aim 1: To determine whether IV guanfacine will increase the number of days alive without
      delirium and coma (DCFDs) over 14 days relative to placebo.

      Aim 2: To evaluate whether IV guanfacine twice a day will increase days alive and free of
      mechanical ventilation (VFDs) and days alive and free of the ICU (IFDs) over 28 days relative
      to placebo.

      Aim 3: To assess whether IV guanfacine can reduce the development of ADRD after critical
      illness.

      Identifying a safe and effective treatment for delirium would have exponential benefits to
      patients, families, healthcare, and society. This first study of IV guanfacine builds upon
      extensive research regarding the benefits of alpha-2 agonists for brain dysfunction.
    
  