
    
      Participants for the trial will be recruited via advertisements at community sites including
      primary care clinics, housing assistance sites, and soup kitchens in the city of San
      Francisco. Recruitment materials will direct interested individuals to attend one of the
      study information sessions at a 'store front' site in San Francisco for an initial screening
      evaluation by the study staff, and a study orientation session to detail the study purpose,
      procedures, and participant rights. The orientation sessions will consist of a 60-minute
      session at a centrally-located room. After the orientation session, participants will be
      invited to sign a consent form, complete the baseline assessment, and be randomized to one of
      the four intervention conditions in a 1:1:1:1 allocation. We will use permuted block
      randomization so that sample sizes in each intervention group are nearly equal. Allocation
      sequence will be concealed prior to assignment; staff for sequence generation, allocation
      concealment, and implementation will be separate.

      Those agreeing to participate will sign a written consent form after the study orientation
      and before randomized to one of four voucher conditions, as part of our 2-by-2 study design:
      (1) vouchers targeted to fruits and vegetables and valid for sequential weeks of the month;
      (2) vouchers targeted to fruits and vegetables and valid over the entire month; (3) vouchers
      applicable to any food and valid for sequential weeks of the month; and (4) vouchers
      applicable to any food and valid over the entire month. Half of participants will receive a
      blue voucher valid for any food (not tobacco, alcohol, or prepared foods), while the other
      half will receive a green voucher valid only for qualified fruits and vegetables (fresh or
      frozen fruits, vegetables, or herbs without added sugars or fats, to correspond to the
      eligibility guidelines of existing voucher programs). All vouchers will have the same
      individual value ($5), but one half of participants will receive four vouchers that are each
      valid for the whole month (a lump sum payment of $20), while the other half will receive four
      vouchers that are each valid for one sequential week of the month, as labeled on the voucher
      (a distributed payment of $5 per week). Therefore, all intervention groups will be balanced
      on time and attention from study staff, as well as effort to obtain the vouchers. By having
      all vouchers in small increments of $5, we minimize the need for a large voucher to be spent
      all at once, reducing the risk of food spoilage affecting intervention effectiveness. Having
      all vouchers be worth the same value also simplifies processing of the voucher at the level
      of the food vendor. We have specifically designed the monetary amounts of the trial to be
      sufficient for achieving nutritional goals (the Healthy People 2020 goal of consuming 1.4
      cups of fruits and vegetables per day), but not be unduly large so as to be coercive to
      low-income populations.

      Vouchers will be mailed to each participant toward the end of the month prior that the
      vouchers were valid for, i.e. vouchers for March 2017 will be mailed at the end of February
      2017. Vouchers will be prepared following the guidelines in the Trial Protocol.

      To redeem vouchers, participants present the voucher to a cashier, and sign and date the
      voucher at the time of redemption. The cashier processes the voucher just as they processes
      vouchers for the Women, Infants and Children's program or manufacturer's coupons, and the
      vendor then submits the redeemed voucher for payment (the financial infrastructure is handled
      by the San Francisco General Hospital Foundation). The names of the vendors who will accept
      the vouchers are printed on each voucher, along with their address and business hours. All
      voucher rules will be reviewed with participants during the orientation session. We will
      continue routine meetings with the neighborhood food vendors' managers to ensure continued
      active participation and correct usage of the vouchers.

      Following informed consent, participants will complete a baseline survey and a 24-hour
      dietary recall before being randomized to one of the four study conditions. The recall
      includes three distinct passes to obtain a participant's food intake during the previous 24
      hours-a quick list, a detailed description, and a review-including foods obtained at home and
      away from home, and including bartered, foraged, food pantry and other non-purchased items.
      Participants are provided standard 2-dimensional booklets for reference to portion sizes. Our
      research assistants are blinded to the participant's intervention arm and skilled in guiding
      dietary recalls among diverse participants in a non-judgmental, comprehensive manner. The
      baseline recall will be conducted in person at the store front site; subsequent recalls will
      be conducted over telephone. Recalls will be performed during week 1 and week 4 of the
      month-0 (baseline), month-6, and month-12 assessments. Two recalls each will be done during
      week 1 (one weekday and one weekend) and two during week 4 (one weekday and one weekend) of
      the assessment months. This minimizes the number of recalls required to capture intra-person
      variation in diet between weekdays and weekends, while simultaneously capturing the monthly
      consumption cycle among participants (the key hypothesized mediator for the lump sum vs.
      distributed voucher effect).

      In addition to dietary recalls, research assistants will orally administer surveys to prevent
      literacy-based biases, consistent with recent Institute of Medicine recommendations. These
      20-minute surveys will be conducted at months 0, 6, and 12 and will cover attitudes and
      preferences regarding the vouchers and fruits and vegetables generally, shopping patterns,
      food expenditures, household environment, and food insecurity.

      Each participant will receive vouchers for a total of 6 months. The participants will then be
      tracked by the recruitment/retention coordinator through brief telephone contact monthly to
      ensure retention until they complete the month 12 survey and dietary recall (6 months after
      the end of the intervention), after which they are discharged from the study.

      In addition to participants who receive the vouchers, we will also conduct a brief survey
      with managers of the ten stores who have signed memos of understanding with the City of San
      Francisco and San Francisco General Foundation to accept the vouchers. The managers will be
      given informed consent forms to consider participating in a post- intervention survey. The
      paper-based vendor survey will be hand-delivered to vendors' managers to assess: (i) whether
      managers have any difficulties with the voucher system and whether those difficulties are at
      the point of sale, at the point of reimbursement, and/or when answering questions to
      customers about the vouchers; (ii) what if any activities were used by vendors to promote
      fruit and vegetable purchases during the voucher trial period; (iii) what if any activities
      they had engaged in to sell more fruits and vegetables; and (iv) a free text entry to elicit
      what changes vendors would propose to the voucher system in future
    
  