
    
      11. 3 Methods

      Synopsis of Study:

      A multicentred randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled trial evaluating the efficacy and
      safety of activated recombinant factor VII (rVIIa) in complex cardiac surgery.

      Study will be conducted at Austin Hospital, Alfred Hospital and Warringal Private Hospital.

      The study will have two arms:

        1. Those who have inadequate haemostasis after initial standardised administration of
           coagulation factors and receive rVIIa. (Active arm)

        2. Those who have inadequate haemostasis after initial standardised administration of
           coagulation factors and receive placebo. (Placebo arm)

           We anticipate from our preliminary series that 50% of enrolled subjects will achieve
           haemostasis after the initial standardised dose of coagulation factors and therefore
           don't receive trial medication. Identical data will be collected and will form an
           observational subgroup for analysis.

           The protocol allows for open label administration of rVIIa if adequate haemostasis is
           not achieved after two standardised administrations of coagulation factors and the trial
           medication. This would be within 2 hours of the completion of the first administration

           Primary endpoint will be "adequate haemostasis to enable chest closure" after
           administration of trial medication without the need for further intervention to improve
           coagulation.

           Secondary Endpoints, percentage of cases that haemostasis after first administration of
           coagulation factors alone Assessment of surgical field after administration of trial
           medication Time to closure of chest after administration of trial medication Transfusion
           requirements in post bypass period in theatre Transfusion requirements in ICU first 12
           hours Mediastinal drainage in ICU first 12 hours Coagulation study results at various
           sample times Requirement for chest re-exploration Ventilation duration in ICU Duration
           of stay in ICU

           Inclusion Criteria:

           Patients with scheduled cardiac surgery undergoing the following procedures Double valve
           replacements or repair. Major thoracic aortic surgery including hypothermic circulatory
           arrest or descending aortic reconstruction.

           Valve repair or replacement in the setting of endocarditis Complex procedures requiring
           cardiopulmonary bypass duration anticipated to exceed 180 minutes in patients aged ³70
           years

           Exclusion Criteria:

           Patient unable to give informed consent Patient refusal Allergy to rVIIa Allergy to
           aprotinin or prior exposure within 6 months Pre-existing congenital coagulopathy
           Pre-existing hypercoagulable state Patients in inclusion criteria whose actual bypass
           time does not exceed 180 minutes Unresolved surgical bleeding

           Withdrawal from Trial:

           At the discretion of treating physicians if the proposed transfusion protocol post CPB
           is inadequate to keep up with blood loss a patient can be withdrawn from the trial.
           Transfusion therapy according to current medical practice at the discretion of treating
           physicians will follow. rVIIa as per current hospital guidelines will be available. Data
           will still be collected in this group.

           Randomization Pharmacy will randomise patient after notified of entry into study.
           Blinded packaged trial medication will be sent to theatre.

           Surgical management Surgical technique will be at the discretion of treating surgeon but
           techniques that may affect haemostasis (eg. Use of biologic glues etc) will be recorded.

           Anaesthetic management Choice of anaesthetic agents will be at the discretion of
           treating anaesthetist.

           All patients will receive aprotinin 2 x 106 IV over 1 hour after test dose of 10,000
           units over 5 minutes and 2 x 106 IV in the CPB circuit prime. 0.75 x 106 IV to infusion
           per hour.

           All patients will be haemofiltered on bypass.

           Core temperature monitoring on all patients. Standard technique to preserve patient
           temperature. Topical head cooling will be used if hypothermic circulatory arrest is
           needed.

           Cardiopulmonary bypass management

           Standardised CPB prime and circuits Cell saver for all patients Cardiotomy return for
           all patients

           Haemoglobin maintained between 6-8gm/dL during bypass. Aim for haemoglobin of 10gm/dL at
           time of weaning from bypass. Units of packed cells transfused on bypass will be
           recorded.

           Adequate rewarming core temp > 35° for 20 minutes.

           Alpha stat pH management. Acid-base pH 7.3-7.5, BE +/- 3 prior to weaning from bypass.

           Post bypass period

           Transfusion and trial medication administration guidelines are found on Flow Chart.

           Red Cell Transfusion Trigger Aim for haemoglobin concentration between 80 and 100
           grams/litre using either banked or washed red cells.

           The planned "conventional therapy " of aprotinin and an initial administration
           predominately platelets (10 units), cryoprecipitate 3 mls/kg (high concentration of
           fibrinogen) and a moderate dose of fresh frozen plasma 5ml/kg is appropriate based on
           both our clinical experience and advice from the Australian Red Cross.

           If at anytime adherence to protocol at the discretion of treating medical staff is
           considered to place the patient at risk of inadequate transfusion, the patient can be
           withdrawn and transfusion commenced as determined by medical staff. Data will still be
           collected for these patients.

           The duration of protocol during transfusion is two hours. Either adequate haemostasis
           will have been achieved by the interventions as indicated in the protocol or the
           scenario of inadequate haemostasis despite two administrations of standardising
           coagulation factor and trial medications followed by open label administration of rVIIa
           will have evolved. If this is the case, ongoing transfusion, surgical and medical
           management will be at the discretion of medical staff. Administration of rVIIa can be
           considered after discussion with trial investigators. Data will still be collected for
           such patients.

           ICU Management Blood loss measurement in the closed drainage system must be documented
           at least once hourly, or more frequently if blood loss is excessive. The patient should
           be sat up in bed on arrival in ICU (this will allow CXR to be taken), before starting to
           measure drainage. On arrival to ICU coagulation studies should be performed and repeated
           4 hours and 12 hours post arrival. .

           Postoperative transfusion according to established ICU protocol Blood loss > 250mL/hr
           NOTIFY SURGEON (CONSIDER RETURN TO THEATRE)

           CONSISTANT WITH CURRENT PRACTICE: - NO ADMINISTRATION OF rVIIa IN ICU

           Re-exploration for bleeding Any patient returning to theatre will be treated at the
           discretion of medical staff involved. The administration of rVIIa can be considered
           according to current guidelines. Administration of coagulation products at discretion of
           treating doctors.

           Randomisation will be co-ordinated and supervised by the Trial Pharmacy at the Austin
           Hospital.

           Due to the expense of the drug, instability in solution and the lack of availability of
           a similarly packaged placebo, the mechanism to "blind" medical staff in theatre will
           involve an independent registered nurse preparing the drug in an opaque syringe
           according to a sealed envelope indicating placebo or trial drug. Randomisation will be
           site specific for both the Austin Hospital and Warringal Private Hospital.

           Pharmacy will be notified when consent is obtained for a patient. Two doses or rVIIa
           will need to be sent to theatre. This will be stored in the blood fridge. Any unused
           drug will be returned to Pharmacy with full documentation of drug handling. Nursing
           staff involved in trial medication preparation will be educated regarding the necessity
           of not revealing whether actual drug or placebo was used.

           Statistics

           Power Analysis Based on our pilot data we anticipate 80% or more of the group receiving
           rVIIa will achieve haemostasis adequate for chest closure without any further
           intervention to improve coagulation. (Our primary endpoint) We conservatively estimate
           that only 30% or less of placebo group will achieve haemostasis adequate for chest
           closure without any further intervention to improve coagulation. Assuming a p value of <
           0.5 and power of 0.8 analysis indicates that to show a 50% difference between groups 34
           subjects are needed (17 in each arm). To allow for any withdrawals we plan to enrol 40
           patients in the study. Based on current drug usage, the recruitment will take 2 years.

           Results Analysis Primary endpoints will be assessed by chi-squared analysis. Secondary
           endpoints parametric and non-parametric analysis as appropriate. No interim analysis is
           planned. Subgroup analysis according to procedure and surgeon will be performed.

           Bias Because of the small number of subjects in this trial, bias may be a problem.
           Unequal distribution of each of the four procedures may occur and influence results. The
           trial drug is thought to treat coagulopathic bleeding. Any superimposed surgical
           bleeding may cause bias.

           Adverse Events Patients undergoing cardiac surgery represent a population at relatively
           high risk of a range of perioperative complications inherent to their underlying
           disease, co-morbidities and the nature of the surgery being undertaken. In the pilot
           study the mortality rate was 25 %. It is not intended to report the occurrence all of
           these events to the Human Research and Ethics Committee. Any adverse events that do
           arise specifically in relation to the conduct of the proposed study will be reported to
           the Committee

           Feasibility Our pilot series of 40 cases from 2 centres was collected over a 24-month
           period. Assuming similar workloads and the addition of another centre ( Alfred Hospital)
           recruitment should be completed in 24 months.

           HREC approval has been granted by Austin Health for the Austin site. The same HREC is
           considering approval for the Warringal Private Hospital site, and the Alfred hospital
           will be seeking similar approval from its own HREC.
    
  