
    
      Auditory interventions are commonly used during procedural analgesic administration in
      premature neonates. This study investigated the effects of three interventions -recorded
      mother's voice, white noise, and MiniMuffs, muffs used to attenuate environmental sounds-
      applied during a heel lance on pain and comfort in premature infants. This experimental study
      is a randomized controlled research. The data for the research were collected between
      September 2017 - April 2019. The sample comprised 64 premature infants with gestational ages
      of 31-36 weeks, who had been hospitalized at the Neonatal Intensive Cate Units (NICU). All
      infants in the study were in their first postnatal week. The study routine included a heel
      lance procedure to determine the level of bilirubin and hematocrit. The heel lance was
      performed with a lancet and the blood was transferred to the hematocrit pipette. All heel
      lances were conducted by the same nurse. Power analysis was conducted to determine the number
      of samples needed. Predicting that the NIPS score would decrease by 30-35% and decrease from
      6 to 4-4.5 with 0.05 error and 80% power, the intervention groups yielded 64 infants divided
      into four groups of 16 as the target sample number. 80 infants included in the study, taking
      into account the loss of sample. Sixteen infants were excluded from the study. Sixty-four
      premature infants submitted for heel lance were evaluated.The randomization list was prepared
      by a third person using R version 3.1.3 package program and considering the gender factor.
      The list was concealed from the researcher and the family of the baby, and it was given to
      the researcher only during the procedure. The infants were randomly assigned to four groups.
      The infants were randomly assigned to four groups: i) white noise , ii) recorded mother's
      voice, iii) MiniMuffs, and iv) control. Five minutes before the procedure the white noise and
      mother's voice played and MiniMuffs placed on babies' ears. Heel lance procedures were
      recorded with a camera. Camera recording started before the procedure and continued until the
      baby stopped crying. The videos evaluated independently by two scientists (observers) who
      were specialists in neonatal services and pain. Observers evaluated infants' comfort, pain,
      and distress based on NIPS and COMFORTneo. In order to evaluate the agreement between the
      observers for the total scores of NIPS and COMFORTneo, pain estimation, and distress
      estimation, intraclass correlation coefficient were determined.
    
  