
    
      The proposed study aims to explore the relationships between perceived uncertainty, hope and
      adaptation in caregivers of children with Down Syndrome (DS). There are often uncertainties
      surrounding the prognosis of DS which extend into various aspects of the child s life. In
      addition to the possibility of chronic medical conditions associated with the syndrome, there
      is also uncertainty related to the level of independence and cognitive, social and behavioral
      functioning that the child will achieve. It is not fully understood how caregivers adapt to
      having a child with DS in light of the uncertainty and the particular challenges associated
      with this condition. While a high level of perceived uncertainty may be seen as a threat to
      adaptation, there is also evidence that caregivers may find benefits in uncertainty.
      Literature suggests that a person s level of hope influences how the perceived uncertainty is
      appraised and that hope is also related to the process of adaptation. There is no research
      that systematically explores the relationship between perceived uncertainty, hope, and
      adaptation. This study s conceptual framework is based on Lazarus & Folkman s Transactional
      Model of Stress and Coping and is also informed by Snyder s conceptualization of hope and
      Mishel s theory of perceived uncertainty in illness. A cross-sectional research design will
      quantitatively explore the relationships between perceived uncertainty, hope, and adaptation.
      In addition, an open-ended section will be included to qualitatively describe the focus of
      caregivers hope for their child and how the focus of hope relates to the degree of hope.
      Participants will be recruited from DS support groups, website postings, listservs, and
      clinic patient lists. They will have the option of completing either a paper or online
      version of the survey, or completing the survey by phone. The main outcome variable is
      psychological adaptation to being a care giver for a child with DS.
    
  