
    
      Patients will be recruited from the principle investigator's practice at Athens Orthopedic
      Clinic. As the only hand and upper-extremity surgeon in the Athens-Clarke county metro area,
      principle investigator performs the majority of this type of surgery for patients in Athens
      and surrounding cities. Therefore, the study population should be largely representative of
      the target population.

      Procedures:

        1. Patient Identification: Patient presents with distal radius fracture.

             1. An x-ray is taken to decide whether the fracture requires surgical stabilization.

             2. Unstable distal radius fractures will be based on the following criteria:

      1. Radial shortening <5 mm at the DRUJ compared with the contralateral side 2. Radial
      inclination on the posteroanterior radiographs > 15⁰ 3. Sagittal tilt on the lateral
      projection between 15⁰ dorsal tilt and 20⁰ volar tilt 4. Intra-articular step-off or gap <2
      mm of the radiocarpal joint 5. Articular incongruity <2 mm of the sigmoid notch of the distal
      radius 2. Screening: Patients whose fracture is unstable will be assessed for eligibility
      using the aforementioned criteria.

      3. Consent and de-identification: Patients who are deemed evaluable based on the eligibility
      criteria will be asked if they are interested in participating in a research study.

        1. Those who are interested will meet with a member of the study team, who will explain the
           study and answer any questions the patient might have.

        2. The participant will be given two (2) copies of the informed consent form and HIPAA
           authorization form. One copy of each document will be signed and returned to the study
           team, to be kept in a secure location, and the other copy will be given to the
           participant for his/her records.

        3. Each study participant will be assigned a unique study identification number in order to
           keep his/her identity anonymous. The participant's name and study ID will be recorded on
           the first page of the case report form, which is detached and kept in a locked filing
           cabinet immediately following consent. All subsequent data collection will be recorded
           on the data collection form at follow-up visits with the principle investigator. Data
           will be entered into a secure, de-identified database by a member of the study team,
           using the patient's study ID as an identifier. The database will not contain any
           information that may be used to identify the patient. 4. Surgery: All fractures will be
           stabilized by volar plate fixation or closed reduction percutaneous pinning using a
           distal volar radial locking plate or other appropriate implant. 5. Randomization: To
           avoid any potential bias on the part of the surgeon, patients will be randomized
           postoperatively to receive either the investigational (glove) or control (no glove)
           intervention. Therefore, the surgeon will be blinded to intervention status until after
           patient enrollment and surgical stabilization. 6. Post-surgery: The wound will be
           dressed steriley, per standard protocol. Initial sterile cast padding will be placed
           over sterile dressing. For patients in the investigational group, the compression glove
           will be applied over cast padding, followed by additional padding and then a splint.
           Patients in the control group will be dressed identically, with the exception of glove
           application. The splint will be applied for two weeks post-surgery and removal of the
           splint and application of a short-arm cast will occur at five weeks post-surgery.
           Additional post-surgical procedures are as follows:

      a. 2 weeks- splint is removed; glove is taken off for edema measurements (investigational
      group); short- arm cast is applied b. 5 weeks- short-arm cast is removed; patient can
      continue to wear compression glove on an as-needed basis; patient is given post-operative
      exercise handout c. 3 months- patients meet with study physician for routine follow-up visit
      d. 6 months- patients meet with study physician for final follow-up visit; once fully healed,
      patient is given option of having plates removed 7. Therapy: Patients will be given a handout
      explaining post-operative exercises to be performed at home during recovery.

        1. In addition, participants will attend therapy twice weekly, beginning five weeks from
           surgery. Duration of therapy will be as-needed at the therapist's discretion. Discharge
           from therapy will be based on the therapist's assessment that the patient has recovered
           to the extent that they can continue an exercise program at home.

        2. Patients who stop coming to therapy prior to discharge will be contacted by the
           therapists and asked to provide his/her primary reason for not returning. 8. Outcome
           assessment: outcomes will be assessed at each of four follow-up visits, occurring two
           weeks, six weeks, three months, and six months from surgery. These coincide with regular
           post-operative visits, so as to minimize loss to follow-up. Each visit will assess each
           of the outcome measurements explained in later sections.
    
  