
    
      The purpose of the Pyruvate Kinase Deficiency (PKD) Natural History Study is to describe the
      natural history of PKD and the range and incidence of symptoms, treatments, and complications
      related to PKD. The study will collect retrospective medical history and routine clinical
      care data at baseline and annually for patients with PKD. Patients without a genetic
      diagnosis will have a blood sample drawn for genetic diagnostic confirmation for research
      purposes. Understanding the clinical variation among participants with PKD, and assessing
      treatments specific to PKD and their outcomes will accelerate improvement in the care of
      patients with PKD. Understanding the natural history of PKD may be useful in the design of
      future interventional studies. Detailed genotypic and phenotypic characterization of the
      cohort will allow for continued in depth characterization of PKD. Finally, the PKD Natural
      History Study will identify interested participants for future PKD studies.

      Primary Objectives:

        1. To estimate the transfusion burden in splenectomized and non-splenectomized participants
           with PKD.

        2. To establish a patient registry as a potential source for recruitment to future research
           studies in PKD.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine if patient-reported outcomes, including quality of life and fatigue scales,
           are associated with age, genotype, hemoglobin nadir, and/or transfusion burden, overall
           and within the subgroups of splenectomized vs. non-splenectomized participants;

        2. To describe changes over time in the range of hemoglobin values and markers of hemolysis
           within individual participants and among participants with PKD;

        3. To estimate the incidence of past splenectomy and annual splenectomy rate, as treatment
           for PKD;

        4. To estimate the prevalence and severity and describe the treatment of hepatic and
           cardiac iron overload and its complications in PKD (liver, cardiac, growth defects,
           hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, and other endocrine defects). To describe the changes in
           these complications that may occur over time and by age group;

        5. To estimate the prevalence of co-morbidities associated with chronic hemolysis in PKD,
           to identify which co-morbidities are the most common, and to determine if the prevalence
           and/or severity of co-morbidities change over time and by age at the time of the first
           appearance of the co-morbidity;

        6. To determine pregnancy outcomes among participants with PKD;

        7. To describe genotypic and phenotypic variation among participants and explore
           genotype-phenotype correlation in PKD.
    
  