
    
      This PhD study evaluates the effect of an information technology solution containing RRS. The
      way it supports, informs and educates the patient and support person, provides an opportunity
      for communication between the patient and the surgeons, physiotherapists and nurses at the
      hospital.

      The parameters evaluated will be: Length of stay, health-related quality-of-life (HRQOL),
      functional outcome, pain, anxiety, complications and an evaluation of the socio-economic
      effect.

      The aim of the study generates the following hypotheses and focus for publication

        -  Length of stay is lower for the intervention group compared to the control group.

        -  The average quality of life measured with EQ-5D will either be the same or higher when
           comparing the intervention group with the control group.

        -  Compared to the control group the functional outcome of the intervention group measured
           with Oxford Hip Score (OHS) and Timed Up and Go (TUG) will be the same or better.

        -  Complications measured as luxations, infections, and reoperations are the same or lower
           in the intervention group compared to the control group.

        -  There will be a correlation between patients with the highest level of psychological
           problems and symptoms of psychopathology measured with Symptom Checklist-90-R, and the
           postoperative outcome measured with EQ5D, anxiety and TUG.

        -  There will be a correlation between support persons with the highest level of
           psychological problems and symptoms of psychopathology measured with Symptom
           Checklist-90-R, and the postoperative outcome measured with EQ5D, anxiety and TUG for
           the patient they are related to.

        -  The socio-economic costs will be lower for the intervention group compared to the
           control group based on self reported data and data collected from official databases.
           This study will be conducted as a piggy back to the RCT.
    
  