
    
      Periprosthetic hip infections are an hot topic in orthopedic surgery, whose incidence is
      about 1%. The morbidity, mortality and additional costs associated with prolonged
      hospitalization and further treatments are the main concerns. Periprosthetic infections are
      generally diagnosed using the CDC (Center for Disease Control and Prevention) criteria
      (2014). The diagnosis is based on major and minor criteria, including pre-operative and
      intra-operative parameters. In order to achieve a reliable diagnosis of infection, when
      fistula are not present, synovial fluid aspiration or tissue samples are required. However,
      these techniques are expensive and invasive. Moreover, sensitivity is not always so accurate,
      as shown by some series of revision surgeries performed for presumed aseptic loosening, which
      turned out to be septic after cultures. Therefore, diagnosis of infection often occurs late
      and after a long, complex, expensive and not always decisive diagnostic workup, impacting on
      the timing and success of the treatment.

      A practical, rapid, reliable and non-invasive (possibly outpatient) diagnostic procedure for
      periprosthetic infections would be desirable. It may rely on diagnostic imaging, limiting the
      collection of liquid or tissues to doubtful cases. Currently, CT and nuclear medicine imaging
      techniques are not routinely adopted in the diagnosis of infection, due to the modest
      reliability, costs and exposure to radiant agents.

      Recently, neural networks have been introduced: they consist of many simple parallel
      processors, deeply connected, realizing a computational model. Neural networks mimic brain
      and its ability to learn. Computational models recognize of visual signals, manage complex
      situations in real time, classify and manage noise, use associative memory with real-time
      access to large amounts of data and reconstruct partial or corrupted information. Neural
      networks have been already used to predict the onset of infections, metastases and treatment
      failures, integrating clinical and diagnostic imaging data. To date, no studies about neural
      networks in periprosthetic infection have been conducted. The purpose of this study is to
      evaluate whether neural networks (cellular neural networks-genetic algorithm), applied to
      conventional radiographies, are accurate, sensitive and specific for the early-discrimination
      of a periprosthetic hip infection, already diagnosed with well-recognized methods (CDC 2014).

      Specifically, a population of patients, with a complete radiographic history (pre-operative
      X-rays and a series of other post-operative X-rays), treated for septic or aseptic loosening,
      is selected.

      Both cases are necessary to "instruct" a neural network. The first step consists in
      identifying a consecutive series of patients with septic or aseptic loosening diagnosis,
      consulting the hospital database. Thus, patients are categorically divided into septic, or
      aseptic, loosening. The 2014 CDC criteria are used (as routinely performed in the clinical
      setting), adding another major and necessary criterion: at least 3 positive intraoperative
      tissue samples (same micro-organism). In case of aseptic loosening, the case must not meet
      the CDC 2014 criteria. Thus, the imaging and clinical data of the patients are collected.
      Having ascertained the diagnosis, the radiographic material is processed (cellular neural
      networks-genetic algorithm). The proposed procedure processes the radiographic images using
      the following pipeline and the MatLab software (Mathworks, Natick, US):

        -  baseline: the first post-implant image is compared to the pre-implant radiographic
           image;

        -  progresses are recorded by periodical radiographs using standard and repeatable
           projections (pelvis X-rays);

        -  the features are extracted from each image, in the manually segmented area (region of
           interest - ROI). Three steps take place: 1) image pre-processing, to create uniform
           frameworks of input data (gray-level images). Color Histogram Equalization; 2) features
           extracted from neural networks are applied to ROI. Cloning templates using genetic
           algorithms. The features will be processed by a fully connected layer + SoftMax; 3)
           features extracted from AutoEconder with fully-connected layer + SoftMax;

        -  analysis of differential radiographic features (analysis of cellular and convolutive
           sides) and comparison to the baseline. Post-processing in the following way: 1)
           fully-connected regression layer and multiclass classifier: will produce the percentage
           of septic progression risk; 2) fully-connected regression layer and binary classifier:
           features in the septic / aseptic clusters;

        -  a final decision tree: fusion of the above-mentioned data, providing a percentage of
           septic progression risk at the indexed imaging. The aim is to verify whether the neural
           networks applied to radiographic imaging can accurately, sensitively and specifically
           recognize a late, chronic periprosthetic hip infection diagnosed according to validated
           and certain criteria.
    
  