
    
      This is a multicentre, open-label, Phase 1-2 study in patients with locally advanced and/or
      metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) to investigate the effectiveness, safety and
      immunogenicity of the tumour multi-peptide vaccine IMA910 plus GM-CSF (1st cohort) given as
      monotherapy after successful (CR, PR or SD) completion of a 12 week first-line
      oxaliplatin-based standard chemotherapy (e.g. FOLFOX, XELOX). Safety, immunogenicity and
      effectiveness of IMA910 plus GM-CSF in combination with imiquimod will be investigated in a
      2nd cohort of patients with locally advanced and/or metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) after
      successful (CR, PR or SD) completion of a 12 week first-line oxaliplatin-based standard
      chemotherapy (e.g. FOLFOX, XELOX).

      The aim of this study is to investigate whether IMA910 plus GM-CSF (1st cohort) is an
      effective maintenance therapy with a favorable toxicity profile. A single dose of low-dose
      cyclophosphamide is applied as an immune modulator 3 days before the start of vaccination.
      Effectiveness is measured in terms of the disease control rate (DCR) at Visit 14 (= 27 weeks
      of vaccination) according to RECIST. The baseline tumour response assessment is performed
      after a first-line oxaliplatin-based standard chemotherapy for 12 weeks. The DCR is compared
      to a no effect level of 21% derived from the PFS curve of the chemotherapy-free interval
      cohort (arm B) of the OPTIMOX 2 study. Tumour response assessments will be performed every 9
      weeks according to RECIST. Further a 2nd cohort of patients will be treated with IMA910 plus
      GM-CSF in combination with imiquimod and a single dose of lowdose cyclophosphamide. The aim
      of the 2nd cohort is to investigate whether the addition of imiquimod is safe, enhances the
      immune response to IMA910 and shows effectiveness.

      Patients in the 1st and 2nd cohort will be withdrawn from study treatment once a progress
      according to RECIST is noted. An enrolment plan for the first 6 patients included into the
      1st cohort will be part of this study to ensure maximum safety of the study participants. The
      enrollment of the first 6 patients into the 2nd cohort will also follow an enrolment plan to
      ensure maximum safety.

      Patients must be HLA-A*02-positive. Patients must have been diagnosed with unresectable,
      locally advanced and/or metastatic colorectal cancer before first-line chemotherapy. Patients
      must have completed a 12 week first-line oxaliplatin-based standard chemotherapy (e.g. FOLFOX
      or XELOX) with either complete or partial response or stable disease as the outcome. In case
      the 12 week first-line oxaliplatin-based standard chemotherapy results in resectable disease
      the patient may not be enrolled and routinely undergoes surgical resection of residual
      tumour. Patients must be aged 18 years or older and must have histological confirmed
      colorectal adenocarcinoma (CRC) and radiological evidence (CT/MRI) of unresectable locally
      advanced and/or metastatic CRC prior to 12 week first-line oxaliplatin-based standard
      chemotherapy.

      This study will employ low-dose Cyclophosphamide (administered as a single i.v. infusion at a
      dose of 300 mg/m2 3 days prior to the vaccination) in order to increase the immune response
      to IMA910 (5.78 mg i.d.). Patients will receive 7 vaccinations of IMA910 plus GM-CSF (75 μg
      i.d.) in the first 6 weeks of treatment (induction period) followed by 9 vaccinations at
      3-week intervals for a further 27 weeks (maintenance period). The patients will receive a
      total of 16 vaccinations over a period of 33 weeks. An end of study visit (EOS, Visit 17)
      will be performed 4 weeks after the last treatment. Patients enrolled into the 2nd cohort of
      the study will receive the same treatment as described above and will additionally receive a
      topical application of 250 mg imiquimod cream (12.5 mg imiquimod) 10 minutes (up to 20
      minutes) after each application of IMA910 (Visit 1-16) and from day 3 onwards 250 mg
      imiquimod cream (12.5 mg imiquimod) 24 hours (but up to 48 hours at the latest) after each
      application of IMA910 (Visit 3-16). The topical application of imiquimod additionally 24
      hours (but up to 48 hours at the latest) after IMA910 application will be done by the patient
      at home. Imiquimod cream will be applied to a marked 5x5 cm area around the injection site of
      GM-CSF and IMA910.

      At screening a CT or MRI of the chest and abdomen/pelvis will be performed to assess baseline
      tumour status. In patients with suspected brain metastasis at Screening or if clinically
      indicated a CT or MRI of the brain will be performed. In patients with known bone metastases
      of the extremities or in case of suspected bone metastases of the extremities at Screening
      correlative imaging (X-ray, CT or MRI) has to be performed of the respective area(s). At
      Visits 8, 11, 14, and 17 (EOS) a CT or MRI of the chest, abdomen and pelvis will be
      performed. In patients with bone metastases of the extremities detected at baseline or during
      the study, repeat assessments of the sites of bone metastases (X-ray, CT or MRI) will be
      performed at Visits 14 and 17 (EOS). An assessment of brain metastasis will be performed only
      if clinically indicated during the course of the study.

      Cellular immunomonitoring (T-cell responses to peptides contained in IMA910 and analysis of
      other immune cell populations that may influence T-cell responses such as Tregs), serum
      levels of antibodies and molecules with suspected influence on immune response will be
      assessed on several occasions during the study. In a subgroup of patients the following
      parameters may be assessed in tumour tissue (depending on the amount and quality of tissue):
      expression of target genes encoding the TUMAPs contained in IMA910 and of genes which might
      be influenced by IMA910, presentation of TUMAPs contained in IMA910, presence of tumour
      infiltrating lymphocytes and presence of molecules with suspected influence on immune
      response.

      Safety assessment will comprise continuous adverse event reporting, regular physical
      examinations and regular assessments of vital signs, haematology, blood chemistry and urine.
      A 12-lead ECG will be performed at screening and at the end of the study. Pregnancy testing
      will be performed according to applicable legislation in the country where the trial is being
      performed. At the very least, women of childbearing potential must undergo a pregnancy test
      during screening for the study, before the first dose and at the end of the study.

      In the initial phase of the study 6 patients of the 1st Cohort will be treated step-wise and
      observed for 21 days according to a pre-specified enrolment plan. The first step is the
      enrolment of 1 patient followed by an observation period of 21 days, thereafter enrolment of
      2 patients followed by an observation period of 21 days thereafter 3 patients followed by an
      observation period of 21 days. The sponsor will evaluate the adverse events and laboratory
      data following every enrolment step and initiate the enrolment of the next enrolment step.
      After 6 patients enrolled in that way the subsequent enrolment can be performed without
      further restrictions.

      Further also in the 2nd Cohort the first 6 patients of the 2nd cohort will be enrolled in a
      step-wise manner. The first step is the enrolment of 1 patient followed by an observation
      period of 1 week, thereafter enrolment of 2 patients followed by an observation period of 1
      week thereafter enrolment of 3 patients followed by an observation period of 1 week. The
      sponsor will evaluate the adverse events following every enrolment step and initiate the
      enrolment of the next enrolment step. After 6 patients enrolled in that way the subsequent
      enrolment can be performed without further restrictions.
    
  