
    
      Research Question: Is there a practical, widely available, non-pharmacological intervention
      that can be used to reduce the detrimental effects of anthracycline treatment to improve
      breast cancer patient cardiovascular health, well-being?

      Primary Hypothesis: short-term application of aerobic exercise or caloric restriction prior
      to anthracycline chemotherapy treatments for breast cancer will reduce the detrimental
      effects of anthracyclines on heart, vessels and skeletal muscle.

      Exploratory Hypothesis: these interventions will enhance the anticancer effects of
      anthracyclines and/or reduce the detrimental effects of anthracyclines on health-related
      quality of life.

      Primary Study Aims: to investigate the effect of a single aerobic exercise session performed
      24 hours prior to anthracycline treatment and the effect of 50% caloric restriction for 48
      hours prior to anthracycline treatment relative to usual care control. Specifically, we will
      measure the intervention effects on:

      I) Cardiac structure and function: 1) circulating NT-proBNP (interventions will mitigate
      unwanted increase in this prognostic marker of development of later cardiotoxicity); 2) left
      ventricular ejection fraction reserve (interventions will mitigate unwanted reduction in
      ability to augment heart function with exercise challenge) and 3) cardiac T1 mapping
      (interventions will mitigate unwanted increase in this marker of formation of myocardial
      fibrosis)

      II) Vascular Function: 1) Aortic distensibility (rest) (interventions will mitigate unwanted
      increase in vascular stiffness)

      III) Skeletal Muscle Structure and Function: 1) skeletal muscle oxygen consumption 2)
      skeletal muscle oxygen extraction (interventions will mitigate unwanted loss of oxygen
      consumption, extraction at peak exercise and in recovery) and 3) skeletal muscle mass and
      quality (interventions will mitigrate unwanted loss of skeletal muscle mass and quality).

      Exploratory Study Aims: to investigate the effects of these interventions relative to the
      control group on: 1) tumor size at end of treatment in neoadjuvant patients (interventions
      will reduce tumor size) and 2) quality of life and fatigue at end of treatment and one year
      after treatment (interventions will improve quality of life and fatigue) and 3) long-term
      clinical cardiac and cancer outcomes.

      Design and Recruitment:

      This study will be a three-arm randomized control trial of fifty-six early stage breast
      cancer patients receiving adjuvant or neoadjuvant anthracycline-containing chemotherapy
      treatment. Following completion of the baseline assessment, participants will randomized to
      one of three groups who will: 1) complete a supervised vigorous intensity aerobic exercise
      session 24 hours prior to each anthracycline treatment; 2) restrict their caloric intake by
      50% for 48 hours prior to each treatment; or 3) control condition receiving oncological usual
      care only. Participants will be recruited via oncologist referral from the Cross Cancer
      Institute.

      Sample Size Determination:

      Cardiac MRI is extremely reproducible and thus sensitive to detecting change in ejection
      fraction. It has been previously demonstrated that n=15 patients are required to detect a 3
      percentage point change of resting ejection fraction with cardiac MRI, an 85% reduction in
      sample size required to detect the same change using echocardiography. Using a n=15 sample
      size per group for a three-arm, three-repeated measures design, there is >90% power to detect
      a medium effect size at p=0.05 (G*Power Version 3.0.10, F-test with repeated measures and a
      within-between factor design). The primary outcome in the current study, ejection fraction
      reserve (peak ejection fraction minus resting ejection fraction) is expected to be more
      sensitive than resting ejection fraction and therefore this sample size is expected to detect
      a difference between the intervention groups and the control group. We will enrol n=56 total
      (n=18-19 per group) to allow for a 20% rate for dropout, death, and technical difficulties.

      Statistical Methods:

      Given the longitudinal study design with data collected at 3 time points for each subject, a
      linear mixed model analysis that includes both fixed and random effects, with an intention to
      treat approach will be used. The repeated measures on a single subject result in correlated
      outcome data, and the random effects allow this correlation to be explicitly modeled. An
      additional advantage is that it allows for missing data on a subject without deleting all the
      data for that subject. The model also allows for covariates to be tested and can include time
      varying covariates (e.g. treatments received post anthracyclines). One assumption of mixed
      models is that the residuals from the model are normally distributed. Pilot data indicates
      that this assumption will hold for this study. If that is not the case, a Generalized Linear
      Mixed Model analysis, which can fit other distributions, will be used. All analyses will be
      performed using SPSS 24.0.

      An interim analysis of resting ejection fraction only (standard parameter used to monitor
      cardiotoxicity within oncology practice) will be completed by a paid statistician not
      associated with the study. Resting ejection fraction will be compared between groups after
      completion of the end of treatment assessment for the first thirty participants. A second
      interim analysis will be performed upon suggestion by the statistician.
    
  