
    
      VeriStrat®, a pretreatment blood-based test correlated with clinical outcome after EGFR-TKI
      therapy in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients, was developed and validated in a
      multi-institutional study of advanced NSCLC patients treated with gefitinib [Taguchi et al] .
      The VeriStrat algorithm was developed using a training set of pre-treatment serum samples
      from patients who then experienced either long term stable disease or early progression on
      gefitinib therapy. Mass spectra from these patients' serum samples were used to define eight
      MS features (i.e. peaks), differentiating these two outcome groups. An algorithm (VeriStrat)
      utilizing these features and based on a k-nearest neighbors (KNN) classification scheme was
      created and its parameters were optimized using additional spectra from the training cohort.
      All aspects of VeriStrat were frozen after development. VeriStrat assigns each spectrum a
      "Good" or "Poor" label. VeriStrat was validated in a blinded fashion on two independent
      cohorts of patients who were treated with gefitinib or erlotinib. These studies confirmed
      that patients classified as "Good" had better outcome than patients classified as "Poor" (HR
      of death = 0.47 P = 0.0094 in one cohort, HR of death = 0.33 P = 0.0007 in the other).

      In the original study, VeriStrat was shown to correlate with clinical outcome following
      EGFR-TKI therapy, but not in the chemotherapy or post-surgery setting: No statistically
      significant difference was seen in the overall survival of patients classified as "Good" or
      "Poor" from the serum from patients collected before second-line chemotherapy (HR = 0.74,
      95%, P = 0.42 in one cohort (cohort B) and HR = 0.81, P = 0.54 in another (cohort C)). In a
      third control cohort of patients with resected early-stage NSCLC, the hazard ratio for
      overall survival was 0.90 (P = 0.79). However, further analysis of the subsets of
      chemotherapy samples demonstrated that separation between "Good" and "Poor" arms may depend
      on a particular type of chemotherapy. Thus a retrospective subset analysis of the cohort C
      showed that while patients treated with docetaxel in second line did not show any sign of
      separation, patients receiving a combination of platinum-based agents with either vinorelbine
      or gemcitabine or paclitaxel had a trend to separation between the two arms.

      The working hypothesis for the mechanism is that the VeriStrat "Poor" label is related to the
      activation of canonical and non-canonical MAPK pathways downstream from receptor tyrosine
      kinases, with possible cross-talk activation of the NF-kB pathway. This means that VeriStrat
      may demonstrate different predictive performance depending on the particular chemotherapy
      treatment and its associated with cell pathway interactions.
    
  