
    
      After approval by the Institutional Research Ethics Committee, the adults and pediatrics
      participants for elective surgeries to be submitted to general and spinal anesthesia lasting
      60 minutes or more held at the surgery center at Itapecerica of Serra Hospital. The
      participants will receive the necessary explanations on the research and, after obtaining the
      responsible consent for participating in the trial, the participants will be included.

      Inclusion/exclusion criteria:

      Inclusion - adults and pediatrics population that will be submitted to general or spinal
      anesthesia in the surgery center at Itapecerica of Serra Hospital.

      Exclusion:

        -  The participants that are feverish/present with infectious symptoms

        -  Refusal of the use of the device by the participants There will be select each groups
           made up of 70 participants. It will be submitted the adults in two groups, one submitted
           to general anesthesia and other group submitted to spinal anesthesia and the pediatric
           group to general anesthesia. The made up for the choice of the thermometer to be to
           general anesthesia the oral and Spot On thermometers before anesthesia induction, after
           anesthesia induction the Spot On, and oral, and esophageal thermometers and after
           surgery in PACU the Spot On and oral thermometer. In group submitted to spinal
           anesthesia the made up for the choice of the thermometer to be the oral and Spot On
           thermometers before anesthesia induction, after anesthesia induction and after surgery
           in PACU the Spot On and oral thermometer.

      The thermometer will be used as the moment they will be identified as:

      Adult General Group (AGG): the anesthetic procedure will use the spot on thermometer during
      the pre, intra and post-operative stages and in association with oral during the pre, intra
      and post-operative stages and the esophagus thermometer during the intra-operative stage.

      Adult Spinal Group (ASG): the anesthetic procedure will use the oral and the spot on
      thermometer in the pre, intra and post-operative stages.

      Pediatric General Group (ASG): the anesthetic procedure will use the oral in the pre, intra
      and post-operative stages and esophageal thermometers in the intra stages and the spot on
      thermometer during the pre, intra and post-operative stages.

      The anesthetic technique will be standard according to the scheduled surgery. The study will
      assess the participants submitted to elective anesthesia throughout the pre, intra and
      post-operative stages of all scheduled elective surgeries.

      All the participants for elective surgeries lasting 60 minutes or more and/or are scheduled
      to use any active heating device from the pre, intra and post-anesthetic stages up till the
      discharge from the post anesthesia recovery room.

      The variables to be assessed in the study are:

        -  Age, gender, weight, height, physical condition according to the American Anesthesiology
           Association classification;

        -  Oral, SPOT ON, and esophagus temperature measured at the following points:

             -  Mentrance - entering the room and every 10 min until the anesthesia induction

             -  Minduction - immediately before induction

             -  M10, M20, M30 = 10, 20, 30 min after induction and every 10 min till the end of the
                anesthetic procedure;

             -  Mpost-0, Mpost-15, Mpost-30, Mdischarge, = 0, 15, 30, and every 15 min till the
                discharge from post anesthesia recovery room.

        -  Room temperature of operating room and post anesthesia recovery room (from the
           participants entrance every 30 minutes to the end of the procedure and discharge to the
           hospital bed).

      Data analysis The data will be tabulated and noted as mean and standard deviation, whenever
      possible, and observed for normal distribution using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test (sample size
      exceeding 50). Nonparametric data will be presented by Mid and distribution boundaries. The
      values of temperatures are compared by estimation model of generalized equations (GEE) with
      Bonferroni correction (REF: Guimarães and Hirakata, 2012).

      The calculation of the sample consider the participants as his own control (intragroup) and
      also the comparison between the equipment used (between groups, all three). Using
      multivariate analysis of variance (ANOVA) repeated measures, with test significance level
      (alpha) 1% (probability of error type I) and sample size which reduces the probability of
      type II error (Beta) in 95%, the sample is situated on 120 participants(Ref: Faul et al
      2007).
    
  