
    
      The principal pharmacological effect of neuromuscular blocking drugs is to interrupt the
      transmission of nerve impulses at the neuromuscular junction. They are classified into
      depolarising (mimics the action of acetylcholine) and non-depolarising (interfere with the
      action of acetylcholine).In general, we use vecuronium (0.08mg/kg) or atracurium (0.5mg/kg),
      which are intermediate-acting non-depolarising neuromuscular blocking agents for skeletal
      muscle relaxation.

      The main use of neuromuscular blocking drugs is to provide skeletal muscle relaxation for
      facilitation of intubation of the trachea and to improve surgical working conditions in the
      anaesthetised patients. A 2×ED95 dose of non-depolarising muscle relaxant is recommended to
      facilitate tracheal intubation. In practice, 90% suppression of the single twitch response is
      usually considered clinical evidence of adequate drug-induced skeletal muscle relaxation.

      Laparoscopy has become the most preferred means of surgical access for a variety of
      procedures. There are many laparoscopic surgeries that last about an hour. But the
      duration-of-action of bolus (intubating) dose of atracurium or vecuronium when used alone is
      not sufficient to last for an hour. As a result, for surgeries lasting an hour(e.g.
      laparoscopic cholecystectomy, laparoscopic total extra-peritoneal repair, etc.), one either
      end up giving a top up (maintenance) dose of vecuronium/atracurium to extend muscle
      relaxation or withhold the add-on dose and continue with surgery towards completion. While in
      the former situation, the anaesthesiologist is required to wait for long even though the
      surgery is completed; in the latter, either the surgery gets disturbed due to patient's
      movement (e.g. coughing, bucking) or there may be associated hemodynamic activation, which
      requires deepening of anaesthesia plane; both harbinger for patient-related adversity.

      There are studies which have evaluated the effect of combining two non-depolarizing
      neuromuscular relaxants on the profile of skeletal muscle relaxation pertinent to anaesthetic
      (tracheal intubation) and surgical conditions.Atracurium and vecuronium are the most common
      non- depolarizing muscle relaxants we routinely employ during general anaesthesia (GA). Till
      date, to our knowledge, there are a very few studies that have evaluated combination of
      atracurium and vecuronium given together.Though, the limited number of studies which analysed
      effects of combined neuromuscular relaxation with atracurium and vecuronium underlined that
      there is an additive effect, commented only on onset-of-action and reversibility of muscle
      relaxation effect. In addition, no study has yet evaluated the duration-of-action of
      atracurium- vecuronium combination in adults undergoing laparoscopic surgeries. Muscle
      relaxation is used for optimising laparoscopic operating conditions by preventing
      diaphragmatic movement due to irritation by the presence of pneumoperitoneum and achieving
      more intra-abdominal space for a particular intra-abdominal insufflation pressure. In this
      context, deeper than normally maintained level of neuromuscular blockade appears to be
      superior. The investigators contend that combining vecuronium and atracurium would not only
      facilitate increase in duration-of-action of the relaxation but also provide quality muscle
      relaxation for the duration of surgery.

      The proposed study looks forward to analyse the effect of muscle relaxation profile of
      vecuronium-atracurium combination versus vecuronium-alone or atracurium-alone in patients
      undergoing laparoscopic surgery.
    
  