
    
      This randomized withdrawal study is an international phase 3 double-blind, placebo-controlled
      study that will enroll eligible patients with uterine fibroids who have completed the 24-week
      treatment period in a parent study (MVT-601-3001 or MVT-601-3002) and the 28-week treatment
      period of the open-label extension study (MVT-601-3003). When including treatment during the
      parent study and the extension study, patients completing this randomized withdrawal study
      will have received up to a total of 104 weeks of treatment with relugolix.

      Approximately 360 women with heavy menstrual bleeding associated with uterine fibroids
      completing the extension study with a response to treatment will be eligible to participate
      in this study. A responder is defined as a patient who demonstrates a menstrual blood loss of
      < 80 mL and at least a 50% reduction from parent study baseline menstrual blood loss volume
      on the alkaline hematin analysis of the feminine products returned at Week 48 in the
      extension study.

      Screening procedures will be done on the same day as the Week 52 visit for the extension
      study. This visit will be referred to as the "Week 52/Baseline visit." When the Week
      52/Baseline procedures in the extension study have been completed, the investigator will
      assess patient eligibility for participation in this study. The eligibility assessment will
      be based on data available at the Week 52/Baseline visit.

      Patients will be asked to provide feminine products for alkaline hematin analysis at each
      visit until the analysis confirms the return of heavy menstrual bleeding. The patients will
      then be offered retreatment with open-label relugolix with E2/NETA with the onset of the next
      menses. They will resume collection of feminine products for alkaline hematin analysis until
      two consecutive analyses confirm resolution of heavy menstrual bleeding (menstrual blood loss
      of < 80 mL). Safety will be assessed throughout the study by monitoring adverse events, vital
      signs, physical examinations, clinical laboratory tests, and assessments of bone mineral
      density.
    
  