
    
      This project is a 5 years prospective,observational,longitudinal registration study on
      clinical surgical and interventional treatment of structural heart disease.Firstly,patients
      with structural heart disease, whom received surgical,interventional or surgery combined with
      interventional hybrid treatment during Jan. 2015 to Jan. 2020 ,were registrated dynamiclly.
      And further management and 1 year clinical follow-up,which contains demographic
      characteristics, clinical manifestations, treatment strategies and prognosis of outcome, were
      performed on the recruited data.Secondly, this is also a prospective observational study,
      featured by collecting data through annual follow-up,with the timing at the point of off the
      hospital,and 1,2,6,9,12 month after hospital discharge,respectively.

      The inclusion criteria:

        1. atrial septal defect

        2. ventricular septal defect

        3. patent ductus arteriosis

        4. pulmonary stenosis

        5. residual leakage after surgical treatment for congenital heart disease

        6. coronary artery fistula

        7. pulmonary arteriovenous malformations

        8. tetralogy of Fallot, and other cyanotic heart disease

        9. mitral stenosis and insufficiency

       10. tricuspid stenosis and insufficiency

       11. aortic stenosis and insufficiency

       12. pulmonary stenosis and insufficiency

       13. coarctation of aorta

       14. paravalvular leakage

       15. hypertrophic obstructive heart disease

       16. dilated cardiomyopathy

       17. structural heart disease need surgery combined with interventional hybrid treatment

       18. structural heart disease need surgeryor interventional treatment

      The exclusion criteria:

        1. primary arrhythmia cardiac disease,like tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation

        2. circulation disease, like coronary heart disease,hypertension,arterial aneurysm

        3. patients were not received any treatment

        4. patients were hard to follow-up

        5. no informed Consent
    
  