
    
      PTSD is a serious debilitating disorder that negatively impacts a person's daily life.
      3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is a ring-substituted phenylisopropylamine
      derivative that releases serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine. MDMA has been shown to
      reduce defenses and fear of emotional injury, enhance communication, and increase empathy,
      creating productive psychological state that enhances the therapeutic process for the
      treatment of PTSD and other anxiety disorders. This is supported by data from an
      international series of Phase 2 pilot studies of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy conducted by the
      sponsor that provide preliminary evidence that chronic PTSD, independent of cause, is
      treatable with two to three sessions of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy and associated non-drug
      preparatory and integrative psychotherapy. The results from multiple independent studies in
      Phase 2 efficacy analyses demonstrate superiority of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy over
      psychotherapy with placebo and low dose MDMA.

      This protocol is for a Phase 1, open-label study with a primary purpose of evaluating the
      effect of moderate hepatic impairment in the pharmacokinetics of MDMA and its active
      metabolite, 3,4-methylene-dioxyamphetamine (MDA), and determining whether an adjustment to
      the dosage would be indicated in this group of patients in comparison to patients with normal
      liver function. Because people with moderate hepatic impairment may experience greater
      exposure to drug than people without it, the secondary purpose of this study is to evaluate
      the effect of moderate hepatic impairment on the safety and tolerability of oral MDMA, with
      special attention to ECG data. The study will enroll eight participants, ages 18 to 65 years
      old, with moderate hepatic impairment, and eight healthy controls with normal hepatic
      function who are matched with participants with moderate impaired hepatic function on the
      basis of age, weight and gender.

      Participants who give their written informed consent will be screened for study participation
      that will include a physical examination, assessing current and prior medical and physical
      health, and a baseline electrocardiogram (ECG) reading. If applicable, they may begin
      tapering off any contraindicated psychiatric medication. Participants who meet study criteria
      will receive a single dose of 80 mg MDMA on the first day of a three-day stay at the study
      site. Blood will be collected periodically in order to calculate pharmacokinetics of MDMA and
      its active metabolite methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA). Blood will be collected ten times on
      Day 1 (-5 min, 0 hours (drug administration), 0.5 h, 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 10 and 12 hours),
      starting five minutes before drug administration. Subjective effects of MDMA will be assessed
      through 15 visual analog scales at similar time points to blood collection, at 0.5, 1, 2, 4,
      6 and 7 hours post-drug. There will be six 12-lead ECG measurements on Day 1. Participants
      will remain at the study site for two more days. Drug safety will be assessed by measuring
      blood pressure, heart rate and body temperature after MDMA administrations, collecting
      adverse events throughout the study and measuring suicidal thoughts or behaviors with the
      Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS). Blood will be collected 24 and 36 hours
      after drug administration, and ECG will be performed on Day 2, and a single ECG and blood
      draw will occur on Day 3, 4 and 5. Participants will return for eight and 15 days after drug
      administration. They will have a single blood draw on each day. The study ends 15 days after
      drug administration, approximately one month after screening.

      The primary outcome measure will be area under the curve from dosing to last dose (AUC) of
      MDMA and MDA. AUC will be computed from plasma collected multiple times after a single dose
      of MDMA, twice on the day following the day of drug administration, and once daily for three
      more days. Other pharmacokinetic measures will be maximal values of MDMA and MDA (Cmax), and
      time to reach maximum MDMA and MDA levels (Tmax). Safety measures will also include a
      comparison of subjective effects across groups, ECG readings, number of adverse events, and
      suicidal ideation or behavior as measured via C-SSRS during the study.
    
  