
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the independent association of common genetic polymorphisms involved in folate,
      vitamin A, and related metabolic and transport pathways and the risk of neuroblastoma (NB).

      II. Evaluate the joint effects of multiple genes on the risk of NB. III. Evaluate the effects
      of gene-exposure interactions on the risk of NB. IV. Evaluate genetic effects within NB
      subgroups defined by age at diagnosis and a Children?s Oncology group classification schema
      based on age, v-myc avian myelocytomatosis viral oncogene neuroblastoma derived homolog
      (MYCN) oncogene status, histology, and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) ploidy.

      V. Recontact mothers of participating NENA case children, conduct brief web-based screen to
      ascertain whether the pregnancy including the index NENA child was a multiple (twin, triplet,
      etc), whether the mother knew if the children were monozygotic (MZ) or dizygotic (DZ), and
      obtain a complete pregnancy history.

      VI. Request a saliva sample from the other twin/multiple sibling of the NENA child.

      VII. Extract DNA from saliva samples and securely store. VIII. Clean new survey data and
      merge with main NENA study database.

      OUTLINE:

      The biologic mother of the patient is asked to complete a Diet History Questionnaire about
      diet during pregnancy, and information on demographics, lifestyle factors, medication used
      during pregnancy, history of breast feeding, and family history of cancer or birth defects.
      Parents are given ORAgene saliva collection kits for self-collection. Saliva bio-specimen
      samples are collected from both biologic parents and the patient. Tissue samples previously
      stored in a tissue bank are obtained for deceased patients, if available. DNA is extracted
      from samples, amplified and analyzed using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
      quantitation assay, and genotyped using single nucleotide polymorphisms.
    
  