
    
      TB is a disease caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis that can affect the
      lungs or other parts of the body. In most of the world and in Mbarara, Uganda, the method of
      diagnosis that is used is AFB smear microscopy. This method is widely available, inexpensive
      and rapid. However, this method's ability to truly detect people having TB is poor. That is,
      if someone has TB, the test results may say that they are negative, leading to delays in
      diagnosis, disease progression, and an ongoing transmission of the bacteria.

      The new test for TB diagnosis we are studying is called the Small Membrane Filtration (SMF)
      method. This test that is being compared to the method currently being used and is very
      similar to the one that is currently used (standard smear microscopy) but has the advantage
      of concentrating the sputum (mucus) so that we can more easily see if bacteria are present in
      the sputum. It is hoped that a better way of knowing if someone has TB will help doctors
      decide when people need to be treated for TB and when not, which will improve the health of
      patients and help avoid passing the infection to others.

      This study will enroll 740 HIV-infected and 310 HIV-uninfected adults with culture confirmed
      pulmonary TB. These individuals will be identified prospectively at two TB clinics in
      Mbarara, Uganda.

      Study hypothesis: The investigators will assume that one sputum sample will be equivalent to
      two (null hypothesis) with respect to sensitivity unless we have evidence that the use of two
      has higher sensitivity (alternative hypothesis). The investigators will assume that SMF is
      equivalent to AFB smear with respect to sensitivity and specificity unless the investigators
      find evidence it is superior. The investigators will assume that SMF is equivalent to Xpert
      unless the investigators find evidence that Xpert is superior.
    
  