
    
      1. Ethical committee approval will be obtained from Ethics committee of Faculty of
           Pharmacy, Damanhour University.

        2. The minimum required sample size is estimated to be 40 patients for each group.

        3. Full written informed consent will be taken from all patients or their next of kin to
           participate in this study.

        4. All patients will be subjected directly at time of enrollment to the following;

             -  Complete history taking and demographic data

             -  The potential recipient risk factors for TRALI.

             -  The initial cause of ICU admission and the blood products received.

             -  Complete physical examination including chest auscultations.

             -  Vital signs

             -  Routine laboratory investigations

             -  Brain natriuretic peptide level

             -  Troponin T

             -  Hypoxic index

             -  Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation version II (APACHE II) score.

             -  Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score.

             -  Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) criteria.

             -  Child Pugh score.

             -  Chest radiography and transthoracic echocardiography.

        5. Samples will be drawn to measure the initial values of ascorbate level, plasma IL-8,
           IL-10, IL-1β, SOD, MDA and serum CRP.

        6. Eighty patients with confirmed TRALI (n=80) will be enrolled from critical care units
           (tertiary hospitals). Then, in addition to their supportive and standard care, they will
           be randomized (computer sheet) into two groups:

             -  ASTRALI (AScorbic acid in TRALI) group (n=40) will receive 2.5 gm vitamin C
                intravenously every 6 hrs for 96 hrs from diagnosis.

             -  Control group (n=40) will receive placebo in similar regimen.

        7. All patients will be followed up and treated during the study time. All relevant routine
           investigations, supportive measures, medications and ventilatory data will be recorded.

        8. All possible adverse events will be monitored, recorded and managed directly.
           Hyperoxaluria, microscopic calcium-oxalate crystallization or oxalate nephropathy will
           be monitored, recorded and managed directly.

        9. After 96 hrs, resampling for ascorbate level and the same biomarkers will be done.

       10. Measuring the study secondary outcomes will include vasopressor use, duration of
           mechanical ventilation, ICU length of stay, 7-days mortality and 28-days mortality.

       11. Statistical tests appropriate to the study design will be conducted to evaluate the
           significance of the results.
    
  