
    
      Postoperative complications significantly increase morbidity, mortality and cost after
      surgery. In the current clinical practice the prediction of the risk for developing
      complications after surgery is manly based on physicians' clinical judgment. The predictive
      accuracy of that judgment is limited and poorly studied. The investigators will design an
      intelligent perioperative system (IPS) as the set of computer software and algorithms that in
      real-time predict risk for postoperative complications using routine clinical data in
      electronic health records. The system is designed as the self-learning system with the
      ability to interact with physicians and solicit their feedback. This study will compare the
      clinical judgment of physicians with computer generated risk scores for patients undergoing
      major surgery. All surgeons and anesthesiologists at large single-center tertiary academic
      center will be recruited to participate in this study. The IPS system will be implemented in
      real time and will generate risk scores for postoperative complications for patients planned
      to undergo surgery performed by the physicians enrolled in the study. Physicians will be
      asked to provide their risk scores (using visual analog risk scale from 0-100) for the same
      patients before and after interacting with the IPS. They will also have the opportunity to
      review computer-generated risk scores and provide their feedback. The information will be
      collected during two six-month periods. At the end of each 6-months period predicted risk
      estimates will be compared to the true occurrence of the complications. Predictive
      performance of physicians' risk scores will be compared to IPS generated risk scores using
      the comparison between area under the receiver-operating curve (AUC), sensitivity,
      specificity and positive and negative predicted values.
    
  