
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) and cancer are medical conditions in youth that are associated with
      psychosocial problems including anxiety and depressive symptoms and impaired health-related
      quality of life. Both SCD and cancer can require a number of treatments and hospitalizations,
      which negatively impact family relationships, peer functioning, and other life domains. In
      addition, both conditions and treatments can involve a range of symptoms or side effects
      (e.g., pain, fatigue, nausea) that interfere with daily life. In other words, patients with
      SCD and cancer are responsible for gradually learning to manage and live with challenges
      associated with their medical condition. As such, recent efforts focus on providing
      psychological interventions to support self-management as an adjunct to standard medical
      care.

      Children and adolescents with SCD and cancer may have limited access to skilled psychologists
      or may not be able to attend frequent in-person intervention visits to acquire skills to
      support psychosocial functioning. A critical barrier to helping adolescents with SCD and
      cancer is that there are few portable interventions that provide assistance outside of the
      hospital environment.

      The goal of this proposal is to pilot test FOCUS (Framing Opportunities and Challenges Using
      Stories), an innovative and portable intervention designed to improve the psychosocial
      functioning of adolescents with medical conditions. The intervention involves taking and
      captioning purposeful photographs that align with The Hero's Journey, a guiding narrative
      template that chronicles a hero's passage through life's adventures and challenges,
      culminating in individual strength and transformation (Campbell, 1968). Preliminary data
      evaluating components of FOCUS revealed significant improvements in mood among healthy
      adolescents and young adults. Data suggest that reflecting on positive and negative daily
      events (e.g., via a photograph) and writing about the experiences have profound positive
      effects on a range of outcomes (e.g., grit, gratitude, functioning). In addition, the
      investigators intend to share the participants' photographs, stories, and advice on a website
      for other adolescents with SCD or cancer. Data indicate that prosocial behavior (e.g.,
      providing advice to peers) and social connectedness have a number of positive outcomes. The
      central prediction is that FOCUS will be acceptable and feasible to deliver and that pilot
      data will reveal improvements in participants' psychosocial health. Achieving these aims will
      provide the foundational data needed for federal grant applications to evaluate FOCUS with a
      larger pediatric sample and other patient populations, powered to identify outcomes and
      mechanisms of change.

      Aim. Pilot FOCUS. A pilot randomized controlled trial will compare FOCUS to standard care.
      Investigators will randomize a total of 60 12- to 18-year-old patients to either FOCUS
      intervention (n=15 with SCD; n=15 with cancer) or treatment as usual (n=15 with SCD; n=15
      with cancer). Randomization will be stratified to match patients based on age, sex, and
      medical condition (SCD type, cancer type). FOCUS participants will engage in the intervention
      and complete measures for 10 days post hospital discharge. Control participants will complete
      similar measures but not receive the intervention. Mixed qualitative and quantitative
      measures of feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary outcomes will be conducted to
      evaluate both the intervention and study procedures.
    
  