
    
      Background

      Acne vulgaris remains among the most common cutaneous disorders, impacting the vast majority
      of people at some point during their lives. It is associated with significant psychosocial
      morbidity, and there remains the need for efficacious and low risk therapeutic options.

      The FDA has approved various lasers and light sources for the treatment of acne. However, few
      randomized, controlled clinical trials have been performed of these devices. In addition, the
      use of topical photosensitizers preceding laser or light-therapy for acne has also been
      examined in a preliminary way with some initial evidence of efficacy. However, these trials
      have been small with modest numbers of subjects, many focus on back acne, and treatment
      protocols vary widely and are often poorly controlled. Photodynamic therapy for facial acne
      is being performed by physicians across the country but little objective data regarding this
      practice is available.

      We have recently conducted a trial of a 1 hour application of a common photosensitizer
      approved by the FDA for acne phototherapy (Levulan, DUSA pharmaceutical) using a pulsed dye
      laser therapy (V-Beam laser, Candela Corp., Wayland, MA, 595 nm wavelength) as the activating
      light source (IRB protocol 2005-0117). Interim results from our study indicate this therapy
      is effective in a minority of patients. Accumulating published reports data suggests the
      limited effectiveness of this protocol may be due to inadequate skin penetration of the
      photosensitizing agent and due to the need for an activating light source with a longer
      wavelength of light to allow deeper penetration into the skin. We wish to incorporate these
      findings to design a protocol that should be more effective for treatment of facial acne.

      Objectives

      We propose to evaluate the efficacy and confirm the safety of an FDA-approved non-coherent
      light source (LumaCare LC-122M non-coherent light source with LUM-I, fiber optic probe, 610
      nm-660 nm output range, LumaCare Medical Products, Newport Beach, Ca) used in conjunction
      with a topical photosensitizer (Levulan, DUSA pharmaceutical) in the treatment of acne
      vulgaris. Because one proposed mechanism of action for such treatments includes altered
      sebaceous gland activity, we also seek to examine the effects of this treatment on cutaneous
      sebum production.
    
  