
    
      While routine physical activity is critical to optimal health, our preliminary studies have
      indicated that residents of low-income communities in Los Angeles are less likely to exercise
      than those in high-income communities, and they are less likely to use their neighborhood
      parks, even when the parks are within walking distance. Parks in low-income neighborhoods
      tend to be smaller and serve a greater population density, but even after accounting for the
      size and the population served, they are still used less than parks in wealthier
      neighborhoods. In our preliminary studies we found that parks in low-income neighborhoods
      also had fewer part-time staff and offered fewer programs and organized activities than parks
      in higher-income areas, and these factors partly accounted for their lower use. As well,
      parks in low-income neighborhoods are often perceived as less safe, a characteristic
      associated with lower use 4. Simultaneously, the lack of use and dearth of programming may
      contribute to a perception of lack of safety, creating a vicious cycle. Nonetheless, we have
      documented that when parks in low-income neighborhoods offer events and activities, they can
      be just as busy as parks in higher-income areas. We hypothesize that limited park use in
      low-income areas can be attributed to the lack of organized and reliable infrastructure of
      activities that meet the needs of local residents and that offering more activities and
      programs in parks will increase park use and park-based physical activity.

      According to the Task Force on Community Level Preventive Services, community-level campaigns
      are both effective and scalable.6 For the past eight years, we have conducted research in
      public neighborhood parks and found that these venues offer great potential for increasing
      physical activity for populations. Based upon this work, as well as our previous work on the
      cost-effectiveness of physical activity interventions, we propose to test community-level
      campaigns targeting low-income populations that will be relatively low-cost and easy to
      replicate.

      The proposed study has three specific aims:

        1. Using a full factorial design, compare whether park use and population physical activity
           in low-income neighborhoods increase with the availability of a) more organized physical
           activity classes, including zumba, line dancing, and aerobics indoors and outdoors,
           and/or b) a loyalty program approach that rewards frequent park users.

        2. Determine whether either of these two approaches changes the perception of park safety
           and neighborhood safety.

        3. Identify the cost effectiveness of both approaches in terms of dollars spent to generate
           increased physical activity in parks as measured through systematic observation.

      Most Los Angeles parks have full-time staff, but their role has become increasingly
      administrative. Park staff may not have the time or the skills to lead physical activity
      programs and activities nor conduct effective outreach to the community to promote these
      activities. Although there is a small literature on "best practices" for parks, there is no
      underlying foundation of rigorous scientific research, and there has been no identification
      of which park practices, designs, or activities lead to the most physical activity in a
      community. Standard practice is currently based primarily on anecdotes, demands of special
      interest groups, and the experience of professionals. The science of objectively measuring
      physical activity in parks is new, developed only in the past decade. Because neighborhood
      parks are settings designed for moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) and are
      accessible to 70% of the US population, identifying which programs help populations achieve
      physical activity goals at a reasonable cost would be highly useful, particularly for groups
      disproportionately affected with chronic diseases that could be reduced with physical
      activity. Parks are community resources typically funded by dedicated revenue streams and
      fee-based programs, yet park systems frequently lack the tools and resources to either market
      programs or measure their reach or effectiveness. Our study will document all the steps
      required for implementing and maintaining two physical activity promotion interventions--one
      a standard approach offering traditional organized physical activity programs, the other an
      innovative application of popular customer loyalty programs. We will determine their impact
      on physical activity and their cost-effectiveness.
    
  