
    
      Despite the application of compression stockings looks simple, it must be remembered that
      inappropriately worn stockings have the potential to cause certain problems. Unevenly
      distributed and excess pressure may break the skin, especially in older, malnourished
      patients and those with thin, brittle skin.

      Although an extreme case, it highlights the importance of careful assessment, application,
      and monitoring of compression stockings.

      Typically, the stockings are safe and wearing them results in few or no complications,
      provided they're worn smoothly against the leg, without any folds. But some groups of people
      should avoid them, including those with peripheral neuropathy or any other condition that
      impacts skin sensation; a history of a peripheral arterial bypass grafting; peripheral artery
      disease; skin infection; dermatitis with oozing or fragile skin; massive leg swelling; or
      pulmonary edema from congestive heart failure. Each of these conditions presents a different
      series of risks. For example, for people with peripheral artery disease, stockings can worsen
      oxygen delivery in arteries with impaired blood flow. People who have sensory problems, such
      as those with peripheral neuropathy, may not feel when a compression stocking is too tight,
      which could impede circulation. And certain skin conditions or infections may worsen with a
      compression stocking covering and pressing on the area.

      In general, if subject has any medical condition, he/she should talk with health care
      professional before using compression stockings to see if they are good candidate for them.

      Since probability of side/adverse effects from IP use is considered as very low vs of high
      probability of expected positive effects.

      Study Purpose and Design Multi-center, observational open label study aimed to evaluate an
      impact on quality of life in Chronic Venous Insufficiency patients using SANKOM® Patent Socks
      during 4 weeks

      This study will involve a maximum of 30 subjects. Subjects will be followed through
      outpatient's observation.

      Primary Objective

      Improvement of QoL by scores of:

        -  Aberdeen Varicose Veins Questionnaire (AVVQ)

        -  CIVIQ-2 Venous Quality of Life Questionnaire

      Secondary Objectives

      Secondary Endpoints are:

        -  Improvement of US-examination picture

        -  Improvement of QoL by Subject's questionnaire
    
  