
    
      Intervention:

      Through this project, two intervention packages will be implemented. Firstly the toolkit will
      be provided to all 1080 pregnant women recruited in both the intervention and control arm of
      the project. The aim of providing the toolkit is to ensure that all pregnant women in the
      project are provided the requisite care needed from the antenatal period till delivery to
      limit complications and insults (both mother and especially the neonate) that can occur
      during pregnancy, delivery and post partum in both the mother and child. The contents of the
      toolkit will include:

        1. Gloves, Soap, a plastic sheet, a new razor blade, clean thread or narrow tape, cord
           clamp, aspiration bulb, bag and mask provision to the BAs, Chlorhexidine, Misoprostol,
           Nutritional supplements (Iron and folic acid, awareness about breastfeeding) and IEC
           materials

        2. Trainings for Birth Attendants and Link workers on aspiration and hypothermia management
           techniques, use of bag and mask, APGAR (also to parents), cord care, basic pregnancy
           care and newborn care related information, danger signs during pregnancy, postpartum,
           for the newborn and during the neonatal and infancy.

      The second intervention package will be the implementation of the parenting program through
      the link workers and parents to the newborns-followed monthly over a 12 month period and will
      be provided to 540 women only in the intervention arm of the study. The aim of this
      intervention is to improve brain development among newborns through the parenting program.
      The Curriculum for Child Development will be adapted to the community context and used. The
      curriculum will be developed in the first 6 months of the project and will be designed to
      include:

        -  Monthly lessons for the parents-this will include both group and individual sessions.
           The parents will have one group session and one follow-up individual session
           respectively.

        -  Training guides, materials/tools and diaries for the link workers to use to log the
           sessions The parenting program will be implemented by the Link Workers.

      Project Implementation:

      The project will proceed in two phases. In Phase 1 (first two months of the project) a
      community assessment will be conducted, operational plans finalized, development of tools,
      jobs aids, IEC materials, recruiting and trainings of the link workers and TBAs and other
      community based birth attendants. Furthermore, linkages with LHWs will be developed at this
      stage. The implementation toolkits will also be prepared, with all tangible elements procured
      in Pakistan.

      Phase 2 will focus on implementing, monitoring and documenting interventions. In the first
      two months of Phase 2, pregnant mothers (who will be at the beginning of their second
      trimester) will be recruited in both arms of the study. Recruitment will be conducted by
      Birth Attendants and Link Workers through the listing of pregnant women developed in
      consultation with various formal and informal care providers in the community. Recruitment of
      women will be limited to these two months. Once recruited, the women will be followed for the
      duration of their pregnancy and through the first year of the newborn's life. Pregnant women
      will be provided services included in the toolkit including nutritional supplementation. In
      addition, the items of the toolkit that is essential for delivery such as the Clean Delivery
      Kit, Chlorhexidine and Misoprostol will be provided two months before the expected delivery
      date of each pregnant woman. Birth attendants trained through the project will deliver the
      home based deliveries that will take place in the communities. Referral networks will be
      established with referral health facilities in case of complications. Once the newborn is
      delivered, those in the intervention arm of the study will be provided the parenting program
      for the next 12 months. The newborns in the control arm will not be provided the parenting
      program, but will continue to receive the standard health care services provided through
      routine home-based visits of Lady Health Workers. Both the intervention and control groups
      will undergo assessments at varying times during the 12 month period when the parenting
      program will be implemented in the intervention group. These assessments will include
      assessing the parent-child interaction and conducting the home inventory test periodically
      starting from when the newborn is six months old. The Bayleys Scale for Infant
      Development-III will also be implemented on one year old infants (cognition, motor and
      language subtests) in both project arms.
    
  