
    
      Normal saline (0.9% sodium chloride) is used by virtually all neonatal intensive care units
      to periodically irrigate the endotracheal tube of neonates who require mechanical
      ventilation. This practice is intended to reduce the risk that thick secretions will occlude
      the endotracheal tube. Normal saline is also occasionally used to periodically clear the
      nasal passages of neonates on nasal CPAP or nasal canula oxygen. It is also occasionally used
      as a means of periodically moistening the mouth of neonates who have an endotracheal tube in
      place, because the tube prevents lip apposition and results in a dry mouth.

      The problem with the current method of using normal saline for periodic endotracheal, nasal,
      and/or oral care is that high concentrations of sodium and chloride have recently been found
      to rapidly and completely inactivate the natural antimicrobial properties of tracheal
      effluent, nasal secretions, and saliva. Tracheal secretions, nasal secretions, and saliva
      contain potent antibacterial substances. One such that was recently described is a 37 amino
      acid peptide with widespread antimicrobial properties, termed "LL-37". It has recently been
      shown that 0.9% saline inactivates the antimicrobial properties of LL-37 and significantly
      damages the overall antibacterial actions of tracheal secretions, nasal secretions, and
      saliva. Further research has shown that the high sodium and chloride content of saliva of
      patients with cystic fibrosis inactivates the antimicrobial properties, thus partly
      explaining the high incidence of airway infections in these patients. Moreover, a family with
      deficient LL-37 has been described in Sweden, and these individual all have chronic
      gingivostomatitis and airway infections. Therefore, our current practice of instilling 0.9%
      sodium chloride likely inactivates the major innate anti-microbial defense system of the
      upper airway. Perhaps reducing immune capacity in the upper airway with this practice
      unwittingly contributes to the high incidence of upper airway infections among intubated
      neonates.
    
  