
    
      Recently there has been increasing interest in the use of health-related quality of life
      (HRQL) measures in routine clinical practice. Traditionally, patient care has been based on
      laboratory results, medical history, and signs and symptoms diagnosed by clinicians. The
      inclusion of HRQL measures in routine practice may provide important and often otherwise
      missing information, revealing the impact of the disease or its treatment on the patient's
      physical, emotional and social well-being, and may assist in patient management. HRQL
      assessments may assist in changing the medical paradigm from a disease-centered approach to a
      patient-centered one.

      Several studies in mental health and oncology discuss the application of HRQL measures in
      clinical practice. Taenzer et al (2000) and Detmar et al. (2002) provide evidence that using
      HRQL measures improves patient-clinician communication. Velikova et al (2004) detected
      impacts on communication and the emotional well-being of patients.

      Using a framework based on these previous studies and the methods for the health technology
      assessment of diagnostic technologies (Guyatt et al. 1986), we will assess the effects of
      including HRQL assessments in the routine clinical care of patients undergoing solid organ
      transplantation (lung).

      We expect that the routine use of HRQL measures in clinical practice will affect
      patient-clinician communication, patient management, and patient outcome.

      Lung transplantation trades a fatal disease (end-stage pulmonary disease) for a chance at
      prolonged survival and improved quality of life, albeit with immunosuppression. In this
      context, generic preference-based measures such as HUI2 and HUI3 are preferred to specific
      measures, because they measure a broader range of health dimensions, including pain,
      ambulation and emotional issues that are expected to be relevant. Preference-based measures
      provide scores on the conventional 0.00 (dead) to 1.00 (perfect health) scale that allows for
      the integration of morbidity and mortality effects and calculation of quality adjusted life
      years (QALYs) and health-adjusted life expectancy (HALE).
    
  