
    
      Informed consent requires provision of complex medical information in an easily
      understandable format. During the consent process, researchers may encounter potential
      research participants who are not thoroughly used to care services and thus may struggle to
      understand what clinical research is, the purpose of the specific research in relation to
      their health, research methods, its risks and benefits, and their options and rights.
      Clinical trials in people living with HIV can present additional challenges due to stigma
      surrounding the infection, as the need for a third-party witness to ensure adequate
      comprehension of the presented information may be concerning to the participant. These
      barriers to an optimal informed consent are particularly significant in low and lower-middle
      income countries (LMICs).

      To try to overcome these barriers and to make written information sheet and consent forms
      (PICFs) more accessible and understandable for key-populations, and more user-friendly for
      on-site researchers, tools including interactive videos have been developed for various
      diseases and different settings. Many of these tools are study-specific or developed in
      high-income countries with limited reproducibility; few have been studied in the consent
      process for HIV treatment trials or across multiple LMIC settings. Data evaluating these
      tools and their impact on participants' understanding or researchers' satisfaction are
      limited.

      With the D²EFT community advisory board (CAB) and protocol steering committee (PSC), the
      investigators developed the "Graphical Informed Consent" (GIC). This tool is designed to
      supplement the informed consent process with a set of culturally- and gender-adapted
      illustrations with an explanatory script for researchers, that complement the mandatory
      written PICF.

      The investigators propose to evaluate this novel tool within D²EFT study, a randomised
      clinical trial of HIV second-line therapy in LMICs, by undertaking a pilot study. The study
      aims to assess acceptability and feasibility of the GIC by measuring implementation outcomes:
      participants' acceptability and acceptance, and researchers' utilisation and satisfaction.
    
  