
    
      Novel coronavirus COVID-19 has spread quickly from Wuhan China to worldwide. On 15 April
      2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) has reported 1.914.916 confirmed cases and 123.010
      deaths globally, being a severe threat to public health.

      Some patients develop overwhelming lung inflammation and acute respiratory failure. Several
      reports demonstrated that COVID-19 specifically recognized the angiotensin I converting ezyme
      2 repector (ACE2) and ACE2-positive cells are infected by the virus. ACE2 receptor is widely
      present on the human cells surface such as alveolar type II cells and capillary endothelium,
      among others. COVID-19 infects cells and stimulates a terrible cytokine storm in the lung
      followed by edema, dysfunction of the air exchange and acute respiratory distress which may
      lead to death. Further, once COVID-19 enters in blood circulation, it can easy spread to some
      systems and organs, causing significant damage. Under these circumstances, it is reasonable
      to believe that the inhibition of inflammatory response is the key to treat COVID-19
      pneumonia.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been widely used in the immune-mediated inflammatory
      diseases. MSCs can regulate both innate and adaptive immunity by suppressing the
      proliferation, differentiation and activation of different cells. Some studies have shown
      that MSCs can significantly reduce acute lung injury in mice caused by H9N2 and H5N1 virus,
      reducing proinflammatory cytokines and inflammatory cells into the lungs.

      These immunomodulatory properties of MSCs support performance of the Phase I/II, double-blind
      (neither the participant nor the investigator will know if active drug or placebo is
      assigned), placebo-controlled, randomized (assigned by chance), in which subjects with severe
      COVID-19 pneumonia shall be received either MSCs (1 million cells/kg) or placebo by
      intravenous injection. The administration of cells will be done only once.
    
  