
    
      The metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a clustering of multiple risk factors for atherosclerotic
      cardiovascular disease such as central obesity, impaired fasting glucose (IFG) or type 2
      diabetes mellitus (T2DM), elevated triglyceride (TG), reduced high density lipoprotein
      cholesterol (HDL-C) and hypertension (HTN).This cluster of metabolic abnormalities is
      associated with increased risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes
      mellitus Despite of the controversy on its definition, it is estimated that one out of four
      people around the world suffers from MetS. The prevalence of MetS is increasing all over the
      world.

      Thyroid hormones play an important role in regulating energy homeostasis, carbohydrate,
      lipids and protein metabolism. These hormones accelerate metabolic processes and may be
      associated with metabolic syndrome. Hyperthyroidism is usually associated with low
      cholesterol and glucose intolerance; whereas hypothyroidism is associated with high
      cholesterol tendency, and patients are prone to weight gain and cardiac signs like
      bradycardia. Thyroid functions affect the components of MetS including HDLcholesterol
      (HDL-C), triglycerides (TG), blood pressure and plasma glucose.

      Thyroid dysfunction (TD) is defined as the altered serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH)
      level with normal or altered thyroid hormones (free triiodothyronine and free thyroxine.TD is
      risk factors for CardioVascular Disease mediated by the effects of thyroid hormones on lipid
      and glucose metabolism and blood pressure, hence on components of MetS.MetS and TD are both
      characterized by a cluster of common abnormalities such as abdominal obesity, hyperglycemia,
      HTN, reduced HDL-C, and elevated TG and recognized independent risk factors of ASCVD
      ..Thyroid dysfunction, prominently subclinical hypothyroidism has been observed more
      frequently in metabolic syndrome patients than general population .

      The study on evaluation the pattern of TD in MetS population may help us to know the
      magnitude of overlap of these two disease entities and may highlight the importance of
      thyroid function tests in patients with MetS. This can lead to proper planning and adequate
      management strategies, resulting in significant reduction in cardiovascular morbidity and
      mortality due to MetS with TD. Thus, this study aims to evaluate the pattern of TD in
      patients with MetS and to explore the relationship between TD and components of the MetS.
    
  