
    
      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN

      The primary analysis will be a stratified cox regression model.

      STRATIFICATION:

        -  type of surgery/condition (ruptured AAA vs intact AAA vs aorto-iliac occlusive disease,
           source: DVR)

        -  sex (CPR)

        -  Center (Rigshospitalet vs. Gentofte vs. Slagelse vs. Odense vs. Kolding vs. Aarhus vs.
           Viborg vs. Aalborg, source: DVR)

      COVARIATE ADJUSTMENT:

        -  calendar time (DVR)

        -  age (CPR)

        -  Carlsons comorbidity index score (DNPR)

        -  Priority (Acute vs. Sub-acute vs. Elective, source: DVR)

        -  Use of anti-thrombotic drugs (DPDB). A covariate of 4 levels (ATC code is noted in
           parenthesis).

             1. None vs.

             2. Anti-platelet therapy

                  -  acetylsalicylic acid (B01AC06) or

                  -  dipyridamole (B01AC07, eg. persantin or asasantin)

             3. Anti-platelet therapy "thienopyridines-like drugs"

                  -  clopidogrel (B01AC04) or

                  -  ticagrelor (B01AC24, eg. Brilique) or

                  -  prasugrel (B01AC22, eg. Efient) Comment: patients prescribed thienopyridines
                     in combination with aspirin will be included in this "thienopyridine
                     anti-platelet group 3"

             4. Anti-coagulant therapy

                  -  Vitamin K antagonists (B01AA, eg. warfarin or phenprocoumon)

                  -  Low-molecular weight heparine (B01AB01-10)

                  -  Direct thrombin inhibitors (B01AE, eg. Pradaxa/Dabigatran)

                  -  Direct factor Xa inhibitors (B01AF, eg. Rivaroxaban/Xarelto). Comment:
                     patients prescribed both anticoagulant- and antiplatelet therapy and will be
                     included in this "Anti-coagulant group 4".

      ADDITIONAL ANALYSES:

        1. Stratify the population into 4 groups according to the total transfusion requirement

             1. patients receiving 10 units or less of any blood product < 24 hrs or 11-15 units <
                48 hrs.vs.

             2. patients receiving 11-15 units of any blood product < 24 hrs. or 16-20 units < 48
                hrs. vs.

             3. patients receiving 16-20 units of any blood product < 24 hrs. or 21-25 units < 48
                hrs. vs.

             4. patients receiving more than 20 units of any blood product < 24 hrs. or more than
                25 units < 48 hrs.

        2. Outcome predicted by a joint function (general interaction) of total plasma transfusion
           and total blood cell transfusion will be assessed in an exploratory way by inspection
           and by agnostic modelling in the mold of Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines (MARS)
           and recursive partitioning, i.e. Classification And Regression Trees (CART).

        3. Redefine intervention and control group as 4th and 1st quartile of FFP:RBC ratio.
           Initially, the population will be divide into 4 groups according to quartiles and
           compared the population below 1st quartile with the population above the 4th quartile,
           which will define the low vs. the high FFP group, resp. However, to allow for
           stratification for operation type (ruptured AAA vs. intact AAA vs. occlusive disease) it
           may be necessary to adjust the percentile cut to retain power in the analyses. For
           instance, the population may be cut according to tertiles, or, if there is sufficient
           data, cut by quintiles (5 groups) or deciles (10 groups).

        4. Confine the population to patient with blood loss above 50 % of total blood volume
           (calculated by Naddler's equation accounting for sex, weight and height). If height and
           weight are not available, the registered blood loss must exceed 2 L in females and 2.5 L
           in males.

        5. Adjusting exclusively for calendar year, sex, age, Charlson's comorbidity index score,
           and center (ie, excluding priority and antithrombotic therapy).

      MISSING DATA

      Missing data will not be an issue for the number of blood transfusions because units of blood
      products transfused are used as an inclusion criterion. All remaining covariates are
      discrete, and missing data for each of those will be included as separate parameters (factor
      level).

      STATISTICAL SIGNIFICANCE LEVEL

      Bonferroni adjustment of the significance level will be applied to control for multiple
      testing.

      With one primary and four secondary outcomes, only a P-value below 0.01 (0.05/5) will be
      considered statistically significant. A P-value between 0.01 and 0.05 will be considered
      borderline significant.
    
  