
    
      Therapeutic antibodies have significantly improved the prognosis of patients with a range of
      cancers. Currently available therapeutic antibodies belong to the IgG class. This study is
      looking at a new drug called MOv18 which belongs to a different class of antibody, the IgE
      class. IgE antibodies may trigger a more powerful immune response to tumour cells than these
      available IgG antibodies and so be more effective in treating certain types of cancer. This
      is the first time an IgE antibody therapy will be given to patients with cancer.

      MOv18 IgE antibodies are designed to recognise and attach to a particular protein called the
      folate receptor alpha. Scientists have found more of this protein on the surface of certain
      cancer cells than on the surface of normal cells, most commonly ovarian cancer and to a
      lesser extent cancers of the kidney, pleura, endometrium, lung, breast, bladder, colon and
      pancreas. Once attached, the MOv18 IgE antibody should trigger the body's own immune system
      to attack and kill the cancer cells.

      Patients will be selected based on the presence of folate receptor protein on their tumour in
      a previous biopsy. The study is the first study of this new antibody treatment to be given to
      humans and will focus primarily on the assessment of safety confirming the findings of
      preclinical studies that exposure to MOv18 IgE will not trigger anaphylaxis. This is in
      addition to extensive PK, biodistribution of the antibody and immunological response. The
      study will follow a dose escalation design where small groups of patients are treated at a
      set dose, starting with a very low dose followed by exponential increasing doses, to find a
      safe dose at which the drug has a good chance of effectively treating the cancer. Patients
      will receive a short course of treatment. The majority of patients treated at the higher dose
      levels will be asked to provide a pre and post treatment biopsy to explore the effect of the
      treatment on the tumour.
    
  