
    
      Experimental Design

      60 patients receiving isotretinoin will be recruited from the UCLA acne specialty clinic.
      Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive placebo or omega-3 1200mg twice a day
      for 24 weeks.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Male or female above 18 years of age.

        -  Moderate to severe disease at the baseline of the study identified by their
           dermatologist.

        -  Will start treatment with systemic therapy for acne in the form of either isotretinoin
           or oral antibiotics.

        -  Patients able and willing to comply with the procedures in the study protocol.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Patients with history of taking omega-3 supplements for high triglyceride levels.

        -  Patients taking medications for dyslipidemia, blood thinners, or high blood pressure
           medication.

        -  Patients with a history of adverse reaction to omega-3 fatty acid supplementation.

        -  Unwilling to give inform consent

      First Visit (Baseline)

      All patients will complete an intake survey. This survey will include self-assessment via
      Leed's standardized photo scale, and the Skindex 16 quality of life questionnaire.

      Physicians will complete acne assessment on all patients. This includes lesion counts,
      standardized Leed's photo scale and global assessment scale 0-5.

      Fasting blood sample will be obtained for chemistry and lipid panel if being treated with
      isotretinoin, as is standard for this therapy.

      Follow-up visits at weeks 8, 16, 24:

      Patients will come in at weeks 8, 16 and 24 for the following procedures:

      All patients will fill out follow-up survey at each visit. The survey will elicit information
      regarding compliance with medication, compliance with supplementation, side effects of
      supplementation, side effects of acne therapy, and satisfaction with therapy.

      Follow-up surveys will include patient self assessment with Leed's photo scale, and Skindex
      16 questionnaire.

      Physicians will complete acne assessment on all patients. This includes lesion counts, photo
      scale and global assessment (Grade 0-5). See attached "Physician checklist."

      Patients will have fasting blood drawn for lipid panel if being treated with isotretinoin, as
      is standard for this therapy.

      Data analysis:

      In all study patients being treated for acne, lesion counts will be assessed and evaluated
      for any differences between patients on omega-3 fatty acid supplementation and not on
      supplementation.

      Global assessment, photo scale assessment and Skindex-16 quality of life assessment will be
      compared between patients with and without supplementation.

      We will compare triglyceride levels in patients being treated with isotretinoin with and
      without omega-3 fatty acid supplementation.

      Overall satisfaction with therapy will be compared between patients with O3FA supplementation
      and without supplementation.
    
  