
    
      Sickle cell disease is a genetic disorder caused by a point mutation on the amino acid
      sequence of the β chain of hemoglobin. This is the most common genetic disease in the world.
      The majority of patients are in Sub-Saharan Africa; however, the increase in migratory
      movements of populations helps to move patients out of the initial zones of the disease.

      According to recent data, about 400 patients would be followed in the Belgian hospitals, and
      about 1 in 1500 newborns in Belgium would be a major carrier of hemoglobinopathies. The most
      expressive and most frequent complication of the disease is vaso-occlusive crisis, dominated
      by a painful syndrome. In addition to vaso-occlusive crises, many more chronic biological
      disturbances are observed in sickle cell patients. Their contribution to the course of the
      disease is becoming increasingly stressing. Among them are intravascular hemolysis,
      hyper-adhesion of blood cells to vascular endothelium, inflammation, oxidative stress,
      vasculopathy and bleeding disorders.

      Sickle cell disease is considered nowadays as a hypercoagulable state. Indeed, sickle cell
      patients have a high risk of non-hemorrhagic stroke, thrombosis in the pulmonary arteries and
      deep vein thrombosis that are otherwise associated with mortality and high morbidity. Many
      anomalies at various levels in the hemostatic system demonstrate coagulation activation even
      in clinically stable condition.

      However, the approach used so far to the measure of clotting in sickle cell disease was
      segmented in the sense that the various components of the hemostatic balance were studied
      separately. This scale is complex, this approach difficult to give a comprehensive and
      integrated picture of the various disturbances in the system. The thrombin generation test is
      a functional test which explores the coagulation globally, integrating both pro players that
      anticoagulants actors in the system. The investigators have used this test to demonstrate
      that the hemostatic potential was high in a cohort of affected children compared to control
      children of the same age. In this cohort high hemostatic potential was related to the rate of
      circulating microparticles and intravascular hemolysis rate. Studies are underway to look for
      correlations between the hemostatic potential and clinical complications in this pediatric
      cohort.

      The use of thrombin generation test for the study of hemostasis in adult patients with sickle
      cell disease, and the contribution of coagulation disorders with the occurrence of
      complications of the disease remain little known. The investigators will therefore:

        -  Characterize the hemostatic potential of adult sickle cell patients followed at the CHU
           Brugmann

        -  Search for links between the hemostatic potential and other biological phenomena
           observed during the disease (intravascular hemolysis, microparticles, vasculopathy,
           inflammation)

        -  Search for correlations with clinical complications

        -  Evaluate the effect of treatment (including exchange transfusions) on the hemostatic
           potential.
    
  