
    
      A single blinded pilot randomized controlled trial will be used to assess the Web-based MBCT
      intervention in the 6 months following cardiac surgery (Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting
      [CABG] or/and Valve Replacement [VR]). An experienced research assistant (RA) will be
      responsible of participants' recruitment and informed consent procedures at the time of
      follow-up (usually 2 weeks after surgery). The study will be advertised on the rehabilitation
      units and surgeon's offices with posters and flyers . If interested, potential participants
      will contact the RA via telephone or email and inclusion criteria will be assessed. After
      having collected baseline measures, participants will be randomized into two groups by the
      principal investigator (PI): one receiving both the 4-week Web-based MBCT intervention and
      the usual care procedure (Experimental Group: EG), the other one receiving solely one
      standardized educational online session and the usual care procedure (Control Group: CG).
      Participants from the CG will be given the opportunity to receive the entire intervention
      once the study will be completed.

      Permuted-block randomization with an allocation ratio of 1:1 will be used to generate a list
      through computer software. The list and envelopes will be prepared by a PI's colleague who
      will not be involved in this study. The RA who will be responsible of the entire data
      collection will be blinded to patient group assignment.

      All participants will complete baseline measures via a telephone interview or a Qualtrics®
      survey, the day of admission or in the first few days after (T0). Usual socio-demographic
      variables --i.e., age, sex, civil status, living conditions, education level, and employment
      status will be assessed. Considering the reciprocity between pain and, anxiety and
      depression, measures will be taken with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) the
      day of admission before intervention (T0), after intervention (T1), and at 3 (T2) and 6
      months (T3) after surgery. The validity and reliability of the HADS are well established.
      Presence of chronic pain before surgery will be documented as well. Relevant medico-surgical
      information during hospitalization will be extracted from the patient medical charts: body
      mass index, type and duration of surgery, number of grafts, presence of postoperative
      complications, intensive care unit's length of stay, and total postoperative length of stay.
      Analgesic medication intake will be documented at all time points. The protocol will favor an
      intention-to-treat approach for the analysis of results. Participants' flow will be reported
      according to the CONSORT guidelines for psychological interventions. Student's t-tests or
      chi-square tests will be performed for each socio-demographic, medico-surgical and baseline
      psychological variables to assure that equivalence of groups was obtained through
      randomization, although this procedure is not mandatory. The statistical analysis will be
      mostly descriptive (mean, standard deviation for continuous outcomes and, frequency and
      proportion for categorical outcomes) with 95% confidence intervals when appropriate. Pain
      intensity, pain interference, mindfulness, pain acceptance, pain-related catastrophic
      thoughts, and psychological well-being scores will be summarized using descriptive statistics
      presented per group at each time point. Further, treatment effect will be estimated and
      presented with 95% CI at each time point. A first set of exploratory analysis will be carried
      out to compare the evolution of pain intensity, pain interference, mindfulness, pain
      acceptance, pain-related catastrophic thoughts, and psychological well-being in each group
      through the use of two-way ANOVA with repeated measures (pre-intervention, post-intervention,
      3 and 6 months after surgery). A second set of analyses will assess the impact of the
      intervention on the prevalence and severity of CPSP (pain intensity and interference,
      mindfulness, pain acceptance, pain-related catastrophic thoughts, and psychological
      well-being). Repeated measures ANOVA and repeated measures logistic regression will be
      performed to compare groups at 3 and 6 months for illustrative purposes since the study is
      not powered to show statistical significance. An alpha level of significance of 0,05 will be
      used for all analyses. If interactions are found (p<0,05), post-hoc comparisons will be
      performed. Lastly, qualitative data obtained from individual interviews will be content
      analyzed.
    
  