
    
      In the United States, stroke is the third leading cause of death and the leading cause of
      disability. Despite the use of antithrombotic drugs for the secondary prevention of stroke,
      10% of patients who experience a cerebral ischemic event will go on to have a stroke within
      90 days (Claiborne Johnston et al. 2003). The development of new treatment strategies for the
      secondary prevention of stroke is an important issue for modern medicine. There is increasing
      evidence that inflammation at the sites of endothelial activation plays an important role in
      the pathogenesis of stroke. Control of molecular inflammation at the sites of endothelial
      activation can be achieved by induction of mucosal tolerance. The induction of mucosal
      tolerance with repeated low-dose intranasal administration of antigen causes a shift of
      immune response from proinflamatory T helper type 1(T(H)1) effects to anti-inflammatory
      immunmomodulatory regulatory T cell (Treg) or T helper type 2 (T(H)2) effects at the sites of
      inflammation. E-selectin is an adhesion molecule expressed only on activated endothelium in
      response to proinflammatory cytokines.

      Objective. The goals of the study are: (a) to test whether repeated administration of
      low-dose intranasal E-selectin is safe and tolerable and (b) to test whether it can induce
      mucosal tolerance to this compound causing a shift of immune response from TH1 to TH2 type
      with production of Treg cells.

      Study Population. The study population will include 3-50 patients (depending on dose
      escalation events) plus 0-8 replacement patients (depending on the number of drop outs) with
      recent (>30 and <120 days) occurrence of any type or location of stroke documented by CT or
      MRI. The final number of patients will be determined by a dose escalation plan described
      below that may stop early in the accrual process should adverse events arise. Since patients
      will be required to make serial visits to the NIH clinical center, a functional recovery
      score of 0-2 on the modified Rankin Scale (i.e. 0 = no symptoms at all; 2 = slight
      disability: unable to carry out all previous activities, but able to look after own affairs
      without assistance) is required for inclusion in this study.

      Study Design. This is a single center, Phase 1, open label, dose escalation trial assessing
      safety profile of four doses of intranasal recombinant human E-selectin.

      Outcome Measures. The primary goal of this study is to define the maximum tolerated dose of
      intranasal instillation of recombinant human E-selection as described I the Study Medications
      and Drug Administration section. The secondary goal is to determine doses that generate Treg
      cells or induce immune deviation from TH1 to TH2 type response. The tertiary goals are to
      determine the presence or absence of antibody to human E-selectin, P- selectin, and
      L-selectin and the level of endothelial activation markers including von Willebrand factor,
      soluble E-selectin, VCAM-1, and Thrombomodulin.
    
  