
    
      A third of American Veterans is left with moderate to severe motor deficits after stroke.
      Intensive rehabilitation can resolve some of these deficits. Motor function restoration is
      associated with and dependent on reorganization of neuronal networks (i.e. plasticity).
      However, our understanding of human brain plasticity during functional recovery is
      incomplete. Furthermore, it is unknown what patterns of structural brain changes are
      associated with greater gains in motor function as a result of motor learning therapy. The
      main objective of the study is to characterize the reorganization of brain structure and
      function that is associated with greater gains in motor function following restorative
      rehabilitation for chronic survivors. This will further our understanding of recovery after
      brain injury and subsequently assist in more accurately directing rehabilitation therapies to
      produce the best possible outcomes.

      The two hypotheses are: I. There is reorganization of both movement control brain regions and
      pathways between regions that is associated with functional motor recovery in response to
      intensive motor learning after stroke; and II. For stroke victims with upper extremity
      deficits, motor recovery is associated with changes in the sequential timing of activity
      across cortical regions.

      Design and Methods. A cohort of chronic stroke survivors with upper extremity deficits will
      be treated by our intensive multimodal 12-week motor learning program. Brain imaging
      (functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) and Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI)) and
      neurophysiological (Electroencephalogram (EEG)) studies as well as functional motor tests
      (Arm Motor Activity test and Fugl-Meyer Coordination test) will be obtained before and after
      the treatment. Age-matched control subjects will be evaluated as well. DTI/fMRI and EEG/fMRI
      combination techniques will be used to determine changes in brain structure and function as a
      result of the treatments. A regression analysis will determine which brain structure
      parameters can predictor greater motor function gains.
    
  