
    
      Study Goals:

      A. To compare patients with ADHD (Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder) treated by a
      pediatric provider in collaboration with a co-located psychologist/ADHD care manager
      available for evaluation/assessment and ongoing shared-care consultation to patients with
      ADHD in a pediatric primary care clinic treated as usual.

        1. Patients treated by the pediatricians with the added co-located services will have
           clinical outcomes that are superior to those that receive usual care

             1. Co-located services will increase the number of ADHD patients accessing specialized
                mental health treatment services

             2. A higher proportion of patients treated by the pediatric providers and
                psychologists than those in usual care receive doses of medication that are
                consistent with AAP (American Academy of Pediatrics) recommendations

        2. Patients whose providers are offered to receive the aid of the co-located psychologists
           will be more likely to be co-managed by the pediatrician than referred out to the
           community.

        3. Parents will be more satisfied with care in the shared care model than in usual care

      B. Pediatricians' morale and attitudes to the treatment of ADHD will improve with the
      addition of a co-located psychologist.

      C. ADDITIONAL AIMS:

        1. To assist a pediatric primary care clinic in implementing a quality improvement
           initiative to help pediatric providers better identify ADHD by implementing the PSC-17,
           a general psychosocial checklist.

        2. Study the usefulness of using the PSC 17 screen as a clinical tool to identify ADHD in
           the primary care office by obtaining results and tracking physician disposition planning
           based on results.

      D. Operationalize Shared Care by examining what happens in such an arrangement, and see if
      patient recruitment and provider buy-in improves when shared care is assured.
    
  