
    
      Objective

      The primary objective of this study is to characterize the natural history of disease in
      patients who carry a repeat expansion in the C9ORF72 gene, which causes amyotrophic lateral
      sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). The secondary objective is to assess
      whether candidate biomarkers correlate with disease progression.

      Study population

      62 persons with a documented repeat expansion in C9ORF72 gene who have ALS, ALS-FTD, or FTD
      or who are carriers of the gene mutation and have a symptomatic family member.

      Design

      Participants will undergo a structured battery of clinical and neuropsychological tests at
      enrollment and at three follow-up visits to NIH to assess disease severity. During these
      visits, physiological, imaging, blood, and CSF for testing of candidate biomarkers will be
      obtained. Between visits to NIH, assessments of functional status and cognition will be
      carried out by phone. Participants may be seen earlier than the scheduled follow-up visit or
      at home if phone assessments indicate clinical deterioration.

      Outcome measures

      There will be three primary outcome measures, for changes in three areas of function over the
      first six months. The primary measure of the severity of motor clinical function will be the
      ALS Functional rating scale-revised (ALSFRS-R). The primary measure of the severity of
      cognitive function will be changes in verbal fluency score. The primary measure of the
      severity of behavioral dysfunction will be the caregiver assessment of the fronto-behavioral
      index (FBI). Secondary clinical outcomes will be the forced vital capacity (FVC) and
      survival. The correlation between primary and secondary clinical outcome measures and
      candidate biomarkers measures will be analyzed in an exploratory fashion to determine whether
      candidate biomarkers are predictive of disease onset or progression.
    
  