
    
      Protocol

      The patients will enter a Spontaneous Breathing Trial (S.B.T.) for sixty minutes. During the
      S.B.T. the desirable measurements will be made: transdiaphragmatic pressure, diaphragm
      thickening, Tdi,pi , Tdi,ee , TFdi, Di,e, Maximal Inspiratory Pressure (M.I.P.) , Rapid
      Shallow Breathing Index (R.S.B.I.). If the S.B.T. is successful then the patient will be
      removed from the mechanical ventilator. For the next 48 hours the patient will be monitored
      for distress signs and thus be reintubated or if the weaning of the patient was successful
      extubation.

      Flow chart of the study

        1. The patient meets the S.B.T. criteria.

        2. The patient is placed in a semi recumbent position.

        3. A nasogastric tube attached with two balloons, which are connected with a pressure
           transducer, one placed in the stomach and the other one in the lower third of the
           esophagus.

        4. The balloons will be connected with a Hans Rudolph pneumotachograph for the measurement
           of the tidal volume, the flow and the esophageal pressure.

        5. An occlusion test will be performed to make sure the esophageal balloon is correctly
           placed.

        6. Measurement of Pes, Pgas, M.I.P., and simultaneous sonographic measurements (Diaphragm
           thickening,Tdi,pi, Tdi,ee, Di,e,TFdi) during the S.B.T. with the patient being in
           t-tube.

        7. Measurement of the same parameters during an S.B.T. with an airway of reduced diameter.

        8. The patient will be reintubated for 60 minutes.

        9. The S.B.T. is repeated and the R.S.B.I. will be calculated.

       10. If the S.B.T. is successful according to the R.S.B.I. the patient will be disconnected
           from the mechanical ventilation.

       11. Monitoring of the patient for the next 48 hours, for the extubation respiratory distress
           syndrome or reintubation for another reason.

       12. Further monitoring for 30 days in order to measure the time spent in mechanical
           ventilation

      Definitions

      Transdiaphragmatic pressure

      Pdi will be measured with the use of a nasogastric catheter which has 2 balloons attached at
      25 cm and 10 cm from it's distal end. The balloons, of 7 cm length, will be connected with a
      pressure transducer and with the use of a linear pneumotachometer Hans Rudolph RSS 100HR the
      graphic representation of the pressures will be displayed in a computer monitor. The balloons
      will contain 0,5-1 ml of air and will be placed in the stomach and the lower third of the
      esophagus. To ensure the correct positioning of the balloons an occlusion test (Baydur test)
      will be performed ,where the similar fluctuations between the esophageal and the airway
      pressure will be affirmative. As long as the stomach balloon is concerned the positive
      pressures during the inspiration will be affirmative of the correct positioning.

      Pressure Time Index

      P.T.I. is the product of the ratio of the mean inspiratory pressure to the maximal
      inspiratory pressure (Pavg/Mip) and the ratio of the inspiratory time to the total duration
      of the inspiratory cycle (Ti/Ttot).The usefulness of the P.T.I. consists that it measures the
      total energy cost of breathing.

      P.T.I.=(Pavg/M.I.P.)x(Ti/Ttot) where as a Pavg is considered the airway pressure in the
      middle of the inspiratory phase (ti/2).

      Tension Time Diaphragm Index

      Ttdi is used as an index of diaphragmatic exhaustion. Measurements above 0,15 are indicative
      of the diaphragmatic incapability to maintain spontaneous breathing for more than 45 minutes,
      whence the naming of Ttdi critical

      Ttdi = (Pdi/Pdi,max)x(TixTtot)

      Rapid Shallow Breathing Index

      Rapid Shallow Breathing Index (R.S.B.I.) is a method used for predicting the weaning outcome.
      It is measured during spontaneous breathing and equates to the ratio of respiratory rate per
      minute (RR) to the tidal volume (Vt) expressed in liters.

      R.S.B.I. = RR/Vt

      It has been shown that an R.S.B.I. values below 105 breaths/min/L can predict a successful
      weaning.

      Maximal Inspiratory Pressure

      Maximal Inspiratory Pressure (M.I.P.) is used as a predictive factor of the weaning outcome.
      It is measured with a manometer placed in a fully occluded airway, while the patient tries to
      breathe through it for 20 seconds. The highest pressure value is named M.I.P. It has been
      shown that values below -25 cmH2O are indicative of a positive weaning outcome.

      Diaphragm Ultrasound

      The diaphragmatic function is assessed during spontaneous breathing and during breathing with
      an airway of reduced diameter. The diaphragmatic movement is assessed with ultrasound
      (Phillips iE33) using a Linear 3-11 MHz head. The ultrasound probe is placed in the mid
      axillary line perpendicular to the zone of apposition between the 8th-10th intercostal
      spaces. In this position, the diaphragm is shown as a non-echogenic layer between two
      echogenic layers which represent the diaphragmatic pleura and the abdominal peritoneum. With
      this technique the diaphragmatic thickening (Tdi,pi - Tdi,ee), diaphragmatic thickness at
      end-expiration (Tdi,ee) and end-inspiration (Tdi,pi), diaphragmatic excursion Di,e and
      diaphragmatic thickening fraction TFdi are measured. All the measurements are made using
      M-Mode Sonography.
    
  