
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) is one of the more common genetic diseases worldwide, affecting
      approximately 1 in 500 African-Americans and 1 in 1000 Hispanic-Americans. A single amino
      acid substitution decreases the solubility of deoxygenated hemoglobin, leading to polymer
      formation and subsequent distortion of erythrocyte shape from the normal biconcave disc into
      a relatively rigid crescent or sickle shape. Initially reversible, the polymer formation and
      shape distortion eventually becomes permanent. Clinical manifestations of sickle cell disease
      relate both to increased clearance of these misshapen erythrocytes (causing a chronic
      hemolytic anemia) as well as occlusion of small (and sometimes large) blood vessels.

      Vaso-occlusive phenomena are responsible for much of the acute morbidity of sickle cell
      disease, including episodes of pain resulting from bone infarcts, splenic infarction with a
      secondary increased risk of infection, and a relatively high incidence of ischemic stroke
      (~10% in the first 2 decades of life). In addition, chronic and cumulative ischemic episodes
      contribute to long-term morbidity (including avascular necrosis of bone, retinopathy, renal
      insufficiency, and pulmonary hypertension) and a significantly shortened life span.
      Vaso-occlusive pain crises often require hospitalization for the administration of parenteral
      narcotics; the average duration of hospitalization is 4-5 days, and a significant proportion
      of patients experience multiple crises per year. In most episodes, pain continues to
      intensify over the first 2-3 days before beginning to abate, suggesting that there is ongoing
      extension of tissue damage for some time following initiation of the episode; also, many
      patients will develop additional foci of pain even during the course of hospitalization.

      While direct mechanical blockage of small vessels by sickled erythrocytes is undoubtedly an
      important factor in vaso-occlusion, there are other secondary phenomena that are likely to
      contribute to these episodes, including increased erythrocyte adhesion to the endothelium of
      post-capillary venules. SCD patients also exhibit chronic pro-coagulation changes in soluble
      clotting factors, as well as increased platelet number and activation. The relative
      contribution of these various changes to the pathophysiology of vaso-occlusive crises is
      unclear. One published study showed that the antiplatelet drug ticlopidine decreased
      frequency, duration, and severity of pain crises in SCD patients, suggesting that the
      increase in platelet activation does indeed contribute to vaso-occlusion.

      Current therapy for vaso-occlusive pain crises is mostly supportive (maintaining adequate
      hydration and oxygenation and administering pain medication). With the possible exception of
      exchange transfusion-a procedure with significant potential morbidity-there is no therapy
      that directly targets the vaso-occlusion.

      Abciximab (ReoPro) is the Fab fragment of the chimeric human-mouse monoclonal antibody 7E3.
      It avidly binds to both glycoprotein IIb/IIIa and to integrin αvβ3, and so would potentially
      inhibit both erythrocyte binding to vascular endothelial as well as platelet adhesion, thus
      targeting two separate mechanisms that are felt to be components of the vaso-occlusive
      phenomenon in SCD.

      The relatively prolonged course of most pain crises-which typically involves increasing
      intensity of pain and often development of new areas of pain over the first few days-suggests
      that treatment during the early phases of a crisis might be effective in ameliorating the
      course of the episode, resulting not only in decreased acute morbidity but possibly also in
      less long-term tissue damage. The study hypothesis is that administration of abciximab early
      in the course of a vaso-occlusive sickle cell pain crisis will reduce the median length of
      hospitalization without an accompanying increase in bleeding or other serious complications.

      Participants will be randomized in a double blind fashion to receive either abciximab
      (ReoPro) or placebo intravenously over 12 hours. Randomization will be stratified by sickle
      cell genotype: Sickle Cell Anemia (SS) vs. Sickle-Hemoglobin C Disease (SC). All patients
      will receive standard supportive care, including hydration, supplemental oxygen as needed to
      maintain oxygen saturation >92%, scheduled use of NSAIDS, and narcotics titrated to effect.
    
  