
    
      The purpose of the registry is to establish data on the long-term outcome of elderly renal
      transplant recipients receiving an initial standard immunosuppression with tacrolimus once
      daily, mycophenolate and steroids The objectives of this registry are to investigate the
      long-term course of renal transplantation in the elderly European population (≥65 years)
      under immunosuppression with tacrolimus once daily, mycophenolate and steroids in order to
      better define risk factors for patient death and graft loss and predictors for favourable
      outcomes in this growing population.

      For this purpose, the SENIOR transplant registry will be implemented to collect data on graft
      loss, death, renal function, quality of life and biopsy proven acute rejections (BPAR),
      analyze common complications such as severe infections, opportunistic infections (CMV and/or
      BKV viremia), malignancies, cardiovascular events, and hospitalisations in a large population
      of European senior renal allograft recipients. In addition, type and severity of rejections
      (Banff-grade, steroid resistant rejections, antibody-mediated rejections, antibody-treated
      rejections, recurrent rejections), development of circulating donor specific antibodies
      (DSA), cardiovascular risk factors (such as diabetes, development of posttransplant diabetes
      (PTDM), hypertension), renal function (as estimated by CKD-EPI), and proteinuria will be
      longitudinally assessed in parallel to immunosuppressive doses and drug levels. The registry
      will focus on common side effects of immunosuppressive therapy (such as leucopenia, anemia),
      treatment patterns and reasons for treatment changes. Finally, a prospective analysis of
      quality of life including the burden of medication in elderly transplant recipients is
      planned.

      All recipients (≥65 years) of a kidney transplant who are willing to participate in the
      European SENIOR-Registry may enter the registry prior to transplantation if they are
      fulfilling all in- and none of the exclusion criteria and receive the intended initial
      immunosuppression consisting of tacrolimus once daily (Advagraf, initially adjusted to trough
      blood levels of ≥5ng/ml), mycophenolate (either ≥1.0g/day Mycophenolate Mofetil (MMF) or
      ≥720mg/d enteric-coated Mycophenolate Sodium (EC-MPS)) and Steroids.

      There will be 12 study visits during the 10 year period. Except for quality of life
      questionnaires there are no study specific procedures planned. Only data will be recorded
      which anyway will be recorded in clinical routine.

      The study population will consist of a representative group of approximately 1000 senior (≥65
      years) kidney transplant patients, who receive a renal allograft and an initial standard
      triple immunosuppression (tacrolimus once daily (Advagraf), mycophenolate (either ≥1.0g/day
      Mycophenolate Mofetil (MMF) or ≥720mg/d enteric-coated Mycophenolate Sodium (EC-MPS)) and
      steroids. The patients will be recruited from approximately 42 transplant centers in Europe.
    
  