
    
      About 20 patients will take part in the study. Two patients will not receive ceftobiprole,
      but will receive an antibiotic that is normally given prior to elective hip replacement
      surgery. The remaining 18 patients will receive ceftobiprole 500 mg dripped into the vein
      over 2 hours. All patients will have a sample of bone taken during the surgery and blood
      samples taken at specific timepoints. The samples taken from the 2 patients who did not
      receive study drug will assist in the development of a test used to measure the study drug in
      the bone sample. This is an open-label, parallel group, pharmacokinetic study in healthy men
      and women who have been cleared medically for elective total hip replacement surgery. Healthy
      is defined as patients who are medically stable and cleared for elective surgery. The study
      has 4 phases: a screening phase of up to 21 days before the day of surgery; a pretreatment
      phase of up to 7 days before the day of surgery; a 1-day open-label treatment phase; an
      end-of-study phase (end-of-study procedures or at the time of early withdrawal); and a
      follow-up telephone contact approximately 1 week after the surgery to assess new and ongoing
      adverse events. Two control subjects will be enrolled; these patients will not receive
      ceftobiprole, but will undergo surgery and a bone sample, which will serve as a control for
      qualifying the bioanalytical assay. The remaining 36 patients will be randomized to 1 of 2
      ceftobiprole treatments. The primary objective is to estimate the penetration of ceftobiprole
      into bone of otherwise healthy patients who are undergoing total hip replacement surgery.
      Safety and tolerability will also be assessed. Venous blood samples will be collected and
      analyzed for ceftobiprole concentrations using validated liquid-chromatography methodology,
      with tandem mass spectrometric detection. Bone samples will be analyzed for ceftobiprole by
      qualified liquid-chromatography methodology, with tandem mass spectrometric detection. Safety
      and tolerability will be evaluated throughout the study. Blood will be drawn for clinical
      laboratory tests and PK evaluations. A single dose of ceftobiprole 500 mg dripped into the
      vein over 2 hours, administered prior to elective hip replacement surgery.
    
  