
    
      Current standard of care in non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) relies on pathologic
      confirmation of negative margins as well as repeat transurethral resection. National
      Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) and American Urological Association (AUA) guidelines
      specify a regular schedule of continued examination by cystoscopy and cytology to monitor the
      patient for the recurrence of disease.

      Physicians Choice Laboratory Services (PCLS) is validating a panel of biomarkers isolated
      from voided urine for their combined ability to reliably detect the presence of transformed
      cell populations. These markers include somatic mutations in a number of oncogenes that have
      been well established as important etiologic factors in the development of bladder cancer in
      the scientific and clinical literature. In addition, regional hypermethylation of the genome
      is evaluated, as is the presence or absence of specific proteins involved in the disease
      state. Through measurement of these biomarkers using next generation sequencing and
      immunoassays, PCLS has been able to establish both the analytical and clinical validity of
      these markers in diagnosing disease. The statistical correlation of these biomarkers with the
      presence of transitional cell carcinoma has resulted in the ability to define a distinct
      disease signature indicative of disease in preliminary studies. The current study aims to
      expand upon these findings in an effort to offer physicians an additional tool with which to
      manage bladder cancer.

      Hypothesis: Bladder cancer biomarkers will be elevated in preoperative and intraoperative
      urine specimens with direct correlation to the intact lesion(s), but will diminish
      significantly or disappear in urine specimens post-operatively with as a function of
      completion of resection. Further, the persistence of disease-specific biomarkers in urine
      post-operatively may correlate with the risk of recurrence or progression.

      Biomarker levels will be determined from pre-, intra- and post-operative urine specimens, as
      well as from resected bladder tissue and will be statistically compared for changes that
      correlate with presence or absence of visible disease. Biomarkers from tissue samples will be
      quantified and compared with urine sample values.

      The specific aims of the current proposal are to:

      SA1): Assess the stability of a biomarker signature in urine. To date, efforts across the
      biomarker field have relied on the detection of cancer in the context of a single patient
      specimen collected at a single point in time. The consistency of the biomarker signature
      across specimens provided by the same patient has not been fully described. The current study
      will assess the consistency with which the biomarkers composing the panel can be detected
      across urine specimens collected at multiple points in time in a subset of patients. This
      data will inform the utility of single point-in-time collection with regard to accurately
      defining the disease signature.

      SA2): Assess the persistence of bladder cancer-specific biomarkers in urine collected
      pre-operatively, in resected cancer tissue, and in urine collected post-operatively. A panel
      of sensitive and specific bladder cancer biomarkers will be used to establish a signature of
      disease in pre-operative patients with a positive diagnosis for bladder cancer by current
      standard of care (e.g., in-office cystoscopy). The specificity of these markers will be
      assessed, as well as the degree of non-specific signal attributable to other sources of
      biomolecules, by analyzing resected tumor tissue for the same biomarkers. Finally,
      post-operative urine will be assessed for the presence of these markers. To the extent this
      biomarker panel can be determined to be specific and sensitive, it may serve as an indicator
      of the degree to which the surgical intervention successfully eradicated the underlying
      disease.

      SA3): Determine whether persistence of biomarkers in patient urine post-operatively
      correlates with recurrence or progression. The same panel of markers detected in the
      pre-operative urine and tumor will be assayed in voided urine collected during routine
      follow-up surveillance visits for a period of one year. Biomarkers will be monitored for
      persistence and quantitative change in levels.
    
  