
    
      The measurement of cardiac output (CO) is important for a wide variety of patients under
      multiple conditions. At present, gold standard techniques for measurement of CO include
      velocity encoded phase contrast MRI. Both of these techniques are valid in patients with
      structural CHD. Disadvantages of these techniques include the requirement of significant time
      and expertise, and the high cost and anesthesia requirement. Accurate, non-invasive tools to
      measure CO could be extremely valuable for patients with CHD that require one-time of
      continuous monitoring of CO, such as during surgery, in intensive care settings, during other
      diagnostic testing, and during different physiologic states such as sleep and exercise. This
      study would begin by comparing cardiac output based on the PhysioFlow monitor to cardiac
      outout by MRI.

      Impedance cardiography is performed by placing electrodes on the thorax and neck to measure
      electrical impedance over time. Cardiac output is derived from these measurements. The
      technique has been studied, validated, and used extensively in adults and has also been shown
      to be valid in children with structurally normal hearts. In contrast, recent studies of
      children with CHD have shown a relatively poor agreement between impedance cardiography and
      both thermodilution technique and velocity encoded phase contrast MRI. The reasons for the
      poor agreement in CHD patients is not yet understood. There are proprietary algorithms in
      each impedance device that use the raw data to calculate and report cardiac output. If the
      physiologic and/or anatomic differences of patients with CHD require changing the algorithm
      within each system to account for such differences, that needs to be done to each system. In
      order to do this, owners of any given device (PhysioFlow, NeuMeDx Inc. in this case) need
      access to the raw data in order to alter the algorithm. This study will involve a concerted
      effort between investigators at RCHSD, UCSD, and NeuMeDx
    
  