
    
      The study rationale is that prior to conducting a multisite randomized trial, it is necessary
      to identify relevant outcomes, understand barriers to greater use of local anesthesia, test
      study procedures, and confirm our ability to adequately recruit and randomly assign
      participants. Additionally, the proposed study will provide the applicant with critical
      training in the design, conduct, and analysis of clinical trials. This will uniquely position
      the applicant to change surgical care for older adults.

      There have been two prior randomized clinical trials that compared local versus general
      anesthesia for inguinal hernia repair. One study randomized 616 patients in Sweden to local,
      regional, or general anesthesia. They did not specifically look at older patients but the
      mean age in each group was 56 years old. They found that the total operative time was five
      minutes faster for the local anesthesia group (90 versus 95 minutes) the incidence of
      postoperative pain requiring opioids and catheterization for urinary retention was decreased
      by 29% for the local compared to general anesthesia group and the rate of unplanned admission
      was decreased by 19%. A cost-effectiveness analysis conducted by the same group indicated
      that hospital costs were lower in the local anesthesia group (a difference of €311/$378) and
      total healthcare costs were also lower (€316/$384). A second trial from Scotland randomized
      279 patients to local or general anesthesia, with a mean age of 55 years for both groups.
      This study did not find a significant difference in operative time, complications, length of
      stay, pain, or neurocognitive recovery as measured by a battery of tests. However, they did
      not specifically analyze outcomes in older patients which would tend to dilute the potential
      benefits of local anesthesia. Equally important, this study focused almost exclusively on
      healthy patients with smaller hernias, as evidenced by >90% of patients having an American
      Society of Anesthesiology score of 1 or 2 and a mean total surgical time of 48 minutes for
      each group.

      There are several observational studies that compare outcomes from hernia repair under local
      or general anesthesia, and these mostly suggest that local anesthesia is associated with
      shorter operative time (5-10 minutes), fewer complications (1-3% reduction), and enhanced
      quality of life. However, only two of these studies look specifically at outcomes for older
      adults and both suffer from a poor approach to risk adjustment. Additionally, all the
      observational studies have a limited assessment of complications and failed to effectively
      evaluate rates of urinary retention and catheterization after surgery. Urinary retention is
      the most common complication of general anesthesia after hernia repair and results in
      considerable discomfort for patients who are catheterized to relieve it. Additionally, when
      patients do not resolve retention in a timely fashion, it results in the need for unplanned
      admission which increases hospital costs.

      The intervention chosen for testing in this study is the choice of anesthesia (local or
      general) for unilateral inguinal hernia repair. These are the primary methods of anesthesia
      for inguinal hernia surgery by most surgeons (though some perform the operation under spinal
      or regional anesthesia, this is rare). Both approaches are used in clinical practice with
      acceptable known risks and complications. General anesthesia is associated with risks of
      hypotension, venous thromboembolism, heart attack, stroke, pulmonary dysfunction, cognitive
      dysfunction, allergic reaction, and malignant hyperthermia. The main risks of local
      anesthesia include allergic reaction and hypotension (when the anesthetic is improperly
      injected into a blood vessel).
    
  