
    
      At the end of the successful spontaneous breathing trial, clinical and gasometric parameters
      will be recorded and extubation will be performed. HFNC is placed with a flow of 50 l / m
      (only the flow is reduced before intolerance, at 5 l / min but only up to 40 l / min).
      Inspiratory oxygen fraction (FiO2) initially at 1 and progressively decreases until pulse
      oximeter saturation (SpO2) ≥ 92% is achieved. Said configuration is maintained for 60
      minutes. After this time, arterial blood samples are taken and clinical and gasometric
      parameters are recorded in the follow-up chart. Based on them, behavior to be followed is
      defined. If "Fault criteria" are presented, a higher ventilatory support will be initiated.
      If not, continue with HFNC for the next 23 hours without exception. In this period the
      initial flow is maintained (40 to 50 l / min) and the FiO2 is programmed according to the
      SpO2 objective (≥ 92%). At 6 o'clock a new clinical and gasometric evaluation and data
      loading is carried out. 24 hours after the start of HFNC, a blood gas sample is taken and
      clinical and gasometric parameters are recorded. Treatment with HFNC is only suspended if the
      "Failure criteria" or the "Interruption criteria" are met. In the presence of the "Failure
      Criteria" and prior to delivering a greater ventilatory support, the clinical and gasometric
      parameters are recorded in the spreadsheet.

      The data of categorical variables will be presented as frequency and percentage, while in
      quantitative variables, after testing normality by Shapiro-Wilks test, they will be presented
      as mean and standard deviation or median and interquartile range depending on their
      distribution. For comparisons between groups, chi-square or Fisher tests will be used,
      depending on the frequency expected in discrete and categorical variables, and in the
      continuous T or Mann-Whitney tests, depending on the type of distribution and variance. To
      determine the factors of risk of failure to extubation, a logistic regression study will be
      carried out with a system of selection of variables by forward steps. The odds ratio and its
      95% confidence intervals will be calculated. Variables that are significant in the univariate
      study (p value <0.2) will be included in the multiple logistic regression study.
    
  