
    
      We will be comparing the two most commonly used drugs to treat hypertension, atenolol and
      bendrofluazide, in patients for whom the drugs (and the doses to be used) are licenced.

      We propose an initial open label pilot study of 10-12 patients to confirm final doses to be
      tested, the duration of therapy for optimum timing of the OGTT and tolerability of doses
      selected. The pilot study will also be used to confirm sample size calculations for the main
      study.The protocol for the pilot study will be identical to the main study, but there will
      not be a placebo phase and the treatment will not be blinded.

      The main study will be double-blind, placebo controlled, cross-over study, of approximately
      66 patients in which each patient receives in random order, 4 weeks treatment with either
      Bendrofluazide 5-10mg daily, Atenolol 50-100mg daily or combination of Bendrofluazide 2.5-5mg
      and Atenolol 25-50mg daily. There will be a forced titration from the lower to the higher
      dose stated half way through each dosing period. There will be a 1 month placebo wash-out
      between each dosing period.

      At 0, 2 and 4 weeks of each treatment phase, patients will attend the Clinical Investigation
      Ward (CIW), fasting, for performance of an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Blood will be
      drawn from an intravenous cannula, for the measurements of glucose and insulin at 0, 0.5, 1
      and 2 hours.

      Blood pressure will be measured at each study visit using an Omron machine. The patients will
      also be given a blood pressure machine to take home and will be asked to measure and record
      their blood pressure at least twice per week. If their blood pressure is under 110/70mmhg or
      over 160/110mmHg at any time or if the patient has symptoms e.g. headache or dizziness, the
      patient will be asked to contact study staff. If the blood pressure remains over 160/110 for
      two measurements, then another antihypertensive therapy may be commenced, or the patient
      withdrawn from the study. If blood pressure is < 110/70 mmHg with symptoms then a decision
      may be made to terminate their participation in the study.
    
  