
    
      With as many as 2.4 million Americans affected by chronic Hepatitis C Virus (HCV), it is one
      of the most common blood-borne diseases in the United States. Nationwide, rates of new
      infections have risen dramatically among young adults in their 20s and 30s, the same cohorts
      most affected by the opioid epidemic, with as many as 70% of new infections related to
      injection drug use. Local/regional rates of new infection mirror these national surveillance
      findings. In San Diego, between 2011 and 2016, women aged 20-29 experienced a 62.2% increase
      in new HCV infections, while new infections among men aged 20-29 spiked 46.6%, with injection
      drug use cited as the most common form of transmission. Expanded prevalence estimates
      indicate a population prevalence rate for HCV of 2.0% to 2.7% in San Diego County, suggesting
      that approximately 65,000 to 88,000 individuals in the region are likely HCV-infected. These
      alarming increases in new HCV infections demand effective treatment delivered to populations
      that historically have been difficult to reach and are characterized by disparities in HCV
      screening, linkage to care, and treatment access due to a constellation of barriers to care.
      Advances in HCV treatment and care (e.g., the development of highly effective direct-acting
      antivirals--DAAs) show promise for treating these populations and have led to worldwide HCV
      elimination goals, as well as local/regional elimination campaigns. While the American
      Association for the Study of Liver Diseases/Infectious Diseases Society of America
      (AASLD/IDSA)'s guidelines have long been considered the gold standard for HCV diagnosis,
      workup, and treatment (and remain appropriate for HCV specialists, especially in complex
      cases of HCV infection) recent World Health Organization (WHO) HCV guidelines and published
      consensus statements call for implementation of streamlined and simplified algorithms for HCV
      care, delivered in an integrated primary care setting. They highlight that most patients,
      particularly younger people who inject drugs (PWID), have a low risk of cirrhosis, do not
      require genotyping if treated with pangenotypic regimens, and may be lost to follow-up due to
      overly complex, time-intensive, and costly evaluations. Furthermore, emerging evidence
      indicates that PWID achieve the same high cure rates as non-injection drug user patients when
      treated with DAAs. While research indicates that DAAs have high efficacy and safety and can
      now be used by primary care providers to treat HCV there are still groups, especially PWID,
      who experience treatment disparities due to access and treatment barriers. Limited evidence
      exists to support the effectiveness of expanding screening and treatment access via the use
      of mobile medical clinics co-located with services for PWID. Only one study to date has shown
      that point of care testing in a mobile medical clinic resulted in significantly higher rates
      of HCV infected patients being linked to HCV treatment in 30 days compared to standard
      phlebotomy HCV testing. Therefore, the proposed study will test the effectiveness of a
      simplified HCV algorithm with integrated care (including the offer of buprenorphine
      prescriptions and abscess care), in a street-based mobile clinic setting among PWID, in
      increasing treatment initiation and retention rates. Rates of HCV treatment initiation and
      retention will be compared between patients offered a simplified HCV care in a mobile medical
      clinic versus those who are linked to the current practice of usual care in community
      clinics.
    
  