
    
      AIDS, caused by infection with the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) is associated
      with enormous morbidity and mortality worldwide. Although recent advances have been made in
      antiretroviral therapy for AIDS, there is no cure for HIV infection or AIDS, and drug therapy
      is too expensive for most infected populations. The development of safe, effective vaccines
      to prevent HIV infection and AIDS worldwide is a commitment of some health-oriented
      organizations. A major goal in the effort to design an effective vaccine has been the
      identification of the immunologic correlates of protective immunity. Non-neutralizing
      antibodies might possess clinically important anti-HIV activities that remain to be defined
      and warrant investigation. The role played by antibody with minimal neutralizing activity
      induced by various HIV vaccination strategies is unknown. It is possible that low-level
      neutralization or other activities may lead to an improvement or worsening in disease course
      following infection. For this reason it is proposed that a challenge trial in the rhesus
      macaque SHIV model be performed, in which the role of such antibodies, which are derived from
      non-infected human vaccinees, will be evaluated.

      This is a 2-part study. Part I involves human participants; Part II involves rhesus macaques.

      Part 1: Human participants are divided into 2 groups:

      Group I: Participants who previously were enrolled in specific AIDS Vaccine Evaluation Group
      (AVEG) protocols are immunized with a single dose of the recombinant gp160MN/LAI-2 vaccine in
      alum (aluminum hydroxide adjuvant) on Day 0 of the study.

      Group II: Participants who are vaccine naive receive no immunization. Each participant will
      have 5 clinic visits during the study. Blood is drawn at each visit for routine testing and
      immune system check. Sera is drawn from participants for neutralizing antibody determination.
      Approximately 3 weeks after immunization (Day 18), blood is drawn from participants of both
      groups for a plasmapheresis procedure in which platelets and plasma are removed. This process
      is repeated 1 week later. Immunoglobulin G (IgG) is purified from the plasma of vaccinated
      participants.

      Part II: Juvenile rhesus macaques are divided into 4 groups and are infused with IgG from
      human participants of Groups I and II at Day 0. At Day 1, the macaques are exposed to
      SHIV-89.6P. At Days 3, 7, 10, and weekly up to Day 73, the CD4 lymphocyte count, plasma
      viremia, and antibodies of the macaques are measured.
    
  