
    
      Prostate cancer is the second most frequent cause of cancer death in men and it accounts for
      11% of all male cancers. Radical prostatectomy remains the gold standard for localized
      disease, offering the advantage of precise staging and grading and the real possibility of
      disease eradication. In the US there are approximately 100,000 radical prostatectomies (RP)
      performed for prostate cancer annually. However, there are two major challenges to the
      quality of life outcomes after radical prostatectomy: preserving urinary continence, and
      sexual function. The quality of life (QOL) after radical prostatectomy relies on the return
      of continence and sexual function after surgery to their pre-operative 'normal' status. The
      main factor which determines potency rates for patients is whether or not the nerves at the
      Neurovascular Bundles (NVB), are spared, and it may take years for sexual function to return.
      This may be due to the nerve injury from the nerve trauma in the surgical procedure.
      Similarly, a major factor involved in post-radical prostatectomy incontinence is preservation
      of the nerves that control the external urethral sphincter, bladder, and urogenital
      diaphragm. Also Inflammation from surgical removal of the prostate not only affects nerves,
      but also may directly damage the bladder, urethra, and pelvic floor. Effective strategies to
      prevent this damage are currently lacking. One stratagem to prevent or minimize such damage,
      is the use of local hypothermia with ice or cold irrigation around the nerves and tissues
      prior to, during, and after the injury has occurred. In numerous experimental models of
      central and peripheral nervous system injury, the use of moderate hypothermia (i.e. 28-33oC)
      has been shown to provide dramatic neuroprotection safely in humans, during cardiac, kidney,
      and brain surgery for many years.
    
  