
    
      This is an 18-month cluster randomized controlled trial using a SMART design with two
      randomizations (the second using an embedded dynamic treatment regimen), with a target
      enrollment of 800 patients with one of six solid tumors (stage I-III breast, prostate,
      colorectal, endometrial, and head/neck cancer; stage I-II non-small cell lung cancer) who are
      being treated with curative intent. To engage the PCP early in the process, the investigators
      will enroll patients at the time of their first or second visit with a cancer specialist
      (e.g., surgeon, radiation or medical oncologist). The investigators estimate that 80 unique
      community-based PCP clinics across North Carolina will be involved in the study. The
      investigators will determine the effectiveness of the multi-level intervention compared with
      usual care on (1) Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) quality measures
      of management of the three CVD comorbidities using laboratory testing (glycated hemoglobin
      [A1c], lipid profile) and blood pressure measurements; (2) medication adherence assessed
      pharmacy refill data using Proportion of Days Covered (PDC); and (3) patient-provider
      communication (Patient-Centered Communication in Cancer Care, PCC-Ca-36).

      Key aspects of the intervention are to: reframe the message to patients, PCPs, oncologists,
      and the respective health care teams in these two settings to emphasize the importance of
      optimizing the management of comorbidities during and after cancer therapy; promote a change
      in the workflow in both PCP and oncology practices; enhance PCP-oncologist relationships, and
      utilize EHR technology. There are two phases of the intervention, both having patient- and
      PCP-level components. During the first phase of the intervention, occurring with the first
      randomization, the investigators will test the effectiveness of a self-guided, informational
      strategy (iGuide). For PCP clinics that do not achieve the HEDIS targets, a booster phase
      with tailored (patient-level) and targeted (PCP-level) strategies will be tested with a
      second randomization (iGuide2).

      The intervention has been designed to utilize the electronic health record (EHR). At the
      cancer centers, the research team will use the Epic patient portal, MyChart. For PCPs who do
      not use Epic, the research team will use an Epic tool, MedLink, which allows them to view a
      patient's medical records in our system including visit summaries, progress notes and
      results. They can use the Epic inbasket and receive/send messages related to their patient's
      care at the Duke Cancer Institute (DCI), receive alerts, make referrals, and track the
      progress of requests. The PCPs participation is voluntary and their completion of study
      activities will serve as their implied consent to participate.

      All participants in the study will be given a survivorship care plan based on the American
      Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) template. Because the investigators will be recruiting
      participants at our cancer centers and community practices, there will be an inevitable
      contamination across cancer specialists. Thus, the investigators did not include an
      oncology-level intervention. However, cancer specialists are integral to the patient- and
      PCP-level interventions. At the end of the study, patients and PCPs will be mailed a
      newsletter with a summary of the study findings. Lastly, it is inevitable that some patients
      will change their PCP during the study. When notified of the change, the research team will
      send the new PCP the intervention materials.
    
  