
    
      The investigators of this study plan to recruit 60 participants, 30 adolescents and 30
      parents or legal guardians. This number will provide adequate power (0.70) to detect a large
      effect size (d=.81). All portions of this study will be completed online using
      teleconferencing software, Zoom (similar to Skype).

      Participants will be randomized into either a treatment or waitlist control group. All
      participants will receive treatment, however, those in the waitlist group will wait 12 weeks
      before beginning treatment. Treatment will consist of 10, 50 minute sessions with up to six
      short (10-15 minute) booster sessions during a three-month period following treatment.
      Participants and parents/guardians will complete full assessment batteries at intake,
      post-waitlist (only those in the waitlist condition), post-treatment, and 3, 6, and 12 months
      following treatment. Moreover, adolescent participants will be asked to track their daily
      pulling behavior each day while in treatment(with parent/guardian help if desired). This will
      be done through the use of daily text message reminders using app.eztexting.com to the
      parent/guardian that will include a link to the short (less then 5 minute) Qualtrics survey.
      All treatment sessions will take place online using video conferencing software (i.e., Zoom).

      Parents/guardians will be invited to participate in the final 10 minutes of each session.
      This will allow for the adolescent to review what they have learned and also allow the
      parent/guardian to be involved in the fulfillment of treatment goals and to assist with
      skill-building throughout the week. Parents will also be give a short (1/2 to 1 page) handout
      following each session that will explain what was taught and how they can best help the
      participant make progress. Parents will also be asked to complete a short measure of
      psychological flexibility at intake, post-waitlist (only when applicable), post-treatment,
      and 3, 6, and 12-months following treatment.
    
  