
    
      Infectious diarrhea causes substantial morbidity in Western countries and the developing
      world and leads to the use of considerable health resources. Antibiotic resistance continues
      to increase, potentially leading to a decrease in therapeutic options in the future.
      Important pathogens include Salmonella typhimurium (S. typhimurium) and pathogenic
      Escherichia coli (E. coli) which are genetically closely related.

      The human intestine has considerable colonization resistance against bacterial pathogens.
      This resistance is largely mediated by the gut microbiota. Therefore, previous exposure to
      antibiotics or immunosuppression leading to a breakdown of the intestinal defense systems
      increase the risk for subsequent infection with S. typhimurium.

      The composition of the human microbiome undergoes dramatic changes upon exposure to various
      factors including nutrition, physical activity, drugs and much more. Most studies focused on
      long-term exposure to various factors; however, since bacterial growth is rapid (doubling
      time of S. typhimurium under optimal conditions = 20min), even short-term variations in the
      environment could dramatically influence the human microbiota.

      In the lab of Prof. WD Hardt, a mouse model of S. typhimurium enterocolitis has been
      established. Since most mouse strains are resistant against colonization with S. typhimurium,
      pretreatment with antibiotics is a requirement for induction of S. typhimurium enterolitis.
      However, recent experiments in the Hardt lab revealed, that in mice, 24 h exposure to a
      high-fat diet also results in a breakdown of colonization resistance, leading to Salmonella
      enterocolitis upon S. typhimurium infection. The same is true for E. coli strains. Subsequent
      experiments demonstrated that exposure to fatty acids is sufficient to overcome colonization
      resistance. Mechanistic experiments identified fat-elicited bile-release as the underlying
      mechanism: Exposure to a high fat diet leads to increased bile acid secretion; S. typhimurium
      can tolerate 10-fold higher bile acid concentrations than commensal bacterial, leading to a
      growth advantage of S. typhimurium compared to competing bacteria (WD Hardt et al.,
      unpublished data).

      The aim of this study is to verify the results of this study in human healthy volunteers. The
      nutritional habits of all participants will be carefully evaluated. In the intervention
      phase, participants will be exposed to either high-fat or low-fat diet and a controlled dose
      of the non-pathogenic bacteria E. coli Nissle. E. coli Nissle is the active compound for
      "Mutaflor®" and other probiotics. E. coli Nissle has therapeutic effects for the treatment of
      chronic inflammatory intestinal diseases. In contrast to other non-pathogenic E. coli
      strains, it exhibits a specific pattern of fitness factors but lacks prominent virulence
      factors. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated both, protective effects against
      infection with intestinal pathogens as well as potent immunomodulatory properties. Growth of
      E. coli Nissle in the human gut resembles growth of S. typhimurium. Both bacteriae also share
      metabolic requirements for intestinal growth. Therefore, growth E. coli Nissle in the human
      intestine can be used as a marker for growth of E. coli strains, Salmonella typhimurium and
      related pathogens.

      It is planned to enumerate E. coli Nissle counts in the stool after Mutaflor ingestion and to
      quantify other changes of the human microbiota. The hypothesize is that a high-fat diet,
      leading to increased bile acid secretion results in favorable growth conditions for E. coli
      Nissle, resulting in high bacterial counts in the stool.

      The results of the study will help improving the understanding of the consequences of
      nutritional composition on the vulnerability of the human organism to bacterial infections.
      Such an improved understanding might enable designing preventive measures for the growth of
      unwanted E. coli strains (e.g. ESBL, pathogenic) or S. typhimurium infection and/ or a severe
      disease course and might ultimately help limiting antibiotic use and the evolution of
      antibiotic resistant pathogens.
    
  