
    
      This is a double blinded, randomized controlled trial. The study will be composed of 3 groups
      Group 1- Transverse abdominus plain block with liposomal bupivacaine + bupivacaine (LB) Group
      2 - Transverse abdominus plain block with bupivacaine (BP) Group 3 - Control group (standard
      of care with no TAP)

        1. Patients will be asked to participate after meeting their anesthesia team and giving
           verbal consent to receive spinal anesthesia for their cesarean delivery.

        2. A computer-generated, single block randomization scheme will be used to allocate
           patients to one of the three groups (Control group Vs TAP LB group or BP group).

        3. In the OR, a spinal using 10-12 mg bupivacaine 0.75%, 10 mcg Fentanyl and 0.1 mg
           preservative free intrathecal morphine will be performed. Patients will receive IV
           acetaminophen 1 gram, before skin incision and ketorolac 30 mg after closure of fascia.
           All patients will receive the same postoperative analgesia orders, which include
           Tylenol, Ibuprofen and opioids for breakthrough pain. (standard of care)

           After wound closure a TAP block will be performed according to randomization process as
           described above.

        4. The LB TAP block group will receive bilateral ultrasound guided block utilizing 10 ml of
           liposomal bupivacaine* and 20 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine. The BP TAP group will receive
           bilateral ultrasound guided block utilizing 20 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine.(Research
           procedure)

        5. The control group will be approached in the exact same way the TAP block group, that is,
           the ultrasound would be used to identify the muscle layer, but a covered needle will be
           used to simulate a TAP block. The randomization and procedure will be handled by a
           co-investigator not involved in the evaluation or data collection at the stablished time
           points. Patients will be recruited from 7am-5pm and for elective CD

        6. Once in the recovery room, the parturient will be asked to wear a fit-bit device
           (Actigraph Gt3X). The device would measure steps taken for a period of 72 hours, as an
           objective marker of mobility. (Research procedure)

        7. Patients will be asked to complete the ObsQoR-11 at 24 hours, 48 hours and 72 hours.

      All patients in this study will be receiving the standard of care. The current standard of
      care is spinal anesthesia inclusive of intrathecal morphine.
    
  