
    
      The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) plays a central role in the maintenance of
      normal blood pressure (BP) homeostasis. Derangements in the regulation of this system,
      predominantly due to the failure to appropriately suppress renin secretion by the kidney,
      contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension and its cardiovascular, renal and
      cerebrovascular complications.

      Several classes of antihypertensive medications that interrupt the RAAS have been developed.
      These include agents that block angiotensin II (Ang II) binding to the AT1 receptor (Ang II
      receptor blockers [ARB]), inhibit conversion of Ang I to Ang II (angiotensin converting
      enzyme [ACE] inhibitors), and suppress renal secretion of renin (beta-adrenergic receptor
      blocker). These agents effectively lower BP, particularly in the hypertensive patient with an
      unsuppressed plasma renin activity (PRA) level, and significantly improve survival in
      cardiovascular diseases in which PRA levels are often elevated (e.g., heart failure,
      myocardial infarction).

      Renin secretion is regulated, in part, by feedback inhibition due to Ang II binding to the
      juxtaglomerular cell (JG). Interruption of Ang II generation or its receptor binding during
      treatment with an ACE inhibitor or ARB, respectively, stimulates renin secretion because
      feedback inhibition is attenuated and renal perfusion pressure is reduced. The consequent,
      reactive rise in PRA that occurs during treatment with these drugs can limit their
      antihypertensive efficacy because Ang I and subsequently, Ang II levels increase.

      These observations reinforce the theoretical and practical importance of pharmacologic
      suppression of renin secretion to prevent the reactive rise in PRA that occurs during
      treatment with ACE inhibitors and ARBs. β-blockers suppress renin secretion by inhibiting
      β1-adrenergic receptors located on JG cells. PRA and Ang II levels are highly correlated and
      these decrease commensurately during treatment with a β-blocker.

      Aliskiren is an orally active, non-peptide renin inhibitor. Its antihypertensive efficacy is
      due to the competitive antagonism of the renin-mediated conversion of angiotensinogen to Ang
      I. During aliskiren treatment, PRA and Ang II levels decrease significantly. Unlike
      β-blockade, in which the PRA level decreases as a consequence of reduced renal secretion of
      renin, aliskiren treatment decreases PRA in response to the direct, competitive inhibition of
      renin. Although PRA decreases, the aliskiren-mediated decrease in plasma Ang II level
      stimulates renal renin secretion. Therefore, although aliskiren and β-blockers both decrease
      PRA levels, they have divergent effects on the plasma concentration of renin (PRC):
      β-blockers decrease it and aliskiren increases it. The reactive rise in PRC has potential
      implications regarding the antihypertensive efficacy of aliskiren - high PRC levels
      theoretically can overcome the competitive inhibition of renin by aliskiren, thereby
      increasing PRA, Ang II, and BP.

      Aliskiren has been studied as monotherapy and in combination with other antihypertensive
      drugs, including hydrochlorothiazide, valsartan, and amlodipine. It has not been studied in
      the presence of a β-blocker. Proposals for future studies include pursuing whether or not
      there are hypertensives who are resistant to aliskiren, what the mechanism(s) is for the
      resistance and ways to overcome the resistance.

      This is a prospective, open-label study of the effect of the sequential addition of a
      β-blocker (extended release metoprolol) to aliskiren on the levels of plasma renin activity
      and plasma renin concentration in subjects with uncomplicated hypertension.
    
  