
    
      Only 7% patients can walk safely in the community. Functional community ambulation requires
      the ability of walking while performing other tasks. It is emergent to establish dual-task
      walking assessment with good psychometric properties and to identify the most effective
      approach that enhances dual-task walking performance for stroke patients. Our ongoing study
      found that motor tasks combined with cognitive dual-task training (multi-tasking ) have more
      improvements on cognitive performance of the Stroop task while walking than cognitive
      dual-task training alone. Therefore, combined motor and cognitive elements to walking
      training might be considered as a novel therapeutic strategy to promote functional ambulation
      and recovery of stroke patients. This combined strategy is based on attentional capacity
      sharing theory and the research advances on dual-task to enhance active participation and
      cognitive involvement, strengthen dual-task walking ability, then transfer to promote
      community ambulation and participation. However, lacking prospective, controlled trials
      quantify gait and cognition under dual-task conditions after multi-task walking training.
      Specifically, we will investigate psychometric properties of dual-task walking assessments
      for chronic stroke individuals. The second aim is to compare the immediate, retained, and
      transfer effects of of multi-task overground walking training to multi-task treadmill walking
      and traditional rehabilitation on walking function, cognitive performance, task coordination,
      and community ambulation in patients with chronic stroke. A metric analysis and comparative
      efficacy research will be conducted. Sixty chronic stroke patients will receive dual-task
      walking assessments twice at pretreatment with a 1-week interval for test-retest assessment
      and investigation of the reliability and validity of outcome measures. The primary outcome
      measure of the dual-task walking assessments will include walking at preferred speed and fast
      speed and simultaneously perform the Stroop task. Concurrent validity will be studied to
      validate the dual-task walking measures with each other and with the item 14 of the
      mini-Balance Evaluation Systems test (Mini-BESTest), dual-task Timed-up-and-Go test
      (dual-TUG), and 6-min walk test obtain concurrently for assessing dual-task ability. In
      addition, we will compare dual-task walking performance between fallers and non-fallers to
      examine discriminant validity of dual-task walking assessments. A comparative efficacy
      research is a single-blind, randomized controlled trial, which will be conducted at medical
      centers. Sixty ambulatory stroke patients will be randomized to multi-task overground walking
      training or multi-task treadmill walking training or traditional rehabilitation. All three
      groups will receive interventions 3 times a week for 4 weeks. The multi-task overground
      walking training group will undertake overground walking training while concurrently perform
      motor and cognitive tasks. The multi-task treadmill walking training group will train the
      same set of motor and cognitive tasks while walking on the treadmill. Traditional
      rehabilitation will train strength, balance, and gait. A blinded assessor will administer
      three assessments All participants will be examined gait and cognitive performance under
      single-task (walking only, cognitive tasks only) and dual-task conditions (walking while
      performing the Stroop task) at baseline, post intervention, and 1-month follow-up. The
      primary outcome measure of gait and cognition is gait speed and composite score of accuracy
      and reaction time of the cognitive tasks under single- and dual-task conditions. The
      secondary outcome measures will be the Mini-BESTest, single- and dual-TUG, Functional Gait
      Assessment, 6-minute Walk Test, physical activity monitor, and Stroke Impact Scale. Repeated
      measure ANOVA will be used to compare measurements at baseline, after training, and follow-up
      among the groups.
    
  