
    
      The proposed project, Functional Assessment Screening Tablets-Patient Reported Information,
      has been developed in response to PAR-08-270: Utilizing Health Information Technology to
      Improve Health Care Quality (R18). Tobacco, physical activity, and poor mental health-related
      quality of life (HRQoL) are major causes of morbidity and mortality that are not being
      adequately addressed in the current systems of care. Healthcare providers play an important
      role in encouraging healthy behaviors and identifying factors that impact patients' HRQoL.
      Clinicians are most effective in this role when they partner with informed, activated, and
      engaged patients. The investigators will evaluate a new tool, based our current "Functional
      Assessment Screening Tablets (FAST)," that is designed to inform and activate patients about
      their own patient reported information (PRI). The FAST currently uses wirelessly-networked
      tablet computers to collect PRI while patients wait to see their primary care provider and
      provides this PRI to providers at the time of the patient's visit. The new health information
      technology (HIT)-based tool, used in the FAST-PRI intervention and referred to as HIT patient
      feedback, provides patients with self-management support through immediate, personalized,
      guideline-based feedback about their health behaviors (tobacco use and physical inactivity)
      and mental HRQoL and encourages them to take a more active role in their health. Completion
      of this cluster-randomized controlled trial, FAST-PRI, will provide important information on
      the effectiveness of using HIT patient feedback to inform and activate patients and promote
      health behavior change. The investigators will accomplish this through the following three
      specific aims:

      Aim 1. Use HIT patient feedback regarding study-designated PRI (i.e., tobacco use, physical
      inactivity, and mental HRQoL) to activate patients.

      Aim 2. Assess the impact of HIT patient feedback on study-designated PRI. Aim 3. Evaluate
      potential mediators of the effectiveness of HIT patient feedback on study-designated PRI.

      The investigators will conduct a 12-month randomized controlled trial of HIT patient
      feedback, clustered at the physician level, in an academic group medical practice. Patients
      and providers will complete questionnaires regarding discussions of health behaviors and
      HRQoL at each clinical encounter. In addition, patient participants will complete
      questionnaires regarding smoking quit attempts, physical activity, and their mental HRQoL, as
      well as self-efficacy and use of interdisciplinary referral at baseline, six and twelve
      months. The investigators will survey physicians regarding self-efficacy at baseline, 12 and
      24 months. Finally, we will abstract referral data from the electronic medical record
      regarding health behaviors, HRQoL, and referrals.
    
  