
    
      Tobacco use has been described as the number one behavioral health problem of our time with a
      projected 8.4 million total smoking related deaths worldwide by the year 2020. Current
      clinical practice guidelines entitled "Treating Tobacco Use and Dependence" provide a summary
      of evidence-based recommendations. Despite the evidence of tobacco risk and the efficacy of
      tobacco control interventions, 30% of current smokers report that they have never been
      advised to stop smoking by a healthcare provider. Nearly half (47.9%) of dentists report they
      have never intervened to assist tobacco users in quitting. Our intervention is designed to
      improve the rate of tobacco cessation advice delivered in dental practices.

      This proposal is in response to the request for applications "Translational Research in
      Dental Practice-based Tobacco Control Interventions" (RFA: DE-03-007). Our exploration of
      barriers and facilitators will assist in clarifying processes that influence translation of
      tobacco-related knowledge into clinical dental practice. Our trial will integrate
      theoretically grounded methods of provider behavior change, medical informatics, and tobacco
      control research to translate guidelines into dental clinical practice. We will avoid a
      "one-size-fits-all" approach by tailoring strategies for tobacco cessation counseling to
      individual practices. The intervention will be longitudinal, with updates and continuous
      access for dentists and dental staff over 2 years. Our evaluation will extend from processes
      of care to patient outcomes. Ancillary analyses will assess differences in tobacco counseling
      rates associated with practice, provider, and patient-level variables including disparities
      in counseling by race. To assess the relative impact of various components of the multi-modal
      intervention, we will conduct secondary analyses of the association of amount of use of each
      specific component with frequency of tobacco cessation counseling within the intervention
      group.
    
  