
    
      Cesarean section is one of the most common surgeries practiced for save delivery of the
      fetus, however it is not a safe route of delivery its incidence is rising especially in high
      and middle income countries. Although the WHO recommended cesarean section rate between 10 to
      15% to decline the maternal mortality ratio and Neonatal mortality ratio, the incidence show
      sharp increase especially in Egypt to reach 52% of all deliveries. The major concern is that
      the average blood loss during cesarean delivery is 487 ml, this amount is too close to the
      definition of postpartum hemorrhage by WHO as loss of 500 cc of blood in the first 24 hours
      after delivery making control of blood loss during cesarean delivery crucial to decrease
      maternal morbidities. Many medications used to decrease blood loss especially placental site
      bleeding during cesarean section including oxytocin, ergometrine, synthetic prostaglandins
      and recently carbetocin.

      Carbetocin is an oxytocin analogue containing eight amino acids .It binds to oxytocin
      receptors expressed on uterine muscles of pregnant women inducing tetanic uterine
      contractions for about 11 minutes after administration of 8-30ug intravenous followed by
      rhythmic uterine contractions that last for 60 to 120 minutes. Also it has a longer half life
      time than oxytocin and the recommended dose is 100ug IV.

      Misoprostol is synthetic analogue to prostaglandin which is cheap heat stable uterotonic
      making it the alternative of choice to intravenous oxytocin in low resources countries. The
      recommended dose for prophylaxis against postpartum hemorrhage is 600μg while 800μg is used
      as a treatment.

      In the lack of sufficient studies comparing the use of carbetocin to misoprostol to decrease
      blood loss during cesarean section we perform this study to compare the use of misoprostol to
      carbetocin in reducing blood loss during cesarean section.

      Patients and Methods This was a retrospective comparative study conducted in Port Said
      General Hospital And Private practice in Port Said Egypt. Following approval of the study
      protocol by the ethical committee in Faculty of medicine Port Said University. The medical
      records of patients in the period from January 2018 to February 2019 were searched; women who
      underwent CS and were considered at low risk for postpartum including 1- singleton pregnancy,
      2- less than previous four deliveries, 3- elective lower segment C.S, 4- C.S was done under
      general anesthesia 5- No medical disorders complicating pregnancy, 6- Placenta neither previa
      nor morbidly adherent, 7- Average amount of amniotic fluid, 8- No past history of postpartum
      hemorrhage and 9- No contraindications to Misopristol or Carbetocin 300 patients were
      eligible and were enrolled in this study. Women who received Carbetocin 100ug i.v (PABAL 100
      micrograms/ml solution for injection, Ferring Pharmaceuticals Ltd) intra operative
      immediately after extraction of the fetus, were enrolled into group A and women who received
      misoprostol 600ug (cytotec 200ug tablet, Pfizer G.D. Searle LLC) rectally immediately before
      sterilization during caesarean section were enrolled into group B.

      Maternal data (demographic and clinical), ultrasound findings, operative details, and
      postoperative characteristics were recorded in a database. The outcome measures of this study
      were the need for blood products transfusion, the amount of blood products transfusion, the
      operative time, operative complications uterine atony the need for surgical interventions to
      stop bleeding as uterine artery ligation and uterine compression sutures and the deficit in
      hemoglobin level.
    
  