
    
      Background/Rationale

      There are currently no objective, validated measures of paravalvular leak (PVL) by
      echocardiogram (Lerakis et al). The PARTNER 2 year outcomes demonstrated that even mild PVL
      is associated with poor prognosis (Kodali et al) and decreased survival after transaortic
      valve replacement (TAVR). It has been proposed that the severity of PVL could be measured
      based on a comparison of jet arc length and pressure half-time on color Doppler transthoracic
      echocardiogram (TTE) to the circumference of the valve annulus in the parasternal short-axis
      view. Accordingly, a jet arc corresponding to <10% of the annulus circumference indicates
      mild PVL, 10-20% moderate PVL, and >20% severe PVL. However, this grading method still needs
      to be validated against an independent reference standard such as Cardiac MRI (cMRI).

      Cardiac MRI (cMRI) is a reliable way to measure PVL post-TAVR. It enables measurement of both
      regurgitant volume and regurgitant fraction using gradient echo-based phase-contrast sequence
      velocity flow mapping, accurately measuring forward stroke volume and backward regurgitant
      flow across the valve. Being independent of jet morphology, cMRI may be a superior way to
      follow patients post-TAVR. cMRI provides a quantitative assessment of the regurgitant
      fraction and can therefore serve as the reference standard for validation of TTE-based
      grading schemes.

      Study Procedures

      Patients seen at The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano (THHBP) will be enrolled into the study if
      they are eligible and provide written consent. Upon enrollment, demographic and clinical risk
      factors data will be collected for each patient. All patients will receive TTE and cMRI,
      within 1 week of each other, at their 30 days ± 14 days, 6 months ± 30 days, or 1 year ± 60
      days follow up visit post-TAVR. TTE is usually performed at these follow-up visits as part of
      the routine clinical work up. All females of childbearing age will have a urine pregnancy
      test prior to cMRI. Patients will be assigned PVL severity grades according to the two
      diagnostic methods by Dr. Grayburn (TTEs), and Dr. Gopal (cMRIs). Both investigators will be
      blinded to each other grading results.

      Risk/Benefit

      MRI does not use ionizing radiation (high-energy radiation that can potentially cause damage
      to DNA, like the x-rays used CT scans).

      There are no known harmful side-effects associated with temporary exposure to the strong
      magnetic field used by MRI scanners. However, there are important safety concerns to consider
      before performing or undergoing an MRI scan (U.S. Food and Drug Administration):

        -  The magnet may cause pacemakers, artificial limbs, and other implanted medical devices
           that contain metal to malfunction or heat up during the exam.

        -  Any loose metal object may cause damage or injury if it gets pulled toward the magnet.

        -  If a contrast agent is used, there is a slight risk of an allergic reaction. MRI
           contrast agents can cause problems in patients with significant kidney disease.

        -  Dyes from tattoos or tattooed eyeliner can cause skin or eye irritation.

        -  Medication patches can cause a skin burn.

        -  The wire leads used to monitor an electrocardiogram (ECG) trace or respiration during a
           scan must be placed carefully to avoid causing a skin burn.

        -  Prolonged exposure to radio waves during the scan could lead to slight warming of the
           body.

      There are no known risks from a TTE. During this procedure, a technician obtains views of the
      heart by moving a transducer to different locations on the chest or abdominal wall. The
      transducer sends sound waves into the chest and picks up echoes that reflect off different
      parts of the heart (Cleveland Clinic).

      Minimization of Risk

      Patient safety during this study will be the highest priority. All diagnostic
      tests/treatments provided are commonly accepted and FDA approved. These test/treatments would
      be provided as part of the patients' post-operative follow up and the patients will not incur
      any additional health risks as subjects in this study. The patients will not incur any
      psychological, social, legal or economic risks by participating in this study.

      Benefits

      Subjects will not directly benefit from this research. The results of this study may provide
      important information for the medical imaging options for future valve replacement patients.

      Adverse Events

      Adverse Events (AEs) for purposes of this trial will include AEs related to TTE or MRI.
    
  