
    
      The patients will be oriented regarding to the study steps and potential risks of the
      procedures. They will be assessed by a spasticity-experienced physical therapist.
      Demographical data will be collected by a questionnaire, the range of movement will be
      measured with a goniometer, and the muscle tone will be determine by the modified Ashworth
      scale, with the patient in dorsal decubitus. The presence of hypertonia equal or superior to
      2 will assign the respective muscle to injection. Then the patients will be conducted to
      another room, where another therapist will assess the functional performance by the "timed up
      and go" (TUG) test, a six-minutes duration walking, and the Fugl-Meyer scale for the upper
      limb, with the patient in the seated position. During the TUG test the patient is asked to
      stand up from a chair and walk 3 meters, turn around 180 degrees, and walk back to the chair,
      assuming 10 seconds as the normal. The 6 minutes walking test will measure the distance in
      meters in a previously demarcated place. A staff will constantly stimulate the patient
      verbally, to walk as fast as possible.

      Posteriorly the patients will be set in another room, where a neurologist will inject one of
      the two possible substances, with a pre-determined dosage and dilution. The botulinum toxin
      group will have the syringe filled with botulinum toxin type A (Dysport) and the control
      group will have the syringe filled with saline. All the patients will be reassessed in three
      and six months for a new injection, and will undergo the last evaluation in nine months.

      During this period the patients will be followed by the IBR facility where will undergo a
      protocol of physical therapy comprising muscle strengthen, flexibility, endurance, and
      functional training (appendix D). There will be appointments twice a week, one day apart. The
      duration of the session will be 30 minutes, being 1 minute the interval between the
      activities. The first 5 minutes will comprise the flexibility exercises, with sustained
      stretching (15 seconds) and joint mobilizations, followed by a muscle strength exercise
      involving concentric and eccentric movements, with a progressive charge depending on the
      patient performance within the following 10 minutes. The last 15 minutes will have a
      functional training involving gait and upper limb activity combined with endurance training.
      These activities will be divided into two days: the first day for the trunk and upper limb,
      and the second for the pelvic, gait, and lower limb exercises. This protocol will be carried
      out by two physical therapist blinded regarding to the drug injection.
    
  