
    
      A patent foramen ovale (PFO) is present in ~30% of the general population. The PFO has
      historically been considered to be trivial. However, recent work by the investigator's group
      and others has identified that, compared to individuals without a PFO, those with a PFO have
      a higher core body temperature, significantly worse pulmonary gas exchange efficiency,
      blunted ventilatory responses to chronic hypoxia and acute carbon dioxide and increased
      susceptibility to altitude illnesses such as acute mountain sickness, and high altitude
      pulmonary edema. Specific to this application, subjects with a PFO maybe worse pulmonary gas
      exchange efficiency because a PFO is a potential source of right-to-left shunt that will make
      pulmonary gas exchange efficiency worse. If true, then this may negatively impact exercise
      capacity and/or exercise tolerance.

      The investigator's lab group has demonstrated that hypoxemia increases blood flow through
      intrapulmonary arteriovenous anastomoses (IPAVA) in healthy and subjects with COPD. When
      these subjects breathe 100% O2 it prevents or reduces blood flow through IPAVA. This suggests
      that hypoxemia per se induces blood flow through IPAVA. The blood flow through IPAVA and
      presence of a PFO is also associated with increased risk of stroke and/or transient ischemic
      attack (TIA). In addition, an atrial septal defect (ASD) is a hole within the interatrial
      septum, and is considered a congenital heart defect. An ASD is typically larger than a PFO,
      and thus, the symptoms may be worse in those with an ASD, compared to those with a PFO. Thus,
      some hypoxemic patients who have had a stroke or transient ischemic attack, who also have a
      PFO/ASD may undergo surgical closure of their PFO/ASD to prevent subsequent neurological
      sequelae. This surgical closure may also prevent the hypoxemia thereby reducing or preventing
      blood flow through IPAVA. Of note, blood flow through IPAVA has been demonstrated to be
      strongly correlated with TIA and/or stroke and has not previously been taken into
      consideration in randomized clinical trials mentioned below.

      Three randomized clinical trials have determined that PFO closure is not superior to regular
      medical management, for the prevention of subsequent stroke and/or TIA. Nevertheless, the
      American Heart Association still recommends that "in patients with cryptogenic [unexplained]
      TIA or stroke, a PFO, and deep vein thrombosis (DVT), guidelines from the American College of
      Chest Physicians currently recommend vitamin K antagonist therapy for 3 months and
      consideration of PFO closure rather than no vitamin K antagonist therapy or aspirin therapy."
      Additionally, in the largest single center retrospective study performed to date, PFO closure
      for the purpose of preventing hypoxemia was found to result in "improvement in
      echocardiographic evidence of right to left shunt, New York Heart Association functional
      class, and oxygen requirement." Thus, PFO/ASD closure remains a potentially beneficial option
      for both hypoxemic and stroke/TIA patients.

      Lastly, preliminary data also suggest greater levels of plasma inflammatory mediators in
      subjects with a PFO and systemic inflammation is associated with increased risk of
      cardiovascular diseases. Importantly, exercise is known to reduce so of these systemic
      inflammatory mediator levels. Thus, PFO/ASD closure may allow for greater exercise capacity
      and a subsequent reduction in inflammation.

      Thus, although a PFO has been traditionally considered to have a minimal impact of physiology
      and pathophysiology, emerging evidence suggests this may not be the case. The investigator's
      lab is focused on understanding how and why a relatively small hole in the heart (PFO/ASD)
      can have a relatively large impact on cardiopulmonary and respiratory physiology.
    
  