
    
      List of abbreviations:

        -  HE4: Human Epididymis Protein 4

        -  CA125: Carbohydrate Antigen 125

        -  Ki67: antigen KI67

        -  EC: Endometrial Cancer

        -  CT: Computed Tomography

        -  NMR: Nuclear Magnetic Resonance

        -  FIGO: International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics

      The purpose of this study is:

        -  The proportion of positive H-score of HE4, as quantified in endometrial tissue. It is
           significantly higher in patients with endometrial cancer than in non-EC patients.

        -  Percentage of HE4, CA125 and other markers positives in cases and controls.

        -  Concentration of HE4 in tissue, as measured by H-score, correlates linearly with HE4
           concentration in serum, as measured in terms of ppmol/l.

        -  Differences in serum CA125 levels between cases and controls.

        -  Quantification of tissue tumor markers of EC patients, per disease stages.

        -  Relation of the immunohistochemistry intensity with survival and disease-free survival
           times.

        -  Analysis of other risk factors adjusting for known variables like age, menopausal
           status, hypertension, diabetes or obesity.

        -  Feasibility of the technique.

      Steps in the study:

        1. Patients enter the study when a diagnosis of endometrial cancer is done. As it is
           ordinary in the clinical practice the diagnosis is made with an endometrial tissue
           sample taken in the office which is afterwards studied by a pathologist, who makes the
           final diagnosis.

        2. Patients undergo the regular preoperative study with pelvic ultrasound, CT and/or NMR
           for the extension study, blood tests and the preanaesthetic consultation. As it is
           registered in the protocol of Endometrial Cancer Treatment.

        3. Then a matched control is selected from the group of patients that are going to be
           hysterectomized for other non-malignant reasons (abdominal way, vaginal, or laparoscopic
           way). Variables considered for matching are: age (variability of five years), pre or
           postmenopausal status, hypertension, obesity and diabetes.

        4. Every patient then is asked for accept and sign the informed consent. The next step is
           to prepare the patient for the surgery. In this moment the serum sample is taken.
           Subsequently the surgery will be performed.

        5. Then the anatomopathological study is conducted over the preoperative tissue sample. HE4
           marker in endometrial tissue is defined by H-Score while Ki67 and p53 are defined as
           usual. Although Ki67 is matched in > or <25% of expression instead of 14% as it is made
           in breast cancer tissue samples.

        6. After discharge, the patient will be follow-up for two years in order to register the
           evolution of the disease.
    
  