
    
      The study design is that of a prospective randomized study of patients presenting to the
      vascular surgery and cardiology clinics with symptoms of IC and enrolled in 12-week
      supervised exercise program. Upon enrollment, each patient will undergo a medical and
      surgical history, ascertainment of smoking status, review of medications, and 6-minute walk
      test (walking on a flat, pre-defined course(i.e. hallway) for 6 minutes and recording time
      and distance to claudication onset as well as total distance walked, and total number of
      steps taken). We will also collect data from the patient's CPRS notes through our
      institutional cardiac rehab/PAD rehab program, with a dedicated cardiac rehab nurse. Patients
      with IC who are enrolled in the study will also be asked to complete 2 QOL questionnaires:
      the VASCUQoL6 and the Walking Impairment Questionnaire (WIQ). Patients will undergo
      supervised exercise therapy (per cardiac rehab protocol) and will receive the LIVMOR health
      monitoring system with instructions on how to use it. Randomization and details of exercise
      therapy are described in the next section. Patients will be followed for up to 12 weeks to
      collect data regarding change in distance and time of claudication onset.

      In the optional exploratory aim, we will analyze plasma from one blood draw at the beginning
      and at the end of exercise therapy for lipid levels, distribution of LDL particle size, and
      other biomarkers. We will perform metabolomics, proteomics, and lipidomics assays to examine
      small circulating molecules that are involved in the development of atherosclerotic plaque in
      peripheral arterial disease. All blood and plasma analysis performed outside of Pathology and
      the Clinical Core Lab will be performed in the PI's research laboratory at the Dallas VA
      Medical Center by members of the research staff, or by members of the PI's collaborating lab
      at UT Southwestern or in the UT Southwestern research Core Laboratories. Any plasma sent to
      UT Southwestern will be de-identified.

      Data (including name, birth date, social security number, dates of procedures and studies)
      will be stored in an Excel spreadsheet. Each patient's data will be associated with a study
      ID and stripped of the 18 identifiers need to de-identify the data. Only study staff will
      have access to PHI. No PHI will be released outside the North Texas VA Health Care Systems.

      For the LIVMOR system, only the patient's study ID will be entered into the system.
      De-identified health monitoring data (heart rate, steps taken, distance walked) will be
      transmitted and stored in the LIVMOR cloud server, as was done in the LIVMOR Data Collection
      Study (IRB# 17-106).

      After enrollment, baseline data, including questionnaires, will be collected. Patients who
      have agreed to optional blood draw will have a fasting blood draw (up to 10 cc) at the next
      available time within 1 week of study enrollment. At the next supervised exercise therapy
      visit (occurs 3 times a week according to the cardiac rehab protocol), the patient will have
      baseline resting heart rate and blood pressure measurements, and will undergo a 6-minute walk
      test. The patient will be randomized to remote coaching (regular provider feedback based on
      LIVMOR data) vs. remote health monitoring without provider feedback. Each patient will be
      sent home with instructions for home-based supplemental exercise and a LIVMOR remote health
      monitoring system, which includes a wristwatch that records heart rate, steps taken, and
      distance traveled (pedometer function) and a tablet. Patients will be instructed to check a
      resting heart rate with the LIVMOR watch for 10 minutes before starting exercise. They will
      exercise while wearing the watch (heart rate monitor and pedometer), then check heart rate
      for 10 minutes after completion of the exercise session. Patients will not receive real time
      feedback from the smart-watch heart rate monitor, however they have the option to review
      their heart rate and pedometer data by logging into the tablet provided with the watch, after
      the exercise session. In patients randomized to the remote coaching arm, study staff will
      provide feedback on home-based supplemental exercise based on heart rate measurements and
      pedometer measurements from the LIVMOR health monitoring system, as well as heart rate and
      walking data collected from supervised exercise therapy sessions. Remote coaching will occur
      by telephone call, but the conversation will mirror conversations that occur during
      supervised exercise therapy, and will not be based solely on the surrogate measure of heart
      rate for walking effort. A member of the study team will call the patient 1-3 times a week,
      depending on the patient's preference, which may change over the course of the study.
      Therefore the remote coaching is adaptive to patient's needs. In patients randomized to no
      remote coaching, health monitoring data will be reviewed by study staff, but will not be used
      to adjust home-based supplemental exercise. Any abnormalities in health monitoring data will
      be alerted to appropriate clinical staff. All patients will keep a journal of their
      home-based supplemental exercise, including time of exercise, in order to correlate heart
      rate readings from the smart-watch.

      For patients agreeing to the optional blood draw: Blood will be sent to the Dallas VA Medical
      Center clinical lab for a lipid panel. The remaining blood will be refrigerated, then
      transported to the PI's research lab at the Dallas VA Medical Center, where the research
      staff will centrifuge the blood to isolate plasma.

      Plasma will be tested for the following:

        -  Metabolomics, proteomics, and lipidomics assays to study small circulating molecules
           that may be involved in the development of atherosclerosis in peripheral arterial
           disease, and may change with exercise therapy.

        -  Lipoprotein subfractions.

        -  Small molecules that can be assayed using ELISA. At the end of the 12-week program, an
           end-of-study 6 minute walk test will be performed as well as the questionnaires will be
           completed. All the LIVMOR devices will be returned to the investigators. If the patient
           is unable to complete the end-of study 6-min walk test or does not complete the 12-week
           exercise program, a phone follow- up will be done to complete the questionnaires. A
           final blood draw will be completed (within 1 week of completing the 12-week exercise
           program) for patients who have opted for the blood draw.

      The LIVMOR system transmits data through wireless technology up to a cloud server. The data
      transmission is encrypted and FIPS-140-2 compliant.
    
  