
    
      Data published by the NBOCAP in 2014 shows 45% of the 9,433 rectal cancers treated in the UK
      annually were either T1 or T2 and 66% were node negative. Despite this 77% of those operated
      on underwent major resection whilst only 11% were locally excised.

      Rectal tumours are heterogenous and endosocpic biopsy is an unreliable way to exclude
      malignancy. Objective endoscopic criteria applied to assess lesion morphology and pit pattern
      mostly have an evidence base derived from international single centre trials and the accuracy
      and variable use in UK routine practice remains un-audited. Endorectal ultrasound is rarely
      used and in routine practice has shown to be inaccurate. Of the early rectal cancers
      submitted to the UK TEM database, 44% of pT1 and 31% of pT2 cancers were incorrectly presumed
      to be benign preoperatively. Pre operatively considering a lesion benign when in fact it is
      malignant is associated with a hazard 1.98 of leaving residual disease after excision with
      TEMS.

      High-Spatial-Resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a standard of care in assessing
      the circumferential resection margin of rectal tumours and triaging patients with more
      advanced tumours to neoadjuvant therapy to reduce local recurrence. MRI is the established
      modality for identifying rectal cancer position, the relationship of tumour to the peritoneal
      reflection, is less user dependent than ultrasound, provides reliable information about
      extramural disease and is available in all centres that operate on rectal cancer. There is a
      paucity of evidence base clarifying the current accuracy of MRI in assessing T stage and
      lymph node involvement in early rectal cancer.

      Eligible patients will be identified on colonoscopy if they are found to have a 20mm to 50mm
      rectal tumour within 150mm of the anal verge. Endoscopic assessment +/- ultrasound +/-
      biopsies may be taken as per local policy for review at the local multidisciplinary team
      meeting. Patients will be invited to participate in the trial after the index colonoscopy.
      Patients will have fully recovered from the endoscopy and any sedation given before being
      approached to join the trial.

      All patients who enter the trial will be sent for an MRI. The MRI will be reported using a
      novel staging proforma. The results of all the staging investigations, the MRI and any biopsy
      will be made available to the clinician and any MDT discussion. The patients will proceed to
      excision or resection of the tumour as per clinician / MDT discussion.

      Patients will be followed up as per routine NHS care as determined by local polyp
      surveillance protocol or MDT discussion.
    
  