
    
      There are a growing number of patients who receive long-term warfarin therapy for the
      prevention of arterial thromboembolism. The current approach to the perioperative management
      of anticoagulation (i.e. "bridging therapy") with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) is not
      standardized and has not been assessed by adequate randomized studies. Most clinicians,
      however, recommend bridging therapy.

      We have recently completed a multicentre single arm pilot study of LMWH bridging therapy.
      This study in 10 centres accrued 224 patients in 10 months. In the pilot study the
      postoperative thromboembolic event rate was 3.1% and 75% of these occurred in patients who
      had anticoagulation held due to bleeding.

      Design:A prospective multicentre randomized double-blind controlled trial. Patients:
      Consecutive eligible and consenting patients from 11 teaching hospitals in Canada. A total of
      1773 patients with prosthetic heart valves receiving long-term oral anticoagulation with
      warfarin or patients with atrial fibrillation/flutter and a major risk factor who require
      elective non-cardiac surgery or invasive procedure necessitating reversal of their oral
      anticoagulant therapy.

      Treatment Schedule: Consent will be obtained preoperatively but randomization will be
      performed postoperatively after confirming eligibility.

      Preoperative period: In all participants, warfarin therapy will be discontinued five days
      prior to the procedure. Dalteparin, a LMWH, will be administered at 200 IU/kg sc early in the
      morning for the three days prior to, but not including the day of, the procedure except on
      the day prior to surgery the dose will be 100 I.U./kg given 24 hours preoperatively. Warfarin
      will be resumed the evening of the procedure.

      Postoperative period: Dalteparin or placebo will be administered daily (starting the morning
      after the procedure), provided surgical hemostasis is achieved, and will be continued for at
      least four days and until the INR is>2.0. Patients considered at high risk for a
      postoperative major bleed will be given dalteparin or placebo at a dose of 5,000 IU sc daily.
      Patients who undergo procedures that are considered low risk for bleeding complications will
      resume dalteparin or placebo at 200 IU/Kg s.c. daily.

      Outcomes:The primary outcome will be the frequency of episodes of major thromboembolism over
      a 90-day follow-up period following the time of randomization. Secondary outcomes will
      include major bleeding and overall survival.

      Relevance: To bridge or not to bridge, is a common clinical question, without randomized
      trial evidence to guide clinicians. This RCT will answer whether post-operative bridging
      reduces risk of thromboembolism or causes harm.
    
  