
    
      The A-PLUS Trial is a randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel multicenter clinical trial.
      The study intervention is a single, prophylactic intrapartum oral dose of 2 g azithromycin,
      with a comparison with a single intrapartum oral dose of an identical appearing placebo. For
      the A-PLUS randomized control trial (RCT), a total of 34,000 laboring women from eight
      research sites in sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia, and Latin America will be randomized with
      one-to-one ratio to intervention/placebo. In response to the global coronavirus pandemic,
      research sites will also collect data on COVID-19 signs/symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment in
      order to estimate the incidence of infection and evaluate the impact of the pandemic on the
      target population.

      Prior to the initiation of the A-PLUS RCT, research sites will conduct an observational pilot
      study using the RCT's planned infrastructure in order to characterize the current practices
      at participating research facilities and optimize the identification of suspected infection
      for the RCT. The information obtained in the pilot study will be used to validate estimates
      of intrapartum deaths, maternal sepsis, and neonatal sepsis used in the sample size
      calculations for the RCT. Finally, the pilot study will allow the research sites to inventory
      and upgrade local capacity to conduct routine cultures during the RCT.

      A maximum of 16,000 women, separate from the sample for the main trial, will be enrolled in
      the pilot, across all eight research sites, with no more than 2000 women enrolled at any
      individual site. Research sites will be eligible to transition to the RCT when a minimum of
      600 participants have been enrolled in the pilot study with evidence of (a) high rates of
      follow-up; (2) acceptable data quality and completeness; and (3) there are no concerns about
      identification and reporting of infection.

      Given the clinical benefits of intrapartum azithromycin so far reported in two trials and the
      likelihood that it may become the usual practice if the investigator's large RCT confirms the
      reported benefits, it is important to monitor antibiotic resistance to determine the safety
      of azithromycin prophylaxis. Therefore, the RCT will also include an ancillary study
      (referred to as the antimicrobial resistance (AMR) sub-study) to monitor antimicrobial
      resistance and maternal and newborn microbiome effects of the single dose of prophylactic
      azithromycin using the following methodology

        1. For all mothers enrolled in the RCT and their infants:

           a. Routine clinical monitoring at baseline and three post-partum time points (3 days, 7
           days, and 42 days), with culture and sensitivity testing in cases of suspected bacterial
           infections;

        2. Among a subset of 1000 randomly selected maternal-infant dyads:

             1. Serial susceptibility monitoring of antimicrobial resistance patterns (including
                azithromycin resistance) from selected maternal and newborn flora through culture
                and sensitivity testing. Serial monitoring will be conducted at baseline and three
                post-partum time points (1 week, 6 weeks, and 3 months).

             2. Serial microbiome collection and storage of specimens for future testing to monitor
                maternal and newborn microbiome status of selected sites.
    
  