
    
      Cervical dystonia (CD) is the most common isolated dystonia in adults, with a prevalence of
      9-13/100000. CD has a mean age at onset of 40 years, and is almost twice as common in women
      than in men. Cervical dystonia symptoms can in most patients be managed well by botulinum
      toxin (BoNT) injections, and supporting treatment measures. However, one-fifth to one-third
      of patients do not obtain sufficient relief from long-term BoNT therapy, resulting in reduced
      quality of life. Deep brain stimulation in the postero-ventral part of the internal globus
      pallidus (GPi-DBS) has been established as an effective treatment of cervical dystonia,
      including as a part of primary generalized dystonia, segmental or focal dystonia.

      Long-term outcome of pallidal DBS in cervical dystonia has only been published in some
      smaller series. In a prospective, single-center study with blinded outcome assessments of
      eight CD patients, an average improvement of 70% in the Severity score of the TWSTRS , and
      91% and 92% improvement, respectively, in the Disability and Pain scores, was found at median
      30 months follow-up (Skogseid IM et al, 2012). The two largest unblinded series showed
      average improvements of TWSTRS Severity score of 55 % and 58 %, at mean follow-up 32 months
      (n=10), and 2 years (n=6), respectively (Hung SW et al, 2007, Cacciola F et al, 2010).

      Although these studies are promising, there is a lack of documentation of outcome of GPi-DBS
      in CD beyond 3 years of treatment and in larger patient materials. Also, studies are lacking
      that compare the severity of remaining CD symptoms and disease-specific quality of life
      between a long-term treated DBS-cohort and a cohort receiving long-term BoNT treatment.

      The investigators will therefore perform a cross-sectional, observational study of patients
      who were operated at Oslo University Hospital with a Medtronic DBS-device targeting the GPi
      bilaterally from 2004 to 2017, and who have been treated with chronic GPi-DBS for a minimum
      of 3 years and up to 13 years. The main objective is to assess remaining CD severity and
      CD-related Quality of Life (QoL) in this DBS-treated group and compare this with an age- and
      gender matched group of CD-patients treated with BoNT-injections for a minimum of 3 years
      (BoNT-group).

      The main outcome measures are the Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale
      (TWSTRS), with its three subscores: Severity, Disability and Pain, and the Cervical Dystonia
      Impact Profile-58 (CDIP-58), which is a self-rated questionnaire for disease-specific quality
      of life. The primary endpoint of the study is the difference in TWSTRS total score between
      the two treatment groups at the time of long-term follow-up. The BoNT-group will be assessed
      with TWSTRS both before and 4-6 weeks after the last injection, but the score 4-6 weeks after
      injection will be used for comparison with the DBS-group. In the DBS-group the TWSTRS total
      and subscores obtained at long-term evaluation will also be compared to the scores which were
      obtained prior to the operation as part of the routine work-up. Secondary endpoints are
      TWSTRS Severity, Disability and Pain score, and CDIP-58 Total scores. Exploratory variables
      are the eight Symptom/Domain scores of the CDIP-58 and Visual Analog Scale for Global Burden
      of Disease (VAS-GBD), at long-term follow-up. Other outcome variables are complications and
      severe adverse events of the two treatment types, and the Anxiety and Depression scores of
      the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS).

      The investigators hypothesize that the DBS-treated group will have a significantly lower mean
      TWSTRS total score at long-term follow-up than the BoNT treated group.
    
  