
    
      Malaria infection during pregnancy can have adverse effects on both mother and fetus,
      including maternal anaemia and low birth weight which are responsible for mother and infant
      mortality. It is a particular problem for women in their first and second pregnancies and for
      women who are HIV-positive. Maternal HIV infection potentiates many of these adverse effects.
      In HIV-infected women, the World Health Organization (WHO) advocates the use of
      insecticide-treated bednets, and drugs : If the CD4 cell count is below 350/mm3 or the HIV
      disease is in WHO stage 2, 3 or 4, cotrimoxazole prophylaxis for the prevention of
      pneumocystosis and toxoplasmosis is indicated, that is assumed to also protect those women
      from malaria. Otherwise, they have to receive at least three doses of intermittent preventive
      treatment (IPT), most commonly with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) given at the antenatal
      care visits. If IPT with SP has been a subject of many investigations, cotrimoxazole efficacy
      has never been assessed in prevention of malaria during pregnancy.

      The investigators aim to evaluate the efficacy of cotrimoxazole prophylaxis in prevention of
      malaria during pregnancy in HIV-infected women. The investigators postulate that
      cotrimoxazole prophylaxis is not inferior to IPT in all women, unrelated to their CD4 cell
      count. In the control arm, the investigators will use mefloquine as IPT. The safety and
      efficacy of this drug have already been assessed in HIV-negative patients (NCT00274235).

      A randomized controlled trial will be conducted in five hospitals in Benin. Pregnant women
      will be enrolled both in the Antenatal Care unit and in the Infectious Diseases unit of each
      setting. All women will receive insecticide-treated bednets at enrolment. Randomization will
      be stratified by hospital and CD4 cell count range. Women assigned to cotrimoxazole will
      receive cotrimoxazole prophylaxis daily during all the course of pregnancy. Women assigned to
      mefloquine IPT will receive mefloquine three times during pregnancy. Women randomised in this
      arm and having a low CD4 cell count or an advanced HIV disease will also receive
      cotrimoxazole prophylaxis in prevention of HIV/AIDS opportunistic infections. Drug efficacy
      will be judged on the prevalence of placental malaria at delivery.

      This study will contribute to updating the recommendations concerning the prevention of
      malaria during pregnancy in HIV-infected women.
    
  