
    
      Emergence from general anesthesia is a critical period of anesthetic management (1. Popat,
      2012). The noxious stimuli of an endotracheal tube as well as the excitement stage of
      anesthesia, commonly seen prior to return of consciousness while emerging from general
      anesthesia, both lead to emergence phenomena of coughing, straining, and restlessness in
      addition to physiologic derangements (2. Atkinson, 1987). Physiologically, emergence from
      anesthesia is associated with rising sympathetic tone (as evidenced by elevated catecholamine
      levels and the resultant hemodynamic changes of increasing heart rate and blood pressure),
      intracranial pressure, and intraocular pressure. Airway tone and reflexes are also
      problematic as they may be depressed by the lingering pharmacologic effects of anesthetics
      and analgesics leading to decreased airway obstruction or aspiration events. Airway reflexes
      may also be exaggerated while traversing the excitement stage; this can lead to undesirable
      consequences of coughing, breath-holding, bucking or in extreme cases laryngospasm. A smooth
      emergence is preferable for all patients but is required for those patients who would not
      tolerate the above physiologic changes (e.g. severe aortic stenosis or coronary artery
      disease, both of which would poorly tolerate tachycardia) or those would be at risk in terms
      of the procedure that was performed (cerebral aneurysm clipping, carotid endarterectomy,
      thyroidectomy: procedures in which stress fresh surgical wounds with hypertension and
      straining would be undesirable).

      Several airway management (3. Koga 1998, 4. Perello-Cerda 2015) and pharmacologic strategies
      (5. Minogue 20014, 6. Nho 2009, 7. Guler 2005) have been employed to provide a smooth
      emergence from general anesthesia. One of the most efficacious strategies is the use of
      supraglottic airway devices rather than endotracheal tubes. Despite evidence supporting the
      safety and efficacy of ventilation of SGAs during laparoscopic procedures (8. Natalini 2003,
      9. Belena 2012, 10. Carron 2012, 11. Bernardini 2009), many anesthesiologists would prefer
      the use of an ETT to an SGA in cases in which higher ventilation pressures may be required
      (obesity, steep Trendeleberg position, pneumoperitoneum). In addition to the cases requiring
      high ventilation pressures, ETTs are preferred to SGAs in those patients who are perceived to
      be high risk for reflux and pulmonary aspiration of gastric contents (non-fasted, intestinal
      obstruction, gastroparesis, parturients), as well as during cases that allow the
      anesthesiologist to have little accessibility the airway (neurosurgical, ENT, etc).

      The Bailey maneuver (managing the airway with an ETT throughout the case and then exchanging
      for an LMA while deeply anesthetized (12. Nair 1995), has also been shown to provide less
      stimulating emergence. Unfortunately, the Bailey maneuver is relatively contraindicated in
      cases in which there is the perception that reintubation would be difficult, as the risks of
      exchanging a functioning airway device for one that has not been tested outweighs the
      potential benefits of a smooth emergence.

      The airway management technique under investigation involves initially placing an LMA after
      induction of anesthesia. Once adequate ventilation has been accomplished using the LMA, the
      patient will be endotracheally intubated using a fiberoptic bronchoscope and the in situ LMA
      as a conduit (13. Timmermann 2011). General anesthesia will be maintained with sevoflurane
      and narcotics at the discretion of the primary anesthesiologist. The patient will be
      ventilated via the endotracheal tube during the duration of the surgical procedure and then
      the trachea will be extubated while the patient is at a deep plane of anesthesia after
      release of the pneumoperitoneum and return to supine positioning. This technique is a
      potential method for reducing the stress of emergence in patients who would benefit from the
      use of an endotracheal tube intraoperatively.
    
  