
    
      Sedation is a drug depression of consciousness and alertness. It involves intravenous
      hypnotics and narcotics administration. Depending on doses and blood levels of administered
      agents, there is a continuum between anxiolysis, light sedation (monitored anesthesia care),
      deep sedation and general anesthesia.

      Sedation is used to facilitate diagnostic examinations, minor surgery, endoscopic surgery and
      endovascular or transcutaneous therapeutic radiological procedures. It provides comfort to
      the patient during the procedure and better conditions for examination or treatment for the
      operator.

      The main risk during procedural sedation is compromising the patient's respiratory function
      and airway. The obstruction of the upper airway by the tongue, soft palate or epiglottis on
      one hand and respiratory depression due to the sedative on the other hand are the major
      problems of sedation. In addition to respiratory depression, decreased airway protective
      reflexes during sedation exposes to the gastric contents aspiration and consequent
      respiratory complications.

      Major complications are rare: one case of death of 160,000, 1 case of tracheal intubation of
      58 000 and no cases of permanent neurologic damage of 646,000 gastrointestinal endoscopies
      performed under sedation. More common, the incidence of partial obstructions requiring airway
      maneuvers release (mandibular subluxation, oropharyngeal airway device, nasopharyngeal airway
      device) is 14.4%, 12.8% of hypoxemia, 0.1% of ventilation with face mask and in 0.6% the
      ongoing procedure needed to be stopped.

      Although these incidents are without clinical severity, they can cause serious complications
      if diagnosed late or in inadequate care. Various analyzes of the American Society of
      Anesthesiology claims related to sedation, prove the seriousness of these complications and
      the importance of their early management, 40% of claims involving death or hypoxic permanent
      brain injury could be prevented and 50% of claims are related to anesthetic procedures
      performed outside the operating room. Respiratory depression associated with an absolute or
      relative overdose of sedative is the primary mechanism of complications.

      Sedation can be practiced by non-anesthesiologists. There are several publications, other
      than in the anesthesiology field, on sedation regimes used and their safety and efficacy. The
      heterogeneity of definitions of respiratory complications and lack of power of these studies
      failed to show a reduction in respiratory complications and safety of sedation according to
      the standards of the anesthesiologist. The complications are associated to limited knowledge
      of anesthetic drugs pharmacology, the monitoring of sedation and the airway management. The
      anesthesiologist should play a central role in establishing safe sedation standards when
      administered by non-anesthesiologists.

      In addition to the sedation learning need, the majority of residents and
      non-anesthesiologists sedation practitioners, strongly express their interest in a learning
      sedation. This interest is related to the residents' discomfort when using sedation
      associated to a lack of mastering of sedatives pharmacology and airway managements
      principles.

      The simulation as a teaching tool is increasingly used. The literature has shown that
      simulation can improve the performance of trainees in various technical and non technical
      skills (expertise, crisis resource management principles).

      Simulation is used as an assessment tool of education techniques. It assesses the performance
      of trainees through reproducible situation.

      Simulation based medical education success depends on several factors. The relevance of the
      subject taught in the professional context, the target population, the identification of
      educational goals, the educational activities implemented to achieve these objectives, the
      choice of parameters to be measured and the measurement method are all factors that can
      strongly affect the impact of the simulation based medical education.

      The recent meta-analysis of McGraphie and colleagues reviewed all the studies, from 1990 to
      2011, evaluating the effectiveness of simulation based medical education. It shows the
      simulation based medical education superiority over the traditional clinical education in
      acquiring limited designed skills. The explanation of simulation use is based on the fact
      that the simulation seems to fill some gaps of traditional clinical learning, such as delayed
      and random clinical exposure and scarcity of complications.

      The use of simulation for learning sedation to non-anesthesiologists seems to meet the
      requirements dictated by the subject to teach. It should, indeed, allow sedative drugs
      pharmacology learning and technical skills mastering. It should also allow, through
      reproducible scenarios, in high-fidelity simulation, improvement of the overall
      complications' sedation management and the assessment of the impact of simulation based
      medical education. However, even if the simulation offers all the theoretical and practical
      components of safe sedation educational program, the overall result of education based on
      simulation on the ability of non-resident anesthesiologists to manage sedation's
      complications remains to be assessed.

      The aim of this randomized controlled trial is to evaluate the impact of a high fidelity
      simulation based sedation learning on non-anesthesiologists residents' performance in the
      management of sedation's complications, during simulated scenarios.

      Methods

        1. Description of the simulation based sedation learning program

           The program's goal is to offer a comprehensive approach to theory and practice of
           sedation. It must provide the resident a vision adapted to their daily practice. Being
           based on the simulation, education should draw profile of all components provided to
           education from simulation tool.

           The simulation based sedation learning program consists of different modules in response
           to residents' needs in the practice of sedation. The teaching is based on specific
           educational objectives, experimental learning conditions, repeated practice and an
           assessment based on the achievement rate of tasks. These modules are developed by
           anesthesiologists practicing in academic fields and practicing sedation.

           The program includes online learning. It is followed by development of interactive
           presentations, based on simulated cases or simulated patients (actors), low fidelity
           simulation for specific technical skills as well as high fidelity scenarios of
           complications related to sedation. The purpose of the high-fidelity simulation is to
           enable the resident to integrate theoretical and practical learning received, in a
           similar context to his clinical practice, to develop a comprehensive and contextual
           (material, human resources and authorized techniques) management of sedation, to
           prevent, to anticipate, to make an early diagnosis and adequate management of simulated
           complications.

        2. Study Design

           This is a prospective, randomized, controlled, single-blind, trial. The study is
           conducted in the University of Montreal simulation centre. The robotic model used is the
           SimMan 3G (Laerdal, Inc. http: / /www.laerdal.com/doc/85/SimMan-3G).

           The primary objective is the performance scores before and after a simulation based
           sedation learning program during a high fidelity simulated scenario of sedation's
           complications managed by non anesthesiologists residents.

        3. Population Included in this study, all residents from surgery programs, radiology,
           gastroenterology, pneumology, family medicine , emergency medicine of the University of
           Montreal. Residents must have academic supervision with 1: 1 by a senior during their
           practice. Residents who have received prior instruction on sedation or advanced learning
           technical skills for airway management during residency will be excluded.

           The recruited participants were randomized according to a randomization table,
           computerized, established prior to inclusion in intervention group that receives
           simulation based sedation learning and control group.

        4. Assessment method and developing the performance checklist The evaluation is based on a
           list of tasks and behaviours (technical and non technical skills) of the resident during
           the management of simulated complications related to sedation. It includes items related
           to the specific management of complications (expertise) and non-specific items of
           communication and collaboration (Crisis Resource Management principles). It is divided
           in a) an initial assessment of the situation b) diagnostic steps c) management d)
           secondary evaluation. The performance list is developed and validated using the modified
           Delphi method.

        5. Procedure A description of the high-fidelity simulation is performed, and a
           participation in an uncomplicated sedation scenario is made initially for the two
           groups. This first experience allows them to become familiar with the environment of the
           simulation and the use of mannequin interface / physician. This simulation is not
           followed by a debriefing.

      Participants are then randomized in:

      Intervention group:

      Residents included in this group will go through the following steps:

      A simulation of respiratory complications related to sedation: Base line performance.

      The simulation based sedation program, described above. A second simulation of respiratory
      complications related to sedation: Post test.

      Assessments are conducted by independent instructors blindly. The evaluators attribute scores
      by viewing the recorded performances, without knowing the group to which the candidate is
      included, or whether simulation based sedation program is realized or not.

      Control group:

      Residents included in this group carry out:

      A complication related to sedation simulation: Base line performance, not followed by a
      debriefing.

      A self visualization of a video describing sedation in adults. A second simulation, about 2
      months later: Post test For equity training, the control group will be offered the simulation
      based sedation program after the end of the study, if desired.

      6. Analysis of results The tasks are classified in 2 categories: properly performed or not /
      not properly performed.

      The performance score represents adequately performed tasks on the total number of tasks
      (primary outcome).

      Secondary outcomes include the comparison of (a) performance scores between pre-test and
      post-test for each group (b) performance scores related to technical skills (c) performance
      scores related to non technical skills.

      The results are compared with the analysis of variance for repeated measures. The difference
      in performance before and after the simulation based sedation program is compared using a t
      test.

      The number of participants was the number of eligible residents and who agreed to participate
      (convenience sample). As the selected population in this study consists of a larger sample,
      as several residency programs are concerned, the investigators opt for two groups of 25
      participants (total n 50).
    
  