
    
      This study aims to determine the effects of a novel high-intensity interval exercise session
      (REHIT) on blood glucose levels over a typical 24 hour period. The effects of REHIT will be
      compared with another form of high intensity interval exercise that has previously been shown
      to be beneficial in T2D and with currently recommended moderate intensity aerobic exercise.

      Participants:

      21 men (aged 18-60) with type 2 diabetes will be recruited. Volunteers will be eligible to
      take part if they have been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes by a clinician at least 3 months
      prior to the study, and do not have any of the exclusion criteria for the study. Potential
      volunteers will be checked for reasons why the strenuous exercise may be unsuitable for them.
      Participants will be informed of the experimental protocol, and potential risks, both
      verbally and in writing before providing their written informed consent. The study will be
      conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki.

      Pre-Screening and Baseline testing:

      Before examining the effects of exercise participants will be asked to come to the lab on 5
      separate occasions, which will be arranged to accommodate individual schedules:

        1. First an electrocardiography (ECG) test will be performed to assess the function of the
           participants heart at rest and during exercise. This would be conducted, monitored and
           reviewed by a trained cardiac physiologist and involves the attachment of several small
           sticky pads (with wire attachments) across the chest which will measure the electrical
           activity in the heart. This will be done firstly at rest and then participants will be
           asked to cycle on a stationary bike, with the exercise intensity slowly getting harder
           and harder until they can't go any further.

        2. Participants will then come to come to the lab after an overnight fast for collection of
           a fasting venous blood sample. This sample will be collected be a trained phlebotomist
           and will be used to measure fasting blood glucose and HbA1c for participant
           characterisation purposes.

        3. A cycling fitness test will then be performed. For this test participants will be asked
           to cycle on a stationary bike, with the exercise intensity slowly getting harder and
           harder until you can't go any further. This test will normally take no longer than ~10
           minutes but they will be in the lab for approximately 60 minutes. We will measure the
           maximal amount of oxygen the participant can use (a good indicator of fitness) by asking
           them to breathe through a mouth-piece connected to an oxygen analyser.

        4. During the fourth and fifth visits participants will be given the opportunity to try out
           the exercise sessions that we will use in the main study, in order to get a 'feel' for
           what they will be asked to do. These sessions will take less than half an hour each.

      Main Experimental Trials:

      Participants will complete four main experimental trials which will each take place over a
      period of 3 days. During each trial we will measure the effects of a different type of
      exercise on blood glucose levels over a ~42-hour period (6pm on DAY1 until 12pm on DAY3).
      Participants will be provided with all meals and drinks during this period and will ask them
      to eat them at the same time of day during each trial. Each of these trials will be separated
      by at least 5 days and before each trial and participants will be asked to avoid any
      strenuous or tiring physical activities for 3 days. Over these 3 days, and for the duration
      of each trial, we will also ask participants to wear a small physical activity monitor. This
      device is a sophisticated form of heart rate monitor which also measures movement
      (Actiheart™) and will give us some detailed information on participants physical activity
      levels during each trial. This device connects to your skin either just above or below the
      left your chest via two adhesive pads, which can easily be detached/reattached while away
      from the laboratory whenever necessary (e.g., while bathing or showering). The Actiheart™
      physical activity monitors are very small and comfortable to wear, and will not interfere
      with normal daily activities.

      Participants will then attend the exercise laboratory (Magee Campus, Derry/Londonderry)
      between 4pm and 6pm on DAY1 so that the small glucose monitor can be fitted. Participants can
      then return home but will be given a standardised evening meal to be eaten at 8pm. On DAY2,
      we will ask participants to return the lab at 7am (after an overnight fast) where they will
      be provided with breakfast and then they will complete an exercise session ~1 hour later
      (i.e. 8:30 am). During the no-exercise trial participants will remain seated at rest during
      the exercise period. Participants will remain in the lab for ~45 minutes allowing the
      research team to monitor recovery and also complete some questionnaires relating to
      fatigue/tiredness as well as the enjoyment of each exercise. A short interview will also be
      conducted to find out about what participants thought about during each exercise session.
      From 09:30 am onwards participants will be able to return to their normal daily routine
      outside the laboratory, but will be provided with meals, snacks and drinks to be consumed at
      standard times until 12pm on DAY3.

      Continuous Measurement of Blood Glucose:

      Blood glucose levels will be measured continuously during each trial by fitting a small
      glucose monitor to the outside of the abdomen. This will provide information about how the
      body (blood glucose) responds to each meal consumed during this time period. This glucose
      monitor will be fitted using an automated insertion device with a short needle to insert a
      glucose sensor attached to a small recorder (the small needle is then immediately removed).
      The device itself is waterproof but additional dressings will be provided to apply while
      bathing or showering. Over the 42-hour measurement period the device needs to be calibrated
      eight times using finger-prick blood samples and a handheld blood glucose meter. This is in
      order to get accurate readings from the device. Two of these samples will be taken at the
      laboratory, but we will ask participants to take the handheld blood glucose meter home and
      perform the other six finger-prick measurements themselves. The procedure for this is very
      straightforward and is routinely performed by type 2 diabetics. All participants will be
      shown the procedure for obtain and finger prick blood sample and measuring blood glucose in
      this way.

      Exercise Bouts:

      The effects of three different types of exercise on blood glucose levels will be compared: 1)
      High-intensity interval training (HIT); reduced-exertion high-intensity interval training
      (REHIT); and 3) moderate intensity continuous exercise (MICE). The HIT exercise consists of
      ten, one-minute high-intensity intervals with one-minute of low-intensity recovery in
      between. The REHIT session consists of 10 minutes of very easy cycling, but with two
      20-second 'all-out' sprint efforts after 3 and 6 minutes. The moderate intensity aerobic
      exercise will consist of 30-minutes of cycling at a moderate intensity. A fourth 'control'
      condition in which participants will do no exercise will also be performed. All of the
      exercise bouts will be performed in the exercise laboratory at Ulster University. During each
      exercise session information will be collected on perceptions of exertion, fatigue and
      enjoyment using standard questionnaires and rating scales. Heart rate will be measured
      continuously during each exercise session.
    
  