
    
      Recently, deep brain stimulation (DBS) has emerged as a potentially circuit-specific
      treatment for intractable OCD. DBS is programmable, allowing the clinician to "reshape" the
      volume of tissue activated within the standard ventral capsule/ventral striatum (VC/VS)
      target.

      However, VC/VS DBS' efficacy is limited by two major factors: imperfect targeting and a lack
      of decision rules for stimulation adjustment. The VC/VS target is not a single identifiable
      structure, but encompasses white matter of the internal capsule and gray matter of the
      nucleus accumbens (NAc). In current practice for DBS in OCD, all patients are implanted at
      standard x,y,z coordinates in the VC/VS region. Due to this inter-subject anatomical
      variability, different fiber tracts are stimulated by ostensibly the "same" parameters in
      each subject, leading to variable outcomes. This investigation will identify aspects of VC/VS
      circuitry that may determine clinical response. The hypothesis is that good clinical outcomes
      may correlate to electrical field capture of either striatal gray matter or of white matter
      fibers connecting OFC to thalamus.

      The current study looks to extend the neuroimaging investigation using anatomic white matter
      targeting, functional gray matter targeting and changes in changes in regional glucose
      metabolism of Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) in severe obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) with
      the long-term aim of identifying biomarkers that could improve outcomes of this expensive and
      invasive therapy. Improved imaging would allow surgeons to place the DBS lead closer to the
      biological targets, thus improving efficacy of the treatment.

      The objectives of this study are threefold:

        -  Improve the anatomic white matter targeting of the Deep Brain Stimulator (DBS) implant
           by tracing and identifying fibers of passage within the Ventral Capsule (VC) white
           matter using advance tractography methods in preoperative diffusion MRI data.

        -  Improve functional gray matter targeting by studying the overlap of the volume of tissue
           activated (VTA) with the VC voxels of maximal preoperative connectivity to the
           orbitofrontal cortex (OFC)

        -  Determine the changes in regional glucose metabolism using preoperative and
           post-treatment FDG-PET (Positron Emission Tomography) following 3 months of DBS
           treatment
    
  