
    
      Recent improvements in our understanding of leukemia biology have led to the introduction of
      highly effective, molecularly targeted therapies. This is exemplified by the development of
      BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as imatinib as monotherapy for chronic myeloid
      leukemia (CML) and in combination with chemotherapy for BCR-ABL+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia
      (ALL). Imatinib mesylate blocks the protein made by the BCR-ABL oncogene.

      The PI3K (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases) signaling is critical to leukemia cell survival and
      can be targeted. Growth and survival stimulating signal transduction pathways are abnormally
      and universally activated in AML (Acute Myeloid Leukemia). This signal cascade is thought to
      contribute to survival and growth in tumor cells via downstream effects upon target proteins
      AKT/Protein kinase B and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) a protein that helps control
      several cell functions.

      In AML, we and others have shown that PI3K signaling is constitutively activated in over 85%
      of primary samples and that the small molecule PI3K inhibitor LY294002 is cytotoxic in vitro
      to virtually all samples tested. As LY294002 is poorly suited for drug development, we have
      concentrated upon other ways to inhibit signal transduction through this pathway. Mammalian
      target of rapamycin (mTOR) emerged as a reasonable target due to the availability of
      clinically available, highly specific inhibitors with favorable safety profiles. Mammalian
      target of rapamycin (mTOR) plays a central but complex role in cancer cells' metabolic
      regulation and survival. This serine/threonine kinase coordinates several important cellular
      functions and its activity is modulated in response to amino acid, glucose, oxygen, and ATP
      availability as well as extracellular growth factor ligation. Mammalian target of rapamycin
      (mTOR) activity regulates protein translation, nutrient and amino acid uptake, mitochondrial
      respiration, glycolysis, cell size regulation, cell cycle entry and progression, ribosome
      biogenesis, and autophagy. Constitutive mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) activation is
      commonly seen in cancer cells and is thought to promote survival in the setting of a wide
      variety of cellular insults. Importantly, mTOR opening may cause chemotherapy resistance.
      Although regulation of mTOR signaling in leukemia occurs through by several inputs, mTOR
      activity in AML is thought to be primarily regulated by PI3K signaling through AKT via the
      agent tumor suppressor tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC1& 2) and its target rheb GTPase.

      Taken together, mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR is a smart target for molecularly targeted
      therapy in AML due to its importance in the growth and survival of AML cells, its necessity
      for AML cell survival in certain contexts, and its probable role in chemotherapy resistance
      and relapse.
    
  