
    
      PCI of the left main coronary artery is a complex procedure with increased risk of both short
      and long-term major cardiac adverse events. With the use of coronary artery stents the
      outcome has significant improved and PCI of the left main is included in the European Society
      Cardiology guidelines [8]. However the results of first generation drug eluting stents still
      show significant room for improvement, as the risk of very late stent thrombosis has been
      shown to accrue up to 5 year follow-up. The newest generation of drug eluting stents have
      improved radial strength with thinner strut thickness, bioresorbable coatings for local drug
      delivery which are resorbed in 3 months and are applied only direct to the vessel wall. These
      stents have been evaluated in non-complex disease with good results. A comparison of the
      newest generation drug eluting stents in combination with a short duration of dual
      antiplatelet therapy versus current standard PCI techniques in complex PCI of left main
      coronary artery disease is therefore desirable.

      The study stent (Synergy) is an evolution of currently used drug eluting stents and in
      initial trials demonstrated similar results for surrogate endpoints [4,5] On clinical
      endpoints no difference has been demonstrated. This results in a very small possibility of
      inferiority to current stents where re-intervention is the largest risk. For shortening DAPT
      several non-randomized studies have shown high safety with a very low risk (1%) of stent
      thrombosis [6]. Based on the improved properties of the study stent (biodegradable coating)
      the risk of early DAPT discontinuation should be minimal. For the relevant subgroup control
      coronary angiography with the additional use of OCT imaging can be considered a standard
      procedure with a very low risk of major complications (0.4%) [7] This study will investigate
      the short term angiographic and long term clinical outcome of after implantation of an
      improved drug eluting coronary artery stent (Everolimus-eluting Platinum Chromium Stent with
      Abluminal Bioabsorbable Polymer) with shorter post interventional dual antiplatelet therapy
      (DAPT) in comparison to a conventional drug eluting stent with a permanent Polymer followed
      by 12 months DAPT for treatment of unprotected left main coronary artery disease.
    
  