
    
      Background and rational

        1. Definition Low back pain is a clinical condition characterized by pain felt between the
           bottom edge of the costal arch and the inferior gluteus folds, sometimes radiating to
           the back side of the thigh.

           It may be responsible for functional limitation and inability to perform normal
           activities of daily living. Low back pain is defined as acute if symptoms have a
           duration less than 4 weeks, sub-acute if the duration is between 4 weeks and 3 months,
           and chronic if it lasts beyond 3 months. It is considered recurrent when episodes
           shorter than 4 weeks alternate with periods of relief from pain.

        2. Epidemiology Low Back Pain is the most common musculo-skeletal disorder, and, along with
           common cold, is the most frequent disease among humans.

           Up to 60-80% of population is expected to suffer from Low Back Pain at some time in
           life. Annual prevalence of Low Back Pain ranges from 30 to 50% amongst people in the
           working period of their life; out of these individuals, a percentage between 15 and 20%
           do necessitate medical assistance. Low Back Pain is the fifth-ranking cause of medical
           referral and the second symptomatic condition. A proportion ranging from 25 and 50% of
           patients with acute Low Back Pain will suffer from new pain episodes in the following
           year and 6-10% will progress toward a chronic form.Chronic Low Back Pain is responsible
           for about 75% of all medical expenses made for the treatment of all types of Low Back
           Pain. Direct annual costs (medications, medical visits, physiotherapy, hospitalizations)
           of Chronic Low Back Pain have been estimated to be approximately € 3.100 for patients
           (year 2002); indirect costs, mainly due to absence from work, represent about 85% of
           total costs and match up about € 17.600 for patient for year. In conclusion, Chronic Low
           Back Pain is a disease with very high prevalence and incidence, evenly affecting men and
           women in their 30's and 50's, which is extremely costly for individuals and society,
           both in terms of diagnostic interventions and treatments, and of reduction of
           productivity and functional limitation in everyday life.

        3. Non-Pharmacologic treatments Non-Pharmacologic treatments of Chronic Low Back Pain
           include: acupuncture, back school, psychological interventions, functional restoration,
           interdisciplinary rehabilitation, interferential therapy, low-level laser therapy,
           lumbar support, massage, short wave diathermy, spinal manipulations, tractions,
           superficial heat, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulations (TENS), ultrasound
           therapy, yoga and physical exercise.

           A recent meta-analysis based on 43 clinical controlled trials involving 3.907 subjects
           with Chronic Low Back Pain demonstrated that physical exercise is effective in reducing
           pain and improving functional level. The most recent Guidelines, published in October
           20007, underline that, along with cognitive-behavioural therapy, spinal manipulations
           and interdisciplinary rehabilitation, physical exercise is the only non pharmacologic
           treatment having a positive effect on Chronic (or subacute) Low Back Pain.

        4. Vertebral instability and physical exercise Several theories link the etiology of Low
           Back Pain clinical signs and symptoms to the mechanical instability of the lumbar spine.
           Stability of the lumbar spine requires both passive stiffness, through the osseous and
           ligamentous structures, and active stiffness, through "core" muscles, such as rectus
           abdominis, external oblique, internal oblique, transversus abdominis, quadratus
           lumborum, multifidi, psoas major, iliocostalis, gluteus major. It has been shown that
           therapeutic exercise improves vertebral stability through stretching and strengthening
           of "core" muscles, but also by enhancing neuromuscular proprioceptive facilitation. This
           is the reason why physical exercise programs usually do include strengthening and
           trunk-stabilizing exercises.

        5. Joba® Core Trainer Joba® Core Trainer is a gym equipment which makes use of the
           counterbalance principle to efficiently engage trunk muscles, including both abdominals
           and trunk extensors. This equipment has been proved to be effective in improving
           cardio-respiratory fitness level, increasing resting energy expenditure, reducing weight
           and enhancing glycaemic control in diabetic patients. Furthermore it significantly
           strengthens diverse muscular groups (abdominals, trunk extensors, abductors, thigh
           flexors and extensors).

           Thus Core Trainer Joba® may represent a valuable alternative to traditional physical
           exercise protocols in the treatment of subjects with Chronic Low Back Pain

        6. Study purpose The purpose of this study was to assess whether a training program based
           on Joba® Core Trainer is effective in reducing pain and improving physical function and
           quality of life of subjects suffering from Chronic Low Back Pain.

        7. Materials and Methods 7a)Study design Randomized, one centre, single-blinded, clinical
           trial with three arms: JOBA group (training with JOBA® Core Trainer), BACK group
           (training with a traditional protocol of Therapeutic Physical Exercise) and Control
           group with sedentary people undergoing usual care (C).

      7b)Subjects Subject attending the Physiatrist and Geriatric Outpatient Clinics of the
      Department of Gerontology, Geriatric and Physiatrist Sciences of the University Hospital
      "Agostino Gemelli" (Rome, Italy) with non-specific Low Back Pain, with or without sciatic
      irradiation, from at least 3 months. Exclusion criteria: functional or neurosensorial
      limitations which contraindicate or impede attending a physical exercise program
      (spondilolystesis higher than first degree, disk herniation more recent than 6 months, disk
      herniation for which surgical intervention is indicated, previous surgical intervention on
      spine, cognitive deterioration, terminal prognosis).

      7c)Main outcome Perceived pain intensity. 7d)Secondary outcome

        1. Quality of life

        2. Level of physical function

        3. Level of physical activity in everyday life

        4. Neuro-muscular proprioceptive control of trunk-stabilizing muscles

        5. Medication use/medical visits. 7e)Duration Twelve weeks.

      8)Study phases 8a)Screening visit and enrolment Subjects to be enrolled into the study will
      be individuated during visits carried out at the Physiatrist and Geriatric Outpatient Clinics
      of the Department. Eligible subjects will be informed about the scope and methods of the
      study; those who will accept to participate will sign informed consent.

      8b)Baseline assessment Patients will undergo a thorough medical visit (medical history,
      medication use, physical examination). The intensity of perceived low back pain, the level of
      physical functioning, and the quality of life will be measured (Mc Gill Pain
      Questionnaire-Short Form, Visual Analogue Scale, Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire,
      Short-Form 36, respectively).The level of physical activity in everyday life (daily energy
      expenditure, physical activity >3 METs duration, active energy expenditure, average METs,
      number of steps, etc.) will be assessed by means of Metabolic Holter (Armband®) for a period
      of at least five consecutive days.Proprioceptive and neuro-muscular control of trunk muscles
      will be evaluated by means of a stabilometric, computerized table(Libra®).

      8c)Randomization Subjects will be allocated to one of the three study groups according to a
      computerized randomization procedure with block of variable length.

      8d)Intervention

        1. JOBA Group: 3 sessions per week with JOBA® Core Trainer. Each session will last about 45
           minutes (5-7 minute stretching exercises, 31' minutes with JOBA, 5-7 minute of
           stretching exercises). Speed of JOBA movements will progressively increase during the
           study period. All training session will take place in the Fitness Centre of the
           University Hospital "A. Gemelli".

        2. BACK Group: 2 sessions per week (55 minutes each) of calistenic gymnastic with
           stretching, dynamic stabilization, and strengthening of trunk-stabilizing muscles,
           according to a standardized training protocol under the supervision of qualified
           technical personnel at the Fitness Centre.

        3. Control Group (C): usual medical care according to the fore mentioned Outpatient Clinic
           standards.

      8e)Intermediate assessment After 6 weeks, pain intensity, physical functioning, and quality
      of life will be re-evaluated; drug use and medical visits occurred from the baseline will be
      recorded.

      8f)Final assessment After 12 weeks, subjects will undergo a complete medical visit and a new
      functional evaluation accordin to procedures already depicted for baseline (pain, physical
      function, quality of life, physical activity, proprioceptive control of the trunk,
      care-associated costs).

      Blinding Due to the characteristics of the intervention, participants will be aware of the
      specific group the are allocated to (either traditional training or JOBA or usual care).
      However, baseline, intermediate, and final assessment will be carried out by a field
      researcher (a medicine doctor) uninformed of the allocation arm of the subject.

      Sample size According to literature data it has been hypothesized that the intervention will
      produce a 20 (per cent) points increase in pain scale with respect to controls; using a
      probability of type I error of 5% (alfa=0.05, single-sided) and a power of 80% (beta=0.20),
      it can be estimated that each group should include 12 subjects (total sample size 12x3=36).

      9)Analisi statistica Statistical analysis will be carried out on an intention-to-treat
      approach. Statistical analysis will be carried out using statistical software package SPSS/PC
      Vers. 18.
    
  