
    
      There will be no randomization in this study. All subjects who are determined to be eligible
      for the study treatment will receive high dose cyclophosphamide and ATG followed by infusion
      of autologous peripheral blood stem cells. The procedures the subject will undergo are as
      follows:

        1. Physician visit to determine potential eligibility for the study. Subjects will be
           evaluated by a transplant physician and a neurologist. They will have a complete
           physical examination and will provide a full medical history at these visits. The study
           will be described in detail by the transplant physician and nurse and the consent form
           will be provided to be taken home to read.

        2. Insurance verification. Subjects who remain interested in pursuing the study treatment
           and who have refractory myasthenia gravis will proceed to the insurance verification
           phase. Third party payment or self-pay must be verified before subjects can proceed.

        3. Consent form. Prior to proceeding, the appropriate signatures will be obtained on the
           consent form. Subjects will be given an opportunity to ask further questions of the
           attending physician and transplant nurse prior to signing the consent form.

        4. Pre-transplant testing. To determine final eligibility for the study, subjects will
           undergo a series of tests/procedures. These include: CXR; electrocardiogram; MUGA or
           echocardiogram; pulmonary function test; CT scan of the sinuses; CT scan of the chest to
           r/o thymoma; dental examination; urinalysis; and blood testing to include CBC,
           chemistries, liver and kidney function tests, coagulation studies, viral studies and,
           for females, a pregnancy test. All pre-transplant testing is routine medical testing
           done to verify diagnosis and to insure adequate organ function and absence of viral
           illnesses which would preclude a safe transplant course.

        5. Autologous peripheral blood stem cell collection. Subjects who are proceeding to
           transplant will undergo a routine procedure for the mobilization and collection of
           peripheral blood stem cells. This includes the administration of IV cyclophosphamide,
           given as an inpatient requiring an overnight stay, followed by the subcutaneous
           administration of G-CSF, to be self-administered as an outpatient. Approximately ten
           days after the administration of IV cyclophosphamide, the peripheral blood stem cells
           will be collected as an outpatient in the Blood Center. A pheresis catheter will be
           placed for this purpose on the first day of leukopheresis. Leukopheresis will be
           continued on a daily basis until an adequate number of peripheral blood stem cells have
           been collected (a maximum of four leukophereses may be performed). G-CSF will continue
           to be administered until leukopheresis is completed. The pheresis catheter will be
           discontinued when stem cell harvesting is completed. Processed cells will be frozen and
           stored until they are reinfused after the conditioning regimen.

        6. PICC line placement. Subjects will have a double lumen PICC line placed prior to the
           administration of study treatment for the administration of chemotherapy, IV fluids,
           blood products and the withdrawal of blood samples. The placement of a PICC line is a
           routine medical procedure.

        7. Study treatment. Subjects will undergo conditioning which will include four days of
           intravenous high dose cyclophosphamide and three days of intravenous anti-thymocyte
           globulin (ATG). Both cyclophosphamide and ATG are common immune suppressive agents. The
           previously collected peripheral blood stem cells will be reinfused following the
           completion of the conditioning regimen.

        8. Post-treatment follow-up. Subjects will have a history and physical by the transplant
           physician and neurologist at 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, and yearly for 5 years. In
           addition, routine urinalysis and blood testing will be performed at these same intervals
           to include CBC, chemistries, kidney and liver function tests.
    
  