
    
      Reduced Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF) is estimated to be present in 3-7% of the
      population. With a survival rate between 25-40% at 5 years after a first hospitalization,
      prognosis of heart failure is similar to that of most cancers. Its treatment and prognosis
      strongly depend on the etiology, and coronary artery disease is the most frequent one.
      Identifying coronary artery disease determines care, including medical treatment (aspirin,
      statins) and revascularization strategies (stent implantation, coronary artery bypass
      grafting). Once an echocardiography has revealed an LV reduction, with no clear etiology at
      clinical or echographical examination, coronary angiography is almost systematically
      performed. But among the 260,000 invasive coronary angiographies performed each year in
      France (all indications included), 30-60% are "normal" (no obstructive coronary artery).

      And among patients with unexplained LV dysfunction, this rate reaches 70-74%… Thus the
      efficiency of systematic coronary angiography is questionable for these latter. Besides,
      angiography is invasive, and associated with multiple risks and costs.

      Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging (CMR) is very specific and sensitive for detecting
      myocardial infarction. Small series concluded that a reduction of LVEF due to coronary artery
      stenosis should have at least one myocardial scar, detected on CMR. But the available data
      was not enough to change guidelines and clinical practice. In our retrospective study
      performed on 305 patients, the sensibility of CMR for coronary stenosis was 96%. Furthermore,
      CMR as a first-line exam would have avoided 71% of coronary angiography, saving 216 days of
      hospitalization and 329.054 € (1.079€/patient). These results reinforce the previous data but
      are not definitive.

      The aim of this study is to provide a high level of evidence of the benefits and safety of a
      strategy based on CMR as the front line exam for newly diagnosed systolic dysfunctions.

      The primary objective is to evaluate the sensitivity of CMR for predicting the presence of
      angiographically significant coronary artery stenosis in patients with reduced LVEF. The
      primary endpoint is the sensitivity of CMR for predicting the presence of significant
      coronary artery stenosis on coronary angiography in patients with reduced LVEF.

      The objective of the economic evaluation is to estimate the incremental (or decremental) cost
      effectiveness of using CMR first compared to coronary angiography first.

      For unexplained LV dysfunction, patient will be addressed for CMR first and coronary
      angiography within 2 weeks after (instead of systematic coronary angiography and unsystematic
      CMR). CMR and coronary angiography will be performed in all patients. Independent committees
      will blindly review CMRs and coronary angiographies at the end of the study.
    
  