
    
      Hard palate is considered the most common area to harvest a free gingival graft (FGG) for
      several periodontal plastic surgical procedures. Due to their autogenous nature, palatal
      grafts have excellent clinical results and are therefore superior to synthetic or allogenic
      grafts. An open wound at the donor site after harvesting the FGG takes two to four weeks to
      heal. Wound healing is a complex process containing various events. Firstly, the hemostatic
      phase which leads to sealing of the wound by a clot formed by platelets and other
      blood-derived cells in a network composed of fibrin, fibronectin, and vitronectin. Secondly,
      the inflammatory phase which advances a catabolic inflammatory process mediated by
      neutrophils and monocytes that leads to wound cleansing. Thirdly, the formation phase that
      originated by granulation tissue formation which is replaced by provisional connective
      tissue. Three major cell types are involved in this anabolic phase: (1) Endothelial cells and
      progenitors for the formation of capillaries. (2) Fibroblasts and myofibroblasts required for
      connective tissue formation and wound shrinkage. (3) Epithelial cells which contribute to
      re-epithelialization. Lastly, the remodeling phase which leaves a collagen-rich dense matrix
      containing a few cells that regenerates a stable tissue in the long term.

      One of the possible complications after harvesting the FGG is the excessive post-operative
      morbidity which could be in the form of discomfort, pain and bleeding. These problems may
      affect patient quality of life and may disturb his/her daily activities such as eating,
      drinking or speaking. Therefore, it is of value to include patient-related outcomes in
      relation to quality of life measures after soft tissue grafts in clinical trials. Eltas et
      al. 2014 compared the effects of a periodontal dressing, the Essix retainer, the modified
      Essix retainer, and modified Hawley retainer on pain, chewing, speaking, and appearance.
      Using a periodontal dressing was associated with more pain and bleeding after one-week
      post-surgery; however, the speaking and appearance in the visual analog scale (VAS) scores
      were lower. In light of the above, retainers might be the most appropriate in terms of pain
      and bleeding, but less ideal for speaking and appearance comfort. In other studies,
      hyaluronic-acid gels as well as platelet-rich fibrin (PRF) were applied at the donor site
      after FGG harvesting. Both PRF and hyaluronic-acid may provide significant benefits for wound
      healing parameters and reduce pain. Keceli et al. 2015 evaluated the effectiveness of an
      herbal extract on early wound healing following FGG and found fewer incidences of primary and
      secondary bleeding as well as lower pain levels during the first postoperative week. In a
      human study Patel et al. 2012 demonstrated that ozonated oil was able to accelerate palatal
      wound epithelialization in a significant manner, compared with the control group.

      Honey has been used for medicinal purposes since antiquity. Lee et al. 2011 noted that honey
      use for burn wounds has been documented in modern-day scientiﬁc journals since as early as
      1933. As interest in honey for medical purposes grew, many FDA-approved products began
      emerging. With more interest came an increase in clinical studies examining honey for
      treatment of a variety of wounds, including randomized trials, case series, and
      cross-sectional studies from specialties ranging from dermatology and general surgery to
      ophthalmology.

      Clinical parameters and procedures:

      Patients will receive an initial periodontal examination and treatment, if necessary.
      Full-mouth plaque score and full-mouth bleeding score needed to be <20% to be eligible.
      Surgical procedures will be performed by the same periodontist. For all measurements the same
      periodontal probe (Hu-Friedy PCPUNC 15 mm, Hu-Friedy, Chicago, IL.) will be used. At the
      donor site, anesthesia will be achieved with palatal local inﬁltrations, with 1.8 mL
      lidocaine 2% 1:100,000 epinephrine. Once the graft is harvested, pressure will be applied to
      the palate until hemostasis is achieved. The length and width of the donor site will be
      measured and recorded. In control group, no dressing material will be applied to donor site.
      While in test group, an antibacterial honey dressing material (Medihoney,
      http://www.medihoney.com) will be applied to donor site. Medihoney is a mixture of two honeys
      derived from Australia and New Zealand containing glucose oxidase and Leptospermum compounds
      which contribute to its antibacterial activity. It is licensed for wound care in Australia,
      Europe and the USA. It works with the body's natural processes to bathe the wound bed
      promoting the removal of devitalized tissue. Its low pH (3.5-4.5) helps to lower the pH
      within the wound environment, which has been shown to have wound healing benefits.

      All patients will receive the same analgesic (ibuprofen 600 mg) immediately after the
      surgery. All patients will receive the same postoperative instructions. Soft diet will be
      recommended for all patients. Chlorhexidine 0.12% mouth rinse will be prescribed to each
      patient for use twice daily. Ibuprofen 600 mg will also be prescribed for the patients to
      consume 1 tablet orally for every 8 hours. The participants will be asked to note the level
      of pain, and the level of discomfort (eating, speaking, etc.) from the donor site during the
      ﬁrst postoperative week using a 0 to 10 pain visual analog scale (VAS) score by graphic
      format. Discomfort was deﬁned as irritating sensation and diﬃculty in eating, speaking, etc.
      and pain as inability to function requiring analgesics. At the 1-week, 2-week and 4-week
      follow-up appointments, the length and width of the donor site will be measured and recorded.
    
  