
    
      Perioperative optimization is based on volume maximization using volume expansion. The main
      objective of volume expansion is to increase stroke volume. The Franck-Starling curve is
      schematically divided into two portions: a vertical portion which mean that an increase in
      preload secondary to volume expansion will induce an increase in stroke volume; and a flat
      portion where volume expansion will not induce an increase in stroke volume. Perioperative
      optimization is based on stroke volume maximization using volume expansion.

      In case of hypovolemia, there is a compensatory sympathetic stimulation with parasympathetic
      withdrawal. Volume expansion will lead to an increase in venous return and therefore in
      cardiac output, which will result in a decrease in sympathetic tone. The autonomic nervous
      system is therefore directly affected by these load changes. The analysis of heart rate
      variability, which has been studied for several years in various setting, allows the
      assessment of autonomic nervous system, through monitoring of the electrocardiogram.
      Experimental and clinical studies report the ability of variations in heart rate variability
      to detect a situation of hypovolemia. In anaesthesia, heart rate variability is used to
      evaluate the nociception-antinociception balance. Indeed, any nociceptive stimulation leads
      to an increase in sympathetic tone. MetroDoloris has developed a non-invasive monitor that
      provides an index, the Analgesia Nociception Index (ANI), to evaluate the
      nociception-antinociception balance by analysing the autonomic nervous system.

      In this study, the original use of ANI will be diverted from its initial use, to analyse the
      autonomic nervous system's response to volume expansion. Thus, the aim of the present study
      is to determine whether a change in Analgesia Nociception Index can track the stroke volume
      effects of a volume expansion using 250ml of crystalloid in the operating room.

      The follow up will be restricted to the duration of surgical intervention. The last data will
      be collected 5 minutes after the end of volume expansion.
    
  