
    
      Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) is a highly prevalent psychiatric disorder, with an estimated
      lifetime prevalence of 14.6% across high-income countries.Effective therapeutic options for
      MDD include psychotherapy, different classes of antidepressants, and electroconvulsive
      therapy (ECT). Nevertheless, up to 30% of patients do not respond to four consecutive
      antidepressant strategies and 52% of pharmacotherapy resistant patients do not respond to
      ECT.Such patients are designated an advanced stage of Treatment Resistant Depression (TRD),
      which is associated with more hospitalizations, more suicide attempts, and higher costs than
      non-TRD patients.

      Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) is a promising therapeutic option for TRD patients. DBS consists
      of implanting electrodes in specific brain areas and then optimizing stimulation parameters
      (e.g. voltage, frequency, pulse width) to modulate brain activity of the targeted area. Since
      2005, several open label trials have reported promising effects of DBS in TRD, targeting
      different brain structures involved in the neurobiology of MDD: the Subcallosal Cingulate
      Gyrus (SCG),Medial Forebrain Bundle (MFB),Ventral Capsule/Ventral Striatum (VC/VS), and
      Nucleus Accumbens (NAc). Response rates, defined as a symptom decrease of at least 50%, range
      from 30% to 90% with most studies finding a response rate around 50%.

      However, results of the first two randomized trials are mixed. The first randomized,
      controlled trial (RCT) of VC/VS DBS in TRD did not find differences in response rates
      following active (3 of 14 patients) or sham stimulation (2 of 15 patients) after four months
      of stimulation. In contrast, our group found a strong antidepressant effect in 16 patients
      with TRD following active ventral Anterior Limb of the Internal Capsule (vALIC) DBS compared
      to sham stimulation in a randomized crossover phase.

      Therefore, this trial aims to establishing whether active DBS results in more treatment
      responders than sham DBS. Secondary aims are establishing an adverse events profile,
      establishing effects on quality of life,neuropsychological and neuroimaging measures, and
      finding predictors of response.
    
  