
    
      BBD, or Bladder and Bowel Dysfunction, is relatively a common disorder affecting
      approximately 40% of children, it has significant and detrimental effects on patients such as
      decreased quality of life, psychosocial distress, and recurrent vesicoureteral reflux (VUR)
      accompanied by Urinary Tract Infection (UTI). A study has found that a large number of BBD
      patients have comorbid neuropsychiatric disorders such as Attention Deficit Hyperactive
      Disorders (ADHD) and Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD). Furthermore, neuropsychiatric
      patients with concomitant dysfunctional voiding have significantly less favorable outcomes
      both physically and psychologically than those with BBD only.

      With a wide range of life-debilitating symptoms and outcomes, a combination of bladder and
      bowel dysfunction is often missed or unrecognized by caregivers and clinicians. Some patients
      do not outgrow as they age, and symptoms continue into adulthood. Moreover, recurrent VUR and
      UTI due to dysfunctional voiding may lead to kidney failure and renal scarring.

      In order to assist with diagnosing bladder and bowel dysfunction, valid questionnaires are
      needed. However, to this present day, there is no gold standard questionnaire that assesses
      concomitant dysfunctions. Some questionnaires ask the guardians to fill out on behalf of the
      patients, which can be perplexing in evaluating symptoms as patient- and parents- reported
      symptoms are different.

      The Children Bladder and Bowel Dysfunction Questionnaire (CBBDQs) for 5-12 years old was
      originally developed by van Engeleburg-van Lonkhuyzen M. et al., and is age-specific and
      appropriate 18 items that both measures bladder and bowel dysfunction. It adhered COSMIN
      (COnsensus- Based Standards for the selection of health Measurement Instruments), and has
      been proven to be easy to fill out and suitable to be completed by either patients or
      caregivers. Most importantly, it allows professionals to evaluate the symptoms effectively.
      To best of our knowledge, it has not been translated into other languages than English (from
      the original language, Dutch). As it is only available in English and Dutch, linguistic and
      cultural validations are necessary as there is no similar questionnaire in Korean.

      This study followed systematic guidelines outlined by COSMIN (COnsensus-based Standards for
      the selection of health Measurement Instruments) and similar to the linguistic validation
      (development) of the Korean version of the Dysfunctional Voiding Symptoms Score (DVSS) by
      Park et al.

      The study aims to conduct a linguistic and cultural validation of the Children Bladder and
      Bowel Dysfunction (CBBDQs) for 5-12 years old from English to Korean. Once it has been
      validated into the Korean language, it will be a valuable source that will better serve
      patients with BBD symptoms in an outpatient setting and use in future clinical studies.
    
  