
    
      Testing the ICD system during initial implantation was the standard of care for a long time.
      Since the publication of the SIMPLE trial, most centers have abandoned this practice for all
      uncomplicated, left-sided implantations of ICD. Remarkably, a high percentage of arrhythmia
      centers, including academic hospitals and high volume centers, routinely omit ICD testing at
      the time of ICD generator replacement. There is no data available to support the safety of
      this practice, and findings from the SIMPLE trial may not be extrapolated to the ICD
      generator replacement (ICD-GR) setting.

      Data from case reports and own data from an ongoing multicenter randomized trial on internal
      vs. external cardioversion of ICD patients suggest that a relevant number of ICD patients
      carry a defective defibrillation lead with normal electrical parameters. Such "silent" lead
      failure may only be uncovered through a high voltage (HV) ICD shock during ICD testing or
      internal cardioversion. An in vitro trial suggests the common low-voltage measurement of
      shock impedance is not able to detect smaller insulation breaches leading to short circuits.
      Identification of these leads and patients is crucial to ensure the continuous adequate
      function of ICD therapy throughout the patients' lifespan. Omitting ICD testing during all
      subsequent generator exchanges many years after initial implantation, may thus put patients'
      safety at risk.

      Investigators aim to assess the magnitude of silent ICD lead failure prevalence and to
      identify associated risk factors.

      The objectives of this study are:

        1. Main objective: To determine the prevalence of silent lead failure in contemporary ICD
           patients with chronically implanted ICD leads, presenting for elective ICD generator
           replacement (ICD-GR) or electrical cardioversion of atrial arrhythmia in Germany.

        2. To identify risk factors predisposing to silent lead failure.

        3. To identify possible differences in the prevalence of silent lead failure between ICD
           lead models and manufacturers.

           Primary Hypothesis

           H0: ICD leads, with unremarkable parameters during ICD interrogation, reliably perform
           high voltage ICD shocks at the time of ICD generator replacement or internal
           cardioversion.

           HA: ICD leads, with unremarkable parameters during ICD interrogation, are rarely not
           able to perform high voltage ICD shocks at the time of ICD generator replacement or
           internal cardioversion, due to silent lead failure.

           Lacking previous data, this trial is designed as a prospective registry to describe the
           prevalence of silent lead failure in a large cohort of patients.

           The basis for an estimate of the prevalence of silent lead failure are mostly case
           reports or small cases series. In a previous trial in 3 out of 112 (2,7%) patients
           receiving internal cardioversion silent lead failure was detected {Lüker 2019}. No
           larger trial or registry has systematically assessed ICD leads regarding possible silent
           lead failure in a larger population.

           The University Hospital Cologne will act as the lead center, six additional German high
           volume centers will be recruited.

           The investigators aim to include ICD patients presenting for generator exchange or
           cardioversion for atrial arrhythmia in a multicenter registry. We address an unselected
           cohort of ICD patients (single chamber ICD, dual chamber ICD, CRT-D). All generator and
           lead manufacturers will be included. To avoid a manufacturer bias, an upper limit of
           patients per manufacturer is imposed at 100 leads/patients per manufacturer.

           Patients who received adequate and successful ICD shock therapy within the past 12
           months will be excluded, as they have a very low likelihood of defective RV lead
           prevalence.

           Also patients with parameters indicating lead failure during device control and patients
           with contraindications for high voltage shocks (e.g. thrombus) will be excluded.

           Eligible participants are all patients with an implanted cardioverter defibrillator
           (primary and secondary prevention) with an indication for generator replacement or
           electrical cardioversion for atrial arrhythmia. All patients presenting at the
           participating center with an indication for generator replacement/electrical
           cardioversion or identified in the outpatient clinic will be screened. A total number of
           300 patients is to be included in this registry. Depending on the recruitment rate, the
           study phase is expected to be completed within 24-36 months. The registry phase will end
           after the cohort of 300 patients is complete (expected after 3 years).

           Screening of potential subjects will include:

             -  History, including anticoagulant medication to establish the necessity of a TOE
                (transoesophageal echocardiography)

             -  Physical examination

             -  Device interrogation (including thresholds, impedance, sensing of all leads,
                battery voltage, charge time, shock impedance, revision of all programmed
                parameters)

             -  12-lead-resting ECG

             -  Trans-thoracic echocardiography

           Patients meeting the inclusion criteria will be included after written consent is
           obtained. All patients require administration of a maximum energy shock within 2 days of
           the generator exchange or alternatively during the ICD generator replacement surgery.
           Patients in the cardioversion arm require internal cardioversion following the
           manufacturers recommendations.

           ICD test during or before generator replacement In centers that routinely perform ICD
           shock testing during ICD-GR surgery, this will be carried out according to routine
           practice and in the presence of adequately trained personnel.

           In centers that do not routinely perform ICD shock testing at ICD-GR, a single
           synchronized maximum energy shock (RV -> SVC+can shock orientation in pts with SVC
           leads) must be performed prior to ICD-GR surgery or during ICD-GR surgery, using the old
           ICD generator, to save battery life of the new replacement system. Sedation, TOE if
           applicable and monitoring during and after ICD testing will not differ from standard
           clinical practice cardioversion. A TOE must be performed in case of atrial arrhythmia
           and insufficient anticoagulation to exclude left atrial thrombi. Intraprocedural
           monitoring will include ECG, SpO2 and non-invasive blood pressure (NIBP), as well as
           clinical monitoring of respiration and sedation depth. After shock delivery, all
           patients will be monitored for 3 hours according to current recommendations.

           Internal cardioversion

           Internal cardioversion will be performed delivering a commanded biphasic shock (28 to 40
           J, depending on manufacturer). TOE to exclude left atrial thrombi will be done in case
           of insufficient anticoagulation. If the shock is not able to terminate atrial
           arrhythmia, external cardioversion will be performed.

           In both groups, ICD interrogation will be performed before the shock
           testing/cardioversion and within 2 minutes after shock testing.

           Baseline data is collected from all available medical records and charts, which includes
           all available ICD interrogation data, discharge letters as well as all meaningful
           paper-based or electronic medical documentation and patient history. Device
           Interrogation will be performed prior to (max. 48h prior to testing) and after (2-5min)
           shock delivery.

           The following parameters be measured for all leads where applicable: Impedance, sensing,
           pacing thresholds, charge time, the presence of lead noise in the pace/sense-EGM and the
           shock-EGM.

           All measurements will be performed by a trained cardiologist/ electrophysiologist, with
           the assistance of trained study nurse/research assistant staff. Lead noise tracings must
           be submitted for adjudication by the AE committee.

           Furthermore, abnormal parameters will be measured twice for confirmation.

           Shock testing will be performed according to either A) routine practice of electrical
           cardioversion or B) during or before the ICD generator replacement surgery.

           Sedation or anesthesia may only be performed by an anesthesiologist or an experienced
           (>50 electrocardioversions) and sufficiently trained cardiologist. During sedation, a
           nurse with experience in electrocardioversions and sedation (>50 sedation procedures,
           e.g. colonoscopy, electrocardioversion, sedation for EP study, gastroscopy and similar)
           must be present for assistance. Monitoring of vital signs (O2 saturation, NIBP, ECG) is
           mandatory.

           Adverse events (AE) and unanticipated events must be reported to the sponsor according
           to GCP standards. All adverse events will be recorded in the hospital notes and
           electronic case report form (eCRF).

           A sponsor nominated adjudication committee of 2 physicians who are not directly involved
           with the trial will assess and adjudicate all AE to ensure timely detection of AE that
           occurred as a consequence of the study protocol. Severe adverse events will be reported
           to the research ethics committee (REC), according to GCP standards.

           The sponsor and/or the investigator may take appropriate urgent safety measures in order
           to protect the subjects of the study against any immediate hazard to their health or
           safety. If safety measures are taken, the main REC approval is not required before the
           measure is taken.

           In addition, device and lead malfunctions (including lead failures after shock) or
           complaints will be reported to the respective manufacturer per usual post-market
           channels. Defective leads will be sent to the respective manufacturer, should a lead
           extraction be deemed necessary. The indication for lead extraction will be at the
           discretion of the treating physician and should be made independently of this trial, and
           in accordance with current guidelines and local clinical practice. The decision should
           weigh the risks and benefit of lead removal of a chronically implanted lead. The study
           protocol does not mandate or make any recommendations concerning lead removal.

           All data is reported via eCRF to an online database (RedCap Vanderbild University). Only
           the sponsor (University Hospital Cologne) has access to the database. All eCRF entry
           will undergo checks for plausibility and completeness by the sponsor nominated data
           monitor within 24h of entry. In case of implausible parameter values, a query is set,
           and the monitor will request to see the source data.

           Adverse events are reported through the online database and reviewed by the adjudication
           committee as soon as they become available.

           Stopping criteria The occurrence of >15 SAE, likely or proven to be caused by a
           study-specific procedure (e.g. induction of VF during shock testing, respiratory
           compromise during sedation, stroke, aspiration pneumonia, death) will prompt early
           stopping of the trial. All SAE associated with lead failure (e.g., unsuccessful shock,
           lead revision) are exempt because the unmasking of silent lead failure is deemed
           beneficial to the patient.

           The chief investigator will prepare and submit an annual progress report (APR) to the
           REC. The APR will include a list of SAE and an overview of the study recruitment
           progress.

           Sample size and statistical power

           This study is of explorative nature. Expecting an event rate of about 3% in our study
           population, a sample size of n=300 is sufficient to correctly detect a difference
           between observed event rate and a reference value of 7% with a power of 87.9%.
           (two-sided type I error 5%, one-sample binomial test, performed with G*Power 3.1.7).

           The estimates for the expected event rate are based on a previous trial with an
           incidence of 2,7% (3/112).

           Statistical methods

           The investigators will describe variables of interest using mean values +/- standard
           deviation, median (interquartile range), or frequencies and percentages. The proportion
           of patients with a prevalent silent lead will be given together with its 95% confidence
           interval. We will compare the observed proportion with a reference value of 7% using an
           exact binomial test to answer the question if the observed proportion is significantly
           different from 7%.

           Differences between patients with and without a prevalent silent lead failure will be
           evaluated using Fisher's exact tests for categorical variables and unpaired t-tests or
           Mann-Whitney U tests for continuous variables, depending on the assumption of normality
           holds or not.

           ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS

           This study will be conducted in accordance with EN540, the declaration of Helsinki and
           ICH-GCP. Only certified and approved medical devices are utilized. An ethics committee
           vote will be obtained prior to study initiation. Additional local ethics application is
           required at each center.

           Patient consent Informed written patient consent is required for each patient. Informed
           written consent will be acquired in all patients prior to inclusion through a thorough
           and detailed consultation with one of the investigators. Including information about
           data protection, data de-identification (anonymization) and further data analysis and
           publication. All patients will be advised about their right to withdraw consent at any
           point during or after the study. Patient consent will be obtained in writing.

           Confidentiality Patient doctor confidentiality will be obeyed. All acquired data will be
           treated confidentially. Re-identifiable data will be stored electronically in eCRF on
           the RedCap Database. The secure RedCap database servers are provided by the Clinical
           trial Center Cologne ("Zentrum für klinische Studien", University of Cologne) and are
           located on the University Hospital premises. Only representatives of the sponsor (PI,
           Co-PI, data manager/study nurse) will have access to the database.

           For analysis and publication, all data will be de-identified (anonymized). Personal data
           will only be disclosed after consent is obtained.

           OUTCOMES AND SIGNIFICANCE

           In those centers which routinely perform ICD shock testing during ICD generator
           replacement, patients will be treated according to routine practice. Participation in
           the study will not be associated with a benefit or risk.

           In centers which do not routinely perform ICD shock testing during ICD-GR, study
           participants would undergo study specific ICD shock testing either before or during the
           generator replacement surgery.

           ICD-Patients attending for cardioversion for atrial arrhythmia will receive a commanded
           shock, if no shock was delivered during the past 12 months and if device battery status
           does not impede internal cardioversion.

           ICD shock testing at ICD-GR is recommended by current guidelines and is associated with
           a very low risk of complications. Based on the available data on complications in the
           SIMPLE trial, the risk of unplanned intubation (0.6% risk) or aspiration (0.1% risk) is
           very low. The risk of death or stroke is not elevated when compared with no ICD shock
           testing. {Healey 2015}

           Shock testing in these patients will uncover silent lead failure in approx. 1-3% of
           patients, which would prevent these patients from ineffective ICD therapy and
           essentially the risk of sudden cardiac death due to ineffective detection and shocks of
           ventricular arrhythmia in the future.

           The overall results would have major implications for future guideline recommendations
           on shock testing at the time of ICD replacement. The trial results will provide valuable
           evidence on the necessity of routine testing, which is currently recommended but not
           followed by 95% of centers.
    
  