
    
      "MyoVasc" is an observational cohort study investigating the development and progression of
      heart failure (HF). The primary objective of the study is: i, to advance the understanding of
      pathomechanisms of the heterogenous syndrome in the full range of clinical presentation, ii,
      to evaluate current clinical phenotypes of HF, and iii, to identify and describe homogenous
      subgroups with regard to disease development using a systems-oriented approach. A special
      focus is put on the investigation of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction in
      contrast to the more investigated and established phenotype with reduced ejection fraction.
      Further aspects comprise inter alia the relevance of metabolic dysregulation, inflammation
      and coagulation for the course of the disease.

      The primary endpoint of the study is the combined outcome "worsening of heart failure"
      defined as transition from asymptomatic to symptomatic heart failure, hospitalization due to
      heart failure, or cardiac death. Secondary endpoints are the components of the primary
      endpoint, myocardial infarction, stroke, hospitalization due to cardiovascular disease,
      venous thromboembolism, atrial fibrillation, and all-cause death. Disease progression is
      monitored by a large panel of biomarkers for structure and function of cardiac and vascular
      systems and related organs.

      Individuals aged 35- to 84-years with echocardiographic signs of heart failure irrespective
      of the clinical status are enrolled and a subsample of controls without heart failure.
      Individuals were recruited from health institutions and a population sample from the
      registration office. The study sample comprises approx. 3,200 individuals, of which N~2,700
      individuals have heart failure and N~500 individuals are controls. Study participants receive
      a highly standardized 5-hour baseline examination in the study center with examinations of
      the cardiovascular system (e.g. anthropometrics, 2D- and 3D-echocardiography, carotid
      sonography, vascular function, ankle-brachial index, body plethysmography, capacity exercise
      testing, blood pressure measurements (resting, ABPM), ECG (12-lead, holter),
      computer-assisted personal interview, and venous blood withdrawal for bio banking). Annual
      follow-up examinations are performed via computer-assisted telephone interviews tracking
      comprehensively the participants´ health status, assessing current medication and recording
      clinical events. Every two years, the participant is invited again to the MyoVasc Study
      Center for the conduct of sequential follow-up investigations, which are identical to the
      initial examination.
    
  