
    
      Mind-body interventions are increasingly being examined for their potential to improve
      cognitive function, enhance emotion regulation, reduce stress and related inflammatory
      markers, and alter the neural circuitry supporting cognitive and emotional functioning. The
      primary goal of this study is to examine changes in attentional control resulting from
      engaging in mind-body interventions with additional booster sessions over the course of a
      year. Within this goal, the behavioral and neural mechanisms of change in attentional control
      will be investigated and the transfer of benefits to performance on measures of everyday
      cognition and emotion regulation will be assessed. Our main hypothesis is that eight weeks of
      mindfulness training will increase attentional control performance in the elderly, partially
      through mindfulness-induced reductions in mind-wandering and changes in the functional
      architecture of the brain. Up to 200 older adults (ages 65-85) will be enrolled for the
      study. Of these, 151 older adults meeting eligibility criteria will be randomized to either
      an eight-week MBSR (mindfulness based stress reduction) program or a lifestyle education
      group. Participants will attend weekly mindfulness training or lifestyle education sessions
      and will be asked to complete homework assignments administered via a mobile/web-based
      application designed by the laboratory. All participants will also be invited to participate
      in four booster sessions over the course of 12 months following the intervention with
      continued access to the mobile application content. Behavioral metrics of cognitive function
      and inflammatory markers will be collected before and after the eight-week intervention as
      well as at 6-months and 12-month follow-up assessments. Neural metrics of cognitive
      functioning will be collected before and after the eight-week intervention as well as at
      12-month follow-up assessments.
    
  