
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Compare the objective response rate and the rate of local-regional relapse in
      patients with resectable rectal cancer treated with either 5-Fu or FOLFOX based
      chemoradiotherapy or FOLFOX alone without radiation.

      Secondary

        1. Compare the rate of pathologic complete response in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        2. Compare the local recurrence rate

      2.Determine the increase in the number of patients who are able to undergo sphincter-saving
      surgery after treatment with these regimens.

      3.Correlate genetic patterns and the presence or absence of specific tissue biomarkers with
      response and prognosis in patients treated with these regimens.

      4.Compare preoperative quality of life (QOL) of patients treated with oral capecitabine
      versus continuous infusion with fluorouracil. pelvic auto-nerve function 5.Determine the
      impact of oxaliplatin on neurotoxicity in patients treated with these regimens.

      6.Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients. 7.Compare the convenience of
      care in patients treated with these regimens. 8.Determine the impact of the type of surgical
      management on QOL at 1 year postoperatively in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multi-center study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center, gender, clinical tumor stage (stage II vs. stage III), and surgical
      intent (sphincter saving vs. non-sphincter saving). Patients are randomized to 1 of 4
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm A: Patients receive fluorouracil IV continuously and undergo radiotherapy once daily
           5 days a week for 5-6 weeks.

        -  Arm B: Patients receive FOLFOX for 4 cycles and undergo radiotherapy as in arm I from
           the second cycle of FOLFOX.

        -  Arm C: Patients receive FOLFOX for 4 cycles Within 4-6 weeks after the completion of
           chemo radiotherapy, patients with responding or stable disease undergo surgery. Patients
           with progressive disease are treated at the discretion of the investigator and continue
           to be followed. Patients with progressive disease in arm III should received radiation.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at completion of chemo radiotherapy, and at 1 year
      after surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, and
      then every 6 months for 3years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 495 patients will be accrued for this study within 5 years.

      Eligibility Ages Eligible for Study: 18-75 Years old Genders Eligible for Study: Both Accepts
      Healthy Volunteers: No
    
  