
    
      This is a prospective, open-label, observational study, to evaluate the safety and
      feasibility of using pulmonary artery pressure monitors and wearable activity monitors in
      patients with pulmonary hypertension. We plan to correlate data from the PAP monitors with
      data from wearable activity monitors and review how often patients require ad hoc visits /
      medication changes as well as review the optimum dose of drug achieved / patient QoL / risk
      stratification and patient outcomes / mortality.

      Suitable patients, with a confirmed diagnosis of PH on RHC, will be recruited from outpatient
      clinic or day-case and ward admissions by physicians or the research team. A face to face or
      telephone conversation will occur to discuss the study in detail and if the patient is
      willing they will be given / sent a patient information sheet (PIS) and be invited to attend
      a screening visit. If eligibility criteria are met, patients will complete a consent form and
      have their medical history reviewed including but not limited to past medical history,
      medication review, allergies and review of any hospital admissions in the previous 12 months.
      A clinical examination with observations including, but not limited to blood pressure, heart
      rate, oxygen saturations, respiratory rate, temperature, weight, height, body mass index
      (BMI) and assessment of NYHA class will be undertaken. Patients will be asked to perform a
      baseline six minute walk test, complete a quality of life questionnaire (EMPHASIS-10),
      12-Lead ECG and baseline, clinically-indicated blood testing (including but not limited to
      FBC,UE,LFT, clotting screen, NT-Pro BNP) and imaging performed in clinical practise (TTE or
      cardiac MRI) will be reviewed. Eligible subjects will be scheduled for the Implant procedure.
      Subjects on anticoagulation therapy (e.g. warfarin) may be instructed by the Investigator to
      discontinue use 2 days prior to pressure sensor placement and may be bridged with low
      molecular weight heparin if required according to local trust standard of care bridging
      protocol.

      If eligible, patients will then attend for their implantation visit and at this point undergo
      a RHC and a CardioMEMSTM sensor implant in the catheter laboratory. Baseline readings will be
      taken from the pressure monitor (including systolic, mean and diastolic PAP and cardiac
      output) and calibrated with readings taken at RHC. The patient's details will be uploaded to
      the CardioMEMSTM HF system, enabling remote monitoring of their heart failure device. Time
      will be spent educating and familiarising the patient with the home monitor system and
      contact details given in case any issues arise on discharge. Patients will be advised to
      submit one reading per day, preferably at the same time of day and in the same position i.e.
      lying down flat or at 45 degrees etc. Patients will be asked to monitor their symptom burden
      and to share this with the investigators.

      The patient will also be given a Fitbit activity monitor and set up with an account that is
      accessible to patient and physician to allowing activity to be monitored. The research team
      will be able to continuously monitor data remotely from the CardioMEMSTM HF system and Fitbit
      platform.

      Patients will attend for follow-up visits at 30 days and 1 year and will have their history
      reviewed and clinical examination and observations reassessed. At this point a repeat 6MWT,
      emPHasis-10 questionnaire, NYHA functional class and 12 Lead ECG will be undertaken as well
      as bloods testing and imaging as clinically indicated. Readings from the CardioMEMSTM HF
      system and Fitbit platform will also be reviewed and compared to the patients symptom diary.

      In between visits patients will be contacted by telephone and invited for unscheduled visits
      if clinically indicated. Any clinically significant data or medication changes will be
      discussed or fed back to the clinical PH team in charge of the patients routine care as
      appropriate.
    
  