
    
      The study design uses consecutively enrolled patients. Patients can participate as long as
      they are willing, fit the criteria for being assigned to a cohort, and the India ink spot
      remains measurable by EPR. Patients whose ink spot is resected during usual care and who do
      not have or are not willing to obtain additional injections will be withdrawn. Otherwise,
      patients can be re-measured using the previously injected ink at any time during the course
      of the study.

      The study is split into four cohorts, with a minimum of 1-5 patients expected to be enrolled
      annually in each cohort, and a total of approximately 10 subjects expected for each cohort.
      The cohorts are defined by the type of tumor and by scenarios when our measurements will be
      made relative to the patient's standard therapies: 1) intraoral tumors with planned resection
      and adjuvant radiation therapy余 2) cutaneous malignant tumors receiving surgical resection
      only, receiving radiation therapy only, or receiving both surgical resection and adjuvant
      radiation therapy余 3) breast tumor receiving radiation therapy following surgery余 and 4)
      other tumors receiving radiation therapy. The diagnosis for patients in all cases assumes
      that an eligible tumor (or the postsurgical area receiving radiation) occurs within
      approximately one-half centimeter of the surface, as determined by physical exam or imaging
      if available. All potentially eligible subjects are approached by their treating physician;
      those who agree to be contacted and are subsequently consented are assigned to the cohort for
      which they qualify. There is no randomization and no stratification within the cohorts.

      Our interest in in situ tumor oxygenation relates to the clinical need to measure oxygen in
      tumors prior to therapy, to understand tumor oxygen dynamics over the course of therapy, and
      to assess the effectiveness of oxygen modulation therapy during treatment. Our interest in
      the postsurgical radiation field relates to the clinical need to understand whether the
      temporal dynamics of oxygen within the postsurgical radiation field has the potential to
      enhance the effectiveness of adjuvant therapies, and to understand how changes in short and
      long term oxygenation within the postsurgical radiation field may facilitate diminishment of
      late side effects from surgery and/or radiotherapy.

      Following enrollment in the study, each subject will receive an initial placement of one or
      more geographically separate injections of India ink into the tissue of interest (i.e., tumor
      and/or tumor bed and/or adjacent tissue) using the established procedures for the injection
      of the ink. The subject is expected to agree to periodic measurements of all injection sites
      (unless the ink injection has been surgically removed)余 the subject will be told to expect
      six or more visits for measurements during treatment, but must agree to have at least one
      measurement per injection site. Each measurement will typically consist of 3 ten minute
      consecutive periods during which the subject initially breathes room air, then 100% oxygen
      delivered through a non-rebreather face mask followed by a period breathing room air.

      Patients will be evaluated during clinical and oximetry appointments with respect to the
      presence of any adverse events.
    
  