
    
      The incidence of inflammatory bowel diseases, (IBD) including Crohn's disease (CD) and
      ulcerative colitis (UC), is increasing in the developing world. Our recent Asia-Pacific
      population-based study in 8 Asian countries and Australia has demonstrated that Hong Kong and
      China have amongst the highest disease incidences in Asia while Australia has the equal
      highest incidence of these diseases in the world. The incidence of IBD in Hong Kong and China
      has risen three-fold in the past decade.

      Asian populations have genetic predispositions to develop IBD which are different to the
      West, but these genetic abnormalities are not obligatory for the development of IBD, with
      environmental factors playing a much more important pathogenic role. These factors include
      travel with exposure to a new population in childhood, diet, antibiotic use during childhood,
      socioeconomic status, and a rural versus urban upbringing, each of which alone, or in
      combination, are likely to affect the microbiome.

      Compelling evidence suggests that gut microbes play a critical role in disease pathogenesis,
      while geographic, dietary and ethnic factors impact the microbial composition. In addition to
      broad changes in the microbial profile in IBD, a number of specific changes have been
      identified, such as a decrease of the butyrate-producing species Roseburia hominis and
      Faecalibacterium Prausnitzii. Although the commensal gut microbiota is ecologically and
      functionally perturbed in IBD, there is unexplained heterogeneity among IBD subtypes and
      individual patients. In new-onset treatment naïve patients with CD, enrichment for the
      Enterobacteriaceae and depletion of Clades IV and XIVa Clostridia during disease-associated
      inflammation have been reported. Metagenomic studies and microarray analyses in Western
      populations and limited Asian data have demonstrated a reduction of Firmicutes, such as F.
      prausnitzii in Crohn's disease (CD), and an increased in Escherichia coli and Fusobacterium.
      It is unknown if the changes in putative pathogens and/or protective organisms identified in
      Western populations, such as E. coli and F. prausnitzii, respectively, are present in IBD
      patients in Asia. Information is also lacking about the degree of genetic variation between
      the bacteria assigned to these taxonomic groups from different ethnic and geographical
      regions. Most of the published work on these bacteria, and their potential pathogenic or
      protective role in CD, has been undertaken with isolates recovered from European and North
      American subjects. For these reasons, we believe there is a need to firmly establish whether
      the microbial changes outlined above are also encountered in patients from other parts of the
      world, including Asian countries with high disease incidence and increasing disease
      incidence.

      The Post-Operative Crohn's Endoscopic Recurrence (POCER) study was undertaken in 17 hospitals
      around Australia and New Zealand, and recruited 174 patients who were then monitored for 18
      months post-operatively. The microbiota analyses undertaken on a subset of the POCER study
      patient cohort showed that F. prausnitzii, previously identified as being capable of
      producing anti-inflammatory properties possible key organism in preventing active CD was
      decreased in abundance in active CD, in patients at surgery who subsequently recurred, and in
      patients at the time of recurrence. Most of the published studies examining the
      anti-inflammatory properties of F. prausnitzii have been undertaken with a single strain of
      European origin. Despite the promise associated with the anti-inflammatory properties
      produced by F. prausnitzii it remains to be determined whether this bacterium is protective
      against inflammation, or diminishes subsequent to the onset of inflammation.

      In summary, it is currently unclear if the changes in putative pathogens and protective
      organisms present in Western IBD populations are consistently observed with CD patients in
      Asia. Nor is it known whether the functional capabilities of these bacteria differ across
      ethnic and/or geographic regions.

      In addition to characteristics of these two bacterial families, the microbial environment
      interfacing with these organisms are likely to play a critical role in their expression and
      function. This will be examined in detail using broad sequencing techniques.

      Microbial analyses will be undertaken in the context of detailed examination of environmental
      risk factors for the development of CD, in the same patients.
    
  