
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if multi-antigen CMV-modified vaccinia Ankara vaccine (CMV-modified vaccinia
      Ankara [MVA] triplex) reduces the frequency of CMV events, defined as reactivation or CMV
      disease in CMV+, haploidentical hematopoietic cell transplantation (haploHCT) recipients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CMV-MVA triplex in vaccinated, haploHCT
      recipients by assessing the following: non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100 days post
      hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), severe (grade 3-4) acute graft versus host disease
      (GVHD), and grade 3-4 adverse events (AEs) probably or definitely related to the vaccination
      within 2 weeks from each vaccination.

      II. To characterize CMV related events in recipients of CMV-MVA triplex compared to placebo,
      by assessing time to viremia (number of days from transplantation to the date of >= 1250
      IU/mL), duration of viremia, recurrence of viremia, incidence of late CMV viremia/disease (>
      100 and =< 360 days post HCT), use of antiviral drugs (triggered by clinically significant
      viremia of >= 1250 IU/mL), cumulative number of CMV specific antiviral treatment days.

      III. To evaluate the impact of CMV-MVA triplex on transplant related outcomes by assessing
      the incidence of acute graft versus host disease (aGVHD), chronic GVHD, relapse, non-relapse
      mortality, all-cause mortality, infections.

      IV. To determine if CMV-MVA triplex increases levels, function and kinetics of CMV-specific T
      cell immunity in vaccinated compared to placebo treated, CMV seropositive HCT-recipients.

      V. To determine whether vaccination induces adaptive natural killer (NK) cell population
      changes, and increase in the highly cytotoxic memory NKG2C+ NK cell.

      VI. To compare GVHD biomarkers between the vaccine and placebo groups.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive multi-antigen CMV-modified vaccinia Ankara vaccine intramuscularly
      (IM) on days 28 and 56 post-HCT.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo IM on days 28 and 56 post-HCT.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 100, 140, 180, 270, and 365
      days, and then periodically for 3 years.
    
  