
    
      Patients will be assigned to one of the three treatment arms using 1:1:1 randomization,
      stratified by access to a primary care provider, using randomly permuted blocks with random
      block sizes. (Primary care access will be determined using Source of Care questions from the
      Primary Care Assessment tool.) Randomization will be based on computer generated lists and
      allocated within subgroups based on access to a PCP using REDCap's integrated randomization
      module. One arm will receive the full intervention (educational video, telecare call,
      transmission of clinical information to the PCP), one will view the educational video only,
      and one will receive usual care. The investigators decided against a 2x2 factorial design,
      which would add a telecare only arm, because our team' s collective understanding is that a
      basic understanding of pain management (as provided by the educational video) is essential
      for effective SDM (shared decision-making) and often missing among older patients. Screening,
      consent, randomization, and assessments will be completed by the study coordinator.
      Interventions

      Educational Video:Development of the original video was funded by the John A. Hartford
      Foundation and used a systematic approach that included a review of literature and current
      pain management guidelines and input from emergency physicians, geriatricians, and experts in
      pharmacology, physical therapy, and risk communication. The video offers information about
      the pharmacologic management of acute musculoskeletal pain (MSP) and recovery-promoting
      behaviors. Each video section is followed by a multiple-choice question to promote
      interaction and reinforce learning. The actress for the 13-minute video is a 56-year-old
      mixed-race woman who presents herself as a healthcare provider. The video script was
      developed for a grade level 5.5 and will be shown to the patient within 24 hours of the acute
      care visit. A link to the video is emailed or texted to the patient.

      Telecare: Telecare will be provided via a protocol-guided phone call from a nurse care
      manager 48-72 hours after discharge. The call is designed to support patient decision-making
      regarding analgesics and behaviors following the content presented in the video. Before the
      call, the nurse will review the note from the index visit to obtain information about
      comorbidities,medications, allergies, and the patient's evaluation and treatment in the ED.
      Topics covered in the call will include discussion of pain management goals and priorities,
      current analgesic use, non-pharmacologic methods of pain management, warnings about potential
      side effects, and open-ended questions to address additional patient care needs.
      Conversations will be guided by an SDM framework in which the nurse elicits information from
      the patient, then discusses with the patient alternative strategies, and actively elicits
      feedback from the patient. Patients will be encouraged to follow-up with their PCP; uninsured
      patients will be referred to local free or low-cost medical clinics. The telecare call is
      designed to last 15 minutes and the nurse will be trained to complete the call in 15 minutes.

      Correspondence with PCP: Following the telecare conversation, the nurse will enter a note in
      the EHR (Electronic Health Record) documenting the patient's current clinical status,
      information reviewed, and any recommendations or referrals made. The nurse will then share
      this note directly with the patient's PCP using a secure e-mail or an electronic message
      within the EHR if the PCP is a University of North Carolina (UNC)-affiliated provider. (If
      the PCP's email address is not available, the research staff will contact the PCP or their
      office by phone to obtain an email address or fax number.) This communication with also
      include: (1) The date, time, location and reason for the initial visit; (2) Results of
      diagnostics studies; (3) Discharge prescriptions/recommendations; (4) A summary of and link
      to the video, explaining the emphasis on patient knowledge and SDM; (5) summary of the
      telecare conversation; and (6) encouragement for follow-up. PCPs will be asked to confirm
      receipt of this message.
    
  