
    
      Children living in rural sub-Saharan Africa experience massive challenges to child thriving,
      with poor linear growth and delays in child development. In a cohort of 211 children living
      in the rural Haydom area of Tanzania (participating in the Interactions of Malnutrition &
      Enteric Infections: Consequences for Child Health and Development "MAL-ED" Study), 70.6% had
      stunted growth at 18 months. This rate of moderate and severe stunting (length-for-age
      z-score [HAZ] <-2 standard deviations) was the highest of the 8 study sites in MAL-ED.

      This enormous deficit is likely associated with high rates of enteric infections with
      Campylobacter, E. coli pathotypes, Cryptosporidium, and Giardia, organisms susceptible to
      azithromycin and/or nitazoxanide. Infections such as these occur frequently in developing
      areas and are often associated with environmental enteropathy, including ongoing enteric
      inflammation and loss of enterocyte integrity, leading to possible bacterial translocation
      and poorer absorption of ingested nutrients. The consequences of these infections, enteric
      dysfunction and poor nutrient absorption frequently include growth stunting, learning delays,
      and an overall loss of human capital.

      Emerging evidence suggests a potential role for the tryptophan-niacin pathway (including the
      end-product nicotinamide, an isoform of vitamin B3) in decreasing mucosal inflammation and
      affecting enteral microbiota. At the Tanzania site of MAL-ED, serum levels of tryptophan were
      related to subsequent linear growth, further suggesting importance of the tryptophan-niacin
      pathway. What is not clear is whether early childhood growth and development could be
      improved by targeting enteric infection and the tryptophan-niacin pathway by 1) delivering
      antibiotics against specific bacteria and/or 2) providing vitamin B3 as
      nicotinamide/niacinamide.

      The main analysis will be intention-to-treat but a secondary analysis will be per protocol.
    
  