
    
      Preterm birth ( PTB) is one of the leading causes of neonatal morbidity and mortality
      (Goldenberg et al., 2008) Early PTB (≤ 34 weeks' gestation) carries a 7-fold increased risk
      of Neonatal death . Following PTB, survivors can experience significant long term cognitive,
      behavioral, emotional, sensory, and motor deficits. Hence, there is growing interest in the
      identification of women who are at Risk for spontaneous PTB. Many biophysical and biochemical
      markers have been discovered to identify those women who are at risk for spontaneous PTB.

      (Honest et al., 2009)

      Unfortunately, none of the various maternal and fetal biomarkers such as:

      cytokines, CRH, C-reactive protein, fetal fibronectin ,…. etc. are sufficiently sensitive or
      specific to be used alone or in combination to help decrease the rate of preterm births.
      (Ozhan et al., 2007) Obviously, there's a need for an accurate method with high sensitivity
      and specificity for prediction of preterm labor. So that an appropriate management or
      referral to a higher center can be done to women likely to have PTB. Whereas unnecessary
      tocolytic therapy can be avoided in women who are unlikely to have PTB. (Rengaraj et al.,
      2009) Convincing data have shown that 2-dimensional (2D) ultrasound measurement of cervical
      length (CL) can identify women at risk for PTB.

      Accordingly, CL is now widely used in clinical practice for risk estimation. ( Crane et al.,
      1997) However, as understanding of the mechanisms of preterm labor (PTL) have evolved,
      obstetricians have learned that, in some women, cervical shortening is a phenomenon that
      carries no increased risk for prematurity. Therefore, the search for early and accurate
      markers that distinguish between physiologic processes and abnormal activation of the labor
      cascade has been ongoing.

      Literature has suggested that activation of the fetal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis
      play a crucial rule in commencement of labor. (Norwitz et al, 1999) A previous study
      demonstrated that three -dimensional ultrasound measurement of fetal adrenal gland volume
      (AGV) may identify women at risk for impending PTB. (Turan et al, 2007) In a more recent
      study receiver operator characteristics (ROC) curve analysis revealed that three -dimensional
      ultrasound measurement of (AGV) was superior to two-dimensional ultrasound measurement of
      (AGV) for anticipation of PTB within 7 days of the scan. (Turan et al, 2012) The aim of this
      study is to investigate the utility of 3D fetal adrenal gland volume measurement in the early
      prediction of PTB and to determine whether these measurements could be combined with 2D
      ultrasound cervical assessment to improve the early prediction of PTB.
    
  