
    
      Epidemiological studies have shown that consumption of high amounts of plant foods, such as
      nuts, fruits and vegetables, appears to be protective against chronic diseases including
      heart disease, stroke, diabetes mellitus and metabolic syndrome. In recent years, numerous
      studies indicate that consumption of walnuts mainly containing α-linolenic acid (ALA),
      L-arginine and polyphenols beneficially alters vascular function and reduces inflammatory
      biomarkers. Recent studies have reported that consumption of walnuts is associated with
      beneficial effects in prevention of chronic diseases by favorably altering human serum
      profiles (i.e. decrease in LDL cholesterol and triglycerides and increase in HDL cholesterol
      and apolipoprotein A1) which are closely involved in the development of cardiovascular
      disease (CVD). In addition, recent reports by Dr. Ros and his colleagues indicate that
      addition of walnuts to a high-fat meal can improve endothelial function. This favorable
      influence on vasoactivity has been attributed to the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory
      properties of components of walnuts.

      Due to their age and menopausal status, postmenopausal women in particular, are at a greater
      risk population for developing CVD. Males tend to show greater rates of CVD than
      pre-menopausal women, while women following menopause show an increase in the rates of CVD.
      This increase is associated with endothelial dysfunction and decreased vasodilation which are
      apparently expressed after menopause and become worse with age. In this study, we will define
      the effects of consuming California walnuts on vascular health.

      We hypothesize that consumption of California walnuts, which are particularly rich in ALA,
      L-arginine and polyphenols, will improve endothelial function and platelet reactivity in an
      at-risk population of postmenopausal women 50-70 years of age.
    
  