
    
      Education is a process of human development for quality of life. It helps people to create
      ideas, judgement, problem solving or working ability with competency at their full strength.
      Currently, people are more demanding, lawyers more litigious, and insurance companies less
      willing to pay. In addition, hospital directors are trying to improve their management
      efficiency. As a result, doctors and nurses have to work harder. Sadly, the prevalence of
      burnout is higher among employees who deal with patients.

      Anesthesia personnel have been at the forefront of the patient safety movement. They must be
      reliable and skilled at communicating with surgeons, operating room (OR) nurses, and
      ancillary workers. As a result, anesthetists have to maintain their physical, mental health,
      and special sensory capabilities.

      Nurse anesthetist students in 1-year training program have to deal with stressful situation
      days and nights. The curriculum covering theoretical and practical learning in operating
      theater yields cumbersome atmosphere since medical errors have become a crucial society and
      professional issue. Inevitably, they face occasional stress perioperatively such as long and
      unpredictable working hours, exposure to chemical and radiation hazards, or the occurrence of
      unexpected death, particularly when a given patient was previously healthy. This can
      sometimes prove frustrating and may lead to unsafe practices.

      Stress is a phenomenon that can happen to people in general. Students with mild to moderate
      stress, act as achievement motive, driving them to succeed their goals in learning. However,
      anyone with severe stress often fails in his or her study. If learners face tension during
      their education and they are not able to solve it instantaneously; the stress becomes a
      vicious matter that yields poor learning outcomes or even expel them from school.
      Consequently, stress may lead to some psychological problems. Stress in graduate students
      concerns to many influencing factors either to demean the situation or to diminish it. The
      stress-related factors are 1) studying: learning difficulties, daily rounds organization,
      exam preparation, and unfamiliar working circumstances 2) relationships: family members,
      instructors, consultants, friends, and colleagues 3) playing role: adult learning, conflict
      of interests in finance, physical or mental status. The previous studies revealed that these
      factors had evil effects on students tremendously.

      As a result, investigators would like to study the stress-related factors in nurse
      anesthetist students during their learning program.
    
  