
    
      Eosinophilic esophagitis is an inflammatory condition of the esophagus that occurs in
      response to certain foods or allergens. Approximately 300,000 people in the US have EoE, the
      incidence of newly diagnosed EoE is ~30,000/year, and EoE is found in 5-10% of all patients
      undergoing upper endoscopy. EoE is associated with debilitating symptoms, and is a common
      cause of dysphagia, strictures, and food impaction; it may even lead to esophageal
      perforation. Because of the impact of EoE on quality of life as well as the concern that this
      disease may progress to esophageal fibrosis with unknown long-term risks, experts recommend
      that EoE be treated until symptoms and eosinophilic infiltrate are resolved. Because the only
      objective method for diagnosing EoE is histopathologic assessment of multiple upper
      endoscopic biopsies, the processes of monitoring the esophagus during therapy and the food
      reintroduction involve a high number of repeat endoscopies. This process is both time
      consuming and frustrating for patients and their families. Because the endoscopic biopsy
      requires conscious sedation, it is also costly, exceeding $1000 per procedure. Given the
      rapid increase in the number of patients with this disease, there is a compelling need for a
      less invasive and more cost-effective means of identifying eosinophils in the esophagus.

      Based on the extensive experience with Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and OFDI, the
      investigators at Tearney laboratory at MGH have developed a spectrally encoded confocal
      microscopy (SECM) technology that is able to acquire images at significantly higher frame
      rates than standard confocal microscopy. This SECM capability enables imaging of large
      portions of the esophagus at 2-µm resolution in realistic procedure times. Furthermore, the
      investigators at Tearney laboratory have created a tethered capsule SECM device that can be
      swallowed and used for EoE screening. The investigators at Tearney laboratory lab performed a
      pilot study using a SECM capsule on 58 subjects (2013-P-000863). The imaging was successful
      with no adverse or unanticipated events. SECM endoscopy capsule is similar to the approved
      endoscopy capsule.

      A total of sixty (60) subjects will be recruited for this study. The imaging of the esophagus
      will be obtained. Subjects will not be sedated for the procedure.

      The images obtained by the SECM capsule will be compared to the images obtained by the
      clinical endoscopy and biopsy. SECM imaging will be used for research purposes only and will
      not be used for diagnosis purposes.
    
  