
    
      This study aims to observe if there is a correlation between increasing one's physical
      activity levels via a bodyweight exercise program and a change in bone density, cognition,
      and quality of live for patients diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis. The subjects enrolled in
      this study will perform a six week training cycle which includes one session per week located
      at Holy Name Medical Center (physical therapy department) as well as one session per week
      performed at the subject's home (video guide will be distributed). The training sessions
      should take approximately 30 minutes and include 3 sets of 10 repetitions for each of the
      individual exercises. There are five unchanging exercises that will be performed at each
      training session which include: wall push ups, chair squats, chair dips, step ups, and calf
      raises. Each subject will be required to perform both training sessions per week for six
      weeks. The following two weeks are set aside for make up dates for any missed training
      sessions if needed. During this six to eight week training (treatment) phase, one of the
      study investigators will remain in contact with the subjects of the study as to ensure
      commitment of at home training sessions. Prior to the training phase of this study, each
      subject will have a bone density DEXA scan performed and must complete SDMT (symbol digit
      modalities test) and MSIS-29 (multiple sclerosis impact scale) evaluations. Both the SDMT and
      MSIS-29 evaluations with be filled out again within two weeks of the completion of the
      training phase. 8 weeks after completion of the training phase of the study, each subject
      will return for a second bone density DEXA scan as well as complete both the SDMT and MSIS-29
      evaluations for a third time. The duration of the study will fall between 14 and 16 weeks for
      any given participant depending on if the additional two weeks are needed to complete the
      training (treatment) phase. Previous research in this area have supported that bodyweight
      exercise had a positive impact on fatigue, muscle strength, and balance. Improvements in
      quality of life as well as cognition have also been documented by MS patients after
      performing exercise regimen. Because of the positive effects of exercise on patients with MS,
      the investigators in this study investigated the effects of weight-based training on bone
      density, cognition, depression, and quality of life in MS patients.
    
  