
    
      1. All participants will undergo a baseline liver magnetic resonance elastography. The
           patients with liver stiffness score >2.5 kiloPascal (KPa) [Normal: ≤2.5 KPa] will be
           enrolled in the study.

        2. In addition to a baseline liver MRE, all participants will undergo cardiac MRI,
           transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE), FibroSure® (alpha-2 macroglobulin, haptoglobulin,
           gamma-glutamyltransferase, bilirubin, apolipoprotein A1, and alanine transaminase), and
           chemistry panel.

        3. This will be a double blinded placebo control study design. All participants will be
           randomized 1:1 to sildenafil or placebo for a total of 12 months therapy.

        4. Sildenafil will be initiated at 5 mg 3 times per day for the first week, and titrated to
           10 mg 3 times per day for the second week and 20 mg 3 times per day from the 3rd week to
           the end of the study period. The patients will be required to check their pulse rate and
           blood pressure daily during the first month of drug therapy. Patient who experience
           hypotension (blood pressure < 90/50 plus symptoms such as dizziness) during dose
           titration will be asked to remain on the previous tolerated dose. Patients who cannot
           tolerate 10 mg 3 times daily will be asked to withdraw from the study and will be asked
           to continue checking their blood pressure for three days after stopping the medication.

        5. After 12 months (+/- 2 weeks) of therapy, all imaging studies (liver MRE, cardiac MRI,
           TTE) and blood tests (FibroSure® and chemistry panel) will be repeated. A final liver
           MRE and FibroSure will be performed at 18 months (+/- 2 weeks) for the participants
           whose 18 months follow-up still falls within the study period.

        6. Adverse event and compliance monitoring: During the first month of enrollment
           (initiation and dose titration), adverse events will be collected by subject report and
           by weekly telephone interview with dedicated research personnel. For the rest of the
           study period, adverse events will be collected by subject report and by monthly
           telephone interview with dedicated research personnel. The research personnel will be
           responsible for sending out the monthly supply of medications and obtaining a count of
           the remaining number pills as a measure of compliance. All participants will be provided
           with a pamphlet containing all the side effects of sildenafil, and contact information
           of research team for reporting any adverse event of concerns about the study.
    
  