
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether there are differences in progression-free survival due to treatment
      with erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride) compared to pemetrexed (pemetrexed disodium) for
      subsets of previously treated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients defined by
      epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) positive
      versus negativity.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Ascertain the presence or absence of true differences due to treatment in the objective
      clinical endpoints of overall survival, confirmed response rate, and adverse event profile
      for subsets of patients defined on the basis of the epidermal growth factor receptor
      (EGFR)-FISH positivity versus negativity.

      II. Ascertain the presence or absence of true differences due to treatment in objective
      clinical endpoints (i.e., progression free survival, overall survival, confirmed response
      rate, and adverse event profile) for subsets of patients defined on the basis of the
      epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression as measured by immunohistochemistry (IHC).

      III. Ascertain the presence or absence of true differences due to treatment in objective
      clinical endpoints (i.e., progression free survival, overall survival, confirmed response
      rate, and adverse event profile) for subsets of patients defined on the basis of the
      epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene mutation status (MUT).

      IV. To evaluate the prognostic effect of EGFR copy number as measured by FISH separately by
      treatment arm, i.e., is there a difference in outcome for FISH(+) patients receiving
      erlotinib compared to FISH (-) patients receiving erlotinib, and similarly is there a
      difference in outcome for FISH(+) patients receiving pemetrexed compared to FISH (-) patients
      receiving pemetrexed.

      V. To evaluate the prognostic effect of EGFR expression as measured by IHC separately by
      treatment arm, i.e., is there a difference in outcome for IHC(+) patients receiving erlotinib
      compared to IHC (-) patients receiving erlotinib, and similarly is there a difference in
      outcome for IHC(+) patients receiving pemetrexed compared to IHC (-)patients receiving
      pemetrexed.

      VI. To evaluate the prognostic effect of EGFR mutation status separately by treatment arm,
      i.e., is there a difference in outcome for MUT(+) patients receiving erlotinib compared to
      MUT(-) patients receiving erlotinib, and similarly is there a difference in outcome for
      MUT(+) patients receiving pemetrexed compared to MUT(-) patients receiving pemetrexed.

      VII. To prospectively test the hypothesis that functionally relevant polymorphisms in the
      genes encoding for pemetrexed targets, as well as genes encoding for one or more of the key
      enzymes involved in the transport, activation, and inactivation of pemetrexed, either singly
      or in combination, play a role in the efficacy and/or toxicity of pemetrexed.

      VIII. To prospectively test the hypothesis that functionally relevant polymorphisms in the
      EGFR gene as well as genes encoding for one or more of the key enzymes involved in the
      metabolism of erlotinib, either singly or in combination, play a role in the efficacy and/or
      toxicity of erlotinib.

      IX. Evaluate proteomic signatures in blood samples as predictors of survival and response to
      treatment with erlotinib.

      X. To evaluate expression of thymidylate synthase, dihydrofolate reductase,
      phosphoribosylglycineamide (GAR) formyltransferase, and methylthioadenosine phosphorylase
      gene expression in tumor samples, as measured by IHC or quantitative polymerase chain
      reaction, as predictors of survival and response to treatment with pemetrexed.

      XI. To evaluate proteomic signatures in blood samples of patients as predictors of response
      and survival to treatment with erlotinib.

      XII. To evaluate the following variables measured in tumor samples, as predictors of response
      and survival to treatment with pemetrexed: Expression of thymidylate synthase, dihydrofolate
      reductase and GAR formyltransferase genes methylthioadenosine phosphorylase expression by IHC
      or quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR).

      XIII. To evaluate the following variables measured in tumor samples, as predictors of
      response and survival to treatment with erlotinib: Rat sarcoma (Ras) mutational status, EGFR
      mutational status and, epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) status (measured by
      E-cadherin expression and vimentin expression) by IHC.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21.
      Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes on day 1.
      Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months until disease
      progression and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.
    
  