
    
      -  Total concentrations of MEHP, MEOHP and MEHHP will be quantified, in the laboratories of
           the Institute of Clinical Physiology, National Research Council, Pisa, in a spot morning
           urine sample by ultra-HPLC coupled with electrospray ionization/quadrupole
           time-of-flight mass spectrometry (Agilent UHPLC 1290 infinity coupled to an Agilent 6540
           MS-QTOF, Santa Clara, CA) using stable isotope labeled substrates, i.e. MEHP
           (ring-1,2-13C2, dicarboxyl-13C2), MEHHP, MEHHP 13C4, MEOHP and MEOHP 13C4 that will be
           purchased from Cambridge Isotope Laboratories (Tewksbury, MA).

        -  Urinary creatinine concentrations will be measured to adjust urinary concentrations of
           DEHP metabolite (Beckman Coulter AU400, Brea, CA), thus minimizing the inﬂuence of urine
           volume.

        -  Serum and urinary inflammatory markers and adipocytokines will be quantitatively
           determined using sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays kits according to the
           manufacturer's instructions. Optical density will be measured using a microplate reader.

        -  Serum and urinary markers of oxidative stress will be measured by gold standard
           techniques. In detail, MDA will be quantified by TBARS reactive substances measured by
           optical density; GSH-Px by a specific assay kit according to the manufacturer's
           instruction; SOD activity will be determined using a specific SOD kit; urinary
           8-isoprostane concentration will be measured by a specific affinity sorbent. (Cayman
           Chemical, Ann Harbor, MI, USA) according to the manufacturer's instructions.

        -  To analyze mitochondrial DNA we will apply a triplex design previously reported to
           amplify mitochondria loci located within the MinorArc and MajorArc, respectively. To
           assess nuclear DNA, we will use RNase P Copy Number Reference.

        -  The phthalates-free diet will be self-administered by the individuals under
           intervention, following a set of instruction and rules provided by the physicians based
           on the current literature data.
    
  