
    
      Glutamine inhibits whole body protein degradation in children with Duchenne Muscular
      Dystrophy (DMD). The effect is observed after 5 h oral glutamine administration and is also
      found when glutamine is given over a 10-day period. This multi-site national study aims to
      evaluate the functional benefit of long-term oral glutamine administration in 30 DMD children
      using a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled cross-over design. The study includes two
      4-month periods: 1) a treatment period in which the subject receives oral glutamine (0.5
      g/kg/d) and 2) a control period in which the subject receives a placebo. The order of
      treatment allocation is randomized. The two 4-month periods are separated by a 1 month
      wash-out period. The children are monitored every 2 months during period 1 (M0, M2, M4) and
      period 2 (M5, M7, M9) in the clinical investigation centres of Hospital Robert Debré in Paris
      and the CHR&U de Lille, as well as the clinical research centre of the CHU de Poitiers.
      Evidence of a functional benefit would involve evaluating the administration of glutamine
      over longer periods (as early as possible following diagnosis) among severely handicapped
      children and in other chronic pathologies associated with increased muscle protein
      catabolism. In DMD, such evidence would enable children to undergo gene therapy under
      improved physical condition.

      Comparisons: Glutamine administration compared to placebo on the following outcome measures:
      walking speed on a standard course, work (kcal) and power (kcal/s) in relation to effort,
      body composition (bioelectrical impedance analysis and BIPHOTONIC absorptiometry), muscle
      mass (24-h urinary creatinine excretion), indices of protein degradation (CPK and 3-methyl
      histidine excretion) and biochemical parameters (electrolytes, fasting glucose,
      transaminases, insulin, IgfI, Igf-BPI).
    
  