
    
      Recently, sedation practices have increased for diagnostic and interventional procedures for
      children in non-operating rooms. On the other hand, the rate of respiratory complications
      especially in non-operating room sedation applications is quite high. Oxygen therapy in
      sedation applied to non-operating room endoscopy patients is mostly performed with classical
      nasal cannula. However, recently, the use of High-flow nasal cannula oxygen therapy has been
      increasing.

      Classical nasal cannula oxygen therapy application; It is a system made of plastic or rubber
      material with two open ends placed in the patient's nostrils. It is the most commonly used
      oxygen therapy application method. However, it has some disadvantages. The most important of
      these is that the oxygen given in this method cannot be humidified, causing drying in mucous
      membranes at high flow rates of more than 4 L / min and problems in patient compliance. This
      situation prevents us to increase the oxygen FiO2 rate applied to the patient above 40%.

      According to the classical nasal cannula oxygen therapy application where non-moistened
      oxygen is applied in high-flow nasal cannula oxygen therapy applications where heated and
      humidified oxygen can be delivered, oxygen therapy can be applied at a flow rate of 25L /
      min. This method has many advantages. Some of those; makes it possible to provide high flows
      easily, prevents the airway epithelium from drying out and improves mucus cleansing, causing
      a decrease in anatomical dead space. It provides discharge of expired air in the upper
      airways. It reduces the respiration of gas with high CO2 and decreased O2. It increases
      alveolar ventilation. It is easy to use and increases patient comfort. It offers a stream
      adjusted to all children. Flow and titration can be adjusted according to the child's weight
      and effect. Physiological evidence in the pediatric population indicates that flows equal to
      or higher than 2 L / kg / min produce clinically significant pharyngeal pressure, improve
      breathing and accelerate the emptying of the respiratory muscles. Because of all these
      features, high-flow nasal cannula oxygen therapy application is used safely in pediatric
      patients.

      In general, it is reported that in non-operating room anesthesia, sedation or anesthesia
      applied in pediatric patients causes undesirable effects by 20%, most of them (5.5%) have
      respiratory complications and bradycardia due to hypoxemia.

      In this study, we aimed to compare the respiratory and hemodynamic results of high-flow nasal
      cannula oxygen application, which is routinely used in sedation applications in the pediatric
      endoscopy unit of our hospital, with the classical nasal cannula oxygen therapy application.
    
  