
    
      The prospective study will describe the epidemiology of IMIs in ICUs in India. The study will
      describe the incidence, risk factors, fungi causing IMIs and their susceptibility against
      antifungal agents, as well as the current strategies adopted by ICU physicians in the
      management of IMIs. It will also describe the outcome of IMIs. The study will help in
      planning future management strategies specific for IMIs in ICUs in India.

      Methods

      Study description: Prospective, multicenter study in iCUs in India.

      Purpose: Determination of epidemiologic parameters, including risk factors, description of
      current management and outcome of patients with IMI will be recorded prospectively. The study
      will help in understanding the epidemiology of IMI in ICUs and possible planning for future
      management strategies for IMI specific to India.

      Risk: There is no risk to the patient from the study as it is only an observational study and
      no intervention is intended.

      Site selection: 15 ICU's are identified across the country where ICU physicians are well
      versed about invasive fungal infections and competent diagnostic mycology laboratory is
      available

      A site feasibility survey was conducted. This ensured that participating sites fulfill the
      following inclusion criteria: a) maintains ICD coding and total number of discharges and
      deaths at the center; b) manages critically ill patients in ICU; c) has access to
      high-resolution CT (HRCT) scans; d) has a mycology laboratory that performs isolation and
      identification of fungi at least perform galactomannan test; and e) has histopathology
      facilities.

      Study Period: April 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017. Case enrolment - April 1, 2016 to March 31,
      2017. Analysis of data - April 1, 2017 to June 30, 2017

      No. of patients: All consecutive patients with proven and probable IMI in ICUs at the study
      centers during the study period will be included.

      Patient selection All consecutive patients diagnosed for proven or probable IMIs in ICUs at
      the study sites will be included.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Proven:

      Histopathology/cytology/culture/direct microscopy demonstrating septate hyphae invading
      tissue or aspirate from sterile sites

      Probable:

        -  Host satisfies host criteria of EORTC

        -  Host with COPD satisfying definitions by Bulpa P, et al Eur Resp J 2007

        -  Host in ICU satisfying clinical algorithm by Blot SI, et al Am J Resp Crit Care Med 2012

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Endemic mycoses (histoplasmosis, sporotrichosis, penicilliosis)

        -  Yeast infections

        -  Allergic fungal diseases like allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis

        -  Infection limited to the skin only

      Conduct of the study

      Investigators of the study: Arunaloke Chakrabarti will be the coordinator of the study. Each
      site will have a Principal Investigator - the site PI. Other investigators at the site will
      be co-investigators.

      Patient enrollment: The site PI (or one of the co-investigators) will review the patient's
      paper and electronic records to determine if the patient satisfies the inclusion criteria.
      Patients who fulfill the inclusion criteria will be included as a case.

      Data collection: The demographic, clinical, treatment and outcome data will be collected by
      investigator and email the form to the study coordinator, Arunaloke Chakrabarti. Outcome will
      be measured on day of discharge/death/30 and 120 days (whichever is earlier) after the
      diagnosis of the IMI. The date of diagnosis of an IMI is the day on which the diagnosis is
      defined as proven or probable. For cases that were enrolled as probable but subsequently
      became proven, the date of diagnosis is the earlier date. In addition, each center will also
      obtain data from its relevant hospital authority on the total number of discharges and deaths
      in ICUs for the period of April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017.

      Fungal isolates: All isolates from proven and probable IMIs will be sent to Mycology
      Reference Laboratory at PGIMER, Chandigarh for final identification and antifungal
      susceptibility testing

      Patient management: The study will not interfere with patient management.

      Statistics

      The study will be analyzed using descriptive statistics. It is anticipated that the study
      will provide the following information:

        -  Incidence of IMI among patients in ICUs during the study period in the participating
           centers

        -  Relative frequency of each risk factor among IMI patients at the participating centers.

        -  Three-month survival of patients diagnosed with IMI.

        -  Other data the study should be able to generate will be in accordance with the
           objectives.

        -  Kaplan-Meier plots will be used to describe the survival of patients with IMI according
           to their underlying diagnosis.
    
  