
    
      This study was designed in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Service of Gaziosmanpasa
      Training and Research Hospital between January 4 and June 30, 2021.Data of the health workers
      from our hospital who suffered from Covid-19 disease and matched control group who had not
      have Covid-19 disease participants were analyzed. Participants signed a general consent
      .Inclusion criteria; being a health worker over the age of 18 (for both groups), having had
      SARS-CoV-2 (Covid 19) disease for last 1 month and completed the isolation process, volunteer
      to participate in the study, , being able to walk or sit and stand without any help, speaking
      and understand Turkish language. Exclusion criteria (for both study and control group);
      Neurological or musculoskeletal disease that causes gait impairment, cognitive impairment,
      having unstable cardiac, respiratory and metabolic disease.(The first assessment will be made
      within the 1st month after the patient's Covid 19 positivity is detected; control will be
      made three times in the 2nd, 4th and 6 months)

      30 volunteer healthcare workers who had Covid-19 were included to study group. 30 age and
      gender matched volunteer healthcare workers were included to control group. Healthcare
      workers who have had Covid-19 disease will be evaluated for the first time within 1 month
      after their diagnosis with RT-PCR test for SARS-CoV-2.

      Symptom questioning will be reported including the initial symptoms of Covid-19 and ongoing
      complaints of the patients. During the examination, muscle strength will be evaluated by the
      Medical Research Council (MRC) total score. Resting heart rate, blood pressure and oxygen
      saturation (by pulse oxymeter) measurement will be applied to both groups before and after
      the following tests: 1-min sit-to-stand (1MSTS) test, 5 times sit-to-stand (5TSTS) test, 6
      minutes walk test (6MWT).

      MRC dyspnea scale will be performed as a measure of patient's complaint of shortness of
      breath,Job performance was assessed by asking "How do you evaluate your job performance?" on
      6-point Likert scale, Short Form-12 (Short Form 12, SF-12) will be used to assess quality of
      life, mood disorder wil be measured by Beck Anxiety Inventory and Beck Depression Inventory,
      Fatigue severity scale(FSS) will be performed as level of fatigue. The first evaluation wil
      be made within 1 month after one positive RT-PCR test for SARS-CoV-2 is detected; control
      evaluations will be made in the 2nd, 4th and 6th months after positivity of RT-PCR test for
      SARS-CoV-2. Finally, the patient's sex, age, body mass index (BMI), height, education status,
      career, status of hospitalization, length of hospitalization, comorbidities , pulmonary
      involvement that diagnosed radiological methods and examination of symptoms related with
      Covid-19 will be recorded.
    
  