
    
      Study Design This is a prospective, fellow eye randomised study.

      Recruitment

      A sample size of 92 eyes (46 patients) was calculated. Patients will be recruited at the
      Sussex Eye Hospital preoperative cataract assessment clinics where they will be screened and
      given a patient information sheet by a member of the research team if they can be recruited.
      They will be allowed to take this home to discuss with their family/friends and/or GP. They
      will be asked if the research team could contact them in a weeks time to discuss the study
      and the plan for the day of their surgery (which is their next NHS visit). Patients can then
      agree or decline to participate in the study . If they decline, their normal NHS pathway will
      continue. If they accept, written informed consent will be taken on the day of surgery as
      well as any extra imaging required. The key points of the trial will be reiterated and the
      patient will be invited to ask any questions. All members of the research team are NIHR GCP
      trained. All research patients will undergo surgery by the same surgeon and attend for
      post-operative follow-up at the Sussex Eye Hospital. In addition at this visit a research
      appointment will be made to undertake the research scans and examinations (see details below)
      by an experienced member of our research team. The research team including the surgeon cannot
      be blinded as the obvious direction of placement of the intraocular lens will be visible
      during surgery and during examination.

      Pre-operative appointment

      Consent If the patient would like to participate they will be asked to read and sign a
      consent form. If the patient gives consent for their GP to be notified of their participation
      in the study a letter will be sent to the GP.

      Standard pre-operative protocol for all NHS patients:

        1. Unaided and best corrected distance visual acuity

        2. Intraocular pressure measurement (applanation tonometry)

        3. Optical or ultrasound biometry for lens power calculation

        4. Slit lamp examination of the eye (by a doctor) including dilated fundus evaluation For
           non-standard (research) measurements, patients will be asked to return for a separate
           appointment. All measurements will be performed at ambient room light (undilated pupil).

      The assessment will continue as follows:

        1. Scheimpflug scans (Pentacam)

        2. Anaesthesia of the eye with proxymetacaine 1%

        3. Measurement using digital calipers of the white-to-white diameter Carbomer gel will be
           applied to protect the cornea before application of ultrasound probe

        4. Contact ultrasound biomicroscopy images will be taken in 4 axes: vertical, horizontal,
           temporal oblique and nasal oblique. The patient will be asked to fixate with the fellow
           eye on a target to maintain fixation and avoid accommodation. The examination will be
           performed with undilated pupils.

      Surgery

      All surgery will be carried out by the same surgeon (Principal Investigator) who is an
      experienced senior Ophthalmic Surgeon. This is to avoid any surgery-induced study biases.
      Surgery will be performed employing a standardized technique with aspheric monofocal
      intraocular lenses. The eyes will be randomized (1:1) using a dedicated computer programme
      prior to the start of the study to have a vertical or horizontal placement of the intraocular
      lens in the capsular bag. The 0 and 180 degrees will be marked on the slit lamp prior to the
      surgery. The axes of the IOL will be orientated in reference to the midpoint of the optic
      haptic junction of the IOL.

      Non-standard (research)intervention post-operatively on the day of surgery:

      Image taken with anterior segment ocular coherence tomography.

      Standard post-operative protocol for all NHS patients at 4-6 weeks:

      1) Unaided and best corrected distance visual acuity 2) Intraocular pressure measurement
      (applanation tonometry) 3) Slit lamp examination of the eye Non-standard (research)
      post-operative measurements for patients enrolled in this study (performed at the time
      convenient to patient and the research team): All measurements will be performed at ambient
      room light (undilated pupil).

        1. Dilated retroillumination images of the IOL immediately postoperatively (ideally on the
           day of the surgery)

        2. Scheimpflug scans (Pentacam®) at 4-6 weeks

        3. Anaesthesia of the eye with proxymetacaine 1% at 4-6 weeks

        4. Carbomer gel will be applied to protect the cornea before application of ultrasound
           probe. The patient will be asked to fixate with the fellow eye on a target to maintain
           fixation and avoid accommodation. This examination performed with undilated pupils at
           4-6 weeks.

        5. Contact ultrasound biomicroscopy images at 4-6 weeks will be taken in 4 axes: vertical,
           horizontal, temporal oblique and nasal oblique.
    
  