
    
      Brain temperature has an interactive relationship with brain cell metabolism. Hypothermia is
      a known neuronal protectant therapy. It has been proven to be effective in reducing the brain
      injury in patients post cardiac arrest. However, the role of hypothermia in brain or spinal
      cord injury such as in either hemorrhagic or ischemic condition remains unclear. Many
      questions on hypothermia are unanswered. For example, what is the optimal low temperature in
      order to have the maximum therapeutic effect? How long should hypothermia be applied for? Is
      there a regional temperature difference between different parts of brain in physiological or
      pathological conditions? In order to answer these questions, the first step is to have a
      reliable way of measuring brain temperature accurately. However, invasive technique such as
      inserting temperature probe to different parts of brain is not practical. Using body core
      temperature to estimate the intracranial temperature is inaccurate.

      To establish a noninvasive means to obtain and monitor brain temperature in a dynamic
      environment is the essential step in order to studying hypothermia and answering the
      questions mentioned earlier. MRI brain thermometry is a fast, direct and non-invasive method
      to estimate the brain temperature with great accuracy. This technique is based on several
      temperature dependent physical properties in our brain such as chemical shift between
      metabolites and water. Currently, there is no standard MRI brain thermometry in physiological
      and pathological conditions such as stroke. We plan to explore and establish MRI brain
      thermometry. The first step is to establish temperature correlation on measured water
      temperature.

      Then temperature of different regions of brain will be used to compare to the standardized
      water temperature in normal people.
    
  