
    
      SUMMARY

      Rationale:

      Self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) is an important tool in diabetes care to achieve and
      maintain good glycemic control. But how often 'should' the patient measure the capillary
      glucose concentration? There is no general agreement between professionals, and there is no
      evidence for a specific frequency and timing.

      Objective:

      The objective of the study is to investigate the effect of a specific frequency of SMBG on
      glycemic control and quality of life in patients with type 2 diabetes and who are in stable
      good glycemic control and using 1 insulin injection daily.

      Study design:

      An open Randomised Controlled Trial.

      Study population:

      Patients with insulin-treated diabetes type 2, > 18 years of age, using 1 insulin injection
      daily, performing SMBG > 1 year, HbA1c ≤ 58 mmol/mol (< 7.5%) in the preceding 12 months,
      sufficient knowledge of the Dutch language, no hypo-unawareness, no serious co-morbidity

      Intervention:

      Patients are instructed to measure their blood glucose concentrations 4 times per day
      (pre-prandial and before bedtime) one day weekly in group A, one day per two weeks in group B
      and one day monthly in group C. Patients are asked to keep a diary with the readings and the
      probably extra measurements, including the reasons.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The main study parameters are glycemic control and quality of life. A difference of > 0.5% (>
      5.5 mmol/mol) in HbA1c is considered to be relevant. Quality of life is measured with 3
      validated questionnaires.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Patients in this study are used to perform SMBG. During the study, they are asked to monitor
      their glucose concentrations in a controlled, specific frequency (different kind of usual
      care are compared). And they are asked to fill in 3 questionnaires in the beginning and at
      the end of the study. Extra HbA1c measurements can be necessary. No side effects are
      expected, but safety is incorporated through HbA1c measurements every 3 months and every 3
      months the diary will be discussed in the scheduled visits. Furthermore, extra measurements
      are allowed when necessary.
    
  