
    
      Part A will consist of two cohorts of healthy male subjects to assess the safety,
      tolerability, and PK of ascending single oral doses of GW824575. The sponsor will review
      available safety, tolerability, and PK data and, where available, PD receptor occupancy (from
      the eosinophil shape change data) data before each dose escalation. Outcome measures in Part
      A will be assessed and presented through 48 hours post-dose for each of up to 4 single dose
      escalations per cohort. Part B will be one cohort to examine the safety, tolerability and PK
      of a repeated dose of GW824575 over 21 days in healthy male subjects who are greater than or
      equal to 50 years of age. Subjects in this cohort will undergo ophthalmic assessments before
      receiving investigational product and after Day 7 of the 21-day in-patient treatment, after
      steady state has been reached. The PD endpoints such as receptor occupancy will be assessed.
      The dosing regimen (once or twice daily) will be determined by PK data from Part A; however,
      regardless of dosing regimen, subjects will only receive a single dose in the morning on Days
      1 and 21 of the treatment period. Outcome measures in Part B (Cohort 3) will be assessed and
      presented through 21 days repeat dosing until 48 hours post-dose last dose (i.e., on Day 23).
      If a safety signal is noted during, or after, the conduct of Cohort 3 of the study; the
      cohort may be halted or dose down-titrated, and an additional cohort, at a lower dose, may be
      instituted in Part B as Cohort 5. Dose selection for the additional cohort (Cohort 5) will be
      informed by the aggregate safety, PK, and PD data available at that time. Part D will consist
      of one cohort of healthy male subjects. The cohort will 1) explore the effect of a high fat
      meal on the PK of GW824575 during two treatment periods with approximately 48 hour washout
      between periods and 2) assess the safety, tolerability, and PK of ascending single oral doses
      of GW824575 administered in the fasting state or with a standard meal in up to 3 additional
      treatment periods with at least 6-day washout between periods. The sponsor will review
      available safety, tolerability, and PK data and, where available, PD RO (from the eosinophil
      shape change data) data before each dose escalation.
    
  