
    
      Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (SCT) is an effective treatment for acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). For patients transplanted in first
      remission or with low risk MDS, approximately 60% of patients have achieved long-term disease
      free survival. Patients with relapsed leukemia have a poorer outcome; the long-term disease
      free survival rate for relapsed AML is 5-10% without hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      (HSCT). With HSCT, survival after relapse approaches 40%, but success depends greatly on
      whether patients are in remission at the time of transplant. Many relapsed patients have
      refractory chemoresistant disease and never attain remission to be eligible for potentially
      curative HSCT, or develop significant complicating comorbidities during the prolonged
      intensive reinduction of their disease. Thus, improved strategies for achieving remission in
      relapsed patients prior to transplantation are critical to improving the survival of these
      patients. Relapsed/refractory AML requires remission prior to allogeneic HSCT for optimal
      survival, but responds poorly to chemotherapy. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-haploidentical,
      NK-enriched peripheral blood cell infusions may augment induction chemotherapy in patients
      with poor prognosis AML, but there are significant toxicities related to the IL-2 infusions
      given for optimal NK cell activity. The purpose of this trial is to estimate the toxicity and
      feasibility of treating relapsed/refractory AML with FLAG chemotherapy followed by
      haploidentical donor-derived natural killer (NK) cells using ALT-801 for ex vivo and in vivo
      NK cell activation as an alternative to interleukin-2 (IL-2).

      ALT-801 is a genetically engineered fusion protein, that is, a single protein made by
      combining the DNA of two or more different genes. ALT-801 is a combination of IL-2 (an
      important protein for stimulating immune cells) and a binding portion that recognizes tumor
      cells.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and feasibility of an infused
      allogeneic donor NK cell product and ALT-801 following a FLAG preparative regimen to treat
      relapsed/refractory acute myelogenous leukemia. The primary endpoint for toxicity is the
      absence of NK cell Product or ALT-801-related grade 2 toxicity, excluding grade 2 fever,
      rigor/chills, fatigue, vomiting/nausea, pruritus/itching, electrolyte imbalance,
      hypoalbuminemia or lymphopenia within 21 days of the ALT-801 or NK cell product infusion. The
      primary endpoint of feasibility is defined as being able to infuse NK-cells at the maximum
      tolerated cell dose or the highest dose level on day 0 and complete all 8 planned doses of
      ALT-801, with a safety that does not exceed toxicity limits, in greater than or equal to 7 of
      10 subjects.
    
  