
    
      The study comprised an Enrollment Visit, a Qualification Phase, a Treatment Phase with 7
      double-blind treatment periods for each participant, and a Final Examination.

      In the Qualification Phase, all participants completed a naloxone challenge test to confirm
      that they were not opioid-dependent. The Objective Opioid Withdrawal Scale was used to record
      the signs or symptoms of withdrawal observed during the naloxone challenge test. Following
      the naloxone challenge test, participants received a single oral dose of hydromorphone
      immediate-release (IR) 12 milligrams (mg) and placebo in a double-blinded, randomized
      crossover manner to ensure that they could discriminate between an active drug and placebo
      and could tolerate hydromorphone IR 12 mg. After a washout phase of at least 3 days,
      participants could continue with the Treatment Phase.

      In the Treatment Phase, each participant received single oral doses of the 7 different
      investigational medicinal products (IMPs) (Treatment A to Treatment G) in 7 sequential
      treatment periods. The treatment sequences per participant were randomly assigned, except for
      one administration of placebo (Treatment G) which always followed the highest dose of
      cebranopadol (Treatment C). Each IMP administration was given under fasted conditions and was
      separated by a washout period of at least 14 days.

      Participants were confined to the study site from Day -1 until 48 hours after the first IMP
      administration in the Qualification Phase and from Day -1 until 56 hours after the IMP
      administration in the treatment periods. Pharmacodynamic assessments and blood sampling for
      pharmacokinetics were performed from pre-dose until 56 hours post-dose in each treatment
      period.

      The Final Examination was conducted 5 days to 10 days after the discharge from the last
      treatment period or upon early discontinuation from the study.
    
  