
    
      Cerebral small vessel disease (SVD) is the primary cause of vascular cognitive impairment
      (VCI), which in its most severe form manifests as vascular dementia (VaD). SVD is a fibrous
      thickening of small penetrating arteries in deep brain nuclei (basal ganglia, thalami) and
      subcortical white matter.Clinical studies suggest that pure VCI/VaD contributes approximately
      8-15% of dementia in older people Reduced CBF is well established in VCI. Improved blood flow
      in the vasculature of the deep white and grey matter is therefore an attractive mechanism for
      slowing the pathology of VCI and is a valuable biomarker for an initial proof of concept
      study.

      To increase the likelihood of success in a full scale clinical trial of tadalafil in VCI,
      this study will test the effects of single dose tadalafil on cerebral blood flow in subjects
      with SVD using ASL-MRI. A strict definition of SVD will be used that combines clinical and
      MRI criteria.

      Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) specifically degrades cGMP within cells; limiting activation of
      protein kinase G. Guanylyl cyclase enzymes generate cGMP, downstream from NOS-nitric oxide
      signalling.

      PDE5 inhibitors in SVD. PDE5 blockade is a plausible strategy to improve local cerebral blood
      flow (CBF), in the deep brain areas afflicted by SVD. By augmenting the NO-cGMP-PKG pathway,
      PDE5i drugs are expected to be vaso-relaxant in small artery myocytes.

      In patients with pulmonary hypertension sildenafil improved cerebral vascular reactivity in
      response to hypercapnic challenge, indicative of an improvement in neurovascular coupling.
      Similar increased reactivity was recorded 60 min after administration of sildenafil in ED
      patients. By contrast, healthy volunteers showed no change in MCA blood flow following
      sildenafil, similar to healthy rodents, where vasodilation occurred only at high
      concentrations of drug. Overall it appears that PDE5i may have little effect on "healthy"
      cerebral arteries in rodents and humans.

      Prior human studies have been single dose studies of PDE5i in healthy humans, have only used
      sildenafil and have in general estimated CBF from Middle Cerebral Artery (MCA) blood flow
      using Trans Cranial Doppler (TCD). MCA blood flow may not reflect local blood flow in the
      microvasculature of the deep white and deep grey matter. One study examined the effect of
      single dose sildenafil on CBF using SPECT in patients with vascular risk factors with or
      without a history of stroke. Non-stroke patients exhibited an overall increase in CBF.
      However, no distinction was made in this study between large vessel and lacunar stroke.

      In summary, pre-clinical studies support a CBF-enhancing action of PDE5i in cerebrovascular
      disease, while human studies to date have been limited to sildenafil and have not
      specifically addressed effects on CBF in people with SVD.

      Tadalafil (Cialis速) is widely-used as an oral agent for sexual dysfunction. As an inhibitor
      of the enzyme PDE5, tadalafil has a well-established pharmacological profile as a small
      vessel vasodilator. Side-effect profile and pharmacokinetics are well known and the drug is
      well-tolerated in the target population, over a range of oral doses and regimens. The choice
      of tadalafil over other PDE5 inhibitors (such as sildenafil, Viagra速) is based on potency,
      selectivity for PDE5, plasma half-life and documented brain penetration.

      Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) specifically degrades cGMP within cells; limiting activation of
      protein kinase G. Guanylyl cyclase enzymes generate cGMP, downstream from NOS-nitric oxide
      signalling. The PDE5 inhibitor sildenafil (Viagra速; discovered at Pfizer, Sandwich UK) raised
      the profile of PDE5 as a therapeutic target. Tadalafil (Cialis速; licence holder: Eli Lilly)
      is widely prescribed on an "as required" basis for ED in men. It is also licensed for regular
      daily use at a dose of 5 mg for benign prostatic hyperplasia and 40 mg for pulmonary
      hypertension. Tadalafil is well tolerated and its side effect profile is well-established
    
  