
    
      PURPOSE AND DESIGN The main objective of this study is to find out the minimum volume of
      fluid required to perform an effective "fluid challenge" in septic patients. An effective
      fluid challenge would be one that is able to increase the mean pressure in the cardiovascular
      system when there is no blood circulation or socalled the mean systemic filling pressure
      (Pmsf). It is similar to the pressure into a pneumatic tyre, which is only related to the
      volume of air and the elastic properties of the tyre wall. In order to do this, the
      investigators will observe the changes in mean systemic filling pressure after small amounts
      of fluids so that the investigators will be able to realise how much volume is required to
      increase that pressure.

      To assure that the change in Pmsf is a real change, the investigators have conducted a pilot
      study in order to determine the precision of the Pmsf measurement using the Pmsf-arm
      technique. The least significant change is about 14 % from baseline measurement. The Pmsf-arm
      technique is a process very similar to that the investigators use to measure non-invasive
      blood pressure. The investigators will measure the arterial-venous equilibrium pressure in
      the arm after a rapid and brief interruption of blood circulation. In order to do this, a
      totally noninvasive automatic tourniquet is attached to the arm where the arterial line has
      been inserted and the tourniquet is inflated during 60 seconds. This process will be done at
      baseline and after the fluid challenge. The second objective is observe the microcirculation
      during an affective fluid challenge and correlate the changes observed with the changes in
      the cardiac function and the Pmsf.

      The third objective is to observe the changes generated by the vasoactive therapy in the
      macro and microcirculation according to the cardiac response and the type of vasoactive
      therapy used.

      In the investigators' clinical practice, the investigators have observed that in some cases
      the infusion of 250 ml of fluid has no impact at all in the cardiovascular function. The
      investigators believe that in those cases the investigators may have not given enough fluid
      to increase the Pmsf and test the cardiovascular response.

      RECRUITMENT The sample will be recruited by convenience. It is important to understand the
      difference between fluid resuscitation and fluid challenge. The fluid resuscitation requires
      normally large amount of volume in a medical emergency in order to achieve cardiovascular
      stability. Once the patient is minimally stable, a fluid challenge is normally carried out in
      order to find out if the patient may benefit from more fluids. As the performance of a fluid
      challenge is part of the normal clinical practice once the patient has been admitted to ICU,
      there is minimal extra risk from participation in this study.

      CONSENT Informed consent will be required to become participant of this study. Informed
      consent will be obtained by the Principal Investigator who has also clinical responsibility
      for the care of patients under the care of the intensive care department. The PI has received
      training in Good Clinical Practice (GCP).

      RISK, BURDENS AND BENEFITS Currently, the investigators use a fluid administration protocol
      in septic patients based on the principle of "stroke volume maximization". The investigators
      perform a fluid challenge of about 4 ml/kg until the patient becomes "non-responder", which
      means that the heart is not able to increase the volume ejected anymore. However, the
      investigators have observed some pitfalls in this protocol. Some patients classified as
      "non-responders" may need more than 4 ml/kg to test the cardiovascular response. The
      investigators' hypothesis is that in those cases, the cardiovascular system is either very
      relaxed or very empty, and 4 ml/kg was not enough to increase the mean systemic filling
      pressure. Therefore, a possible benefit associated to this study is to avoid this possible
      pitfall. If after a fluid challenge the Pmsf has not changed significantly, the clinician in
      charge will be informed and he/she will decide whether continue with a subsequent fluid
      challenge until the investigators observe a significant change on Pmsf.

      There are not relevant risk from participation in the study. As fluid challenge will be
      performed in accordance with the clinician prescription, the observations are non-invasive
      and do not involve any risk for the participant and arterial line is normally used in these
      patients, there is minimal extra risk from participating in this study.

      CONFIDENTIALITY Identifiable data will not be obtained for the purpose of this study. All the
      data (case report forms and electronic files) will be anonymised. The participant will be
      identified with a code that will be generated specifically for this study.

      The "identification code" generated for the participant will be linked to the "hospital
      number" and to the name of the patient, by a secret rule that is kept confidentially by the
      principal researcher. This rule will only be used in case of missing information that can be
      completed retrospectively. The only person able to access to identifiable information is the
      principal investigator, who is aware of the responsibility of the confidentiality of this
      study.

      All the data collected will be stored in encrypted electronic memories and the written
      material in custody of the principal investigator. No written material will contain
      identifiable data.

      CONFLICT OF INTEREST During the period of study, the principal investigator will not be
      responsible for the participant's care at the same time, in order to avoid conflict of
      interest. However, the principal investigator retains clinical responsibility for the care of
      patients as member of the intensive care department.

      At the end of the study, the investigators are planning to use this information as a chapter
      for a doctoral thesis, to present the study in international conferences and, hopefully, to
      publish the results in scientific journals.

      If the patient wishes to be informed of the results of this study, the investigators will
      send a copy of the abstract presented in international conferences by email, or a copy of the
      paper accepted in a medical journal by email.
    
  