
    
      Chronic pancreatitis is a chronic inflammatory condition where progressive fibrosis and
      scarring leads to loss of pancreatic exocrine and endocrine function and can lead to
      development of malnutrition, weight loss, abdominal pain and impaired quality of life.
      Patients with chronic pancreatitis have a high risk of pancreatic adenocarcinoma compared to
      the general population so it is vital that they are identified early in the disease. There
      are numerous causes of chronic pancreatitis therefore early detection and treatment can
      prevent irreversible changes and symptoms developing.

      Trans-abdominal ultrasound (US), computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) are currently used to investigate patients with symptoms suggestive of chronic
      pancreatitis. These tests may, however, fail to show early changes in the bile ducts or small
      areas of inflammation in pancreatic tissue. In areas of diagnostic uncertainty, endoscopic
      ultrasound (EUS) is currently used to provide a more detailed assessment.

      EUS uses a flexible endoscope (similar to a gastroscope) passed into the stomach via the
      mouth. The EUS scope has the addition of a tiny ultrasound probe on the tip which is used to
      acquire high resolution detailed images of the pancreas and other extra luminal structures
      (lymph nodes, bile ducts, mediastinum) lying only centimeters from the tip of the probe.
      Despite the advantages of EUS, image interpretation can be extremely challenging and in the
      presence of inflammation. Morphological changes of chronic pancreatitis seen at EUS have been
      classified according to the Rosemont classification; however, the findings are subjective
      with sub-optimal intra-observer agreement.

      Elastography is an ultrasound technique used to assess stiffness of tissues in the body. It
      has established applications in detecting chronic liver disease, and improving diagnostic
      accuracy in breast and prostate cancers. Pancreatic elastography is now able to be performed
      during a standard EUS examination using the existing equipment (in a similar manner to
      Doppler). Tissue elasticity is measured and represented with different colours (on a scale of
      1 to 255). The colour signal (red-green-blue) is then superimposed on the conventional
      grey-scale image. Areas of increased stiffness are marked with dark blue, intermediate areas
      with green and soft tissue areas with red. Areas of interest are able to be marked to give an
      elasticity reading and this is also compared to a control area of stomach wall to calculate a
      ratio (strain ratio).

      Elastography has now become part of the routine EUS exam following several studies that have
      shown elastography can be successfully used to identify malignant pancreatic and lymph node
      masses with high sensitivity allowing accurate targeting of fine needle aspiration (FNA)
      biopsies and early confirmation or exclusion of cancer.

      The investigators hypothesise that changes of chronic pancreatitis can also be detected using
      elastography assisted EUS. Detecting change at an early stage will benefit patients and
      potentially reduce complications that result from chronic pancreatitis such as malnutrition,
      pain and osteoporosis.
    
  