
    
      Obesity, defined as body mass index (BMI, calculated as weight (kg)/ [height (m)] 2) of 30 or
      greater, is a common medical comorbidity of pregnancy affecting one third of
      reproductive-aged women. Maternal obesity is also a well-recognized risk factor for
      dysfunctional labor and cesarean delivery with a cesarean section rate of 33% in obese women
      with BMI of 30 or greater and 43% in women with BMIs of 40 or greater.

      Obesity is an independent risk factor for post-operative surgical site infection. The risk of
      post-cesarean surgical site infection has been shown to double for every 5 unit increase in
      body mass index (BMI) above 30 kg/m , occurring in about 10% of obese women undergoing
      caesarean section despite prophylactic strategies (e.g. antibiotics).

      This can be explained partly by a decreased blood flow in adipose tissue and an
      obesity-associated inflammation causing vascular dysfunction, which results in a local
      hypoxic response. Hypoxia impairs oxidative bacterial killing and leads to an increased risk
      of surgical site infection.

      Wound healing is a sequence of physiologic events that include inflammation,
      epithelialization, fibroplasia, and maturation. Failure of wound healing at the surgical site
      can lead to seroma, hematoma, wound dehiscence, incisional hernia and surgical site
      infection.

      Surgical site infection SSI according to The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is as
      an infection occurring within 30 days from the operative procedure in the part of the body
      where the surgery took place, where there is purulent drainage from incision, isolated
      organisms from the incision, dehiscence or deliberate opening by the surgeon when the patient
      has at least one sign or symptom of clinical infection: localized pain, edema, erythema,
      warmth and fever greater than 38 c (unless culture of incision is negative) or there is an
      abscess or other evidence of infection is found during examination of incision, reoperation,
      or pathologic or radiologic exam.

      SSIs is divided into incisional SSI and organ/space SSI. Incisional SSI is further divided
      into superficial and deep incisional SSI. Superficial Incisional Surgical Site Infection
      involves skin or subcutaneous tissue cellulitis, seroma, hematoma, wound healing disruption,
      or dehiscence. Deep Incisional Surgical Site Infection involves deep soft tissues such as
      fascia or muscle within incision. Organ/Space Surgical Site Infection involves any part of
      the anatomy other than the incision. SSI is associated with a maternal mortality rate of up
      to 3%.

      Wound complication, even if not accompanied by an infection, is a significant cause of
      postoperative morbidity following cesarean delivery. In addition to the increased cost of
      care, there is the inconvenience of therapy, increased postoperative pain and convalescence,
      as well as difficulty with activities of daily living.

      It is logical to employ novel risk reducing approaches including negative pressure wound
      therapy at the time of surgery that may prevent wound complications and to ensure that there
      is a demonstrable benefit to their use for wound complication prophylaxis.

      Negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT), also known as a vacuum assisted closure (VAC),
      involves the controlled application of sub-atmospheric pressure to the local wound
      environment, using a sealed wound dressing connected to a vacuum to promote healing by
      primary intention by reducing the risk of hematoma / seroma due to improved lymphatic
      drainage and reduces the risk of wound dehiscence by decreasing the lateral and shear stress
      on sutures and decreasing bacterial load and wound fluids and by increasing blood flow,
      oxygenation, angiogenesis, and epithelialization.
    
  