
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine if eculizumab is an effective treatment to prolong
      pregnancy in women with preeclampsia, compared to a historical control group of women that
      received standard of care alone. Eligible subjects will be women with preeclampsia before 30
      weeks gestation, who have been deemed suitable for prolongation of pregnancy.

      The primary research procedure is administration of the study drug, eculizumab, by
      intravenous infusions weekly for four weeks, then every other week. Eculizumab is approved by
      the FDA for the treatment of women with atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome and paroxysmal
      nocturnal hemoglobinuria and is frequently used in pregnant women with these disorders.
      However, eculizumab is considered investigational in this study because it has not been
      approved by the FDA for use in patients with preeclampsia. Subject participation will last
      approximately 8-12 weeks on average, and the study drug will be continued until 48 hours
      after delivery in the treatment arm. All subjects will be followed at 2 weeks and 6 weeks
      after delivery to assess maternal and neonatal outcomes. A later visit may be required to
      complete the meningococcal vaccine schedule.

      The investigators believe that eculizumab will prolong pregnancy in women with preeclampsia
      diagnosed before 30 weeks gestation with overactive complement. As there is no effective
      treatment for preeclampsia other than delivery currently, women with preeclampsia before 30
      weeks gestation are managed using a "watch and wait" approach (i.e., expectant management).
      Due to the unpredictable nature of preeclampsia, expectant management places mother and child
      at significant risk until delivery occurs. Eculizumab may be an improvement over current
      standard of care as it provides a treatment option for patients who would otherwise be
      managed with expectant management alone. If the study aims are achieved, eculizumab will
      emerge as an effective treatment option for women with preeclampsia.
    
  