
    
      Background:

      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) affects half of all individuals over their lifetime.CVD is the
      leading cause of all non-communicable disease (NCD) deaths, and is projected to increase by
      15% worldwide between 2010 and 2020. A wealth of evidence and international guidelines
      support the use of low-cost, evidence-based medication, for the management of established
      CVD.

      Study aim:

        1. To develop and test the usability of a multifaceted, information-technology intervention
           among patients with a history of myocardial infarction (MI) and their healthcare
           providers.

        2. To develop, contextualize and assess the efficacy of patient-directed text messages as a
           means of improving medication adherence among myocardial Infraction patients in
           Shanghai, China.

        3. To test the usability and efficacy of text message reminders aimed at modifying major
           health risk behaviors including smoking and diet among MI patients.

      Methods:

      Study design overview:

      This is a short-term, quasi-experimental, pre-post intervention study designed to evaluate
      the feasibility and effectiveness of using mobile phone app and text messaging as a means to
      improve adherence to medication for secondary prevention, promote behavior change, and reduce
      risk factors among MI patients.

      Study setting and study team:

      The study is going to be conducted in Shanghai and Haikou, Hainan, China. There are four
      academic collaborating institutions in this study: Global Health Research Center, Duke
      Kunshan University (DKU), China, Population Health Research Institution (PHRI), Canada and
      School of Public Health, Fudan University, China and Hainan Nongken General Hospital, China.

      The DKU research team plays the leading role to design the study, develop the app and
      messages and oversee the entire implementation process. The PHRI research team will primarily
      work with the DKU research team on the physician-facing app and patient-facing messages
      development. The Fudan and Hainan research team will be responsible for local implementation.

      Pre-intervention preparation:

      Development of provider software application: To understand the actual needs and barriers
      that physicians face in using the app, the DKU research team will conduct assessment among
      physicians in the three community healthcare centers. The assessment is done through a short
      survey and key informant interview. Information from the survey and interviews will inform
      app design and development decisions.

      Development of patient-centered message bank: The DKU research team will work with the PHRI
      research team to develop the message bank through literature review search. The message bank
      will cover five domains to help MI patients with medical adherence and lifestyle
      modification: 1) medical adherence; 2) diet; 3) exercise; 4) smoking cessation; 5) general
      heart health (see appendix 4 for the messages). To contextualize the messages and ensure its
      comprehensibility to patients, the Fudan and Hainan research team will invite physicians to
      validate the message (see appendix 5 for the message validation survey). Physicians will be
      asked to score each message in terms of its likability and comprehensibility. Two messages in
      each domain with the lowest score will be deleted. Considering that reading texts might be
      difficult for some patients, voice message option is also available for patients to choose.
      The contents of both the texts and voice messages are identical.

      Intervention:

      The study is designed to have two interventions targeting physicians and patients
      respectively. Only one community healthcare center will receive the intervention and the
      intervention period is designed to be 12 weeks. The Fudan and Hainan research team will be
      responsible for recruiting physicians and each physician will recruit MI patients to
      participate in the study. Physicians play dual role in this study: 1) as subjects who will
      use the app to prescribe medications and 2) as collaborators who will help recruit patients
      and collect their baseline data. The DKU research team will train the physicians how to use
      the app before they start to recruit patients.

        1. Provider-level intervention:

           Physicians will use the smart phone application, specifically designed for this study,
           to help them with medications prescription and patient recruitment. The prescription
           recommendations are based on the NICE (National Institute for Health and Care
           Excellence) guidelines 2014 in MI secondary prevention.

        2. Patient-level intervention:

      Patients that are eligible to participate will receive automated, periodic evidence-based
      text messages about consistent medication use and lifestyle modification via text-messaging.
      They will receive standard ongoing care as well as regular unidirectional text messages via
      text or voice message over a 12 week period.

      Process Evaluation:

      Qualitative research methods will be used to obtain feedback from both the providers and the
      patients on the physician app and the short messaging system (SMS). To assess whether the
      intervention is implemented as planned and to gain their user feedback, the DKU, Fudan and
      Hainan research team will conduct phone and face-to-face interviews respectively in the
      middle and at the end of the intervention. All questions will be open-ended allowing
      participants to raise important issues even if they are not covered in our original topic
      guide. Four physicians and eight patients (two from each physician) will be invited to
      participate in the process evaluation interview. The mid-term evaluation (between 4-6 weeks
      after the intervention begins) are all one-on-one in-depth interviews. The final-term
      evaluation will consist of one focus group discussion among the four physicians and
      individual interviews to patients.

      Data management and analysis:

      Questionnaires require translation before coding and further data analysis can occur. In
      addition to coding and translation, interviews and focus groups will both be recorded and
      require transcription. All data entry will be performed by the Fudan and Hainan research team
      and will occur as close to the time of data collection to ensure accuracy.

      Descriptive analysis will be used to describe the rate of adherence among the patients.
      Percentage differences in the proportion of patients who adhered to medication use and those
      who did not adhere to the medication use will be compared. Characteristics will be compared
      at baseline and after follow-up by using independent t tests for continuous variables
      (physical activity and diet) or chi-square tests for categorical variables (smoking status).
      Analyses will be performed using stata, version 12. Lastly, the interview and focus groups
      transcriptions will be coded for emerging themes using QSR Nvivo.

      Risks and benefits:

      This study offers participants the prospect of direct benefits: 1) it may potentially improve
      patient medical adherence; 2) it may potentially help patients build healthy lifestyle; 3) it
      may give guidance for physicians on evidence-based medicines prescription; 4) it may
      facilitate interactions between patients and physicians.

      No foreseeable risks are anticipated for physicians. As for patients, one concern is that the
      exercise promotion messages, if taken without cautions, may to some degree increase the risk
      of heart attack for some patients. To eliminate this concern, the text messages suggest
      patients consult their doctors first before taking any exercise to reduce such risk to
      minimal. The risk of possible breach of confidentiality is addressed through using vigorous
      methods to protect the identity of subjects. After the data are collected, entered, and
      digitized, the investigators will store identifiable information in a separate data set and
      remove all such information from the main database (same to the information collected at the
      pre-intervention stage). The app will generate a unique identification number (ID) for each
      physician and patient for confidentiality use. Linkage will be through the study ID and
      performed only when necessary. Baseline and follow-up surveys will be linked by study ID
      only. As for the information collected on the app, they cannot be accessed without entering
      the password set by the physicians themselves. Only physicians, programmers and DKU research
      team members have access to it when necessary.
    
  