
    
      By advertising in newspapers, in shops, health clubs, in public places and on social media
      platforms, and by contacting interested persons (by mail and phone) identified publicly
      available websites (e.g. www.ratsit.se), 45 young, healthy men and women will be recruited,
      to participate in the study. Study subjects will be contacted by phone and receive more
      information regarding the study and undergo a preliminary evaluation about eligibility to
      participate. A detailed study information will be sent by mail to study subjects. At the
      screening visit, participants will receive information about the study verbally, and if the
      participant sign the informed consent form, the participant undergo a test of fasting blood
      glucose, HbA1c, and an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). A standardized self-reported
      questionnaire will be used to collect information at the screening visit about smoking
      habits, calcium intake, medical history, medications, previous fractures, physical activity
      and diet habits. Eligible participants is then invited for the randomisation visit. At the
      randomisation visit the study subjects will be asked to refrain from physical exercise, other
      than walking, and keep an unchanged normal diet during the study period. Randomization will
      be carried out by the supplier of LR (BioGaiaAB). The investigators will not have access to
      the randomization code and blinding will be maintained until study end and database lock.
      After randomization, study participants will consume either LR low dose, LR high dose or
      placebo for 30 days. After the 14-day run-in period, all participants will start taking 25 mg
      of oral prednisolone every morning for 7 days. At the 14-day visit, a 24-hour glucose
      monitoring for the following 10 days will be started. At the next visit on day 16, fasting
      blood samples will be drawn in the morning (7-9 am), feces samples provided (within 24 hours
      of collection) and participants will start the oral GC treatment on that visit after blood
      samples have been drawn. At the 19-, 23- and 30-day visits, blood samples will be drawn in
      the morning (7-9 am for all visits, prior to taking the GC dose on the 19-day visit). Feces
      samples will also be collected at these visits. Included participants will be asked to come
      to the clinic and report compliance and possible adverse events during the duration of the
      study and at all visits.

      Analyses

      Questionnaires

      A standardized questionnaire will be used to collect information at the screening visit about
      smoking habits, calcium intake, medical history (e.g. stroke, rheumatoid arthritis and
      diabetes), medications and previous fractures. Current physical activity and diet habits will
      be assessed by self-reported questionnaires (IPAQ and FFQ) at baseline. Daily intake of
      calcium will be calculated from the questionnaires about calcium-containing foods (e.g. dairy
      products, vegetables etc). Gastrointestinal symptoms will be analysed using the GSRS
      questionnaire.

      Serum, plasma and stool analyses

      Serum and plasma will be collected in the morning (fasting), frozen, and stored at -80° C
      until further analyses. Samples from day 16 will be drawn prior to oral GC treatment start. A
      maximum of 30 ml blood will be collected at each visit. Fasting blood glucose will be
      analysed using fresh blood at screening (with the addition of HbA1c at screening), and days
      16 (GC start), 19, 23 and 30. Serum and plasma samples will be frozen immediately and kept
      until analysis. Analyses of serum or plasma and bone markers (osteocalcin, P1NP and CTX) will
      be performed using commercially available immunosorbent assays. Stool samples will be
      collected within 24 hours since produced and stored in -80oC until further analysis.

      Oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT)

      At the screening visit, a morning fasting blood glucose will be measured, followed by
      ingestion of 24 cl of glucose syrup, containing 75 grams of sugar. After 2 hours another
      blood glucose measurement will be performed. Inclusion of the study will depend on having a
      normal fasting blood glucose (≤6 mmol/l) and OGTT (<7.8 mmol/l).

      Markers of intestinal permeability and intestinal inflammation

      Analyses of markers for intestinal permeability (endotoxin analysis, PyroGeneTM Recombinant
      Factor C Endpoint Fluorescent Assay) will be performed using a fluorescent assay at day 16,
      day 19, and day 23. Markers of intestinal inflammation (lipocalin-2 and calprotectin) will
      also be analyzed in feces and serum.

      Analyses of gut microbiota - exploratory analyses

      DNA from feces samples will be isolated using a well-validated protocol and perform PCR to
      amplify the variable regions (V4) of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene using barcoded primers.
      Metagenome analyses of all samples will also be performed.

      Continuous glucose monitoring

      On study day 14, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) will be started, allowing a 48-hour
      observation period prior to commencement of oral prednisolone dosing. CGM will be used from
      day 14 until prednisolone treatment cessation on day 23. The Dexcom G6 system will be used
      for CGM on all participants.
    
  