
    
      The study will be organized on an outpatient basis at the Toronto Centre for Advanced
      Reproductive Technology (TCART) and at the Lifequest Centre for Reproductive Medicine. The
      study will involve 100 women aged 38-43 years.

      In the first cycle, study participants will be randomly assigned to either placebo or COQ10
      capsules, (AOR - Advanced Orthomolecular Research Inc. 19 St NE Calgary, Alberta, NHPD
      registration codes 135307 and 113519, respectively). Study participants will take 600 mg of
      CoQ10 orally or identical placebo capsules for up to 5 cycles if pregnancy does not occur.
      All subjects will commence controlled ovarian stimulation (COH) using highly purified human
      menopausal gonadotropins (Menopur; Ferring Inc., North York,Ontario Canada). The starting
      dosage of Menopur will range from 75IU to 250 IU daily S.C. will be determined by the
      physician and will begin on the third day of menses, and will continue until the day prior to
      human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) administration. The dosage will not be changed and must be
      maintained for the duration of the study. Menopur will continue daily until follicular
      development is considered adequate. (at least 1 follicle is >17 mm, and the E2 level is
      acceptable for the number of follicles present). The patient will receive an injection of hCG
      250 mcg (Ovidrel, EMD Serono,Oakville, Ontario, Canada ), SC for the final stage of
      follicular maturation. Insemination will be by intrauterine insemination (IUI). Luteal
      support will consist of progesterone suppositiories 200mg (Kingsway Pharmacy,Toronto, Ontario
      Canada) vaginally per day starting on the day of IUI and will continue for 2 weeks until the
      serum beta hCG result. At the end of each cycle serum beta hCG will be drawn and if women are
      pregnant CoQ10/ placebo will be discontinued. If pregnant, luteal support will continue until
      10 weeks gestation. If the patient is not pregnant she will have a cycle off COH but may
      attempt to conceive naturally. In the third cycle, COH using the same dose of Menopur as in
      the first cycle will be performed with IUI as in cycle one. If not pregnant, another cycle
      off treatment will be followed by the fifth cycle in which COH and IUI is performed..

      The study endpoints will be:

        1. Primary outcome measure will be pregnancy rate.

        2. Secondary outcome measures will include:

             -  Peak estradiol level

             -  The number of follicles > 14 mm on day of hCG

             -  Number of days of stimulation / units of Menopur needed
    
  