
    
      Rationale:

      Contrary to hypoxia, many physicians do not consider hyperoxia harmful for their patients. To
      prevent hypoxia, superfluous administration of oxygen is common practice, and hyperoxia is
      seen in many patients, especially on Intensive Care units. However, an increasing number of
      studies not only confirm the known negative pulmonary effects of chronic oxygen oversupply,
      but also important and more acute circulatory effects, characterised by decreased cardiac
      output (CO), increased systemic vascular resistance (SVR), and impaired microvascular
      perfusion. These phenomena can impair perfusion of organs, which may outweigh higher arterial
      oxygen content, resulting in a net loss of oxygen delivery and perturbed organ function. This
      may for example be responsible for hyperoxia-associated increased infarct size and increased
      mortality after myocardial infarction and cardiac arrest. The underlying mechanisms are not
      clarified yet, but probably involve increased oxidative stress with systemic
      vasoconstriction.

      On the other hand, hyperoxia can also induce several favourable effects. The majority of
      ICU-patients have a systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) with concomitant
      vasoplegia due to trauma, sepsis or ischemia/reperfusion injury. Vasoconstriction could
      benefit these patients with severe SIRS, reducing the need for intravenous volume
      resuscitation and vasopressor requirements. Furthermore, hyperoxia may exert a
      preconditioning effect in patients with ischemia/reperfusion injury and prevent new
      infections due to its antibacterial properties.

      Hypothesis:

      Hyperoxia during SIRS ultimately has unfavourable effects on organ function, especially on a
      longer term.

      Objectives:

        1. To study the short- and long-term effect of two different PaO2 targets on circulatory
           status, organ dysfunction and outcome.

        2. To study underlying mechanisms of hyperoxia by determining differences in oxidative
           stress response between the hyperoxic and the normoxic patients.

      Study design:

      Randomized, prospective multicentre clinical trial

      Study population:

      Patients admitted to the Intensive Care unit with ≥ 2 positive SIRS-criteria and an expected
      ICU stay of more than 48 hours

      Intervention:

      We will investigate 2 groups with PaO2 targets both within the range of current practice

      Group 1: target PaO2 120 (105 - 135) mmHg (high-normal)

      Group 2: target PaO2 75 (60 - 90) mmHg (low-normal)
    
  