
    
      Statins (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors) have been used to treat
      hypercholesterolemia. Besides the lipid lowering effects, they also act as anti-inflammatory
      and anti-cancer agents. Recently the investigators demonstrated a synergistic cytotoxicity
      between Simvastatin and Irinotecan in human lung cancer cells. Simvastatin enhances
      Irinotecan-induced apoptosis by inhibition of proteasome activity. All of these additional
      actions may counteract harmful effects of smoking-induced chronic inflammation. These
      properties together with a high safety profile have made Statins more attractive drug for
      small cell lung cancer (SCLC), the highly smoking-related cancer.

      Given the promising preclinical anti-tumor and anti-inflammatory effects of Simvastatin in
      SCLC, recently the investigators conducted a phase II study of Simvastatin and
      Irinotecan/Cisplatin (IP) chemotherapy in chemo-naïve- patients with Extensive disease-small
      cell lung cancer (ED-SCLC). The 1-year survival rate was 39.3%. The median overall survival
      (OS) and progression free survival (PFS) was 11.0 months and 6.1 months, respectively.
      Overall relative risk (RR) was 75%. The most common toxicity was neutropenia (67%). The
      efficacy was significantly associated with smoking-status. Compared with never-smokers,
      ever-smokers had higher RR (40% v 78%, P=0.01) and longer PFS (2.5 months v 6.4 months,
      P=0.018) and showed a trend toward improved OS (9.0 months v 11.2 months, P=0.095). The
      effect of smoking on survival was apparent when subdividing ever smokers according to
      pack-years (PY). Ever-smokers who smoked > 65 PY showed significantly longer OS compared to
      ever-smokers who smoked <= 65 PY or never-smokers (20.6 months v 10.6 months v 9.0 months,
      log-rank P=0.032). In multivariate analysis, PY > 65 was predictive for longer survival
      (hazard ratio) HR=0.377 [95% CI (confidence interval), 0.157-0.905]). These findings suggest
      that the addition of Simvastatin to Irinotecan and Cisplatin improved efficacy in
      ever-smokers with ED-SCLC. The survival benefit of this combination seems apparent in
      heavy-smokers.
    
  