
    
      The study design includes 2 phases (10 months each) for development and evaluation of the
      testing and intervention protocol. The last 4 months of the study will be devoted to
      preparation of a larger randomized controlled clinical trial grant submission. Mixed methods
      will be used in both phases.

      Phase I will focus on developing, testing and refining the measurement protocol and bedside
      tailored low intensity pedaling exercise (Ex) program using mixed methods. During this
      10-month phase, researchers plan to enroll 10 participants who are admitted to a medical
      surgical (MS) unit and meet study eligibility criteria. Investigators will implement our
      proposed testing and intervention protocol,obtain feedback and make modifications as
      necessary. For this purpose the study team will use a process improvement framework with
      rapid cycle improvements. The outcome for Phase I will be development of a manual of
      operations for the testing and Ex protocol that will be implemented in Phase II.

      Phase II (10 months) will randomly assign 60 patients over the age of 65 years who meet
      medical criteria and are admitted to a medical surgical (MS) hospital unit at the VA Palo
      Alto Health care system (VAPA HCS) to one of two groups, 1) low intensity bedside pedaling
      exercise or 2) usual care. All participants will be asked to complete questionnaires, undergo
      a Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), cognitive testing and a blood draw prior to
      participation in the Ex program (baseline). All testing and blood draw will be repeated
      within 24 hours prior to discharge (release from the hospital to home or other facility,
      indicating that their condition has been resolved or adequately treated or is stabilized
      during their hospital stay) from the hospital(approximately at 5-6 days). Participants will
      be followed for the duration of the hospital stay, an expected average length of 5-6 days.
      Additionally, all participants will be asked to continue to exercise after discharge to home
      for 4 weeks. All tests will be performed at baseline (prior to intervention), within 24 hours
      prior to discharge (release from the hospital to home or other facility, indicating that
      their condition has been resolved or adequately treated or is stabilized during their
      hospital stay)from the hospital, on average 5-6 days) and again at 4 weeks post discharge.
      The focus of Phase II is safety and feasibility of the intervention and association with
      outcome measures. The length of stay (LOS) at VAPA HCS is approximately 6 days. Thus, the
      study investigators anticipate that each individual will be enrolled approximately 5 days and
      participate in an average of 8 training sessions. Investigators will also examine the
      association between physical activity levels at baseline (pre Ex) and myokines and associated
      changes in myokines after intervention.

      A description of the Ex program:

      Individually tailored, low intensity bedside pedaling exercise:

      Once participants complete the testing protocol they will be instructed in the bedside Ex
      program. Exercise intensity and duration will be individualized to the subject's physical
      limitations and tolerance. The PI is an Adult Nurse Practitioner (ANP), and will supervise
      and monitor exercise response including Heart Rate (HR), Blood Pressure (BP), Rating of
      Perceived Exertion (RPE), and symptoms (intensity, duration). Exercise will be terminated
      according to the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) criteria. Ex will consist of
      progressively increased pedaling exercise performed initially for one-two minutes, three
      times or more daily as tolerated. Pedaling exercise will be progressively increased as
      tolerated and appropriate. Cycle ergometry has been shown to be an effective exercise
      modality to maintain muscle strength and aerobic capacity in a variety of age groups. While
      inpatient exercise prescriptions utilize walking as the primary mode of exercise, recent
      studies show that despite known benefits of ambulation, multiple barriers prevent routine
      implementation in practice settings. The study investigators propose to examine the
      feasibility of a portable bedside pedaling device for exercise. This modality eliminates
      dependence on hospital staff to supervise ambulation and allows patients greater access to
      optimal treatment recommendations to maintain functional independence. This exercise modality
      is not new, but bedside use is novel. The pedaling device is sturdy and portable and will be
      placed at the foot of an anchored chair. Subjects will be able to pedal without fear of
      falling or interference from other devices. This exercise will be performed in addition to
      their normal ambulation requirements. All catheters and other devices will be secured so that
      accidental removal will not occur during the Ex session.

      Adherence is a key component of this study and will be monitored during both phases of the
      pilot study. Adherence will be assessed by direct observation from PI/staff. Investigators
      will also examine potential barriers and facilitators to exercise training adherence by
      obtaining qualitative feedback from study participants. The qualitative information will
      provide greater depth of understanding to improve the delivery of the intervention as well as
      assist in optimizing adherence.

      The Study team will also ask participants if they are willing to be contacted regarding
      future research that may be of interest to them.
    
  