
    
      Failure to wean from mechanical ventilatory support occurs when the magnitude of respiratory
      system loading exceeds its capacity to respond. Extubation success depends on the condition
      being resolved or improved. Gas exchange capacity, respiratory muscle strength, laryngeal
      function and cough strength, nutritional status and psychological state can all lead to
      extubation failure. However, efforts to reduce the work of breathing might offer an
      alternative strategy.

      Studies recently carried out in both paediatric and adult populations disclose the serious
      consequences of failed extubation, namely prolonged intensive care and hospital stays,
      greater mortality rates and increased care costs.

      Gas flow in an airway can be either laminar or turbulent. There needs to be a greater
      pressure differential to drive a turbulent flow than a laminar one. Helium is an inert gas
      with no systemic biological effects (at standard temperature and pressure).

      The low density and viscosity of Helium means that its substitution for nitrogen in air
      allows laminar flow to be maintained at much higher flow rates, and flow rates to be
      maintained at much lower working pressures (5). As a result, the use of helium-oxygen
      mixtures (Heliox21) has potential to reduce work of breathing, and also to limit dynamic gas
      trapping through increased cavity emptying, and altered lung mechanics/ forced expiratory
      pressures. As a result, Heliox21 has been used as a respiratory therapeutic bridge for over
      30 years, with demonstrable advantage in the management of conditions including tracheal
      obstruction and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

      In theory, the use of Heliox21 should reduce work of breathing by improving the balance
      between work demand and capacity during the process of weaning patients from mechanical
      ventilation. In general studies of the use of Heliox21 after extubation have been limited.
      Thus, we aim to extend our knowledge of the potential role for Heliox21 in the
      post-extubation environment of the Intensive Care Unit. Whilst Heliox21 has generally been
      administered through a simple face-mask (+/- rebreathing bag), the development of the
      HAMILTON G5 AVEA ventilator now allows the accurate administration of Heliox21 (21%
      helium/79% oxygen) with defined inspired fractional oxygen concentrations. This advent offers
      the means to safely administer helium as an adjunct to non-invasive ventilatory support.

      Main inclusion criteria:

      All patients with a predicted requirement for post extubation non-invasive ventilatory
      support continuous positive airway pressure/bilevel positive airway pressure/noninvasive
      ventilation(CPAP/BiPAP/NIV) will be eligible.

      The primary outcome measure:

      The difference between the frequency to tidal volume (f/VT) ratio* after four hours of
      Heliox21 and the f/VT ratio after four hours of Air O2.
    
  