
    
      This single-blind randomized controlled trial was conducted between the February and December
      of 2019. The study was carried out at tertiary care hospital in Turkey. The population of
      this study consisted of the puerperal women who performed vaginal birth at the maternity unit
      of a hospital.

      Considering the possibility that participants of the sample might be lost or abandon the
      study, 120 mothers who met the criteria of inclusion to experimental (E) (n=60) and control
      (C) (n=60) groups were included and assigned to both groups using the permuted block
      randomization method.The investigators randomly allocated the participants either to the
      intervention group (which received the personalized care), or to control group (which
      received the routine care). The mothers in the experimental group (60) were administered
      personalized care while those in the control group (60) were given the routine care.

      The pre-test procedure was performed when the mothers' statuses were stabilized one hour
      after the admittance to the maternity service. The post-test procedure was conducted one hour
      before the discharge. Routine care was provided to the mothers in both groups. Routine care
      means the standard care service provided to mothers following the birth. The standard
      postpartum basic care components were determined based on the guides and protocols of the
      hospital. There are three core components of postpartum care regarding the routine care
      service.

      The data were collected using the ''Personal Information Form'', ''Postpartum Physical
      Symptom Severity Scale'' and ''Perceived Readiness for Discharge After Birth Scale-Form for
      New Mothers (PRDABS-FNM)''.

      Statistical analyses were performed using IBM SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Sciences)
      Statistics 22 software. Descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation, frequency and
      percentage values) were used to assess the results. Kolmogorov-Smirnov test was used to
      review the goodness of fit to normal distribution.
    
  