
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of DRD2 antagonist/ClpP agonist ONC206 (ONC206).

      II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ONC206 as single agent in children and
      young adults with diffuse midline glioma (DMG) who completed at least one line of prior
      therapy that included focal radiation therapy. (Arm A).

      III. To determine the MTD of ONC206 in combination with focal radiation therapy in newly
      diagnosed children and young adults with DMG. (Arm B).

      IV. To determine the MTD of ONC206 in combination with re-irradiation in children and young
      adults with first progression of DMG. (Arm C).

      V. To determine the MTD of ONC206 in children and young adults with recurrent primary
      malignant brain tumors. (Arm D).

      VI. To assess the concentration of ONC206 in tumor tissue from children and young adults with
      DMG and compare to plasma drug levels pre-surgery. (Target validation).

      VII. To assess the concentration of ONC206 in tumor tissue in children and young adults with
      recurrent primary malignant brain tumors and compare to plasma drug levels pre-surgery.
      (Target validation).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To describe the pharmacokinetics associated with ONC206 without radiation therapy. (Arms A
      and D).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine changes in cranial nerve scoring. II. Determine clinical responses within the
      confines of a phase 1/expansion study.

      III. Evaluate correlation of amount of serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) circulating tumor
      DNA (ctDNA) with clinical outcome.

      IV. Evaluate association of clinical outcomes with anatomic location of tumor, H3K27 mutation
      status and other partner mutations.

      V. Pharmacodynamic (PD) effects in tumor tissue. VI. Assess the overall response rate to
      ONC206 in patients with prior ONC201 exposure.

      VII. Assess pharmacodynamics (PD) of ONC206 and perform exploratory pharmacokinetic (PK)-PD
      analyses to investigate and identify the relationship between drug exposure and clinical
      endpoints for both safety and efficacy.

      VIII. To assess Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) and cognitive measures.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ONC206. Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 arms.

      ARMS A and D: Patients receive ONC206 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1, 8, 15, 22.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARMS B and C: Patients undergo standard of care radiation therapy daily 5 days a week and
      receive ONC206 as in Arm A.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3
      months for up to 5 years.
    
  