
    
      The study involved three separate assessment visits in each year: 1) the last week before
      Ramadan (Pre-R) which represented the baseline period; 2) the last week of Ramadan (R); 3)
      and during the last week of the month following Ramadan(Post-R). Each patient served as his
      own control and was required to take the prescribed clopidogrel dose daily and chart the
      intake in a dosing diary. The duration of fasting was approximately 12 h from sunrise to
      sunset(the time of abstinence from food) during a 30 day period. The assessment in each of
      the three visits involved clinical exam and blood sampling for hematologic and metabolic
      tests

      Body weight and height were performed by a well-trained staff member. Weight was measured
      while the subjects were minimally clothed without shoes using digital scales and recorded to
      the nearest 0.1 kg. Body Mass Index (BMI) was calculated as body weight (kg) divided by
      squared height in meters (m2). Physical examination was carried out in all participants
      including systolic (SBP), diastolic (DBP) blood pressure, and heart rate. The visit is
      completed by a questionnaire on diet beginning 2 days before the blood sampling. No special
      nutritional regimen was applied to the participants during the study. All subjects were
      encouraged to continue their usual lifestyle and activities.

      The rate of hypoglycemic (symptomatic and non-symptomatic) and hyperglycemic episodes
      requiring emergency department (ED) admission was recorded within the three periods of the
      study. Hypoglycemia was defined as blood glucose <3.5 mmol/l. Compliance to current treatment
      (clopidogrel, oral hypoglycemic agents,statins...) was assessed by the attending physician
      based on interview and pill count. Venous blood samples were collected from the enrolled
      participants during the three time points. The time of blood sampling in the study was 9-10
      a.m., at which all participants were fast. For the purpose of the study,we asked our patients
      to take clopidogrel treatment as late as possible.

      As Ramadan month during the study period has coincided with summer season,clopidogrel was
      generally taken between midnight and1 am. We added this detail in the paper..
    
  