
    
      The supra-malleolar leg ulcers of venous origin, in the C6 stage of the CEAP (unhealed venous
      ulcer), are characterized by the presence of two pulses (pedis and posterior tibial) or a
      Systolic Pressure Index (SPI) ≥ 0, 7 or a pressure of the big toe ≥ 60 mmHg or an arterial
      echo-doppler of the lower limbs revealing neither hemodynamic stenosis nor arterial
      occlusion.

      The HAS working group defines a pure venous ulcer as a leg wound that has not healed for more
      than 1 month, related to an ambulatory venous hyperpressure. This hyperpressure may be
      secondary to superficial vein reflux and / or deep vein reflux or obstruction and / or calf
      pump deficiency. In the pure venous ulcer, there is no arterial involvement. The
      predominantly venous mixed ulcer is an ulcer with a preferentially venous mechanism but
      accompanied by a moderate arterial occlusion of the lower limbs which does not explain the
      symptomatology alone.

      The fundamental element in the management of venous or predominantly venous leg ulcers with
      an SPI> 0.8 is venous compression as recommended by the June 2006 HAS.

      Numerous clinical evidence confirms its importance for improving the chances of closure of
      this chronic lesion and shortening the healing time compared to the absence of compression.

      It is a long treatment that can last several months, very restrictive for the patient and all
      the more so, that the perception of an improvement is far from immediate. In addition, the
      affected population is usually elderly, and the ulcer is a source of permanent discomfort,
      affecting the quality of life of the subjects and explaining frequent social isolation and
      depressed mood. Moreover, the cost of this treatment is sometimes dissuasive with a dependent
      burden for the patient who, sometimes, is unacceptable.

      In 2016, a system of re-usable compression stockings (Venotrain® Ulcertec, BAUERFEIND,
      France), and bringing an interface pressure of 30 to 45 mmHg to the ankle according to the
      prescription, was taken over by the Health Insurance in France. 'indication' Ulcer of venous
      origin or predominantly venous component, stage C6 of the CEAP classification (ie not healed)
      with a systolic pressure index greater than 0,9 '. This type of device has demonstrated an
      efficiency of the same order as the multi-type or multi-band systems for the closure of
      venous ulcers.

      The investigators can therefore hope for the use of this type of stockings, a simplification
      of the care, an improvement of the comfort of wearing and thus a reduction of the feeling of
      frustration on the part of the patients with main consequence a better acceptability.
    
  