
    
      The "strong pulse disease" was treated by acupuncture, phlebotomy and leeches from 2600 to c.
      Modern history began when in 1628 William Harvey described the circulatory system and in 1733
      stephen hales made the first blood pressure measurement. In 1896 was recognized as a clinical
      entity, thanks to the invention of the sphygmomanometer by Riva-rocci and in 1913 janeway
      coined the term "hypertensive vascular disease". The metabolic syndrome was described since
      1988 as syndrome x, with the intention of showing how the cardiovascular risk factors are
      grouped together: obesity, hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia and arterial hypertension. Earlier, in
      1920, Kylin had described that diabetes, high blood pressure and gout were associated, but
      not related to cardiovascular disease. Syndrome x was later called insulin resistance
      syndrome and, finally, metabolic syndrome or cardiometabolic syndrome. By 1999, the world
      health organization reported what would be the first diagnostic criteria for the metabolic
      syndrome. Soon they were reason for criticism because they were considered impractical,
      because it was necessary to diagnose insulin resistance and microalbuminuria. From then to
      date numerous criteria have been reported, perhaps the most used to date, in adults they are
      the

      3.- NCEP-ATPIII (from the third treatment panel of adults of the national cholesterol
      education program of the United States). The main trigger of this conglomerate of
      atherogenic, prothrombotic, proinflammatory and metabolic factors is obesity, in our country,
      the prevalence of overweight and obesity in adults increased from 62 to 70% in just five
      years. In the last century, in Mexico the energy density of the diet was increased by almost
      24% (26% more carbohydrates and 36% more fat) and physical activity has been reduced In
      Mexico, the prevalence of metabolic syndrome in children and adolescents is 20% and is
      strongly linked to overweight and childhood obesity.

      Mexicans are world leaders in obesity, since one in three Mexicans is overweight due to poor
      diet. In February 2012, the organization for cooperation and economic development (OECD)
      reported that Mexico was the second most overweight or obese country on a list that includes
      40 nations, adding that three out of seven Mexicans have a waistline bigger than they should
      be. Chronic degenerative diseases have displaced infectious diseases as the main causes of
      mortality in Mexico. In 2011, 70 of every 100.00 people died from this disease in the
      country.

      In Mexico, aguilar-salinas reported an age-adjusted prevalence of 13.6% with the criterion of
      the world health organization and 26.6% with the ncep-atpiii criterion in people between 20
      and 69 years old, from the ensa survey. -2000; while González-Villalpando in the Diabetes
      Study of Mexico City reported prevalences of 39.9 and 59.9% for men and women, respectively,
      based on the criteria of the Ncep-ATP III.

      In Mexico, diabetes is the leading cause of blindness acquired in the productive age; as well
      it is the first cause of non-traumatic amputations of the lower limbs and of chronic renal
      failure. Short and long-term complications require medical attention and specialized
      treatments, which means that your care entails overwhelmingly high costs. The Binomial
      insulin resistance/hyperinsulinemia are associated with a significant increase in
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality expressed as atherosclerosis, acute cerebral, cardiac
      or peripheral ischemic syndromes, as well as other pathologies, which due to their
      coexistence and physiopathological co-responsibility has been called metabolic syndrome.

      In 2011 Mexico ranked ninth in the world in the prevalence of diabetes and the projections
      indicate that by the year 2025, the country will occupy the sixth or seventh place. Diabetes
      mellitus is defined as a chronic disease that involves a heterogeneous group of disorders
      that alter the production and use of insulin by the body. The most frequent modality is type
      2, which occurs in adults, although it is increasingly appearing in young people and
      children. When there are sustained increases in blood glucose, decompensation and
      complications occur.

      Therefore, although diabetes is an endocrine disease in its origin, its main manifestations
      are those of a metabolic disease. On average, men with diabetes die at a younger age than
      women (67 versus 70 years respectively) and only 20% of men who have developed this condition
      live more than 75 years, compared to 26% in the case of women. In a study conducted in Mexico
      by Arredondo and Icazaen 2011, the direct costs of care for the disease were calculated in
      all institutions of the health sector and private insurance, which amounted to $ 343,226,541
      m.n. in terms of indirect costs, they were estimated around $ 778,427, 475 m.n. It is
      important to emphasize that for every 100 pesos spent on diabetes in Mexico, approximately 51
      pesos comes from households / family income, which represents a social burden of very high
      impact. Regarding direct costs, of every 100 pesos spent on diabetes in Mexico, 52 are spent
      on 10% of the population, 33 on 48% (insured) of the population and 15 pesos on the remaining
      42% of the population. population (uninsured), so, in terms of allocation and flow of
      economic resources, the problems of inequity and access to health are evident depending on
      the group to which the patients and their families belong.

      During the last decades, mortality due to cardiovascular diseases has increased, until it has
      become the leading cause of death in the United Mexican States.

      Atherosclerosis is among the main causes for the development of these diseases.
      Atherosclerosis plays a central role in three of the first five causes of death in Mexico.
      Atherosclerosis is a multifactorial process caused by risk factors that damage the
      endothelium chronically. Among which are the age, inheritance, smoking, sedentary lifestyle,
      unhealthy diet, elevation of systemic blood pressure, overweight and obesity, elevation of
      glucose levels as well as inadequate serum lipid levels. Dyslipidemias are one of the main
      modifiable factors of cardiovascular risk. The scrutiny and treatment of dyslipidemias is
      cost-effective in the entire population over 20 years of age. In addition, dyslipidemias and
      arterial hypertension are frequently associated and have a synergistic effect on
      cardiovascular risk. The results of the national health and nutrition survey 2006, show that
      overweight and obesity are problems that affect 70% of the population between 30 and 65 years
      of age, the prevalence of diabetes by previous medical diagnosis and of finding of the survey
      in adults at national level was 14.42%, the prevalence of hypertension was 30.8%. The general
      prevalence of hypercholesterolemia was 26.5%, with 28.8% in women and 22.7% in men.

      Situation of overweight and obesity. A reflection of national nutrition surveys in Mexico. In
      2006, according to the results of the ENSANUT, one in three men or women Teenagers are
      overweight or obese. This represents around 5,757, 400 adolescents in the country. The
      prevalence of overweight and obesity of women aged 12 to 19 in 2006 was compared with that of
      1999, using the criteria proposed by the IOTF. There is a modest increase in overweight from
      21.6 to 23.3 (7.8%) and a small absolute increase, but high in relative terms, in obesity:
      from 6.9 to 9.2 (33.3%). The prevalence of overweight, but especially that of obesity, tended
      to increase with age up to 60 years; in ages of 60, 70 and over 80 years, the trend of both
      conditions decreased, both in men and women.

      Quinoa The quinoa (chenopodium quinoa willd., Amaranthaceae), an ancient crop of the
      mountains of the Andes of South America, has quickly gained popularity as a food functional
      and nutraceutical. Due to its properties the organization of agriculture and food nations
      launched the international year of quinoa in 2013 to promote global production, consumption,
      preservation and development of the biodiversity of this crop. It has more than three
      thousand varieties or ecotypes, both cultivated and wild, that can be summarized in five
      basic categories according to the altitudinal gradient: ecotypes of the sea level, the
      altiplano, the inter-Andean valleys, the salt flats and the yungas. It is a grain that has
      outstanding intrinsic characteristics, such as: its wide genetic variability, whose genetic
      pool is extraordinarily strategic to develop superior varieties (precocity, color and grain
      size, resistance to biotic and abiotic factors, the yield of grain and by-products). It has a
      protein of high biological value for its high content of lysine and its balance of essential
      amino acids, is comparable to animal protein. It is widely used, both in human and animal
      feed, using the leaves and tender stems as leafy vegetables, until the phase of the beginning
      of the panning, then the tender panicles are consumed in replacement of inflorescence
      vegetables, and the ripe grain, directly or processed.

      Minerals: magnesium, zinc, iron and potassium. Unfortunately, quinoa contains phytic acid
      that can break down these minerals and reduce their absorption digestive touch.

      Fitoecdisteroides: containing a wide range of therapeutic effects in mammals, including
      anabolic, increasing in performance, anti osteoporotic, and wound healing property.

      flavonoids: these are natural antioxidants of plants, which provide multiple health benefits.
      Two of the best known flavonoids are kaempferol and quercetin, which is found in large
      quantities in quinoa. The amount of quercetin present in quinoa is higher than high
      superfoods in quercetin such as blueberries. These molecules have been shown to have
      anti-inflammatory, antiviral, anti-depressant, anti-carcinogenic properties, although until
      now only in animal studies. There is a lack of studies in humans.

      Antioxidants This implies that you have several substances that help you get rid of free
      radicals, which are responsible for aging and cardiovascular diseases and cancer. In a
      comparison study between 10 foods it was found that quinoa had the highest amount of
      antioxidants.

      Flaxseed Flaxseed corresponds to the flax seed (linum usitatissimum L.) and has been
      traditionally used as an oilseed. In recent decades there has been great interest in it due
      to the recognition that some of its components offer potential benefits for the maintenance
      of health and the prevention of some chronic noncommunicable diseases. Among these compounds
      with biological activity include alpha-linolenic acid, lignans and dietary fiber. Flax seed
      contains various compounds that can offer health benefits such as reduced risk of developing
      cardiovascular diseases, mitigating the effects of diabetes, kidney diseases, obesity, cancer
      of the colon and rectum, reduction of serum cholesterol level and promotion of intestinal
      evacuation.

      Functional foods are foods that resemble traditional ones, but that differ from them in that
      they offer benefits beyond their nutritional and energetic value, in the promotion and
      prevention of some chronic diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, disorders of the
      autoimmune system , diabetes, arthritis and arrhythmia.

      In recent years, the use of linseed (Linum usitatissimum L.) has been promoted as a
      functional food for its health benefits, mainly attributable to its content of omega-3 fatty
      acids, lignans, and dietary fiber (Ostojich, 2012). Due to its exclusive nutrient profile and
      its potential to affect the risk and development of cardiovascular diseases and some cancers,
      especially those dependent on hormones such as breast and prostate, it was also found
      effective in reducing the levels of hemoglobin A1c and cholesterol in individuals with
      cholesterol and high blood sugar.

      Cytotoxicity and micronuclei in oral mucosa. The micronuclei are complete chromosomes or
      fragments of these that remain outside the cell nucleus during mitosis, the study of these
      can give information about the cytotoxicity, as well as environmental effects, as
      occupational. Cytotoxicity is mediated by intrinsic and environmental elements in which the
      individual is exposed, such is the case of the increased presence of micronuclei in metabolic
      syndrome as in diabetic patients, in the literature it has been reported that the consumption
      of foods rich in antioxidants could decrease the number of micronuclei.

      The oral cavity has been described as a tissue in which changes associated with illness can
      be observed, as well as exposure to tobacco, alcoholism, or other harmful substances, as well
      as various entities where there are deficiencies of vitamins and antioxidants, can also
      assess side effects of exposure to chemotherapy or radiotherapy because the latter can affect
      the proliferative capacity of epithelial cells and even of the oropharyngeal tissue that can
      reach ulcers due to thinning.

      The characteristics that can be observed in the micronucleus test are the following:

      Normal cells: the nucleus of these is uniformly dyed, it can be round or oval. These cells
      are considered as totally differentiated cells and no cell divisions are observed.

      Micronucleated cell (cmn): characterized by the presence of a main nucleus and one or more
      small nuclear structures called micronuclei. A micronucleus is round or almond shaped and
      measures between 1/3 and 1/16 of the main nucleus, has the same intensity in focal plane as
      the nucleus and is a fragment or a complete chromosome that at the time of mitosis is not
      integrated into the nucleus. one of the nuclei of the daughter cells.

      Binucleate cell (bn): are cells that contain two main nuclei, usually the nuclei are very
      close and could even make contact, both with morphology and staining similar to a normal
      nucleus and there could be two cells with double genetic material.

      There are few studies that include the micronucleus technique as a tool to evaluate cellular
      cytotoxicity in patients with metabolic syndrome or diabetes mellitus. In 2011, Andreassi et
      al. Studied the frequency of micronuclei in patients with obesity, diabetes and
      cardiovascular disease, finding greater genetic damage assessed by comet assay and
      micronuclei, to the group of diabetic patients and those with cardiovascular damage compared
      to healthy subjects ( p <0.0001 in micronucleated binuclear cells) and longer tails in
      patients with diabetes with cardiovascular damage compared to clinically healthy controls (p
      = 0.01).

      In 2015, a study was conducted by Harishankar et al., Where they evaluated patients with
      diabetes mellitus treated with metformin and glimepiride by means of the micronucleus test in
      exfoliated urothelial cells, finding that those patients treated with metformin and
      glimepirin obtained a higher quantity of micronuclei. In comparison with healthy controls (p
      = 0.001) and those treated with only metformin and metformin with glimepirine, were the
      groups of subjects with the most micronuclei obtained, it is important to mention that they
      used two methods with clear field and with fluorescence stained with iodide of propidium not
      finding differences between both study techniques (Harishankar, 2015).

      Karaman et al., In 2015, studied cytotoxic damage by comet and micronucleus assays, finding
      that patients with metabolic syndrome had longer tails in the comet assay (p <0.001) and also
      a higher number of micronuclei (p <0.001) in this same group compared to the control group.

      So it would be very important to evaluate if the amount of micronuclei decreases when the
      patient performs a diet rich in antioxidants, because it is not yet identified if this could
      not only help the decrease of clinical parameters such as lipid profile, glycemic, BMI ,
      among others; but to identify if cytotoxicity also decreases.
    
  