
    
      Background:

      Health care organizations, including the VA, are investing substantial effort to improve
      quality of care. As part of this process, greater emphasis is being placed on measurement of
      outcomes, and in particular, functional outcomes and satisfaction as reported by patients.

      Objectives:

      ACQUIP was designed to determine whether quality and outcomes of health care improve when
      primary care providers have access to regular assessments of their patients' health and
      function along with routine clinical data and information about clinical guidelines.

      Methods:

      This study was a randomized trial conducted at the General Internal Medicine Clinics of seven
      VA facilities. Each participating GIMC is organized into discrete firms staffed by different
      groups of providers who care for different patients. One randomly selected firm received the
      intervention and one served as control. Patients who made at least one GIMC visit in the last
      year were eligible to participate. Patients were surveyed at baseline to determine active
      medical problems. Subsequent mailings included a general evaluation of health status (SF-36),
      a satisfaction questionnaire and, as appropriate, one of six condition-specific
      questionnaires: the Seattle Angina Questionnaire, the Seattle Obstructive Lung Disease
      Questionnaire, the Hopkins Symptom Checklist (depression), and questionnaires regarding
      diabetes, drinking, and hypertension. Clinical/utilization data were downloaded weekly from
      VISTA and supplemented with data from Austin. The intervention consisted of multi-faceted
      reports to patients' primary care providers (at the time of patient visits) showing trended
      physiologic and health status data and guideline-derived recommendations. Clinicians also
      received periodical reports displaying trends in the health status and satisfaction of their
      patients compared with their clinic as a whole. Reports were supplemented by training on QI
      and health status measures.

      Status:

      Data collection was completed on April 1, 2000. Analysis of trial results will be completed
      January, 2001.
    
  