
    
      Study overview:

      The purpose of the study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of catheter mediated AdVEGF-D
      regenerative gene transfer in patients with refractory angina to whom revascularisation
      cannot be performed.

      Primary objectives:

      To test the efficacy of the therapy to improve functional capacity using 6 minute walking
      test after 6 months follow-up and improvement of symptoms assessed by Canadian Cardiovascular
      Society (CCS) class.

      Secondary objectives:

      Efficacy of the gene transfer to increase to improve functional capacity using 6 minute
      walking test and improvement of symptoms assessed by CCS class after 12 months as well as
      increase in myocardial perfusion assessed 6 months after the gene transfer. In addition, at 6
      and 12 months timepoints, the improvement quality of life (QoL), the use of angina pectoris
      medication, major adverse cardiac events related to coronary artery disease (cardiovascular
      death, myocardial infarction, stroke, revascularization and hospital admission due to
      coronary artery disease) or a combined endpoint of the above (Major Adverse Cardiac Events,
      MACE) will be evaluated.

      Study design:

      ReGenHeart is a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled multicentre phase II study
      which will be conducted at 6 centers. The study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of
      catheter mediated endocardial AdVEGF-D regenerative gene transfer in 180 patients with angina
      pectoris or equivalent symptom despite optimal medical therapy and who are not suitable
      candidates for coronary revascularization with coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) or
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) (refractory angina patients).

      Study population:

      180 patients will be recruited from the six centers in 2 years. The patients will be selected
      for the trial on the basis of medical history, general status, laboratory analyses, coronary
      angiogram and 6-minute walking test. Patients with CCS 2-3 angina pectoris despite optimal
      medical therapy and who are not eligible for coronary angioplasty or bypass operation due to
      diffuse coronary stenosis, small coronary vessels, repeated revascularization or too high
      risk for operation, will be included.

      The number of subjects to be recruited and randomized to the trial will be 180 (2:1 ratio to
      the treatment and control groups).

      Investigational drug product:

      First generation replication-deficient AdVEGF-D produced in 293 cells will be injected into
      ten sites in the endocardium. The dose of 1x1011 vp in a total volume of 2 ml (10 times 0.2
      ml) will be used. Control patients will be treated and operated exactly in the same way
      except that placebo (buffer solution without gene) injection into the myocardium is used.
    
  