
    
      Eating disorders (EDs) are the most common psychiatric disorder affecting young women and
      contribute with serious psychological, social, physical health complications, and a high
      mortality rate.

      The first general treatment goal of EDs is to address medical complications and suicide risk,
      and then pathological health effects of the EDs such as bingeing and vomiting. Thereafter,
      the aim is to address ED psychopathology and behaviors via different forms of psychotherapy.
      Medical treatment is also used to treat comorbidities.

      Treatment of EDs using standard of care (SOC) often implies a reduction in physical activity,
      and exercise is often prohibited during the intense phase of weight restoration. Since many
      patients for lengthy periods of time use excessive exercise as a way of compensatory behavior
      for calorie intake, the sudden stop in physical activity may trigger anxiety and lack of
      compliance during the weight restoration program. In addition, many ED patients have
      osteopenia, reduced muscle mass and show signed of depressiveness, all of which benefits from
      physical activity.

      In order to change unhealthy exercise in patients with eating disorders, it may be beneficial
      to experience exercise in a novel way as part of the treatment for EDs. The number of studies
      describing supervised exercise for patients with EDs are few, especially for studies
      examining the effects of implementing exercise in the treatment of EDs in a Danish context.
      The National Clinical Guidelines suggest that supervised physical activity should be
      considered in the weight gaining phase as a supplement for common treatment for patients with
      anorexia nervosa (AN), although there is no description of how this intervention should be
      implemented (Sundhedsstyrelsen 2005). Knowledge concerning patients' pathological use of
      training and how this could be managed during rehabilitation is inadequate.

      The STRONG_2 project will compare the effects of supervised strength training as add on to
      standard of care (SOC) vs. SOC alone, in patients with EDs at the Mental Health Center
      Ballerup (PCB) in the Capital Region of Denmark. Training effects on health parameters
      including muscle strength, eating disorder psychopathology and pathological exercise will be
      explored.

      The STRONG_2 study will enable an increased understanding of the effects of supervised
      strength training on muscle strength, increase in muscle mass, and improved bone health,
      metabolism as well as ED psychopathology.
    
  