
    
      Fractures of the neck of the femur represent an estimated cost to society that exceeds ten
      billion dollars annually in the USA only.

      Fractures have been treated with immobilization, traction, amputation, and internal fixation
      throughout history. Immobilization by casting, bracing, or splinting a joint above and below
      the fracture was used for most long bone fractures.

      Several studies have suggested that reduction and fixation of an Intracapsular fracture of
      the hip with multiple pins or screws is associated with a lower rate of morbidity and
      mortality than treatment with prosthetic replacement. With improved methods of fixation and a
      tendency toward earlier weight-bearing, internal fixation is believed to be a better mode of
      treatment for younger, more active patients.

      On the other hand, the internal fixation procedure may result with number of possibilities
      for serious complications and biomechanical disadvantages, leading to the device failure.
      This led to a growing tendency to prefer total or partial hip replacement as the common
      treatment for intracapsular fracture, although the internal fixation is the favorable
      procedure in the professional literature.

      OrthoMediTec has developed the WaisFix100i device, a new concept for Intracapsular Femoral
      Fracture Fixation and bone grafting using minimally invasive procedures. The WaisFix100i
      combines a new and unique Internal Triangular Cage nail fixator and three lag screws.

      The Internal Triangular Cage is inserted into the femoral neck as a strong, solid beam
      structure to guide and hold the screws in place. The cage supplies the structure to hold the
      bone graft and screws at the fracture site.

      The objectives of this single arm, multi-center, prospective study, are to evaluate the
      safety and efficacy of using the WaisFix100i device in intracapsular femoral fracture
      fixation surgery.
    
  