
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the biochemical response rate (> 75% decrease in P-MAPK and/or P-AKT) with
      daily oral OSI-774 (erlotinib) for 14 consecutive days in patients with early stage, operable
      NSCLC.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerance of daily oral OSI-774 (erlotinib) as pre-operative
      treatment for early stage operable NSCLC.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate antiproliferative (Ki-67, p27) and apoptotic (TUNEL assay) tumor responses to
      OSI-774 (erlotinib) with pre-therapy tumor and skin EGFR pathway functional status and
      post-therapy tumor and skin EGFR pathway inhibition in patients with resectable NSCLC treated
      preoperatively with OSI-774 (erlotinib) for 14 days.

      II. Assessment of functional EGFR status: HER1, HER-2, HER3, HER4, PHER1, AKT, P-AKT,
      MAPK-P-MAPK, STAT-3, P-STAT-3, EGFR-III by immunohistochemistry (IHC).

      III. Assessment of proliferative response: Ki67 and p27 by IHC. IV. Assessment of apoptotic
      response: TUNEL assay. V. To study the role of the gastrin-releasing factor and estrogen
      receptor pathways in the sensitivity and resistance of NSCLC to OSI-774 (erlotinib).

      VI. To identify patterns of gene and protein expression pre-therapy and post-therapy that are
      associated with tumor clinical, biochemical, antiproliferative, and apoptotic responses.

      VII. To study the antitumor activity of OSI-774 (erlotinib) in NSCLC tumors
      heterotransplanted in nude mice after surgical resection and to investigate the sequential
      molecular changes associated with tumor response to OSI-774 (erlotinib) therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral erlotinib once daily on days 1-14 or days 1-21 in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo surgical resection on the last day of study drug
      administration (day 14 or day 21). Patients may receive chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy
      after surgical resection at the discretion of the primary physician.

      Patients are followed for 5 years after study registration.
    
  