
    
      Survival of childhood ALL exceeds 80% in an increasing number of many low-middle income
      countries (LMIC). Recent studies have found that the effects of obesity on survival are
      observed within the first several years of diagnosis, thus impacting immediate health
      outcome. Of concern is the developing body of evidence that the effects of obesity may be
      underestimated and its effect on outcome may be even more pronounced when it is defined by
      body composition. An elevated body mass index (BMI) can be comprised of increased fat-free
      mass (FFM) or fat-mass (FM) or a combination of both. Evidence suggests that an increase of
      FM is a stronger predictor of risk of chronic disease rather than BMI. The evaluation of FM
      and FFM appears to have clinical implications in both adult and pediatric oncology,
      particularly in patients with Sarcopenic Obesity (SO) (increased FM and reduced FFM). Among
      children with ALL located in both high income countries (HIC) and LMIC, remediation of poor
      nutritional status during treatment removes its adverse effect on survival at the end of
      treatment. targeting dietary patterns may be a more effective approach when considering
      dietary interventions. One plausible way to examine the association of dietary patterns with
      the development of SO in pediatric ALL is to compare a vegetarian diet to a non-vegetarian
      diet and investigate how they are associated with its development. Children and adolescents
      with ALL at Tata Memorial Center (TMC) are well suited for this investigation because at
      least 30% of children follow a vegetarian diet, are easily identified, and the diets are not
      interchangeable. The benefit of the proposed model eliminates the need for dietary
      intervention prior to the study, which will examine how SO, accumulation of FM and the loss
      of FFM, develops among children and adolescents with ALL adhering to a vegetarian compared to
      non-vegetarian diet. Additionally, this study will examine the interaction of physical
      activity and diet while considering influential variables on the development of SO.
    
  