
    
      This study will be a randomized trial, with two intervention arms: 1) Aerobic training (AT)
      and 2) Combined training (CT) groups. The planned training period will be 12 weeks for each
      group. Patients of both groups will be asked to exercise three times a week. Each session
      will last 80 minutes for each group. Population: We will includ 60 male subjects ≥ 45 years
      old, with established diagnosis of hypertension (of at least one year), treated with
      pharmacological therapy and with resting BP values under acceptable control (systolic BP <150
      mmHg; diastolic BP < 90 mmHg) at admission. All groups of anti-hypertensive drugs will be
      admitted; there will be no restriction on the number of anti-hypertensive drugs taken by the
      patients. Sustained BP increase during the exercise protocol will be managed with the
      administration of furosemide (25-50 mg/daily). Patients who will need further pharmacological
      interventions for lowering BP will be withdrawn from the study. The following exclusion
      criteria will be adopted: secondary hypertension; significant heart valve diseases; signs and
      or symptoms of myocardial ischemia during ergometric test; neurological and or orthopedic
      conditions contraindicating or limiting ET; significant COPD (FEV1 <50%), or symptomatic
      peripheral arterial occlusive disease. Patients will be randomly assigned on 1:1 basis to
      either AT or CT group. The randomization code will be developed with a computer random-number
      generator to select random permuted blocks.

      Exercise training protocols: AT group: every exercise session will include 10 min of warm-up,
      cool-down and flexibility exercises and 60 min of aerobic exercise with cycling and treadmill
      at 60-70% of VO2 peak.

      CT group: patients will perform aerobic and resistance exercises in the same session. In
      order to balance the total amount of exercise, exercise sessions of the CT group will be
      organized as follow: 40 minutes of aerobic training with cycling and treadmill at 60-70% of
      VO2 peak; 20 minutes of resistance training including the following exercises: leg press and
      extension, shoulder press, chest press, low row and vertical traction. all the subjects Each
      strength exercise will be performed by patients at 60% of their maximal voluntary
      contraction. Patients of CT group will performed also 10 min of warm-up, cool-down and
      flexibility exercises. The one maximum repetition test (1RM) will be used to determine the RE
      load.
    
  