
    
      The use of magic in healthcare has been described across a variety of settings. Several
      peer-reviewed publications have described the use of magic to help encourage the recovery of
      motor skills 2. Green et al. reported that after the completion of an intense 2-week
      magic-theme summer camp, patients with spastic hemiplegia significantly increased the usage
      of their affected hand 3. Another investigation sought to study if magic could be used to aid
      in communication with mentally-disabled children 4. This study concluded that magic was
      effective in building trust, improving the subjects' self-esteem, and enriching their
      interpersonal skills.

      Magic has also been partially studied in a surgical context for relieving perioperative
      anxiety. One study sought to evaluate the efficacy of clowns (whose performance included
      magic tricks) in relieving perioperative anxiety 5. Patients that were undergoing surgical
      procedures were placed in either a clown group or non-clown group. These patients were not
      grouped based on surgical procedures, and patients were included that were undergoing one of
      ten different surgeries. Anxiety levels of the pediatric patients were measured in the
      waiting room and induction room immediately prior to anesthesia administration. Additionally,
      parent state and trait anxiety was measured during their child's induction using the
      State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI). Health professionals involved in the surgeries were
      also questioned using a questionnaire developed by the authors to obtain health providers'
      opinion regarding the presence of clowns as administered in the study. Moreover, clowns
      filled out a self-evaluation form regarding how they believed their interaction with the
      child went prior to the surgery. The authors found that the clown group displayed decreased
      anxiety during anesthesia induction but not in the waiting room. They also documented that
      health professionals believed the clowns benefitted the child, but at the same time, a
      majority of the staff discouraged continuance of the program due to interference with
      operating room procedures.

      This study will assess the efficacy of magic therapy services in relieving pediatric patient
      anxiety and parent anxiety in an inpatient setting. It will also measure family satisfaction
      with child life services during the hospital visit and health professional opinions regarding
      such a therapy in an inpatient setting. The primary evaluation method will be through
      surveys. No prior investigations have studied using magic therapy as a primary tool to
      improve the psychological well-being of pediatric patients over the span of an inpatient
      hospitalization. Study and improvement of magic therapy services provides an evidence-based
      approach to improve pediatric patient psychological well-being, assist physicians in
      obtaining pediatric patient cooperation with procedures, and improving the hospitalization
      experience for the family of hospitalized pediatric patients.
    
  