
    
      Objective: This study focuses on exploring David Grant USAF Medical deployer psychological
      status and the coping skills utilized during deployment as well as a needs assessment of
      preferred coping resources.

      Specific Aims:

        -  Aim 1: Describe the post-deployment state of psychological health for COVID-19 Theater
           Hospital (CTH) deployers

        -  Aim 2: Identify the deployer identified COVID-19-related stressors reported post
           deployment

        -  Aim 3: Identify coping and cognition regulating strategies used by deployers in response
           to COVID-19 deployment stressors

        -  Aim 4: Identify deployer coping resource preferences for future deployment support
           packages

      Methods: Recruitment of eligible participants will include email invitations, packets with
      pre-printed needs assessment folders placed next to posters, flyers, and briefing at DGMC
      events. Eligible participants (n=160) returning from COVID Theater Hospital (CTH) deployment
      (est. Oct 2020) will receive a needs assessment that includes:

        1. Patient Health Questionnaire-2 (PHQ-2) is a 2-item screening tool for depression that
           uses the first two items from the 9-item Patient Health Questionnaire. Respondents are
           asked to report symptom frequency ranging from 0 (not at all) to 3 (nearly every day)
           for the following questions, "Over the last 2 weeks, how often have you been bothered by
           any of the following problems: 1) little interest or pleasure in doing things, and 2)
           feeling down, depressed, or hopeless?" Total scores exceeding 2 suggest a positive
           depression screening. Participants who screen positive should be evaluated with the
           PHQ-9 to identify diagnostic depressive disorder criteria. It is important to note that
           all CTH deployers will complete a PHQ-9 during their post-deployment health assessment.
           Construct and criterion validity were established in a sample of 6000 primary care and
           obstetrics patients where the PHQ-2 score had a sensitivity of ≥ 83% and a specificity
           of 92% for major depression. A PHQ-2 score of 3 was identified as the optimal cut point
           as indicated by likelihood ratio and receiver operator characteristic analysis (Kroenke,
           Spitzer, & Williams, 2003). This tool provides a brief, practical, valid, and reliable
           screening instrument.

        2. Generalized Anxiety Disorder-2 (GAD-2) is a 2-item screening tool for Generalized
           Anxiety Disorder. The tool asks respondents to report symptom frequency ranging from 0
           (not at all) to 3 (nearly every day) for the following two questions: "Over the last 2
           weeks, how often have you been bothered by the following problems:1) Feeling nervous,
           anxious or on edge, and, 2) Not being able to stop or control worrying?" A total score
           of 3 points or greater identifies a positive screen and warrants further diagnostic
           evaluation with the GAD-7 for Generalized Anxiety Disorder criteria. It is important to
           note that all CTH deployers will complete a GAD-7 during their post-deployment health
           assessment. The GAD-2 was validated in a randomized sample of 965 primary care patients
           demonstrating a sensitivity of 86% and specificity of 83% with an 0.908 area under the
           curve (95% CI) for a diagnosis of Generalized Anxiety Disorder (Kroenke, Spitzer,
           Williams, Monahan, & Lö, 2007). This tool provides a brief, practical, valid, and
           reliable screening instrument.

        3. Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index-Addendum for PTSD (PSQI-A) is a 7-item questionnaire used
           to examine disruptive nocturnal behaviors (hot flashes, nervousness, traumatic memories,
           anxiety, bad dreams, terror/screaming, acting out dreams) common in adults with PTSD.
           Response items are endorsed for frequency (not during the past month, less than once a
           week, once or twice a week, three or more times a week). Good internal consistency and
           convergent validity were demonstrated with anxiety, depression, sleep quality, combat
           exposure, and PTSD symptoms. The PSQI-A had a Cronbach's #= 0.72 and an average
           inter-item correlation r = 0.44 (range 0.27-0.57) with the PSQI-A total score. Area
           under the curve was 0.81, for a cut point ≥ 4 resulting in 71% sensitivity, 82%
           specificity, and 60% positive and 83% negative predictive value for clinically
           diagnostic PTSD purposes and a 74% correct classification (Insana, Hall, Buysse, &
           Germain, 2013). Sleep disturbances reflect a core dysfunction underlying PTSD. The
           PSQI-A is a valid instrument for PTSD applicable to both clinical and research
           settings.It is important to note that all CTH deployers will complete a Post-Traumatic
           Stress Disorder screening during the post-deployment health assessment.

        4. Deployer Identified COVID-19 Stressors. Currently there are no valid and reliable
           instruments specific to COVID-19 distress. Given this is a novel pandemic, investigators
           requested deployers to list top 3 stressors experienced during deployment. Participants
           rated listed items as: 1-no distress, 2-mildy distressing, 3-distressing 4-very
           distressing, and 5-extremely distressing.

        5. The Brief Coping Orientation to Problems Experienced (Brief COPE) is a 28-item
           multidimensional measure of 14 strategies (humor, positive reframing, acceptance, active
           coping, planning, behavioral disengagement, self-distraction, substance use, denial,
           self-blame, venting, emotional support, instrumental support, religion) used for coping
           or regulating cognitions in response to stressors. This abbreviated inventory (based on
           the complete 60-item COPE Inventory) is comprised of items that assess the frequency
           with which a person uses different coping strategies rated on a scale from 0-"I haven't
           been doing this at all" to 4-"I've been doing this a lot." (Amoyal et al., 2011).
           Investigators eliminated two items that deal with drugs and alcohol to maintain the
           eligibility of exempt protocol status.

        6. COVID-19 Coping Strategy and Resource Inventory is an 18-item resource inventory
           developed by the DGMC research team to assess preferred strategic resources to manage
           COVID-19-related stressors. The inventory includes 5 categories of coping resources: 1)
           interactive [exercise, spiritual, social, mental health visit], 2) self-help
           videos/webinars, 3) mobile applications, 4) electronic toolkits, 5) podcasts.

        7. Demographic questionnaire includes 10 questions regarding individual deployer sex,
           COVID-19 risk status, mental health risk status, COVID-19 risk status of any family
           members at home, years of experience in current occupation and specific healthcare role,
           typical work setting at DGMC, any recent deployments

      Study participation will occur through a single collection of anonymous self-report measures
      using paper pencil which will be completed with an anticipated time burden of under 15
      minutes (based on preliminary practice trials) and returned to locked drop-boxes
      strategically placed on four inpatient/outpatient areas.

      Results: Findings will inform the development of a DGMC COVID-19 healthcare worker
      psychological coping and well-being toolkit.
    
  