
    
      The hypothesis of the study is that ovaries of women with a history of poor response to
      ovulation induction may benefit from exposure to growth factors known to be present in PRP.

      Autologous Platelet Rich Plasma (A-PRP) is plasma with a concentration of platelets above the
      blood baseline. A-PRP is developed from autologous blood. Within A-PRP, the concentration of
      platelets delivers an increased number of growth factors. In this study A-PRP will be
      prepared using Regen Lab PRP Kit which is approved by US-FDA for preparation of PRP.

      PRP is becoming widely used in a variety of medical procedures seeking tissue remodeling
      and/or healing as an intervention. To date, applications in orthopedics, wound healing,
      dermatology and plastic surgery have gained general acceptance, primarily as the role of
      platelets and their activation in tissue repair and recovery has become better understood at
      a cellular and molecular level. This knowledge base provides a foundation for the present
      study because of the ready availability of FDA-approved kits for autologous PRP preparations
      and the recognition that the aging ovary acquires tissue pathologies in the form of wound
      healing and fibrosis as a result of repeat ovulations over the reproductive lifespan of
      women. Since PRP is an autologous blood product, and is widely used via injection into
      various organs and tissues, safety concerns are minimal.

      This study will involve only adult women with a diagnosis of diminished ovarian reserve. All
      consenting participants will receive injections of autologous Platelet RIch Plasma (A-PRP) in
      both ovaries under ultrasound guidance performed after induction of IV sedation.

      Assumption of this study is that in women with previous poor response to ovulation induction
      will show limited follicle growth. The study will try to estimate effect of PRP on this
      condition by comparing post-PRP response to the previous response. The investigators
      recognize that there will be a possibility of apparent response based on regression to the
      mean. The investigators expect that study of fifty patients should be enough to determine if
      there is a potential clinical effect and to allow estimation of that effect for power
      calculations for future studies.
    
  