
    
      -  Primary objective: to compare the screening performance of DW MRI versus mammography
           alone or combined mammography and ultrasonography in women with PHBC.

        -  Secondary objective: to compare the tumor and patient characteristics detected by DW MRI
           and combined mammography and ultrasonography in women with PHBC.

        -  This is a prospective, single center, observational cohort study.

        -  A total of 1694 women will be enrolled in this study.

        -  Two latest 3.0 T MRI scanners with dedicated 16- or 18-channel bilateral breast coil are
           used for DW MRI. For DW MRI screening, the high-resolution echo-planar imaging sequence
           is designed to have an in-plane resolution of 1.3 x 1.3 mm and a slice thickness of 3
           mm. Three b values of 0, 800, and 1200 sec/mm2 are used and ADC maps are generated based
           on the b=0 and 800 sec/mm2 DW MRI data. The DW MRI images are reconstructed into single
           summation images with maximum-intensity projections (MIPs) in the sagittal and axial
           planes. In addition, T1-weighted imaging sequence is also obtained with in-plane
           resolution of 1.0 x 1.0 mm and a slice thickness of 1 mm.

        -  All patients with PHBC undergo digital two-dimensional mammography and
           physician-performed whole-breast ultrasonography on the same day. DW MRI and
           conventional imaging (mammography and ultrasonography) are alternatively scheduled at
           6-month intervals and the order has been randomized.

        -  Mammography alone, combined mammography and ultrasonography, and DW MRI will be
           interpreted independently according to the Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System
           (BI-RADS) and likelihood of malignancy (Score range, 0%-100%) by trained radiologists.
           DW MRI interpretation guidelines to be used in this study are based on both qualitative
           and quantitative assessments. Radiologists are required to successfully complete a
           training case series of 100 DW MR studies prior to interpreting the DW MRI.

        -  A negative examination result is defined as a final assessment BI-RADS category of 1, 2,
           3 and a positive examination result is defined as a final assessment BI-RADS category of
           4 or 5.

        -  Biopsies of DW MRI-detected lesions are performed under ultrasonography guidance
           whenever possible or with MR guidance if there is no correlative ultrasonography
           finding. Pathology of core or surgical biopsy and 1 year follow up is the reference
           standard.
    
  