
    
      Study design The study was a prospective, non-random¬ized trial conducted at 2 centers in
      east China - Tenth People's Hospital of Tongji University and Nanjing First Hospital. The
      ethic committee at each center approved the protocol, and all patients provided written
      informed consent. All patients enrolled were assigned to CD133+ cells treatment group (CD133+
      group) and control group of their own volition. This study is to evaluate the efficacy and
      immune-regulatory impact of intra-arterial infusion of autologous CD133+ cells on diabetic
      subjects with PAD.

      Patient enrollment and grouping Diabetic PAD patients aged ≥18 years with Rutherford
      categories 2 to 5 were included to assess the eligibility for this study. All patients, who
      agreed to participate in the study, could voluntary choose whether or not to receive
      autologous CD133+ progenitor cell treatment.

      In this study, CD133+cells were used to stimulate angiogenesis and reconstruct efficient
      microvascular blood supply, therefore similar hemodynamic status in main branch was essential
      to meet homogeneityin both groups before patient entry. The candidates, who failed for
      intraluminal revascularization of infra-aorta (iliac and femoral-popliteal)and 1
      infra-popliteal (anterior/posterior tibial, fibular) arteries of the affected limb, would be
      excluded from the study.

      Other exclusion criterion were as follows: ① Hemoglobin < 10 mg/dl, ② creatinine clearance <
      30 ml/min, ③ previous history of stem/progenitor cell therapy, ④ paralysis because of central
      neural system disease, ⑤ accidental amputation or bone fracture of target limb because of
      trauma after entry, ⑥ stop of anti-platelet medication after entry, ⑦ smoking or re-smoking
      after entry, ⑧ malignant tumor.

      Treatment of infra-aorta & infra-popliteal artery lesion Computed tomographic angiography
      (CTA) was performed to firstly analyze the condition of vascular lesion and then digital
      subtraction angiography (DSA) was performed to precisely identify the lesions of infra-aorta
      and the infra-popliteal arteries before treatment.

      The treatment of infra-aorta artery lesion was restrictedly performed with intraluminal
      technique (balloon dilation and/or stent implantation) nevertheless the grade of the lesion
      according to TASC II classification. The arterial sheath was introduced into the
      contralateral femoral artery, and then the revascularization of the target limb was
      accomplished by antegrade approach.

      After the previous procedure, the lesions of the infra-popliteal arteries were re-evaluated
      by DSA. By means of balloon dilation, at least one of the anterior/posterior tibial and
      fibular arteries achieved an obvious direct blood supply to the foot.

      The goal of the above procedures is to completely restore the normal main trunk hemodynamic
      status of the target limb.

      Autologous CD133+ cells collection and preparation After successful revascularization of
      infra-aorta and infra-popliteal procedure, 100ml peripheral blood was collected through the
      femoral artery sheath in patients and sent to East China Stem Cell Bank for CD133+ cells
      sorting and enrichment. Mononuclear cells are separated from the whole blood by density
      gradient centrifugation with Ficoll separating medium, then CD133+ cells are selected using
      magnetic-activated cell sorting. The selected cells were mixed with 50ml sodium chloride
      injection, which contains human albumin and heparin sodium in the blood bag, and then sent
      back to hospital stored in 4℃. All collection and preparing procedures were finished within 6
      hours.

      The selected cells also need to take a quality test, otherwise the cells would be discarded
      and the source patient would be excluded from the study. The quality standards are as
      following: cell number ≥ 1×107, no visible precipitate in cell suspension, viable cell ≥90%,
      endotoxin ≤ 2EU/ml Cell Infusion Procedure A catheter was introduced into the popliteal
      artery of the target limb at tibial plateau level. The CD133+ cells suspension was drawn into
      a 50ml syringe and infused through the catheter by an injection pump timing to 30 minutes.

      For the control group, 50ml cell-free sodium chloride injection containing human albumin and
      heparin sodium were infused through the catheter as placebo.

      Medication and life style change Both groups were asked to receive continuous medication for
      the diabetes, hyperlipidemia and hypertension under the advices of specialized physicians.
      Anti-platelet treatment with 100mg of enteric-coated aspirin and 75mg clopidogrel daily, as
      well as statins administration for stabilizing of the arterial plaque, was also demanded.

      Besides these medications, all candidates were restrictedly asked to quit smoking after
      entry.

      Follow-up and Endpoints The patients were followed up at 18 months. The primary endpoints
      were defined as the aggravation of ulcer (developing new or larger or deeper ulcers) and the
      amputation (above metatarsal level). The ulcer healing and amputation status were observed
      monthly.

      The change of Rurtherford classification, TcPO2 of dorsum pedis and ABI were recorded to
      evaluate the blood perfusion of the limb at 6 and 18 month as the second endpoints.

      As proven, the stem cells promote angiogenesis through stimulation of endothelial cell
      proliferation, migration, and survival by paracrine of high levels of vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF) [9]. In addition to the regenerative properties, stem cells have an
      immune-regulatory capacity and induce immunosuppressive effects in a series of situations
      [10]. Human stem cells have been found to suppress Interleukin-6 (IL-6) expression in
      activated macrophages, which plays a key role in inflammatory response in wound healing [11].
      Thus, the serum concentrations of VEGF and IL-6 before and at 1, 2, 4 week after the CD133+
      cells infusion were tested to evaluate the pro-angiogensis and immunoregulatory impact of the
      procedure and its duration.
    
  