
    
      1. Background and rational The serum concentrationS of ribavirin commonly range from 1 to 5
           in patients during the combination treatment " interferon+ribavirin " (Larrat et al.
           2003). However, the bioavailibility of ribavirin is not considered in the current
           recommendation for this treatment.

           The aim of this study is to demonstrate that the adaptation " à la carte " of ribavirin
           posology according to its serum concentration could improve the efficacy and the
           tolerance of the hepatitis C combination therapy.

        2. Study design This study is a prospective clinical pharmacology trial in patients on
           combination treatment for a chronic hepatitis C with genotype 1 or 4 virus.

           The evaluation will concern the serum ribavirin concentration during the first three
           months of treatment and its correlation with the evolution of hemoglobin (toxicity
           marker) or viral load (efficacy marker).

           After the 3 months of the study, a adaptation of posology based on serum ribavirin level
           will be offer to the patients for the rest of the treatment period. A control of the
           ribavirin level one month after the dose adaptation will be performed.

        3. Study treatments This trial is not a treatment evaluation. All the patients will receive
           the same treatment with PegInterferon alfa-2a and ribavirin according to the registered
           recommendations for use.

        4. Target population The study population will consist of patients with genotype 1 or 4
           chronic hepatitis C and for which a combination therapy is indicated.

        5. Main selection criteria Patients with chronic hepatitis C related to genotype 1 or 4
           virus and for which a combination therapy is needed will be eligible. Patients with
           co-infection (either VHB or VIH) or with concomitant treatments expected to interact
           with the endpoints (hemoglobin, viral load, serum ribavirin) will be excluded.

        6. Judgement endpoints

           There will be intermediate endpoints :

             -  blood hemoglobin concentration whom reduction during the 4 first weeks of treatment
                is a marker of toxicicty of the drug (induction of an hemolytic anemiae)

             -  viral load whom reduction of at least 2 log after 12 weeks of treatment is
                correlated with the sustained virologic response to treatment

             -  serum level of ribavirin for which it is expected a correlation with the two
                previous biological markers

           The primary judgement endpoint will be the statistical correlation as following :

             -  the serum concentration of ribavirine at the plateau of pharmacokinetics (J28(S4))

             -  the change of the hemoglobin concentration from D0 to D28(S4)

             -  the change of hemoglobin concentration between D0 and D84(S12)

        7. Secondary endpoints The thresholds of efficacy and toxicity of ribavirin will be
           determined by comparison of responder/non responder patients (as predicted by viral load
           change) and patients with/without toxicity. A correlation between the evolution of these
           two markers will be calculated.
    
  