
    
      Many patients admitted to the hospital with concern for cardiopulmonary and other acute
      illnesses are routinely placed on electrocardiographic monitoring (telemetry). Telemetry
      surveillance theoretically allows the clinical staff to monitor admitted patients for the
      development of both brady- and tachydysrhythmias. The goal is to identify dysrhythmias
      immediately via active cardiac monitoring in the very few patients who develop them, rather
      than identifying the dysrhythmia after the patient becomes symptomatic. However, the
      overwhelming majority (greater than 99 percent) of monitored patients do not experience any
      significant arrhythmia. The liberal use of monitoring in unnecessary situations may give the
      hospital staff a false sense of security and/or desensitize them to alarms. Studies also
      suggest the liberal use of telemetry inflates costs and clogs telemetry beds with little
      potential for benefit. These findings have contributed to the American Heart Association's
      statement that telemetry is of no benefit in patients with chest pain who are clinically
      low-risk or who are awake and alert and can describe their angina. Importantly, previous
      findings provide a foundation for identifying patients that do not need to undergo
      monitoring, but no study to date has rigorously prospectively applied these criteria in a
      randomized trial to determine the impact of selective telemetry utilization on clinical care
      and resources.

      This study is a pragmatic, randomized, controlled trial of telemetry compared with
      unmonitored floor admissions in ED patients with low-risk chest pain. The primary aim is to
      determine, relative to telemetry admission, if admission to an unmonitored floor bed saves
      resources without an increased rate of adverse events in ED patients admitted with chest pain
      and low-risk features. In addition, the study will evaluate the effects of the same
      intervention in the same population on secondary outcomes including defibrillation,
      cardioversion or acute IV antiarrhythmic/vasoactive therapy. Finally, the study will
      associate reasons for telemetry exclusion, including provider discretion, with subsequent
      adverse events.
    
  