
    
      A randomized trial to compare urinary retention rates between spinal and general anesthesia
      in women who undergo outpatient pelvic organ prolapse surgery with concomitant incontinence
      surgery.

      Randomization

      Randomization will be done in the pre-operative area, on the day of surgery. Computer
      generated randomization will be done in blocks of 4. Sealed numbered envelopes will be opened
      prior to surgery and the subject will then be assigned to spinal or general anesthesia.
      Patient randomization on day of surgery was discussed with anesthesia and it thought that
      randomizing on the same day would be safe.

      Preoperatively

      Subjects will be asked to complete a validated questionnaire, the Quality of Recovery 15
      (QoR-15) prior to surgery, at their preoperative visit.

      Anesthesia

      Subjects randomized to general anesthesia will receive propofol induction, in combination
      with a muscle relaxant and inhalational gas per anesthesia standard of care at the
      investigators' institution.

      Subjects randomized to spinal anesthesia will receive Bupivacaine 0.75%, 8-12 mg dose
      depending on estimated duration of surgery and anesthesiologist decision. In addition to
      spinal anesthesia, these subjects will possibly have concurrent administration of fentanyl,
      midazolam, and propofol so that they are mildy sedated or sleeping.

      Voiding Trial

      A voiding trial will be performed in the PACU once the subjects are able to stand and
      ambulate to the bathroom. Voiding trial will consist of removing the vaginal packing and back
      filling the bladder with 300cc of saline or less if subject has urgency or a smaller bladder
      capacity. A voiding trial is considered successful if the subject voids at least 2/3 of the
      total volume instilled and has a bladder scan showing less than 1/3 remaining. If a subject
      is unable to void after an hour, an additional hour will be permitted. However, after 2 hours
      from when the bladder was backfilled the subject is still unable to void, the Foley will be
      replaced and the subjects will be discharged home with a Foley leg bag and leg bag teaching.

      An office nurse will call the subject and schedule an office nurse visit to remove the Foley
      between post-operative day number 5 to 7. If the subject goes home with a Foley this will be
      considered acute POUR.

      Follow Up

      Subjects will receive a phone call from either a nurse or fellow, between 48 to 72 hours
      post-operatively to make sure they are having no symptoms of urinary retention, are doing
      well and are not having any complications. A telephone survey will be administered during
      this follow up phone call using a validated questionnaire, the QoR-15. They will have
      received a copy of this survey to refer to at the time of their hospital discharge.

      Subjects who were admitted to the hospital will have the same follow up, including a phone
      call 48 to 72 hours after their surgery, including the validated questionnaire, the QoR-15.

      In addition, subjects will have a 6 week follow up visit in the clinic and will be asked to
      complete the QoR-15.
    
  