
    
      FTS is designed to interfere with a cancer cell's ability to reproduce.

      Before you can start receiving the drug on this study, you will have "screening tests." These
      tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. Your
      complete medical history will be recorded, and you will have a physical exam. You will be
      asked about any side effects that you are having and about any medications that you are
      taking. Your weight and vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, breathing rate, and
      temperature) will be measured. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for
      routine tests. You will be asked about your ability to perform everyday tasks. You will have
      an electrocardiogram (ECG - test to measure the electrical activity of the heart). A bone
      marrow aspirate and/or biopsy will be collected to check the status of the disease. To
      collect a bone marrow aspirate and/or biopsy, an area of the hip or chest bone is numbed with
      anesthetic and a small amount (about 1 teaspoon) of bone marrow and bone is withdrawn through
      a large needle. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood (about 1
      tablespoon) or urine pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible for this study, you will take FTS by mouth, morning and night
      with food, on Days 1-21 of a 28-day study "cycle."

      The amount of study drug you will receive will be based on when you enter the study. At least
      3 participants will be taking FTS at the same dose level. Doses will be increased for the
      next group of 3 participants based on the side effects seen in the previous group. Each new
      group of participants will receive a higher dose level than the previous group, until a level
      is reached where side effects are considered to be intolerable.

      After each cycle, your doctor may decide to increase your dose if you are not having
      intolerable side effects and you are benefitting from the study drug. If you experience
      intolerable side effects during any of the cycles of therapy with FTS, your dose may be
      reduced, delayed, or you may be taken off the study.

      On Day 1 of the study, your weight and vital signs will be measured. Blood (about 1
      tablespoon) will be collected for routine tests. You will not take your evening dose of FTS
      on Day 1.

      On Days 8,15, and 22 of the first cycle, your weight and vital signs will be measured. You
      will be asked about any side effects that you are having, and about any medications that you
      are taking. On Day 15 of Cycle 1, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will also be drawn for routine
      tests.

      During Cycle 1, on Days 1, 8, and 15, blood (about 1 tablespoon per draw) will be drawn to
      find out how much drug there is in your blood at different time points. This will help
      researchers to learn how FTS is processed by your body. This is called pharmacokinetic (PK)
      testing. Blood will be drawn before your morning dose of FTS, at 30, 60, and 90 minutes after
      taking the morning dose, and at 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24 hours after taking the morning dose. During
      Cycle 1, on Days 1 and 15, blood (about 3 tablespoons per draw) will be drawn to determine
      how FTS works against leukemia cells. This blood will be drawn before and 24 hours, after
      taking the morning dose on Day 1 and before you take the dose on Day 15.

      On Day 1 of each cycle after Cycle 1, your weight and vital signs will be measured. Blood
      (about 2 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests. You will be asked about
      your ability to perform everyday tasks. You will be asked about any side effects that you are
      having, and about any medications that you are taking.

      On Days 8, 15, and 22 of every cycle after Cycle 1, you will be asked about any side effects
      that you are having and about any medications that you are taking. On Day 15, blood (about 1
      tablespoon) will also be drawn for routine tests, and your weight and vital signs will be
      measured.

      You may remain on study for as long as you are benefiting. You will be taken off study if you
      are not benefitting or if you are experiencing intolerable side effects.

      Thirty (30) days after you are no longer taking the study drug, you will have an end-of-study
      visit. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests. Your weight
      and vital signs will be measured. You will be asked about your ability to perform everyday
      tasks. You will be asked about any side effects that you are having, and about any
      medications that you are taking. You will have an ECG and an evaluation of your disease,
      which may include a bone marrow aspiration and/or biopsy.

      This is an investigational study. FTS is not FDA approved or commercially available, and it
      has been authorized for use in research only. Up to 30 patients will take part in this
      multicenter study. Up to 20 patients will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  