
    
      1: SPECIFIC Aim I: To compare the short term efficacy of morphine and methadone for the
      treatment of NAS. One hundred eighty four term infants with a diagnosis of NAS requiring
      pharmacotherapy will be studied. Infants born to mothers receiving adequate prenatal care and
      maintained on opioid agonist medication during pregnancy will be eligible. Infants will be
      randomized to receive either neonatal morphine solution or methadone in a double blind,
      double dummy design. It is hypothesized that morphine treated infants will require
      significantly fewer days in the hospital compared to methadone treated infants. While the
      primary outcome is the total length of initial hospital stay (LOS), total LOS related to NAS,
      total duration of medical treatment for NAS, the need for a second drug to control symptoms,
      and infant growth will also be evaluated as important secondary outcomes by medication group
      assignment.

      2. SPECIFIC Aim II: To evaluate the effects of NAS treatment on long-term neurodevelopmental
      outcome. Infants in both treatment groups will be evaluated at 18 months of age using the
      Bayley III Scales of Infant Development. It is hypothesized that morphine treated infants
      will have better neurodevelopmental outcomes at 18 months compared to methadone treated
      infants. It is also hypothesized that neurobehavioral abnormalities (from either treatment
      group) identified at two weeks of age using the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) Network
      Neurobehavioral Scale (NNNS) will correlate with neurodevelopmental impairment detected with
      the Bayley III. Early identification of infants at highest risk for impaired development will
      facilitate therapeutic interventions to improve outcome and decrease resource utilization.

      3: SPECIFIC Aim III: To determine if single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes
      controlling opioid pharmacodynamics contribute to the severity of NAS. SNP genotyping from
      cord blood or buccal swabs will be obtained from all infants and correlated with short term
      outcomes (Aim 1) and neurodevelopment assessments (Aim 2) to confirm that genetic variation
      plays a major role in the severity and outcome of infants with NAS.
    
  