
    
      N-of-1 Trial arm: Participants will use the Eureka mobile application and AliveCor device to
      execute at least one N-of-1 trial with the goal of identifying and better controlling their
      AF triggers. Each N-of-1 trial will last a total of 6 weeks and will include up to 3 periods
      of trigger exposure and 3 periods of trigger elimination with each exposure/elimination
      period lasting 1 week. Participants will be randomly assigned to start their trial with a
      period of either trigger exposure or elimination. During each N-of-1 trial, participants will
      track daily AF duration and severity, daily mood and sleep quality, daily AliveCor tracings
      and daily trigger exposure. At the end of each trial, participants will be able to review
      their trial results which will include visualizations of their daily AF symptom and trigger
      tracking over time. After completing a trial, participants will be instructed to implement
      any lifestyle changes they deem appropriate based on what they learned from the results of
      their trial. Participants will implement these changes for a period of 4 weeks during which
      they will continue to track AF episode duration and severity via the app. At the end of the
      4-week lifestyle change period, participants will complete the Atrial Fibrillation Effect on
      QualiTy of Life survey (AFEQT) and will then have the option of testing another trigger or
      ending their study participation.

      Symptom Surveillance arm: Participants will use the Eureka app and AliveCor device to record
      daily AF duration and severity, daily AliveCor readings and daily mood and sleep quality for
      a period of 10 weeks. Participants will be able to visualize their AF, sleep and mood data in
      real time and will receive a weekly summary of their data via the Eureka app.At the end of
      the 10-week data tracking period, participants will complete the AFEQT survey and will then
      have the option of either ending their study participation or crossing over to the N-of-1
      trial arm to test their triggers.
    
  