
    
      Objective:

      Once a skilled movement is thoroughly learned, it can be performed relatively automatically.
      The motor cortex is active when learning a new motor skill, but becomes less activated once
      the skill has become over-learned. We hypothesize that learning a skilled movement is
      associated with more efficient use of subcortical motor circuits. Subcortical motor circuits
      can coordinate features of the intended movement such as the timing and patterns of
      activation of different muscles. The goal of this study is to determine whether learning a
      motor skill strengthens spinal interneuron circuits that facilitate the movement. Subjects
      will learn to perform a movement consisting of alternating wrist movements. The strength of
      reciprocal inhibition between antagonist muscles will be tested.

      Study Population:

      22 healthy adult volunteers

      Design:

      The study has two experiments. Both experiments use a within-subjects design. The purpose of
      the first experiment is to determine whether learning to accurately perform an alternating
      wrist flexion and extension movement task is associated with reduced co-contraction of wrist
      flexor and extensor muscles. Subjects will practice making accurate wrist flexions and
      extensions to keep a cursor on a target for fifteen-minute sessions every weekday until they
      are able to obtain 95% accuracy. Activity of the arm muscles will be monitored during the
      sessions with surface electrodes on the arm muscles. The first experiment will also determine
      the best training parameters for learning the task. In the second experiment, a second group
      of subjects will learn the task using the best training parameters. The strength of the
      reflex for reciprocal inhibition will be measured before, during and after training.
      Reciprocal inhibition will also be measured after the movement has become highly learned.

      Outcome measures:

      In the first experiment, the outcome will be the percent of movement time in which
      co-contraction occurs, as recorded from surface electrodes, while the subject learns to
      perform the movement to 95% accuracy. In the second experiment, the outcome measure is the
      strength of spinally mediated reciprocal inhibition, as measured using reflexes.
    
  