
    
      Rationale: As highly effective therapy against hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is available
      with rapid uptake, there is newfound optimism for HCV elimination. Nevertheless, HCV
      reinfections cause great concern in at risk populations, including men who have sex with men
      (MSM). In the Netherlands, MSM account for the majority of new HCV (re)infections. Although
      HCV treatment uptake is high in this group, modelling data indicate HCV elimination would not
      be feasible without a reduction in risk behaviour. This finding highlights the urgent need
      for effective interventions aimed at reducing risk behaviour and preventing reinfections in
      MSM.

      Objective: To evaluate interventions aimed at reducing risk behaviour, and ultimately
      preventing HCV reinfections and onward spread of HCV.

      Study design: Using a 3-arm randomised trial comparing run-in and intervention periods, we
      will evaluate the effect of two interventions and its combination on risk behaviour in MSM
      previously infected with HCV.

      Study population: MSM aged 18 years or older with a history of a successfully treated or
      spontaneously cleared HCV infection.

      Interventions: Intervention I is a targeted, online behavioural intervention developed as
      part of the project. Intervention II aims to increase the frequency of testing by offering an
      additional patient-initiated, home-based HCV RNA testing service with the use of self-sampled
      dried blot spots. Intervention III is a combination of intervention I and II.

      Study parameters/endpoints: From run-in and post-randomization questionnaires, we will
      evaluate the proportion at risk of HCV infection (as determined by the HCV-MOSAIC score) as
      the primary outcome. The HCV-MOSAIC risk score is calculated by summing up the beta
      coefficients specific to six self-reported risk factors when present: receptive condomless
      anal sex (beta 1.1), sharing sex toys (beta 1.2), unprotected fisting (beta 0.9), injecting
      drug use (beta 1.4), sharing straws during nasally-administered drug use (beta 1.0), and
      ulcerative sexually transmitted infection (beta 1.4). Secondary outcomes include incidence of
      HCV reinfection, changes in the individual risk behaviour items and changes in sexual
      wellbeing.
    
  