
    
      There is a heavy burden of metabolic disease in hepatitis C infected populations Allison et
      al (1994) were the first to identify an interaction between chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV)
      infection and diabetes, demonstrating an increase in the prevalence of type 2 diabetes among
      HCV-infected patients with cirrhosis compared to patients with cirrhosis from other causes
      (50% versus 9%, respectively).1 Subsequent studies have found the prevalence of type 2
      diabetes among this population to range between, 7.6% to 50%.2 The presence of insulin
      resistance and type 2 diabetes in HCV has been associated with poor HCV antiviral treatment
      response,3,4 acceleration of liver fibrosis,5 increased risk for hepatocellular carcinoma
      (HCC),6 higher transplant complication rates7 and possibly increased morbidity from
      cardiovascular and metabolic complications.8 Early intervention with lifestyle modification
      and/or metformin in patients with pre-diabetes can delay or prevent the onset of type 2
      diabetes in high risk populations. It is unknown whether this benefit extends to those
      infected with HCV.9 [see Appendix I for definitions of insulin resistance, impaired fasting
      glucose, and diabetes] There is lack of agreement on how to manage insulin resistance in
      HCV-infected patients. There may be risks with some diabetes medications in this population.
      Sulfonylureas and insulin may be associated with an increased risk of developing HCC in this
      population. Additional evaluation of the risks and benefits of diabetic medications in HCV
      are required.10 HCV is also known to induce changes in lipid metabolism. The HCV life cycle
      is dependent on the VLDL pathway. Viral replication involves the formation of complexes
      termed lipoviral particles resulting in decreased secretion of VLDL. The assembly of these
      lipoviral particles is believed to facilitate binding with LDL receptor and considered a
      mechanism by which HCV gains entry to the hepatocyte. Numerous studies have demonstrated
      lower total cholesterol, triglycerides (TG), HDL-C and LDL-C levels in patients with chronic
      hepatitis C infection. Lower lipid levels correlate with higher HCV viral load,11 decreased
      antiviral virological cure rates12 [A.K.A Sustained Virological Response (SVR)] and increased
      hepatic steatosis.13,14 Successful treatment of HCV with IFN/Ribavirin is typically
      associated with the reversal of hypolipidemia yet in some patients lipid levels may increase
      to levels associated with increased cardiovascular risk.15,16

      The metabolic effects of new HCV therapies are unknown in HCV-Infection Three HCV protease
      inhibitors (simeprevir, telaprevir, boceprevir) have been approved for the treatment of
      genotype 1 infection in combination with interferon and ribavirin. Telaprevir and simeprevir
      are dosed in combination with PEG-IFN and ribavirin for the initial 12 weeks of treatment.
      Interferon and ribavirin are dosed for 12 to 36 additional weeks based on early virological
      response and patient characteristics including liver fibrosis stage. Sofosbuvir is a
      nucleotide dosed in combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin for 12 weeks in
      genotype 1 infected individuals. It can also be used in combination with simeprevir +/-
      ribavirin for 12 weeks without interferon. Sofosbuvir and ribavirin for 24 weeks is a third
      viable option of sofosbuvir-containing therapy in genotype 1 infection. Other orally
      administered HCV antivirals (protease inhibitors, nucleosides, non-nucleosides, assembly
      inhibitors) in development are effective against genotype 1 and other genotypes as well.
      Abbvie has developed a 12-week combination DAA regimen consisting of a HCV protease inhibitor
      (ABT-450 based with ritonavir), a NS5a inhibitor (ABT-267; Ombitasvir), a polymerase
      inhibitor (ABT-333; Dasabuvir) with or without ribavirin. This regimen was licensed in Canada
      in December 2014.

      There are limited data evaluating the influence of HCV protease inhibitors, nucleotides and
      other direct acting antiviral (DAAs) drug classes on the metabolic milieu of HCV treatment
      recipients. In one study of HCV mono-infected study participants receiving 14 days of
      monotherapy with the protease inhibitor danoprevir, serum HCV RNA and HOMA-IR [Appendix I]
      correlated significantly (Spearman rho=0.379, p<0.0001).17 At baseline, mean serum HCV-RNA
      level and mean HOMA-IR score were 6.2±0.5 log10 IU/ml and 3.8±1.9, respectively. At the end
      of 14 days of Danoprevir monotherapy the mean decrease in HCV RNA was 2.2±1.3 log10 IU/ml
      (p<0.0001) in patients who received the active drug (n=40). Concurrent with this, the mean
      HOMA-IR score decreased by 1.6±1.1 (p<0.0001), with a close correlation between HOMA-IR
      improvement and viral load decline. In contrast, HCV-RNA and HOMA-IR remained unchanged in
      placebo recipients. The effect of HCV-protease inhibitors and other DAAs on glucose
      metabolism beyond 14 days of treatment has not been established.

      With the development of DAA, the predictors of treatment response have evolved. However,
      phase 3 studies suggest that lower baseline LDL-C levels continue to be a predictor of
      treatment response to telaprevir triple therapy. The effect of interferon and ribavirin free
      regimens on lipid homeostasis has not been established and it is not known if baseline
      cholesterol levels remain a predictor of treatment outcomes with these regimens.

      Why conduct this research? The above is compelling data supporting the pursuit of research
      into the effects of HCV antivirals on metabolic homeostasis. As a further rationale and
      justification, the experience with HIV antiretrovirals has clearly demonstrated that
      antiviral medications can produce profound changes in glucose metabolism, lipid profile and
      other measures of metabolic homeostasis. This establishes biological plausibility for this
      focus of research in HCV.

      The new knowledge created from this research will:

        1. Provide new information on the metabolic effects of the Abbvie 3D HCV antiviral regimen.

        2. Provide insight as to whether there are metabolic advantages with RBV-free compared to
           RBV-containing HCV regimens. This is particularly relevant given the current uncertainty
           regarding the need for RBV in IFN-free, oral DAA regimens.

        3. Provide insight into the impact of cirrhosis on metabolic milieu before, during and
           after HCV antiviral therapy
    
  