
    
      This study is a randomized controlled trial with 60 men and women (already in menopause for
      at least one year), aged 50-75 years. At the beginning, the number of actinic keratosis (AKs)
      of face and forearms will be counted and treated with cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen
      (LN).The patients will be randomized in two groups: one receiving oral isotretinoin 10mg/day
      every day and other receiving tretinoin 0,05% cream applied in the face and arms every other
      night, for six months. Along with these treatments, patients will use sunscreens FPS 60 with
      UVA and UVB protection. The inclusion criteria will be the presence of at least 10 and
      maximum 40 AKs (visible or palpable). Skin biopsies will be performed twice (before and after
      treatment with retinoids) for all patients, in the left forearm at a standardized site.
      Histological and immunohistochemical with blinded- evaluator analysis will be done. The main
      objective of the study is to evaluate clinical, histological and immunohistochemical effects
      of retinoids for AK prevention on face and forearms of immunocompetent individuals. Efficacy
      evaluation will be measured by improving clinical (AK counting before and after treatments),
      histopathological (Hematoxilin-eosin and Verhoeff staining) and immunohistochemical
      parameters (markers for carcinogenesis - p53 protein, Bcl-2 and Bax). The secondary objective
      is evaluate the tolerability and safety of the drugs and their impact in quality of life. The
      safety analysis will be related to adverse events of the two drugs and the blood tests will
      be performed in the ISO group patients. Indirectly, by decreasing the number of AKs and the
      expression of cutaneous carcinogenesis markers, a decrease in the risk of squamous cell
      carcinoma could be infered . This principle is used by many drugs called chemoprophylactic
      drugs, and the retinoids are considered in this group.
    
  