
    
      Background Internationally, emergency departments (EDs) face significant challenges in
      delivering high quality and timely patient care on an ever-present background of increasing
      patient numbers and limited hospital resources. Research demonstrates that ED crowding
      contributes to a reduction in the quality of patient care, delays in commencement of
      treatment and that adherence with recognised clinical guidelines worsens [1].

      Identifying quality improvement strategies to improve patient flow in the ED can enhance
      quality of care. Evidence from international studies demonstrates that Health and Social Care
      Professionals (HSCPs) such as physiotherapists, occupational therapists and medical social
      workers can play a role in the ED in reducing length of patient stay, avoiding unnecessary
      hospital admissions and improving patient experience [2,3]. However, the quality of the
      evidence is mixed, primarily due to weaknesses in designing the studies.

      Aim The overall aim of the study is to examine the impact of a dedicated team of Health and
      Social Care Professionals (HSCPs) in the Emergency Department (ED) on the quality, safety and
      cost-effectiveness of care of older adults in the ED.

      The objectives of the study are as follows:

        1. To implement a HSCP team including a whole time equivalent senior physiotherapist (PT),
           senior occupational therapist (OT) and senior medical social worker (MSW) in the
           Emergency Department at University Hospital Limerick (UHL) for a period of six months.

        2. To examine if early assessment and intervention by the HSCP team improves the quality,
           safety and cost-effectiveness of care among older adults who present to the ED, as
           compared to usual care.

        3. To conduct a process evaluation of the HSCP intervention through focus group interviews
           with the HSCP team and representation from the wider ED staff regarding the
           implementation, delivery and impact of the intervention.

      Methods

      Study design The study represents a pilot randomised controlled trial which will compare
      assessment and/or interventions carried by a HSCP team, comprised of a physiotherapist, an
      occupational therapist and a medical social worker, in the ED with usual ED care. The
      Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) reporting guidelines will be followed to
      ensure the standardised conduct and reporting of the research.

      Population All adults ≥65 years who present to the Emergency Department at University
      Hospital Limerick (UHL) between December 2018 and March 2019 (inclusive) will be considered
      eligible for inclusion to the study provided that they meet the inclusion criteria (see
      below). However, similar to other studies, the HSCP team is operational between the hours of
      8am and 5pm Monday-Friday. Therefore, individuals who present outside of these hours may not
      be offered/included in the study.

      Consent Potential participants will initially be informed of the study by the triage nurse or
      the treating physician. If participants indicate a willingness to hear more about the study,
      the dedicated research nurse on the project will be informed. The research nurse will
      subsequently meet with the potential participant and describe the study in detail and provide
      potential participants with an information leaflet. Participants will be given the
      opportunity to ask further questions about the project should they wish to do so. Written
      informed consent will be obtained by the research nurse if/when the participant indicates
      their willingness to formally participate in the study. Participants will have the duration
      of their index admission to consider participation in the study. Consent and mechanisms
      relating to data controlling and processing will be compliant with the European Union (EU)
      General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 2016/679 and also in compliance with the Data
      Protection Act 2018 [(Section 36(2)) (Health Research) Regulations 2018].

      Intervention The intervention will comprise initially of a detailed assessment by one or more
      members of the dedicated HSCP team (physiotherapy, occupational therapy and medical social
      work). The assessment will include but not be limited to an assessment of mobility and
      stairs, transfer, personal care, activities of daily living (ADLs), social supports,
      cognition, lying & standing blood pressures. Members of the HSCP team will be guided by their
      clinical expertise and codes of professional practice. Similarly, interventions prescribed by
      the HSCP team will be based on subjective and objective assessment of patients and will
      include mobility aids, exercise programmes, ADL equipment and onward referral as appropriate.
      All assessments and interventions will be included in the medical chart of individual
      participants.

      Comparison The comparison group will receive routine care for the duration of their stay in
      the ED. Currently there is no dedicated team of HSCPs in the Emergency Department at UHL.
      Ad-hoc services are provided by allied health professionals if they are requested by a member
      of the team in the ED. This process will continue for the duration of the trial.

      Outcomes and analysis The primary outcome of the study is duration of patient ED stay (mean
      hours from time of arrival to discharge or admission). Secondary outcomes will include the
      incidence of inpatient admission from the ED (defined as the proportion of patients who are
      admitted to hospital after their index visits), the duration of hospital admission after the
      ED index visit, as well as the number of ED re-attendances, nursing home admissions,
      unplanned hospital visits (and duration of stay) and mortality within 30 days, four months
      and six months of the initial index visit. Healthcare utilisation (visits to GP, public
      health nurse, home help, private consultations, outpatient department visits, or allied
      health services) will also be captured at 30 days, four months and six months. Assessment of
      patient oriented outcomes include the Barthel Index for Activities of Daily Living (17) as a
      global measure of function and the EuroQoL's 5-Dimension 5-Level (EQ-5D-5L) to measure
      health-related quality of life (18), which will be conducted at baseline as well as at
      follow-up (30 days and six months, with quality of life also assessed at four months).

      In addition, patient satisfaction with their index visit will be explored using the 18-item
      Patient Satisfaction Questionnaire (PSQ-18) (19) at the time of the visit.

      An economic analysis will estimate the incremental cost effectiveness of the HSCP team from
      the perspective of the Irish public health service, as compared to usual care. We will
      estimate health care costs from reference costs from national data sources. Participants'
      responses to the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire will be used to estimate health states utilities
      using the Irish value set (20) and Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) for each treatment
      group will be estimated across all timepoints.

      Lastly, a process evaluation will be conducted through a mixed quantitative-qualitative
      design to describe the implementation of the intervention as well as investigate the
      mechanisms and contextual influences of the implementation as perceived by the HSCP team and
      representation from the wider ED staff. A detailed study protocol for the process evaluation
      is in preparation.

      Each participant in the study will be assigned a numerical code in order to link data
      collected at baseline to the data collected at follow-up at 30 days, four and six months.
      Aggregate data will be anonymised. Appropriate descriptive statistics will be used to
      describe the baseline characteristics of study participants. These will include proportions,
      percentages, ranges, means and standard deviations and medians and interquartile ranges
      (where data are not normally distributed). We will analyse differences across the two groups
      for all continuous outcomes (ED length of stay, etc.) by using independent samples t-tests
      with 95% CI. The non-parametric equivalent will be used for skewed data. Incidence of ED
      return, unplanned hospital admission, nursing home admission and healthcare utilization will
      be explored using crude and adjusted risk ratios with associated 95% Confidence Interval
      (CI).

      Considering the cost-effectiveness analysis, as per the Irish Health Information and Quality
      Authority (HIQA) guidance (21), the primary endpoint of the cost-effectiveness analysis will
      be costs, QALYs and the Incremental Cost Effectiveness Ratio (ICER). Analysis of uncertainty
      of the joint distribution of cost and QALYs between the two arms of the study will be
      presented on a cost-effectiveness acceptability curve to indicate the probability that the
      HSCP intervention will be cost effective, based on available trial data and across various
      willingness to pay thresholds.
    
  