
    
      Nausea and vomiting are common complications on the chemotherapy (CT) and can affect the
      quality of life (QoL) of the patients. If not treated adequately Nausea and vomiting can
      produce other problems such as dehydration, weight loss, fatigue and even can induce the
      non-compliance of the treatment. In extreme cases it can put the patient ́s life at risk.
      There are various antiemetic treatments that vary both in cost and effectiveness. It ́s
      important to determine which are the strategies that are most effective and can improve the
      QoL of the patients.

      Methodology:

      Effectiveness and quality of life analysis of patients with breast cancer that will receive
      adjuvant and neoadjuvant chemotherapy highly and moderately emetic chemotherapy (adriamycin
      and cyclophosphamide (AC), docetaxel and carboplatin (TC), docetaxel, carboplatin and
      trastuzumab (THC)); there will only be consider those patients that are candidates to receive
      CT for the first time and should have central venous access. There will be excluded patients
      that had received previously any kind of chemotherapy or radiotherapy. The follow-up will
      exclusively be done during the first cycle of CT. Patients will be stratified according to
      the emetogenic potential of the CT regimen ad not by the clinical stage or the histologic
      type of the tumor.

      To keep a follow-up of the patient there will be provided symptomatic diaries where the
      patient can register any discomfort suffered after receiving their treatment. Along with
      this, there will be applied quality of life questionnaires, one previous to the CT and one
      previous to the second cycle.

      There a proposed two regimes on antiemetic treatment. The randomization is as follows.

      Group A Early emesis: Palonosetron 0.25 mg IV + Dexamethasone 12 mg IV + Fosaprepitant 150 mg
      IV Delayed emesis: Dexamethasone 8 mg orally on days 2, 3 and 4.

      Group B Early Emesis: Ondansetron 16 mg IV + Dexamethasone 12 mg IV + Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV
      Delayed Emesis: Metoclopramide 10 mg orally every 6 hours + Dexamethasone 8 mg orally every
      24 hrs.

      Considering the absence of at least one event of nausea and vomiting as a measure of
      effectiveness, it will be calculated the effectiveness ratio, as well as the QoL
      questionnaires before and after the first chemotherapy.

      Finally, previously to the application of the treatment there will be obtained a peripheral
      blood sample for its analysis on translational medicine laboratory. There will be a process
      of extraction of Deoxyribonucleic Acid accordingly to the guides and the sample will be
      analyzed by a protein chain reaction (PCR) to detect the three most prevalent polymorphisms
      (SNPs)on gene ABCB1.

      H0: There ́s no difference in cost - effectiveness ratio in antiemetic therapy (acute and
      delayed) between A and B schemes.

      H1: Scheme A is superior than scheme B in 10 % for prevention of acute nausea and vomiting
      and 6% in delayed nausea and vomiting.

      Applications:

      The guides that are actually used for the antiemetic treatments are based in non Mexican
      populations. With this study it is expected to design an effective strategy that can be
      applied in mexican population
    
  