
    
      Critical illness has deleterious consequences on both acute and chronic cognitive functions.
      Acute cognitive dysfunction manifests itself as delirium in the critically ill especially the
      elderly. Delirium is a complex neuropsychiatric syndrome characterized by acute and
      fluctuating changes in cognition and consciousness. 60% to 80% of critically ill ventilated
      older patients and 30% to 50% of those with less illness severity have delirium for at least
      one day of their ICU or hospital stay. Chronic cognitive dysfunction manifests as ICU
      acquired cognitive impairment and dementia after critical illness, affects multiple cognitive
      domains and persists years after hospital discharge. Up to 71% of critical illness survivors
      have cognitive impairment at one year after hospital discharge and close to 18% are diagnosed
      with new dementia including Alzheimer's disease within three years post ICU hospitalization.

      Two million older Americans suffer from an episode of delirium during their intensive care
      unit (ICU) stay. Presence of delirium predisposes the elderly to immediate in-hospital
      complications including a longer length of ICU and hospital stay, increased risk of
      in-patient mortality and elevated costs of care. In addition, ICU delirium is associated with
      long-term post-discharge complications such as development of cognitive impairment and
      dementia. Current advances in the management of critical illness have notably improved the
      survival rates among this vulnerable segment of older adults. However, increased survival
      comes at a cost with as many as 70% of older ICU survivors who had an episode of delirium
      suffering from subsequent cognitive impairment and dementia. At present, there are no
      effective and scalable recovery models to remediate ICU acquired cognitive impairment and its
      attendant elevated dementia or Alzheimer's disease risk.

      The inability to develop efficacious interventions to reduce ICU acquired cognitive
      impairment may stem from a limited understanding of the link between acute brain dysfunction
      (delirium) and chronic brain dysfunction (ICU acquired cognitive impairment, dementia or
      Alzheimer's disease). The investigators propose a recovery intervention guided by the
      pathophysiologic mechanisms implicated in producing critical illness delirium and elevated
      risk of cognitive impairment. The intervention targets inflammation, glial dysfunction and
      astrocyte activation along with restoration of neurotrophic factors while training function
      directly across multiple cognitive domains to reduce the burden of cognitive impairment among
      ICU survivors of delirium.

      Over the past five years, Indiana University Center for Aging Research has developed a
      research infrastructure focused on delirium and delirium associated cognitive impairment,
      encompassing the ICU and post-ICU periods. This includes developing a bio-repository of serum
      delirium biomarkers, ICU based delirium trials, and post-ICU exercise and cognitive therapy
      recovery models. Building upon prior work and based on the pathophysiologic mechanisms
      mentioned above, the investigators now propose a novel home-based combined physical exercise
      and cognitive training program for older ICU survivors to improve cognitive impairment.

      The study team is proposing a 2x2 factorial design randomized controlled trial (RCT) called
      "Decreasing Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias after Delirium-Exercise and Cognitive
      Training (DDD-ECT)" to evaluate the efficacy of 12 weeks of combined physical exercise and
      cognitive training on the primary outcome of cognitive function among older ICU survivors who
      experienced delirium or subsyndromal delirium during their ICU stay. The investigators
      propose to deliver these interventions via a facilitator-led, small group format using
      internet-enabled, multiparty-videoconference delivered directly into the participants' homes
      to achieve the study aims listed in the summary.
    
  