
    
      90 volunteers, who fulfill the inclusion criteria, do not meet any of the exclusion criteria,
      who have given written informed consent will be entered into the study. Lab assays and
      statistical analysis of the data will be performed on all plasma samples of those subjects
      who complete the study according to the study protocol or who partially complete the study
      with evaluable data. Subjects will be recruited from the subject pool of the CTL database.

      The study will be performed as a daily for 8 weeks dose, open label, three arms study with 90
      subjects.

      The study will consist of three groups with one treatment period in each, with a wash-out
      period of 4 weeks prior the study.

      All evaluable data are supposed to be used for the safety evaluation. The subjects will be
      taking products with a main meal daily. At certain time points (T0 - before study, T1 - 1
      week of treatment, T2 - 2 weeks of treatment, T3 - 3 weeks of treatment, T4 - 4 weeks of
      treatment, T8 - 8 weeks of treatment) after an overnight fasting of about 11 hours the
      subjects will be invited to the lab for a blood sample collection. Blood samples for the
      analysis of serum concentrations of Lycopene, Resveatrol and Soy Isoflvones shall be drawn.
      Two aliquots of each sample will be prepared. One aliquot of each frozen serum sample will be
      shipped to analytical lab for bioanalysis of Lycopene, Resveatrol and Soy Isoflvones. Other
      aliquots will be retained at the CTL's lab. A total of 7 blood samples will be collected
      before and during product intake.

      Analytical laboratory of Institute of Food Research, Norwich, will perform measurements of
      concentration of Lycopene, Resveatrol and Soy Isoflvones using a validated LC-MS/MS method.
      Calculations of the pharmacokinetic parameters and the assessment of bioavailability will be
      carried out for all products by CTL. The final report will include all aspects concerning the
      clinical part of the study, bioanalysis, statistics and discussion of obtained data as well
      as the legal and ethical requirements.
    
  