
    
      Nontuberculous Mycobacteria (NTM) is difficult to treat and has no standardised antibiotic
      therapy. There have been increasing recognition of the need for measurements of NTM care
      around the world, as rates of NTM infections have begun to supercede Tuberculosis infections
      for the first time. As health care-associated NTM outbreaks also pose an infection control
      risk for patients undergoing surgery, this study provides a platform for further greater
      uniformity and opportunities for improvement in care. (1,2)

      Singapore General Hospital (SGH) is a tertiary hospital and sees patients of various complex
      medical illnesses. Patients with Nontuberculous Mycobacteria (NTM) infections are also on
      follow up with the infectious diseases specialists SGH. The care of NTM patients can last
      many years, with patients requiring multiple admissions for reinfections/relapses and are
      often on long term suppressive therapy and follow up at the Specialist Outpatient Clinic.
      (3,4)The lack of standardised care for NTM patients, lengthy treatment time for NTM
      infections, as well as increases in macrolide-resistant NTM infections, warrants a need for
      research into the epidemiology and best practice to treat this group of patients. (5,6) We
      seek to better define the epidemiology of this group of patients and hope to objectively
      measure the effectiveness and quality of our NTM care delivery in SGH.

      Currently there is a lack of a systematic database to track our quality of care and support
      services. As there are many Infectious Diseases Specialists in the department, each may have
      slight variation in clinical practice and preference in the face of a lack of proper
      treatment guideline. We believe NTM management can be improved with a consistent care
      delivery pathway and more standardization of therapy and follow up plan. This will lead to
      better desired patient outcome. This prospective observational data collection will allow us
      to evaluate our current standard of care for these patients, which can lead to identification
      for areas of improvement so that we can refine our strategies and implement more effective
      and standardized guidelines in the future.

        1. Griffith DE, Aksamit T, Brown-Elliott BA, Catanzaro A, Daley C, Gordin F, Holland SM,
           Horsburgh R, Huitt G, Iademarco MF, Iseman M, Olivier K, Ruoss S, von Reyn CF, Wallace
           RJ Jr, Winthrop K. An Official ATS/IDSA Statement: Diagnosis, Treatment, and Prevention
           of Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Diseases. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2007; Feb
           15;175(4):367-416

        2. Cook JL. Nontuberculous mycobacteria: opportunistic environmental pathogens for
           predisposed hosts. Br Med Bull 2010;96:45-59

        3. Piersimoni C. Nontuberculous mycobacteria infection in solid organ transplant
           recipients. European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases 2012
           Apr;31(4):397-403

        4. Payen MC, De Wit S, Clumeck N. Manifestations, diagnosis and treatment of
           non-tuberculous mycobacterial infections in patients with HIV infection. Revue des
           Maladies Respiratoires 1997 Dec;14 Suppl 5:S142-51

        5. Russell CD, Claxton P, Doig C, Seagar AL, Rayner A, Laurenson IF. Non-tuberculous
           mycobacteria: a retrospective review of Scottish isolates from 2000 to 2010. Thorax 2013
           [Epub ahead of print]

        6. Binder AM, Adjemian J, Olivier KN, Prevots DR. Epidemiology of Nontuberculous
           Mycobacterial Infections and Associated Chronic Macrolide Use among Persons with Cystic
           Fibrosis. American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine 2013; [Epub ahead
           of print]
    
  