
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Define the maximum tolerated doses of four courses of doxorubicin (DOX),
      paclitaxel (TAX), and cyclophosphamide (CTX) followed by peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC)
      and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor support given in an out-patient setting in patients
      with metastatic breast cancer. II. Evaluate the cardiotoxicity of the combination of bolus
      DOX, a 3-hour infusion of TAX, and CTX. III. Determine the clinical response rate and time to
      progression associated with this regimen. IV. Determine Cmax, AUC and the drug:metabolite
      ratio of TAX and DOX when given with CTX, a known p450 inducer.

      OUTLINE: Patients without prior doxorubicin (DOX) or paclitaxel (TAX) receive two courses of
      induction chemotherapy with DOX/TAX with G-CSF support given 3 weeks apart. Peripheral blood
      stem cells (PBSC) are harvested during the recovery phase following the second course.
      Patients who previous received DOX or TAX and responded receive cyclophosphamide (CTX) with
      G-CSF for stem cell mobilization followed by PBSC harvest. Back-up bone marrow may be
      harvested from patients without marrow involvement for whom PBSC collection is inadequate.
      Patients with responding or stable disease who have adequate PBSC available receive
      dose-intensive chemotherapy with DOX, CTX, and TAX given on day 1, with PBSC infused on day 3
      and G-CSF given from day 3 until neutrophil recovery. Four courses of dose-intensive
      chemotherapy with PBSC and G-CSF support are given every 3-4 weeks. During the phase I
      portion of the study, groups of 3-6 patients are treated at increasing doses of DOX, TAX, and
      CTX until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined; during the phase II portion,
      additional patients are treated at the MTD. Patients who progress after 2 courses of
      induction or 2 courses of dose-intensive chemotherapy are given the option of receiving their
      PBSC after conditioning with a different regimen (e.g., CTX, etoposide, and cisplatin).
      Patients who receive induction on protocol but who choose not to receive dose-intensive
      chemotherapy continue DOX/TAX for a total of 6 courses. Patients are followed 3, 6, 12, 18,
      and 24 months after therapy, then as clinically indicated.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: During the phase I portion of the study, groups of 3-6 patients will be
      entered at each dose level studied. During the phase II portion of the study, 25 patients
      will be treated at the maximum tolerated dose.
    
  