
    
      Prior to participation, all subjects receive verbal and written information addressing the
      nature of the study. First dancers are asked to fill in a self-established medical
      questionnaire, the Short Form 36 questionnaire (SF-36), the Dance Functional Outcome Scale
      (DFOS), the Baecke questionnaire, the Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS) and the Tampa Scale
      for Kinesiofobia (TSK). After a baseline assessment, consisting of an evaluation of the
      physical condition (maximal exercise test, evaluation of the respiratory capacity &
      evaluation of explosive muscle strength using a field test), a motor control evaluation of
      the lumbo-pelvic region and evaluation of anthropometric measurements, the participants are
      randomly divided into 2 groups. They will receive an 4 months lasting intervention in
      addition to the regular dance lessons. The time schedule of the intervention is identical for
      both groups. Participants from group A receive an active program aiming at improving their
      cardiovascular endurance, muscular strength and motor control. The level for cardiovascular
      training is based on the results of the maximal exercise test performed during baseline
      assessment. The level of training is determined at a level of 70% of the predicted maximal
      heart rate and was increased every 6 weeks with 5%, ending at 85%. Heart rate will be
      monitored during the training.

      Participants from group B will receive an alternative program, in which all active parts are
      replaced by passive interventions. Several education sessions will be given regarding
      different topics, such as stress management, nutrition, injuries, etc. In addition, also
      practical sessions well be held to practice massage, passive stretching, taping. The
      intervention will be supervised by physical therapists and master students in Physiotherapy,
      experienced in dancing, motor control and/or physical conditioning, and an attendance list
      will register the presence of the participants.

      The injuries of the dancers will be registered during the intervention and during a 6 months
      follow up period.
    
  