
    
      Intraventricular Haemorrhage Approximately 30% of cases of spontaneous intracranial
      haemorrhage or severe head injury are complicated by intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH).
      Typically, IVH results from extension of deep intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) or aneurysmal
      subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH), though a third of patients may have primary IVH confined
      solely the ventricular system. In the absence of a demonstrable angiographic abnormality IVH
      is usually associated with deranged coagulation or vascular risk factors such as
      hypertension, diabetes, and smoking.

      Both experimental and clinical studies have clearly demonstrated the independent effect of
      the volume of haemorrhage on death and disability from IVH. In animals, injection of blood
      into the lateral ventricle exhibits a dose-dependent increase in the risk of fatality, and
      early thrombolysis of the simulated IVH reduces the severity of neurological deficit. In
      retrospective reports of intracerebral haemorrhage patient series concomitant IVH
      consistently emerges as a risk factor for greater mortality and poor functional outcome.
      Similarly, multivariate analyses of data from the STICH and FAST prospective randomised
      controlled trials of ICH management has provided conclusive evidence that the presence and
      volume of IVH is a significant independent risk factor for mortality and morbidity.

      The principal effects of IVH are mediated by intracranial hypertension and induction of
      inflammation with oedema in the periventricular white matter and deep grey structures. Blood
      within the ventricles blocks CSF pathways resulting in a sequence of hydrocephalus, acute
      rise in intracranial pressure (ICP), reduced cerebral perfusion, with a risk of ischaemia,
      and potential brainstem herniation. Exposure of the ependymal lining to blood initiates
      inflammatory cascades and leucocyte infiltration into the adjacent brain, with ensuing tissue
      injury, localised oedema, and eventually generalised brain swelling. Late effects of IVH
      include scarring of the ventricles and obstruction of CSF absorption by blood breakdown
      products, typically resulting in chronic hydrocephalus necessitating permanent CSF diversion
      (shunting).

      Current Management of Intraventricular Haemorrhage The rapid onset of deleterious effects
      after IVH supports the rationale of early intervention to relieve hydrocephalus and raised
      ICP, and to reduce blood load and the resulting inflammation and oedema. In most
      neurosurgical centres the prevailing treatment paradigm is insertion of a ventricular
      catheter and external drainage to divert CSF and reduce ICP, though this can be of limited
      efficacy with a large IVH as expansion and distortion of the ventricle by haematoma plays a
      greater role in exerting mechanical pressure than obstructed CSF. Ventricular catheters also
      frequently block with blood, necessitating repeated surgery for replacement. Furthermore,
      this mode of treatment does not address the inflammatory effects of the haematoma itself,
      which may persist for several days or weeks before complete reabsorption occurs. Infusions of
      urokinase or recombinant tissue plasminogen activator via an external drain to accelerate
      clot lysis have shown promise, however, the effect is not immediate and serial treatments are
      required, each with an attendant risk of infection and rebleeding. Several authors have
      described transcortical or endoscopic surgical clot evacuation but such approaches are
      technically demanding, have limited success in terms of the volume of haematoma removed, and
      are not practicable in the emergency situation.

      Rheolytic Thrombectomy Rheolytic thrombectomy (RT) involves a double-lumen endovascular
      catheter that delivers multiple high-speed retrograde water jets to create a hydrodynamic
      recirculation vortex that traps and mechanically fragments adjacent thrombus, with the
      resulting debris evacuated via the continuous aspiration lumen. Safety studies have shown
      that the technique causes minimal denuding of vascular endothelium with no difference in the
      degree of vessel injury compared with traditional balloon thrombectomy. Clinically, RT has
      principally been applied to endovascular extraction of acute thrombus in coronary arteries
      and the results of large randomised controlled trials testify to a favourable safety profile.
      RT has also been used successfully to treat intracranial dural sinus thrombosis, acute
      internal carotid artery occlusion, and for recanalising blocked synthetic vascular grafts.

      These attractive features of RT suggest it may offer significant advantages over conventional
      IVH treatment for rapidly removing clot from within the ventricle in a single procedure,
      while at the same time causing minimal trauma to the ependymal lining and brain. This study
      will evaluate the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of RT therapy for adult IVH.

      Rationale There is an unmet need for interventions directed at early clot removal following
      IVH. RT has proven effective and safe for intravascular thrombectomy and its features suggest
      it has the potential to be similarly successful in the treatment of IVH. A pilot study is
      indicated to establish feasibility and safety as a precursor to larger clinical trials.

      Ethical Considerations Patients participating in this trial will have suffered major
      intracranial haemorrhage with poor prospect of favourable neurological recovery even with
      maximal current treatment. In this situation, the potential benefits of the RT outweigh the
      foreseeable risks and on balance favour offering the study intervention to patients.

      Patients enrolled in the study will receive additional computed tomography (CT) scans
      involving ionising radiation. These scans will exclude certain causes of haemorrhage
      (aneurysm) that would preclude safely administering the RT therapy. Diagnosis of aneurysm
      would however be of substantial benefit to the patient in determining their further clinical
      management. Volume STEALTH CT scans will be obtained prior to surgery and at 24-48 hours
      post-operatively to aid in navigating the RT catheter and to measure the degree of clot
      evacuation. To guide the number of passes of the RT catheter an on-table CT scan may be
      necessary intra-operatively. In total, the additional radiation dosage equates to
      approximately 4 milliSieverts (mSv), equivalent to approximately 1.5 years background
      radiation. Set against the potential benefits of RT this is not excessive.

      Patients suitable for RT and fulfilling the inclusion and exclusion criteria, will, because
      of their condition, not be able to give informed consent. The nature of the pathology being
      studied means that a trial of a novel treatment cannot first be conducted in patients able to
      give their own consent. The investigators will approach family, relatives, and friends to
      discuss patients' expressed wishes towards participating in research and proceed with
      enrolment if the consultees are in agreement.

      Objectives

        -  To determine the feasibility and efficacy of rheolytic thrombectomy for evacuating
           intraventricular haemorrhage, measured by computed tomography-based volumetric analysis

        -  To assess the safety of using RT in adult intraventricular haemorrhage

      Study Design

      Summary of Design Single centre prospective cohort study of 20 patients with IVH treated with
      RT

      Study Centres

      This is a single-centre study to be conducted at:

      Addenbrooke's Hospital Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Hills Road
      Cambridge CB2 0QQ

      Sample Size Number of Participants 20 patients

      Sample Size Determination From the investigators previous experience the sample size will be
      sufficient for a pilot study to evaluate the feasibility and safety of RT in IVH.

      Study Duration Recruitment is expected to take up to 24 months.

      Endpoints Primary Endpoint Clearance of intraventricular blood measured on computed
      tomography

      Secondary Endpoints

        -  Presence of ependymal cells and/or neural tissue cells within effluent collected during
           operation

        -  14-day survival

        -  Modified Rankin Score at 6 months

        -  Duration of External Ventricular Drainage

        -  Permanent CSF diversion (i.e. shunt)

        -  Intra- or post-operative rebleeding

        -  Culture-proven infection (meningitis/ventriculitis)

      Study Participants Overall Description of Participants Adult patients admitted in coma with
      severe intraventricular haemorrhage requiring external ventricular drainage

      Patient Withdrawal Patients or their nominated consultee are free to withdraw from the study
      at any time.

      Patients will be withdrawn from the study following baseline CT angiography if an aneurysm is
      demonstrated that is thought to have possibly caused the IVH.

      Patients withdrawn from the study prior to RT will be replaced to achieve to ensure a full
      assessment of feasibility and safety can be made.

      Given the study involves a one-time intervention it is not envisaged patients will be
      withdrawn from follow-up after RT, unless requested by them or their nominated consultee.

      Definition of the End of the Study The study will be terminated on completion of recruitment
      and 6-month follow-up of 20 patients.
    
  