
    
      Although the incidence rate of pancreatic cancer is not as high as that of other
      gastrointestinal carcinoma in China, the cancer mortalities of males and females ranked the
      sixth and seventh respectively in 2013, with a surprising low 5-year survival rate (<5%).
      Only 15%-20% patients are suitable for surgeries among those first diagnosed with pancreatic
      cancer and the 5-year survival rate of patients with R0 resection is still less than 20%.

      Therefore, better efficacy is not available via surgeries alone resulting in great emphasis
      on adjuvant chemoradiotherapy. In 1997, gemcitabine was confirmed to be the standard
      chemotherapy for pancreatic cancer. However, it has not been proved that gemcitabine
      significantly improved prognosis in long term follow-up while some patients are refractory to
      gemcitabine. Hence, development of more effective chemotherapy is urgent.

      S-1 is the prodrug of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), comprised of tegafur, gimeracil
      (dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase inhibitor) and oteracil (the inhibitor of phosphorylation in
      gastrointestinal tract) with a ratio of 1:0.4:1. The first phase II clinical trials showed
      good clinical efficacy with S-1.Moreover, Ueno et al. identified better objective response
      rates with S-1 than those with gemcitabine. Besides, S-1 is not inferior to gemcitabine
      regarding to overall survival rates and progression free survival rates. And significant
      improvement of progression free survival rates can be achieved by combination of S-1 and
      gemcitabine. There was no difference between incidence rates of adverse effects of S-1 and
      gemcitabine, with more gastrointestinal toxicities with S-1 while more hematologic toxicities
      with gemcitabine. Therefore, S-1 is an alternative for treating locally advanced or
      metastatic pancreatic cancer, especially for those resistant to gemcitabine. Although there
      are no phase III studies on S-1, phase II studies have already shown better disease control
      rates (52%-58%), median overall survival time (4.5-6.3 months) and tolerable adverse effects
      in advanced pancreatic cancer resistant to gemcitabine treated with S-1.

      Though S-1 is appropriate for advanced pancreatic cancer, it is not superior to gemcitabine
      with respect to clinical efficacy. In addition, fewer encouraging results are gained with
      combination of S-1 and other drug. As a result, S-1 combined with radiotherapy is gradually
      applied in treatment of pancreatic cancer.

      5-FU was proved to be radiosensitive thus improving clinical efficacy. S-1 combined with
      radiotherapy has demonstrated better prognosis with the median overall survival time of
      12.9-16.8 months. Furthermore, some patients can be operable after S-1 and radiotherapy.

      Compared with conventional radiation, a single-fraction dose and total dose of target volume
      can be increased in stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). In addition, doses of organs
      at risk would be reduced, thus effectively improving local control rates and reducing
      radiation related toxicity. Shorter courses of SBRT also enhance patients' compliance and
      render the initial of other treatment on schedule possible. Nevertheless, there are few
      studies focusing on S-1 combined with SBRT for locally advanced pancreatic cancer. Especially
      for patients with poor medical coonditions, though gemcitabine alone is recommended in the
      NCCN guideline, S-1 may be a better option due to more adverse effects induced by gemcitabine
      in Asian. Additionally, local ablative treatment combined with chemotherapy may provide more
      survival benefits for those patients. Hence, efficacy of combination of S-1 and SBRT needs to
      be further confirmed. Based on our experience in treating locally advanced pancreatic cancer,
      SBRT combined with sequential S-1 as the initial treatment for patients with locally advanced
      pancreatic cancer and poor medical conditions is proposed to evaluate its clinical efficacy.

      Study Procedure:

        1. CyberKnife SBRT body fixation (vacuum-bag) will be used in immobilizing the body, the
           arms and the legs. Patients will undergo a plain CT as well as an enhanced pancreatic
           parenchymal CT for radiation treatment planning and target delineation.

        2. SBRT will be delivered on CyberKnife with Synchrony Respiratory Tracking system. The
           tumor will be tracked with implanted fiducial markers by Fiducial Tracking System.
           Treatment will be delivered in 5 fractions within 1 to 2 weeks at the discretion of the
           investigator.

        3. A body fixation (vacuum-bag) will be used in immobilizing the body, the arms (both arms
           are along the body) and the legs.

        4. The total doses depend on patients' medical conditions, ranging from 35Gy-40Gy/5Fx.

        5. Patients receive 80 mg of S-1 per square meter of body surface area twice a day for 4
           weeks, followed by 2 weeks of rest as one course, which would repeat for six cycles.The
           initiation of S-1 is one month after SBRT.
    
  