
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of erlotinib when combined with cetuximab in
      patients with metastatic or unresectable renal cell, colorectal, head and neck, pancreatic,
      or non-small cell lung cancer (part 1).

      II. Determine the MTD of bevacizumab when combined with cetuximab and erlotinib in these
      patients (part 2).

      III. Determine the toxic effects, both quantitatively and qualitatively, of these regimens in
      these patients.

      IV. Determine the antitumor activity of these regimens, in terms of tumor response,
      short-term survival, and progression-free survival, in these patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare, preliminarily, the toxicity and antitumor activity profiles of these regimens in
      these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of erlotinib and
      bevacizumab.

      Part 1: Patients receive oral erlotinib once daily on days 1-28. Patients also receive
      cetuximab IV over 3 hours on day 1 and over 1 hour on days 8, 15, and 22.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Part 2: Patients receive erlotinib as in part 1 at the MTD and cetuximab as in part 1.
      Patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 1½ hours on day 1 and over 1 hour on day 15.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of bevacizumab until the MTD is determined.
      The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity.

      In both groups, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or
      disease progression.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 month.
    
  