
    
      Interstitial lung diseases (ILD) are a heterogeneous group of more than 200 entities that can
      be idiopathic or as a result of other diseases and/or treatments. All forms of ILD are
      considered to be seldom or very seldom (and most of them are so-called "orphan" diseases), in
      their entirety they seem to represent an epidemiological burden, which should not be
      underestimated, e.g. as "normal" symptoms of the elderly.

      The knowledge about the epidemiology of ILDs is very limited, in general and in Germany in
      particular. For Germany no current, valid and comprehensive population-based data on ILDs
      exist because no appropriate ILD classification was available for a long time. The
      epidemiological data, which were collected before the introduction of the current
      classification of ILD according to the ATS/ERS consensus and before HRCT was considered the
      diagnostic gold standard, are not very reliable. Furthermore systemic investigations relating
      to the development of an ILD of risk groups, such as patients undergoing radio- or
      chemotherapy or patients with connective tissue disease, are restricted.

      Thus, only little is known about costs associated with ILDs. Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis
      (IPF), as one of the disease entities, was shown to be associated with high healthcare
      utilization and costs in England and the USA, as in many cases lung transplantation is the
      only therapeutic option and also new pharmaceutical treatments are costly. But there is a
      lack of data on healthcare utilization and financial consequences of other ILD than IPF in
      Germany. Therefore, this registry will provide an important database for health economics and
      health services research questions.

      Against this background, this multi-centre, non interventional prospective observational
      disease and outcomes registry for ILD aims to collect valid data from all forms of health
      care on the incidence, prevalence, the regional distribution, characteristics, management and
      outcomes of different ILDs under clinical practice conditions. In detail, demographic data
      such as gender, age, country of birth, place of residence; disease related data such as
      subtype of ILD, treatment center, diagnostic procedures (e.g. HRCT, lung biopsy, pulmonary
      function tests); risk factors (e.g. smoking status, profession, familial ILD);
      co-morbidities; ILD management as analysed by the kind and frequency of pharmacological and
      non-pharmacological therapies; outcome; and consumption of resources will be recorded.
      Therefore, this registry will allow obtaining a comprehensive and current epidemiologic
      report for ILDs in Germany and can be particularly helpful in uncovering correlations between
      risk exposure and disease development.

      This study, with up to 100 sites, initially focused on the federal states Baden-Wuerttemberg
      and Hesse, is planned for a minimum of 5 years and 600 patients should be enrolled as part of
      the study a screening/baseline visit, on which the Informed Consent Form will be signed, and
      every 6 months regularly updates/phone contacts will be performed.

      Following quality procedures are applicable for this registry:

        -  Quality assurance plan that addresses data validation and registry procedures, including
           any plans for site monitoring and auditing.

        -  Data checks to compare data entered into the registry against predefined rules for range
           or consistency with other data fields in the registry.

        -  Source data verification to assess the accuracy, completeness, or representativeness of
           registry data by comparing the data to external data sources (e.g., medical records,
           paper or electronic case report forms, or interactive voice response systems).

        -  Standard Operating Procedures to address registry operations and analysis activities,
           such as patient recruitment, data collection, data management, data analysis, reporting
           for adverse events, and change management.

        -  Sample size assessment to specify the number of participants or participant years
           necessary to demonstrate an effect.

        -  Plan for missing data to address situations where variables are reported as missing,
           unavailable, "non-reported," uninterpretable, or considered missing because of data
           inconsistency or out-of-range results

        -  Statistical analysis plan describing the analytical principles and statistical
           techniques to be employed in order to address the primary and secondary objectives, as
           specified in the study protocol or plan.
    
  