
    
      This phase II study aims to evaluate regional chemotherapy in patients with unresectable
      primary hepatic malignancy. Specifically, eligible patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and
      peripheral cholangiocarcinoma, considered unresectable after review by the Hepatobiliary
      Surgery service, will undergo hepatic artery pump placement and continuous infusion of FUDR.
      The protocol includes radiological and biological correlative studies.

      The primary objectives of the study are 1.) to assess the efficacy of continuous hepatic
      arterial infusion (HAI) of FUDR and dexamethasone (DEX) in patients with unresectable
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) and 2.)to assess
      patient tolerability of this therapy stratified by degree of underlying hepatic parenchymal
      disease, as determined on liver biopsy. Secondary objectives are 1.) to use dynamic MRI to
      evaluate changes in tumor perfusion during treatment and to correlate these findings with
      radiographic tumor response and 2.) to investigate molecular genetic changes associated with
      these tumors using comparative genomic hybridization and cDNA array from tumor and liver
      biopsy specimens obtained at the time of operation. All patients enrolled in the study will
      begin HAI FUDR at 0.16 mg/kg/day. An initial cohort of 12 patients will be enrolled and
      treated. Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) related to FUDR is defined by changes in liver function
      blood tests that are unrelated to disease progression or mechanical biliary obstruction.
      Modifications in the FUDR dose may be required. A patient will be considered intolerant of
      therapy if treatment must be stopped due to DLT at least once during the first 3 months.
      Treatment will continue as long as there is at least stable disease and acceptable toxicity.

      If, in the initial cohort, 4 or more patients (> 30%) are intolerant of therapy or if there
      are not at least 2 responders, then the study will be terminated. Otherwise, accrual will
      continue to a maximum of 35 patients.
    
  