
    
      The average 5-year survival rate of patients with cholangiocarcinoma is about 5-10%. Only
      30%-40% of patients have the opportunity to obtain radical surgery. Surgical resection is
      limited by the extent of tumor spread along the bile duct branches and segments, and the
      degree of involvement of the portal vein and (or) hepatic artery branches. Complete resection
      with negative margins (R0) is the only possible radical treatment. Only 60%-78% of radical
      surgery for cholangiocarcinoma are considered to achieve true R0 resection, and the
      tumor-free margin is often very short. Even after R0 resection, the recurrence rate is as
      high as 50%-76%. Photodynamic therapy is a tumor specific ablation method with small side
      effects and repeated treatments will not produce drug resistance. It provides a new prospect
      for the treatment of cholangiocarcinoma. For the current patients with locally advanced
      cholangiocarcinoma, neoadjuvant photodynamic therapy is used to make them resectable.
      Demotion and subsequent resection may potentially improve their results. Similarly, patients
      with resectable margins can benefit from tumor downgrading by increasing their chances of
      undergoing R0 resection. In order to increase the negative rate of resection margins, and to
      ensure sufficient tumor-free margins of the bile duct stumps, the research is still blank.
      For patients with locally advanced cholangiocarcinoma with resectable margins, patients who
      meet the selection criteria are randomly divided into two groups A and B. Group A:
      neoadjuvant PDT therapy combined with radical surgery; Group B: radical surgery. This study
      aims to explore the clinical effectiveness and safety of neoadjuvant photodynamic therapy, as
      well as its role in destroying local tumors and enhancing systemic inflammation.This study
      plans to enroll 50 patients. It is planned to complete the enrollment operation within 2
      years, and the follow-up observation will be continued for 5 years after the operation. All
      patients are expected to complete neoadjuvant PDT treatment and radical surgery within 2
      years, survival period (5 years survival rate), R0 resection rate and local recurrence rate
      are the main observation indicators, and the bilirubin level, the number of intraoperative
      freezing, the length of the tumor-free margin of the tumor tissue, and the incidence of
      complications (biliary leakage, cholangitis, phototoxicity) are the secondary observation
      indicators.
    
  