
    
      Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is defined as an individual s perception of his or her
      well-being and satisfaction with their current circumstances. As is oftentimes the case, in
      childhood-onset neuromuscular disease (NMD) and cerebral palsy (CP), no definitive cures
      currently exist. As a result, the primary goal of treatment for these patient populations is
      to improve quality of life or, more specifically, HRQoL. The medical community s interest in
      patient-based outcomes such as HRQoL has increased in the last two decades as it allows a
      multidimensional consideration of a patient s health. This focus has been the impetus for the
      development of computerized adaptive testing (CAT) instruments such as Quality of Life in
      Neurological Disorders (Neuro-QOL) and Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information
      System (PROMIS) to provide a means of assessing quality of life in patient populations with
      chronic diseases, such as neuromuscular disease and cerebral palsy.

      The objective of this study is thus to validate the PROMIS and Neuro-QOL scales pediatric
      domains of self-assessment for individuals with CP and NMD and the PROMIS proxy domains for
      proxy-assessment of the same populations. The questionnaires will be administered to a
      combined total of 650 individuals from two sites in order to also calibrate the items and
      convert the questionnaires into CAT format.

      The study population is patients with CP or NMD, ages 8-17 years, caregivers of patients with
      CP or NMD, whose children are ages 5-17 years. Caregivers are defined in this study as
      parents or legal guardians of children.

      <TAB>

      The design is a prospective study in which patients and caregivers will complete online
      versions of the PROMIS and Neuro-QOL questionnaires at one of two different sites.

      <TAB>

      The outcome measures are the responses to the questionnaires.

      <TAB>

      The validation of self-report and proxy-report questionnaires for use in the pediatric
      population with childhood-onset disease, specifically CP and NMD, will serve as an adjunct to
      the clinical exam and provide a way for clinicians and researchers to track the effectiveness
      of regular care and surgical interventions in these populations. The ultimate goal is to
      produce reliable, validated assessments of HRQoL in these populations via the CAT testing
      format with the potential to use these tools to inform both clinical decision-making and
      further research efforts for patients.
    
  