
    
      Every year about 1200 babies in England, Wales and Scotland suffer from a lack of oxygen
      around birth which can lead to long-term brain injury or death. This is called Hypoxic
      Ischaemic Encephalopathy (HIE). Research has shown that cooling babies with HIE by a few
      degrees for the first 3 days protects the brain; all babies with moderate or severe HIE in
      the UK are treated with therapeutic hypothermia (cooling).

      Doctors do not know how best to care for babies while they are cooled. A key question is "how
      to provide nutrition to babies during cooling". There are two main parts to this question,
      milk feeds ("enteral" nutrition) and intravenous nutrition ("parenteral" nutrition). Doctors
      don't know how best to provide either milk or intravenous nutrition to cooled babies.

        -  MILK FEEDS: Some neonatal units in the UK carefully feed babies (usually with maternal
           breast milk) while they are cooled. This avoids intravenous lines and is believed to
           help them feed and go home earlier. Other neonatal units do not feed cooled babies
           because they worry about a condition called necrotising enterocolitis (a devastating and
           often fatal disease) which might be more common with feeding.

        -  INTRAVENOUS NUTRITION: All cooled babies need intravenous fluid (even when milk feeds
           are given it takes several days before enough fluid can be given this way). Some
           neonatal units give babies intravenous nutrition (which contains fat, protein,
           carbohydrate, vitamins and minerals) as this may improve growth and recovery. Other
           neonatal units only give intravenous dextrose with simple salts because of concerns that
           intravenous nutrition leads to more infections. This study will compare these different
           ways of providing nutrition. It will use a research database called the National
           Neonatal Research Database (NNRD). In England, Scotland and Wales doctors and nurses
           looking after babies in neonatal care (including all cooled babies) use an Electronic
           Health Record system. Data from this system are anonymised (no baby can be identified)
           and form the NNRD, so the NNRD holds data from all babies who have been looked after on
           NHS neonatal units.

      The investigators have worked closely with parents and charities in developing the NNRD. The
      investigators will use the NNRD to study all term babies who received cooling in England,
      Scotland and Wales since 2008. The investigators will compare the milk feeding and
      intravenous nutrition they receive.

        -  MILK FEEDING: The investigators will compare babies who are fed milk while cooled with
           those that are not fed any milk. The investigator's main goal is to establish whether
           there is any difference in rates of necrotising enterocolitis.

        -  INTRAVENOUS NUTRITION: The investigators will compare babies who get intravenous
           nutrition with those that only get intravenous dextrose. The main difference we are
           looking for is in the rate of infection. The investigators will also study how many
           babies die, how long they stay in neonatal care, how soon breastfeeding starts and many
           are breastfed when they go home.

      The investigators will apply a statistical approach called "potential outcomes framework" in
      which babies are matched in each group (e.g. babies who are fed and those who are not fed) as
      closely as possible. This will ensure that any difference in outcomes is due to the different
      nutritional treatments and not due to background differences or other confounders (like how
      sick a baby is).

      The results from this study will help to ensure that babies who need to be cooled for HIE
      receive the best and safest nutrition in the future.
    
  