
    
      Infertility is a psychological threat, emotional stress, economically expensive, painful and
      complex life crisis for the treatment for couples. Infertility has negative effects on social
      and psychological well-being rather than physical health. Infertile people accept this
      situation as a serious apology, and as a result of their emotional feeling, they are isolated
      from their surroundings over time. Therefore, infertility is not a simple gynecologic
      syndrome, and it is a condition that especially affects the woman very biologically,
      psychologically and socially, resulting in a decrease in health and quality of life. While
      infertility is not a life threatening health problem, the couple threatens healthy life with
      negative effects on mental health and quality of life and is defined as a life crisis by some
      authors. Studies in infertile couples have shown that women experience more anxiety,
      depression, stress and hostility in their lives than men, and that sexual life is negatively
      affected.

      Today, unforeseen infertility, often unexplained and unpredictable, is considered to have
      created a stressful situation that pushes the coping mechanisms for a couple and destroys the
      sense of health and integrity.

      The more a woman's identity is defined by her being a mother, the greater the amount of her
      psychological distress and disability. The longer the duration of infertility, the more
      dominance and hopelessness dominate and this can result in a greater depression. Generally,
      psychosocial effects of infertility also affect the components of quality of life in a
      negative way. The most affected areas are mental health, emotional behavior, environmental
      psychology, physical and social functions.

      In many studies, it was determined that stress, anxiety and depression scores of infertile
      couples were higher than the fertile population. Anger, nervousness, decreased self-esteem,
      poor interpersonal relationships, reduced life satisfaction, anxiety and depression are
      frequently seen psychological disorders associated with infertility.

      As a result, infertility is a stressful event for couples with children, and it is also a
      condition that affects the relationship of couples. The infertile couples have profoundly
      affected their marriages and social lives because of the long treatment duration, the
      destructive effect on the continuing mental health, the complexity of the treatment
      procedures, the unusual and long steps required and the consequences of the IVF treatment.
    
  