
    
      Specific Aims:

      To validate acceptable image quality and the stress/rest myocardial count density ratio (as
      defined below) of the Rapid Stress/Rest Protocol

      Experimental Design and Methods:

      Validation of the stress/rest myocardial count density ratio achieved using a standard
      rest/stress protocol incorporating a conventional 3:1 stress/rest Tc-99m radiopharmaceutical
      dose ratio.

      Human subjects:

      To determine the stress/rest myocardial count density ratio encountered using existing
      rest/stress imaging protocols in routine clinical practice, 100 consecutive patients
      undergoing either exercise or pharmacologic stress (dipyridamole or regadenoson) myocardial
      perfusion SPECT were included. The stress/rest Tc-99m sestamibi/Tc-99m tetrofosmin
      radiopharmaceutical dose ratio was 3:1 in all patients. Stress and rest maximal myocardial
      counts were determined from reconstructed tomograms using Evolution software (GE Healthcare).

      The Investigational, novel stress/rest protocol:

      Human Subjects: Characteristics and Plans for Recruitment 100 patients, who give their
      consent, presenting for myocardial perfusion SPECT in whom exercise or pharmacologic stress
      is clinically indicated will be enrolled prospectively. There will be no bias in selection of
      patients with regard to gender or racial/ethnic composition. 50 patients will be stressed
      with exercise. 50 additional patients will receive pharmacologic stress with the on-label
      dose of Regadenoson. All patients will receive the appropriate dose of radiotracer according
      to their size and weight. Pregnant women and those who are breast feeding will not be
      enrolled.

      Patient Informed Consent:

      Written informed consent will be obtained by either the Principal Investigator, the PI's
      research assistant (a physician), a Nuclear Medicine resident, or a Cardiology fellow (who
      will supervise and monitor the stress testing).

      Methods - Imaging and Data Analysis:

      The rapid stress/rest protocol, as described above, will be performed using the GE Ventri, MG
      or Maxxus dual-head supine scintillation camera and UltraSPECT Wide Beam Reconstruction (WBR)
      software. Both stress and rest SPECT will be performed in all patients, even if the initial
      stress images are normal.

      Images will be interpreted and reported in the standard fashion for clinical patient
      management, characterizing perfusion defects in terms of location, extent, severity,
      reversibility, and function in terms of volume, regional wall motion and wall thickening.

      Patient flow:

        1. Upon arrival in the Nuclear Medicine Laboratory, patients will be interviewed regarding
           their medical history and a limited physical examination will be performed (as routinely
           performed for all clinically-indicated myocardial perfusion scans), and informed consent
           will be obtained for enrollment in this research study.

        2. Patients able to perform treadmill exercise to 85% of their age-predicted maximum heart
           rate will undergo treadmill exercise stress. In the remainder of patients pharmacologic
           stress will be achieved with intravenous regadenoson. A stress dose of 5-7 mCi (adjusted
           for patient weight and chest circumference) Tc-99m sestamibi will be administered
           intravenously.

        3. Post-stress gated SPECT will be acquired 30-60 min. thereafter using a full-time stress
           (12 min.) acquisition protocol, and processed using "half-time" Wide Beam Reconstruction
           software (i.e."half-dose" WBR protocol).

        4. Within 60 minutes thereafter patients will receive an additional intravenous dose of
           35-42 mCi (adjusted for patient weight and chest circumference) Tc-99m sestamibi at
           rest.

        5. Resting gated SPECT will be acquired 40-60 minutes thereafter using a half-time resting
           (7.5 min.) acquisition protocol, and processed using "half-time" Wide Beam
           Reconstruction software (i.e. half-time" WBR protocol).

        6. The estimated time for the entire study is approximately 3 hrs, which is slightly less
           than the time fro the standard rest/stress protocol the investigators now use.

      Scans will be assessed for image quality using a 5-point subjective scale used in several
      reports the investigators have published previously (in references #2 and #3 below):

      The image quality of the stress and rest perfusion tomograms and the gated tomograms is
      graded visually using a 5-point scale: 1 (poor) - 5 (excellent). Myocardial count density and
      uniformity, endocardial and epicardial edge definition, visualization and definition of the
      right ventricle, and background noise are parameters considered subjectively when grading
      image quality. In addition to those same attributes considered when grading the summed
      perfusion tomograms, the definition of the left ventricular cavity at end-systole and the
      temporal smoothness of the gated frames are also considered when grading the post-stress and
      rest gated images.

      Stress and rest absolute myocardial count density and the stress:rest myocardial count
      density ratio will be determined from processed tomograms using General Electric Xeleris
      computer software. Count density is basically the "information density" of the scan. In
      general, as for all of nuclear imaging, the higher the count density, the better the image
      quality, the lower the incidence of scan artifacts, and the greater the clinical value of the
      scan.

      The rest/stress myocardial count density ratio achieved using the novel low-dose
      stress/high-dose rest protocol will be compared to the stress/rest ratios achieved using
      conventional rest/stress protocols (described above). The unpaired Student's t-test will be
      used. In addition rest/stress count densities achieved using exercise (50 patients) and
      regadenoson (50 patients) with the novel protocol will be compared with stress/rest ratios
      achieved using standard rest/stress imaging in the exercise (59 patients) and regadenoson (29
      patients) subgroups.

      Primary Endpoint 1: Comparison of the myocardial count density ratio of the test group using
      the Rapid Protocol vs. the myocardial count density ratio of the Traditional protocol in the
      control group.

      Secondary Endpoints

        1. Image quality

        2. # of patients with normal stress studies that may have had a stress-only study.

        3. Reduction in radiation exposure between Test (Rapid) and Control (Traditional) groups

        4. Comparison of absolute stress and rest myocardial count densities in Test and Control
           groups 5. Start to finish time, and potential cost savings between the two groups 6.
           Comparison of total radiopharmaceutical dose between the two groups

      Study Duration:

      1 year

      Statistical Plan:

      Primary endpoint: The individual stress and rest, as well as the stress:rest myocardial count
      density ratio will be determined from test group processed tomograms and compared with
      control group using UNPAIRED T TEST

      Secondary: The image quality of the test group stress and rest perfusion tomograms and the
      gated tomograms will be graded visually using a 5-point scale: 1 (poor) - 5 (excellent), and
      compared with the control group using the UNPAIRED T TEST.

      The overall reduction in radiation exposure to the test group will be analyzed using, as a
      comparator, the patient size and weight based radiopharmaceutical dose and imaging time used
      in a standard Stress/Rest Protocol.

      The time and cost savings associated with forgoing the resting study in those patients with a
      normal stress scan will be calculated.

      Based on a control group mean maximum contrast dose (MCD) of 4.4 and standard deviation of
      9.5, this study will have greater than 80% power to detect a 0.3 difference in the MCD ratio.
      (Alpha=5%)
    
  