
    
      This study will separate into two phases. Phase I is a large scale cross-sectional survey to
      corporations in Hong Kong to examine the employers' knowledge, attitudes and practices in
      promoting smoking cessation in the workplace. Phase II is a 2-arm randomized controlled trial
      will be conducted to examine the effectiveness of WhatsApp intervention.

      Outcome:

      The primary outcome of the study is to measure participated smokers' self reported 7-day
      point prevalence quit rate at 6-month follow-up. Secondary outcomes include participated
      smokers' (i) self reported 7-day point prevalence quit rate at 9- and 12-month follow-ups;
      (ii) self-reported reduction rate at 6-, 9- and 12-month follow-ups; (iii) self-reported quit
      attempt at 6-, 9- and 12-month follow-ups; (iv) change in self-efficacy towards smoking
      cessation at 6-, 9- and 12-month follow-ups compared with baseline.

      Data analyses

      Phase I:

      Descriptive statistics will be used to measure the (1) basic information of the corporations,
      including the total number of employees and smoking employees; (2) knowledge on smoking of
      employers/managerial staff; (3) attitudes on smoking cessation of employers/managerial staff;
      (4) practices of the corporations with respect to smoking cessation.

      Phase II:

      Descriptive statistics such as frequency, percentage, and mean will be used to summarize the
      outcomes and other variables. Chi-square tests and t-tests will be used to compare outcome
      variables between subgroups. The intention-to-treat analysis will be used such that those
      lost to contact and refused cases at the follow-ups will be treated as no reduction in
      cigarette consumption nor quitting. Subgroup analyses will be conducted among the "adherence"
      cohort, which is classified as subjects who actively participant in the WhatsApp interaction.
    
  