
    
      COVID-19 Viral Global Pandemic resulting in post-infection pulmonary damage, including
      Fibrotic Lung Disease due to inflammatory and reactive protein secretions damaging pulmonary
      alveolar structure and functionality. A short review includes:

        -  Early December, 2019 - A pneumonia of unknown cause was detected in Wuhan, China, and
           was reported to the World Health Organization (WHO) Country Office.

        -  January 30th, 2020 - The outbreak was declared a Public Health Emergency of
           International Concern.

        -  February 7th, 2020 - 34-year-old Ophthalmologist who first identified a SARS-like
           coronavirus) dies from the same virus.

        -  February 11th, 2020 - WHO announces a name for the new coronavirus disease: COVID-19.

        -  February 19th, 2020 - The U.S. has its first outbreak in a Seattle nursing home which
           were complicated with loss of lives..

        -  March 11th, 2020 - WHO declares the virus a pandemic and in less than three months, from
           the time when this virus was first detected, the virus has spread across the entire
           planet with cases identified in every country including Greenland.

        -  March 11th, 2020 - As of this date, Over 60% of all COVID-19 deaths in the U.S. can be
           traced to that single nursing home in Seattle.

        -  March 11th, 2020 - Dr. Fauci from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) states, "If
           you count all the estimated cases of people who may have it but haven't been diagnosed
           yet, the mortality rate is probably closer to 1%," he said, "which means it's 10 times
           more lethal than the seasonal flu."

        -  March 21st, 2020 - The U.S. has 24,105 active cases, 301 deaths, and 171 patients
           declared recovered, a number which has since massively increased within the United
           States and Globally.

        -  March 21st, 2020 - Emerging Infectious Disease estimates the risk for death in Wuhan
           reached values as high as 12% in the epicenter of the epidemic and ≈1% in other, more
           mildly affected areas. The elevated death risk estimates are probably associated with a
           breakdown of the healthcare system, indicating that enhanced public health
           interventions, including social distancing and movement restrictions, should be
           implemented to bring the COVID-19 epidemic under control." March 21st 2020 -Much of the
           United States is currently under some form of self- or mandatory quarantine as testing
           abilities ramp up..

      March 24th, 2020 - Hot spots are evolving and identified, particularly in the areas of New
      York-New Jersey, Washington, and California

      Immediate attention is turned to testing, diagnosis, epidemiological containment, clinical
      trials for drug testing started, and work on a long-term vaccine started.

      The recovering patients are presenting with mild to severe lung impairment as a result of the
      viral attack on the alveolar and lung tissues. Clinically significant impairment of pulmonary
      function appears to be a permanent finding as a direct result of the interstitial lung damage
      and inflammatory changes that accompanied.

      This Phase 0, first-in-kind for humans, is use of autologous, cSVF deployed intravenously to
      examine the anti-inflammatory and structural potential to improve the residual damaged
      tissues.

      Previous utilization of cSVF remains in Clinical Trials at this moment for uses in Chronic
      Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrotic Lung disorders,
      showing encouraging safety profile and clinical efficacy. It is the intention of this study,
      driven by the ongoing pandemic as a direct causative etiology for permanent lung damage
      within the oxygen/carbon dioxide exchange resulting the the direct alveolar disruption and
      scarring reaction.

      The inflammatory mediation, autoimmune modulatory capabilities, and revascularization
      potentials of the cSVF is becoming well recognized and documented in peer-reviewed literature
      and in scientific studies.

      Due to the urgency presented from the ongoing CoronaVirus pandemic, many patients that
      survive experience demonstrate direct pulmonary damage residua. There is available a relative
      new technology offered by Fluidda Inc in European Union (EU) known as "Functional Respiratory
      Imaging (FRI) and examines pulmonary function and vascular capabilities in damaged lung
      tissues. This study examines the lung baseline (post-infection), and at 3 and 6 month
      intervals post-cSVF treatment to examine the functional airway configuration and efficiency
      at those intervals.

      Sporadic reports of use of stem cells or stem/stromal cells have revealed some positive
      clinical outcomes, although not within a traditional randomized trial format at this point in
      time. This study proposed in the specific situation of permanent residual dysfunction created
      by the SARS-Co2 (Coronavirus) infection is felt to warrant a pilot study using the cSVF that
      is in current Clinical Trials, which, at this point presents a very good safety profile with
      the absence of adverse event (AE) or severe adverse events (SAE) as yet reported by the
      trials.
    
  