
    
      Alternating hemiplegia of childhood (AHC) is a rare very disabling neurodevelopmental
      syndrome caused by mutations in the gene ATP1A3. AHC is characterized by paroxysmal events
      including attacks of hemiplegia (weakness), dystonia (painful stiffening), oculomotor
      abnormalities and epileptic seizures. As the condition progresses permanent neurological
      symptoms, including unsteadiness and learning problems, emerge. Mutations in ATP1A3 also
      cause other related syndromes: rapid-onset dystonia-parkinsonism (RDP), less severe and
      usually presenting in adulthood, as well as cerebellar ataxia, areflexia, pes cavus, optic
      atrophy, and sensorineural hearing loss (CAPOS) syndrome, a severe syndrome of early
      childhood.

      Currently therapeutic options are very limited aiming at symptomatic relief with limited
      success. As ATP1A3-related syndromes are very rare diseases, with an estimated prevalence of
      about 1/1000000, randomised clinical trials of available therapies are not possible due to
      lack of a large enough patient cohort. However, the revolution in genetic diagnostics has
      made the identification of these patients and the correlation between their phenotypes
      possible. At the same time further novel technologies in neuromonitoring and neuroimaging, as
      well as videography and sleep monitoring have become available that could help us further
      examine and understand the underlying mechanisms especially of the paroxysmal episodes that
      characterise all ATP1A3-related syndromes. The investigators believe that based on these
      scientific advances they will be able to recruit a UK-wide patient cohort to conduct an in
      depth study of the progression of this disease.

      This is particularly relevant at the moment as rapid progress in genetic therapies and other
      novel therapeutics makes the availability of new treatment options in the near future a
      realistic prospect and, even though we will most probably still not be able to identify a
      large enough cohort for randomised clinical trials, our natural history study will act as a
      much needed benchmark to which the success of novel treatments can be evaluated.
    
  