
    
      Nowadays, over 300 million surgical operations take place every year worldwide, which
      increase at a rate of 33.6% comparing data from 2005 to 2013. According to Surgical Outcomes
      Monitoring and Improvement Program (SOMIP) reports, which is an Hospital Authority-wide
      (HA-wide) audit on postoperative outcomes, a growth in major and ultra-major operations
      performed in our locality is also observed between 2008 and 2016, which leads to an
      increasing demand of high dependency and intensive care in the postoperative period. With the
      advancement in surgical technology, increasing surgical complexity and aging population have
      raised concerns towards perioperative costs and postoperative complications. An international
      prospective cohort study revealed that globally 1 in 6 patients experienced a complication
      before hospital discharge and 1 in 35 patients who experienced a complication subsequently
      died without leaving the hospital. Therefore, there is a need of an objective tool for risk
      stratification, which would be useful to guide clinical decision in terms of the magnitude of
      operation, level of intraoperative monitoring and postoperative placement plan.

      There are a variety of risk stratification tools available for use in major non-cardiac
      surgery. Among all, the American Society of Anaesthesiology Physical Status (ASA-PS)
      evaluation scale is the most commonly used risk evaluation system in the assessment of
      patients' physical status in the preoperative period. Although ASA-PS is well-validated in
      previous studies and simple to use, inter-rater reliability and the lack of consideration in
      the surgical perspective have raised concerns towards the development of risk prediction
      models to supplement clinical judgements and strengthen operative mortality estimation. In
      2013, a qualitative systematic review found that Portsmouth Variation of the Physiological
      and Operative Score for the enUmeration of Mortality and Morbidity (P-POSSUM) and Surgical
      Risk Scale (SRS) to be the most reliable multivariate risk scoring systems,, but both were
      noted to have limitations. P-POSSUM has overcome the issues of risk overestimation and
      inadequate generalization across various surgical specialties by POSSUM. But the calculation
      requires 12 physiological and 6 operative variables, some of which requires subjective
      interpretation e.g. chest X-ray. These makes P-POSSUM labour-intensive for clinical use.
      Whereas SRS requires fewer data for risk calculation, it has only been validated in a single
      centre study.

      In recent years, newer risk prediction models like the American College of Surgeons National
      Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS-NSQIP) model and Preoperative Score to Predict
      Postoperative Mortality (POSPOM) have been developed to provide a more comprehensive
      perioperative risk prediction for patients undergoing major operation. ACS-NSQIP model is
      developed based on high-quality clinical data from ACS-NSQIP and is described as a universal
      risk calculator, which includes a Surgeon Adjustment Score (SAS) that allows further score
      modification according to surgical performance. However, owing to the high dependence on
      preoperative laboratory results, ACS-NSQIP often encounters problems where these parameters
      are not readily available in emergency situations. POSSOM model involves 17 predictor
      variables. Together with its excellent discrimination and calibration properties demonstrated
      in its validation cohort and the easily referable rating system, POSSOM is considered a
      robust tool for 1-year postoperative mortality prediction. However, further reviews on its
      external validation are yet available.

      In 2014, a new risk stratification tool, Surgical Outcome Risk Tool (SORT) was developed in
      the UK to predict 30-day mortality after non-cardiac surgery in adults, based on post hoc
      analysis of data in the Knowing the Risk study from the observational National Confidential
      Enquiry into Patient Outcome and Death (NCEOPD). SORT is a multivariate risk scoring system,
      which includes 6 variables: 1) American Society of Anesthesiologists Physical Status (ASA-PS)
      grade, 2) urgency of surgery, 3) surgical specialty, 4) surgical magnitude, 5) cancer or
      non-cancer surgery and 6) age.

      In 2018, the Combined Assessment of Risk Encountered in Surgery (CARES) surgical risk
      calculator has been developed based on Singapore local data, which makes use of 9
      preoperative parameters namely: 1) age, 2) gender, 3) ASA classification, 4) surgical risk
      group, 5) emergency surgery, 6) anaemia status, 7) red cell distribution width (RDW), 8)
      ischaemic heart disease, , 9) congestive heart failure for prediction of postsurgical
      mortality and need for intensive care unit admission.

      When the investigators look into each of these existing risk stratification tools, each of
      the risk calculators possesses its drawbacks when coming into clinical applications. As
      nowadays, the calculated risk score is commonly used in shared decision making process with
      patient and among the perioperative team. Risk calculation solely based on preoperative
      parameters will be more practical for daily clinical use. Therefore, in this study, the
      investigators would like to validate the postoperative mortality prediction with the risk
      calculators that are established merely using preoperative variables. Hopefully this would
      guide the future risk stratification in patients undergoing elective major surgical
      operation.
    
  