
    
      This pilot-study is designed to determine the safety of IRE using the NanoKnife on colorectal
      liver metastases. Secondary, feasibility, histological effect on the ablated cells and exact
      shape and size of the ablated area will be determined.

      Study design:

      Patients with resectable CRLM (1 lesion or more) undergoing surgical resection of the
      metastases will receive study information to participate in this pilot-study. Limited
      extrahepatic disease is not contra-indicated.

      Patients will undergo a general pre-procedural work-up: total body FDG PET-CT, ceCT of the
      abdomen, anesthetic review with special attention to cardiac history, baseline full blood
      examination, urea and electrolytes, renal function tests, liver enzymes and coagulation
      profile test.

      The procedure is conducted under general anaesthesia with muscle relaxants to prevent patient
      motion and epidural analgesia. A laparotomy will be performed at the surgeon's discretion for
      optimal liver exposure. Intraoperative ultrasonography (IOUS) will be carried out by an
      experienced interventional radiologist for exact evaluation of maximum diameter, number and
      location of all lesions and to confirm resectability (if lesions prove not to be resectable,
      only RFA will be performed according to standard of care). All lesions will be biopsied. The
      electrodes will be placed under ultrasound guidance according to manufacturer's guidelines in
      the lesions that are eligible for resection. After correct placement of the electrodes the
      lesions will be ablated according to protocol with ECG synchronization and the ablation zone
      is determined by US.

      During the procedure the cardiac rhythm will be closely monitored and a defibrillator will be
      present at all times.

      After IOUS confirmation of complete ablation (at least 30 minutes after ablation of the
      lesion) the surgeon will perform a partial liver resection / metastasectomy including the
      ablated lesions and the surgical procedure is ended as usual. After the treatment of all
      lesions with the NanoKnife and before resection (and RFA of unresectable CRLM if indicated),
      blood samples will be drawn to determine renal function and liver enzymes since cell
      destruction may cause biochemical abnormalities.

      The resected specimen will be transported to the department of pathology. After sectioning,
      the specimen will be photographed extensively to determine exact shape and size of the
      ablated area. One slice is stained in vitality-staining (TTC), to macroscopically distinguish
      viable from nonviable tissue.

      After formalin fixation, the specimen is stained and examined under light microscopy
      according to standard protocol to determine radicality of the resection margins.
      Additionally, special attention will be given to indications for cellular damage, vessel wall
      damage and size and shape of the ablation zone. Caspase-3 and BAX/BCL-2 analysis will be
      performed to investigate the induction of apoptosis. The results will be compared to the
      result of the biopsy taken prior to ablation.

      On day one and day three post-operatively regular blood samples will be drawn, including
      liver enzymes and renal function tests. After discharge, out of hospital follow-up will be
      according to liver surgery protocol. The investigators aim to include 10 patients in this
      pilot study.

      Monitoring:

      An independent monitor (quality officer) will monitor all study data according to Good
      Clinical Practice (GCP). The informed consent of selected individual participants will be
      checked. Source Data verification will be performed during onsite monitoring (to verify if
      all data on the Case Report Form are in accordance with the source data). The intensity of
      this verification is in relation to the risk associated with the intervention investigated.
      Data that by all means will be checked are the informed consent form, in- and exclusion
      criteria and the primary outcome. The monitor will also verify if all (S)AE's and SUSAR's are
      reported adequately and within the time that is determined by legal rules and regulations.
    
  