
    
      The PNB trial is an investigator-initiated, prospective, randomized controlled trial that
      will test the superiority of pudendal nerve block with 0.33% ropivacaine to intravenous
      tramadol 1.5mg/kg for CRBD prevention. A total of 94 patients undergoing elective prostate
      surgery at lithotomy position with urinary catheterization (16 G Fr Foley catheter) after
      anesthetic induction under general anesthesia will be enrolled at West China Hospital of
      Sichuan University. Patients will be divided randomly into two groups:

      The PNB group: patients will be given bilateral pudendal nerve block with 30ml of 0.33%
      ropivacaine (15ml for each side) after the completion of surgery before extubation.

      The TRAM group: patients will be given tramadol of 1.5mg/kg after the completion of surgery
      before extubation.

      All patients will be evaluated by a research nurse who were blinded to the group assignments
      for outcomes at 0, 1, 2, 4, and 6h after patients' arrival in PACU, and after extraction of
      urinary catheter.

      The primary outcome is the incidence of postoperative CRBD. The secondary outcomes include
      the severity of postoperative CRBD, postoperative tramadol requirement and number of patients
      with requiring postoperative tramadol, numeric rating scale (NRS) for postoperative pain,
      postoperative sufentanil requirement and number of patients with requiring postoperative
      sufentanil, postoperative side effects, and acceptance of indwelling urinary catheter after
      extraction of the catheter.

      All primary and secondary endpoints will be analyzed on an intent-to-treat basis. Analyses
      are performed with the use of SPSS 18.0 software. The Student-t test is used to analyze
      demographic data in the two groups. The incidence of CRBD and side effects between groups are
      analyzed by Chi-square test, whereas the severity of CRBD (mild, moderate, and severe) is
      analyzed by Fisher's exact test. NRS scale is analyzed by the Mann-Whitney test.
      Postoperative tramadol and sufentanil requirement is analyzed by Z test, and the number of
      patients requiring tramadol for CRBD rescue treatment and sufentanil for postoperative pain
      will be analyzed with Fisher's exact test. A P value<0.05 is considered significant.
    
  