
    
      Saturated fats impair the action of insulin leading to abnormally high blood sugar levels
      that are characteristic of diabetes. Since milk fat is high in saturated fat, some experts
      advise against whole dairy products (e.g., milk and yogurt). However, bioactive fats, such as
      those which occur in milk fat, may be beneficial in the prevention of diabetes.

      Current data provide no compelling evidence that a moderate intake of saturated fat from milk
      fat increases the risk of diabetes. Milk fat contains a unique variety of bioactive fats,
      which may be beneficial and may counterbalance the potential negative effects of saturated
      fat.

      The investigators hypothesize that milk fat has favorable effects on metabolic risk markers
      associated with the metabolic syndrome. Therefore, this study tests the hypothesis that
      milk-fat intake will:

      (i) result in improved insulin sensitivity,

      (ii) favorably alter postprandial lipid metabolism, and

      (iii) result in lower circulating concentrations of pro-inflammatory markers.

      This study recruits 20-24 (total) female and male subjects in a blinded, randomized,
      crossover design consisting of two experimental diets (3 weeks each arm) based on a DASH-like
      diet (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension diet) with % Energy (E%): 55 E% of
      carbohydrate, 15 E% of protein, and 30 E% of fat (9 E% saturated fatty acids (SFA), 15 E% of
      monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA), and 6 E% of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA)). One
      experimental arm contains milk fat and the other diet contains a control fat.

      A washout period represents an average US diet (48 E% of carbohydrate, 15 E% of protein and
      37 E% of fat, kcal (16 E% of SFA, 14 E% of MUFA, and 7 E% of PUFA) is used to establish a
      level of normalization of the fatty acid intake among the subjects and to standardize the
      subject's physiologic state before each experimental diet.

      The two experimental diets are constructed to provide three servings of dairy in the form of
      either 1) regular whole (full-fat, 3.25%) yogurt or 2) fat-free yogurt supplemented with a
      control fat. The diets are identical in terms of menus, macro- and micronutrients, and fatty
      acid class composition (E%) with the exception of individual bioactive fatty acids, allowing
      for the comparison of the bioactive milk fatty acids to non-milk fatty acids.

      At the end of each period (initial washout period and each experimental diet) a frequently
      sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test is performed, blood is taken for fasting lipids
      (including lipoprotein profile), serum phospholipid fatty acid profiles, and inflammatory
      markers, and stool is sampled to examine the fecal microbiota composition.
    
  