
    
      Objectives: The primary objective of this study is to verify the hypothesis that strict
      maintenance of normoxia improves survival in a wide population of mechanically ventilated
      critically ill patients compared to the application of conventional more liberal strategies
      of oxygen administration. Survival will be measured at Intensive Care Unit discharge.
      Secondary objectives are to verify the hypothesis that, in a wide population of mechanically
      ventilated critically ill patients, the strict maintenance of normoxia compared to the
      application of conventional more liberal strategies of oxygen administration reduces the
      90-day mortality, onset of new organ failures (respiratory, cardiovascular, renal and hepatic
      after 48 hours from Intensive Care Unit admission) during Intensive Care Unit stay,
      occurrence of nosocomial infections during Intensive Care Unit stay (only microbiologically
      documented bloodstream, respiratory and surgical site infections will be considered), the
      length of mechanical ventilation, vasopressor use and Intensive Care Unit stay, the
      occurrence of Intensive Care Unit acquired weakness and cognitive dysfunction.

      Intervention: On the Intensive Care Unit admission, or later when they fulfil eligibility
      criteria, participants will be randomly assigned to a group of liberal conventional oxygen
      administration (CONVENTIONAL) or a group of conservative experimental oxygen administration
      (CONSERVATIVE). Within the conventional group, participants will receive a FiO2 aiming to
      maintain a SpO2 equal or major than 98 percentage, accepting an upper limit of PaO2 of 150
      mmHg and a lower limit of 60 mmHg. Patients in the conservative group will receive the lowest
      FiO2 to maintain SpO2 between 94 and 98 percentage, or when available a PaO2 between 60 mmHg
      and 100 mmHg. The changes in oxygen therapy will be according to a nurse order-set. The
      indications to non-invasive ventilation or tracheal intubation and invasive mechanical
      ventilation (and to the most appropriate mode of ventilatory support) will be guided by
      principles of the Good Clinical Practice and by the clinical judgement of the attending
      physician. No other pharmacological therapy or treatment will be influenced by the study
      protocol. There are no restrictions to concomitant treatments provided to patients in this
      study.

      Sample size and recruitment: Assuming a two-sided alpha level inferior than 0.05 and a power
      of 80 percentage, we calculated that 460 patients are needed per arm to detect a relative
      risk reduction of 40 percentage (absolute risk reduction of 6 percentage) compared to a
      mortality of 15 percentage observed in conventional group patients in previous studies. The
      global sample size is established to 1,000 patients. This includes an additional 80
      participants to allow for drop-outs and an expected temporal trend of reducing mortality at
      ICU discharge. Every month, recruitment status will be evaluated, and a newsletter will be
      disseminated, including any issue arisen. The study will end after 12 months of enrollment
      plus 90 days for follow up.

      Allocation and blinding: A block randomisation will be used with variable block sizes,
      stratified by centre using a web-based, randomisation interface.

      Data collection and management: The study data will be collected along the entire Intensive
      Care Unit stay in a dedicated Case Report Form, that will be provided by the steering
      committee with proper options to minimize data entry errors: the data sheet will incorporate
      unmodifiable fixed intervals of values (for continuous variables) and pre-defined coding
      system (for binary or categorical variables). Data entry will be performed and double-checked
      from a dedicated researcher in each centre; in order to limit collection errors, 10 percent
      of all records will be randomly re-checked from the Principal Investigator in each
      participating centre. Data will be collected in an electronic Case report Form and
      transmitted by a dedicated platform to the Research and Innovation Office of the University
      Hospital of Modena protected by password to prevent unintentional modifications or deletion.
      Database management and quality control for this study will be under the responsibility of
      the Clinical Trial Quality Team of the University Hospital of Modena. In addition, each
      satellite centre will monthly communicate and report via e-mail with the coordinating centre
      about the number of recruited patients, eventual missing data or missing visit or any kind of
      problem correlated to data collection. Data related to the study will be stored for eventual
      further analysis or study purpose for 5 years after the end of the study. All the data about
      the included patients will be extrapolated from the clinical documentation and recorded in a
      Case Report Form from an adequately formed researcher. Demographic information (gender, age),
      co-morbidities, reason of Intensive Care Unit admission, type of admission will be registered
      at the inclusion; severity of critical illness (quantified by the Simplified Acute Physiology
      Score II) will be calculated by the data from the first 24 hours of Intensive Care Unit stay.
      During the entire stay, Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score will be calculated and
      registered daily. Every partial score will be registered separately (Nervous System,
      Respiratory, Cardiovascular, Liver, Renal and Coagulative). Blood Gas Analysis results will
      also be reported: FiO2, PaO2, PaCO2, hydrogen ion concentration, lactates, bicarbonates, Base
      Excess. Other daily parameters: duration of ventilatory support in hours, need and dose of
      vasoactive drugs (doses reported in µg/Kg/min), need of renal replacement therapy subsequent
      to the first 24 hours of Intensive Care Unit stay. The occurrence of Intensive Care
      Unit-acquired respiratory, blood and surgical site infections and the implicated
      microorganisms will be registered. Data from routine laboratory test will be reported:
      haemoglobin, platelets count, white blood cells count, coagulative parameters, parameters for
      liver and renal function; Central venous oxygen saturation and arterial lactates will be
      reported when available. The patient will be followed-up until 90 days and for patients who
      have been discharged from the hospital during this follow-up, the information will be
      collected with a phone interview. The vital status may be ascertained through public
      registries, in case of failure of all other ways of contact.

      Statistical analysis: The intention to treat population will be considered for the primary
      analysis. A descriptive statistical analysis will be performed to describe every relevant
      variable. Kolmogorov-Smirnov normality test will be performed in order to verify the
      distribution of the variables. Results will be expressed in mean ± standard deviation or
      median and interquartile range as appropriate. Baseline and outcome variables will be
      compared between the two groups using the Mann-Whitney U test or t-test as appropriate.
      Categorical variables will be compared using Fisher's Exact test. The effect of conservative
      oxygen therapy on Intensive Care Unit and long-term mortality will be explored in the
      intention to treat population by a Kaplan-Meier analysis and Log-Rank for the hazard ratio.
      The primary and secondary outcomes will be also evaluated in pre-defined subgroups: quartile
      distribution of Simplified Acute Physiology Score II and Sequential Organ Failure Assessment
      score (total and for single organ) at admission, patients with respiratory Sequential Organ
      Failure Assessment score equal or major than 3 (respiratory dysfunction), patients with
      cardiovascular Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score equal or major than 3 (shock),
      surgical admissions compared to non-surgical admissions, documented infections at admission
      and distribution of length of stay in Intensive Care Unit. The relationship between oxygen
      exposure and Intensive Care Unit mortality will be evaluated according to the quartile
      distribution of the median value of the daily Intensive Care Unit time-weighted PaO2 values.
      Every test will be performed considering a two-sided p-value inferior of 0,05 for statistical
      significance.

      Data monitoring: An independent Data Safety Monitoring Board, consisting of 2 experts in
      clinical research in intensive care and 1 bio-statistic will be established before patient
      enrolment. The Data Safety Monitoring Board Charter will be prepared by the steering
      committee and signed by the members of the Data Safety Monitoring Board before the trial
      commences. The Data Safety Monitoring Board will receive a study report every 3 months
      starting from the first enrolled patient and will have access to all results and make the
      appropriate considerations about the appropriateness of the sample size, the efficiency and
      quality of data collection system. No stopping rules are foreseen, either for utility or for
      efficacy. Moreover, the Data Safety Monitoring has the right to stop the trial for safety
      reasons.

      Safety: Throughout the course of the study, every effort must be made to remain alert to
      possible Adverse Events. If this occurs, the first concern should be for the safety of the
      subject. The Investigator's responsibilities include the following: (a) Daily monitoring of
      all Adverse Events and laboratory abnormalities, regardless of the severity or relationship
      to study treatment. Only Serious Adverse events will be reported to the Steering Committee
      and, then, to Data Safety Monitoring Board and Research and Innovation Office of the
      University Hospital of Modena; (b) Determine the seriousness, relationship, and severity of
      each Adverse Event; (c) Determine the onset and resolution dates of each event; (d) Report
      each serious event by fax or email to the Steering Committee and, then, to Data Safety
      Monitoring Board and Research and Innovation Office of the University Hospital of Modena
      within 24 hours of the study site staff becoming aware of the event; ( e) Pursue Serious
      Adverse Events follow-up information actively and persistently. Follow-up information must be
      reported to the Steering Committee within 24 hours of the study site staff becoming aware of
      new information and entered in the electronic Case Report Form; (f) Ensure all Serious
      Adverse Event reports in the electronic Case Report Form are supported by documentation in
      the subjects' medical records.

      Ethics approval: The entire study protocol, including informative material for the patients
      and modules for the informed consent, will be evaluated from the Local Ethics Committee from
      the coordinating centre and from all the collaborating centres. Every intention to modify any
      element of the original protocol after the first approval will be promptly notified to the
      Ethics Committee and will be applicated only after its written authorization.

      Consent and confidentiality: A written informed consent will be asked to each eligible
      patient before enrolment. If the patient will be unable to comprehend or to give his consent
      (because of compromised neurological status), the following consent options are acceptable:
      (a) A priori consent by a substitute decision-maker; (b) delayed consent from a substitute
      decision-maker; (c) Delayed consent from the patient; (d) waiver of consent; (e) consent
      provided by an ethics committee or other legal authority. Which options are available at
      individual participating sites will be determined by the relevant ethics committee and
      subject to applicable laws. Every patient is free to leave the study protocol at any stage of
      the study and can request to retire his consent and, consequently, to ask the elimination of
      all his data from the database. Data about personal and private information, included
      sensible data, will be treated following current legislation on data protection; patients
      will be identified with a coding system and data registered in an anonymous form.
    
  