
    
      Severe symptomatic aortic stenosis in elderly patients represents a surgical challenge for
      cardiac surgeons due to heavy calcifications and associated comorbidities. Such conditions
      usually are associated with dramatic intra and postoperative complications leading to many
      cases being declined for open surgical replacement. Many treatment modalities were described
      including trans-catheter valvutomy but with only temporary improvements and high rates of
      recurrence. Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) has offered an alternative
      solution to such cases in which open surgery is deemed too risky or prohibited.

      Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a common comorbidity in patients undergoing TAVI. It has
      been reported with 40-75% of the patients with increased adverse outcomes.Despite performing
      TAVI alone in these patient has shown significant improvement, yet CAD has showed increased
      risk in terms of hemodynamic instability and risk of myocardial infarction during rapid
      pacing which is an important step during the TAVI procedure.

      According to the AHA/ACC guidelines, in patients undergoing Aortic valve replacement/ repair
      (AVR) who also have significant CAD, the combination of Coronary artery bypass grafting
      (CABG) and AVR reduces the rates of perioperative Myocardial Infarction, perioperative
      mortality, late mortality, and morbidity when compared with patients not undergoing
      simultaneous CABG, even though the combined operation carries a small but real increased risk
      of mortality (Class II A).

      Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has been the commonly used treatment modality for
      (CAD) which is usually carried out pre TAVI or less commonly simultaneously with TAVI (mainly
      due to access limitation after valve implantation). In patients with intermediate or high
      SYNTAX scores, CABG remains the standard therapy. Off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB)
      procedure has demonstrated excellent results in these patients, due to the avoidance of
      cardiopulmonary bypass and manipulation of the aorta.

      Only a few studies in the literature have reported the combined approach of CABG and TAVI in
      treatment of coronary artery disease and severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. Here the
      invesigators decided to study the early three months outcomes of patients undergoing TAVI and
      surgical revascularization.
    
  