
    
      For more than 30 years cognitive behavior therapy has been the mainstream treatment approach
      for chronic pain patients and research evidence supporting its effectiveness . Review
      demonstrate that CBT for chronic pain leads in lowered pain, less emotional distress and
      pain-related disability, reduced medication use and healthcare utilization, and better
      improvement in physical and psychosocial functioning. Though CBT for chronic pain is
      effective, recent evidence suggest that not all patients succeed in lowering pain or
      improving their physical and psychosocial functioning. Also, research shows only small
      effects on disability and criticisms targets on the lack of clear mechanisms underlying the
      process of change in CBT. Researchers argue that the problem with CBT effectiveness lies on
      its methods. CBT attempts to manage various problems that chronic pain patients face
      utilizing different methods in combination. This expansion of CBT methods has created
      concerns among researchers and clinicians as it is not clear what works for whom. More
      comprehensive and integrated theoretical models encompassing various pain coping responses
      call for new research that can buffer the CBT expansion.

      Following the CBT criticisms, new treatment approaches stemming from the third wave of
      cognitive behavior therapy abandon traditional approaches to directly change or control the
      content of internal experiences, and give more emphasis on changing individuals' relation
      with their inner experience. In doing so, they use mindfulness and acceptance approached
      along with value-committed actions to produce behavioral changes. One of these approaches,
      known as Acceptance and Commitment Therapy, has extensively researched in the area of chronic
      pain and recently the division 12 of the APA listed ACT as an empirically treatment with
      strong research support for general chronic pain conditions. Indeed, ACT has received
      amounting evidence in chronic pain and research outcomes demonstrate strong effects on
      physical and psychosocial disability, mood and daily functioning. Though ACT has received
      support for its effectiveness in chronic pain, there are yet very few clinical randomized
      trials to compare it with traditional CBT.

      The primary aim of the Algea study is to investigate the efficacy of an ACT-based
      intervention designed for general chronic pain patients and compare it with a CBT
      intervention. Specific hypotheses include: (1) ACT will demonstrate improvements in pain
      indices (pain severity and interference), psychological distress, and quality of life when
      compared with the CBT group; (2) ACT will present with long-term effects (i.e., 6 months) and
      patients will report better satisfaction with this treatment than the CBT group; and (3) pain
      acceptance and values-based actions are considered mechanism of change variables that mediate
      treatment response in ACT, while control appraisal will mediate treatment response in CBT.

      Better knowledge of the differences and similarities of the two CBT approaches (i.e.,
      traditional CBT for chronic pain and ACT) in managing chronic pain can help us formulate
      treatments that can be tailored to patients needs.
    
  