
    
      There is evidence that our subjective experience of the world is strongly influenced by our
      metabolic state, the status of our body's energy reserves and level of hunger. Hormones that
      regulate appetite, food ingestion and body weight apparently also exert their action on
      neuroanatomical circuits involved in the generation of psychological states. Previous
      research indicates that an individual's metabolic state may influence their susceptibility to
      and experience of anxiety. Conversely, stress can also modulate appetite and body weight
      regulation. There are many clinical implications of the bidirectional relationship between
      stress/anxiety and metabolic state/energy regulation but two of the most important ones are
      obesity and eating disorders. In terms of obesity, the high recidivism after successful
      weight loss underscores the limited use of caloric restriction to treat obesity. It is
      unknown whether dieting (fasting) increases anxiety, which eventually may undermine an
      individual's motivation to restrict food intake. Research shows that anxiety can increase
      appetite and exacerbate the physical and psychological manifestations associated with hunger.
      However, there is a paucity of experimental data establishing whether the metabolic changes
      associated with fasting influence the experience of stress and possibly, an individual's
      ability to continue dieting for an extended period of time. In the setting of both obesity
      and anorexia nervosa, the levels of metabolic hormones are different to those found in people
      of normal body weight. It is therefore likely that the activation of brain regions associated
      with energy and body weight regulation is abnormal. Many of these brain regions are also
      involved in the control of anxiety responses. The fact that there is a high comorbidity
      between anorexia nervosa and anxiety disorders indicates the potential contribution of
      metabolic states to the perception of stress.

      To better understand the relationship between metabolic state and anxiety, we will examine
      whether changes in metabolic state influence anxiety in human subjects. We will use
      whole-brain functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify the neural mechanisms
      that underlie metabolic state-dependent changes in the response to anxiety-inducing stress.
      In a randomized crossover design, participants will be tested in a well-established
      behavioral task that elicits anticipatory anxiety in two separate sessions that differ with
      respect to their metabolic states. We aim to perform a fine-grain analysis of changes in
      neural and physiological responses to this anxiety-inducing task as a function of metabolic
      state. Using fMRI as well as non-invasive psychophysiological measures, we will characterize
      whether there are systematic differences in the neural and psychophysiological experience of
      anxiety across different metabolic states in obese as compared to lean individuals.
    
  