
    
      Objectives Investigate the levels of loneliness in a general population during the strict
      social distancing government-initiated non-pharmacological interventions (NPIs) for the
      COVID-19 pandemic.

      Investigate risk and resilience factors for loneliness and the associations between
      loneliness and psychopathology symptoms during the NPIs.

      Hypotheses (Hs) H1: The social distancing measures used to cope with the pandemic are
      associated with increased loneliness.

      Exploratory: Investigate the differences in levels of loneliness across different demographic
      subgroups in the sample.

      H2. With regard to risk factors existing before the NPIs, lower age, lower educational level,
      not being in a permanent relationship, not having children, not being in work, and having a
      psychological diagnosis will be associated with more loneliness during the NPIs when the
      potential effects of gender and childlessness are controlled.

      H3: The NPIs-related state factors of worry about job and/or economy, worry about health
      (health anxiety), and worry and rumination in general are associated with more loneliness,
      above and beyond the influence of pre-existing risk factors.

      H4: More loneliness will be associated with more depressive symptoms and generalized anxiety
      symptoms. Because variables significantly related to loneliness may confound the relationship
      between loneliness and psychopathology symptoms, the variables confirmed for Hypothesis 2 and
      3 are controlled. Presence of psychological diagnosis as an indicator of pre-NPI symptoms
      will be used as a covariate, whether or not it is supported for Hypothesis 2.

      Exploratory: Does emotional support - as partly a counterpart to loneliness - explain
      symptoms over and above loneliness?

      Method

      The present cross-sectional study is part of The Norwegian COVID-19, Mental Health and
      Adherence Project, and is conducted in accordance with the guidelines of the Strengthening
      the reporting of observational studies in epidemiology statement (STROBE).15 The
      pre-registered protocol of this study can be found at Clinicaltrials.gov (Identifier: NCT ).
      All elements of the submitted study adhere to the pre-registered protocol.

      Study design and participants In this cross-sectional and epidemiological study, we
      investigated the mental health status and compliance rates to NPIs of the general adult
      population across all 11 counties in Norway during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. These
      counties serve a geographically defined area of approximately 5·3 million individuals, the
      population of Norway, all serving under identical nationally initiated NPIs during the period
      of data collection. Eligible participants were, all adults including those of 18 years and
      above, who are currently living in Norway and thus experiencing identical NPIs, and who had
      provided digital consent to partake in the study. The period of data collection lasted seven
      days and was between March 31st 2020 and April 7th 2020, which encompasses a time-frame where
      all NPIs were held constant during the two weeks prior to data collection, as well as during
      the data collection week.

      Ethical approval of the study was granted by The Regional Committee for Medical and Health
      Research Ethics and the Norwegian Centre for Research Data (reference numbers: 125510 and
      802810, respectively), where the study protocol and analysis plan was approved prior to data
      collection.

      Procedure The set of questionnaires in this study were hosted online on a platform belonging
      to the University of Oslo referred to as Services for Sensitive Data, which are nationally
      approved for dealing with person-sensitive material. The dissemination of the questionnaire
      was systematically conducted through various channels with the goal of obtaining a
      probability sample. Due to the time-sensitive nature of the study with the aim of measuring
      mental health during a period with identical NPIs, we could not disseminate our questionnaire
      through conventional methods such as access of registry data, as access to registry
      information involves a time-consuming and difficult approval process with regards to privacy
      regulations in Norway. Such an application timeline could therefore bias the NPI parameter,
      where it was highly likely for NPIs to change during or closely following the application
      process. Consequently, we disseminated our questionnaire systematically through various
      national, regional and local platforms, with the goal providing the entire population with an
      equal opportunity to participate in the survey, and thus approximating a probability sample.
      Therefore, the survey was disseminated in the following six ways; 1) through broadcasting on
      the national news channel of Norway with approximately 1·1 million viewers at the time of
      broadcast; 2) through random targeting of any individual residing in Norway that is 18 years
      or above through Facebook-advertisement, with imputed parameters obtaining a population of
      3·6 million, and the number of individuals reached once advertisement was over encompassing a
      random selection of 174 885 of these 3·6 million individuals. We also informed about the
      survey on 3) national radio stations; 4) regional and local radio stations across the
      country; 5) in national newspapers; and 6) in regional and local newspapers across the
      country. The adult population of Norway is approximately 4·2 million. Consequently, only the
      Facebook-advertisement includes nearly 85% of this population, reaching a random sample of
      174 885 individuals with the survey. We estimate to have reached the latter 15% (600 000
      individuals) of the adult population that are not on Facebook through the five other
      dissemination procedures, such as broadcasting on national television with over a million
      viewers, broadcasting on national, regional and local radio stations, as well as newspapers.

      The stopping rule for data collection was designed to ensure that the identical NPIs were
      held constant across all counties for two weeks prior to and the week during the data
      collection period, as well as controlling for expectation effects by stopping data collection
      instantly once information to the general population concerning modification of NPIs were
      given.

      Measurement Participants were asked to fill out a survey including demographic variables,
      validated measures of psychopathology symptoms, trait variables, situational factors related
      to the consequences of the COVID-19 virus, cognitions, beliefs and fears related to COVID-19,
      as well as adherence to government-initiated non-pharmacological epidemiological measures
      (NPI's). The demographic variables include sex, self-reported identification with sex, age,
      education, ethnicity, partner relationship status, number of children and employment status.
      Also presence of psychological diagnosis was assessed. Symptoms of health anxiety was
      measured with two items from the validated Health Anxiety Inventory (HAI)18 as well as an
      item measuring specific fear of being infected with coronavirus and an item measuring fear of
      dying from the coronavirus. Worry about job and economy the last two weeks was measured by
      the items: "I am worried that I will lose my job" and "I am worried about my economy", using
      a 0 (never) to 3 (almost every day) Likert-type scale. A general worry and rumination item
      was taken from the Cognitive Attentional Syndrome-1 (CAS-1; Wells, 2009): "How much time in
      the last week have you found yourself dwelling on or worrying about your problems? (0-8
      Likert-type scale).

      Power analysis The mentioned Norwegian COVID-19, Mental Health and Adherence Project involve
      multiple studies, where some involve a complex systems (network analysis) approach. These
      multivariate analyses require large samples and power analysis was conducted accordingly.
      Following power analysis guidelines by Fried & Cramer (2017), it is recommended that the
      number of participants be at the very least three times larger than the number of estimated
      parameters. However, more conservative recommendations by Roscoe (1975) for multivariate
      research, recommends sample size that is ten times larger than the number of estimated
      parameters.

      In a network analysis, the number of estimated parameters follows the following formula:

      (N x N-1) / 2, where N = number of nodes (questions asked). Our most extensive planned
      network analysis includes about 40 nodes, needing a sample size about 8000 according to the
      more conservative estimates of Roscoe. To ensure a required amount in the subgroup of health
      care professionals, the required size of the total sample was set to 10 000.

      Statistical analyses Hypothesis 1 The levels of loneliness (ULS-8) will be compared to
      studies measuring loneliness by the ULS-8 scale in general and clinical populations using
      independent t-tests.

      Hypothesis 2 Hierarchical regression will be conducted using loneliness as the dependent
      variable. In the first step, the relatively stable characteristics existing before the NPIs
      are included: age, gender, partnership status, work status, having children, and having a
      psychological diagnosis.

      Hypothesis 3 In the second step, the NPI-related situational variables worry about job and/or
      economy, health anxiety, and the variable worry and rumination in general will be included.

      Hypotheses 4 Two separate hierarchical linear regression analyses will be conducted using
      depressive symptoms (PHQ-9) and generalized anxiety symptoms (GAD-7) as dependent variables.
      In both analyses, the variables significantly predicting loneliness in the analysis of
      Hypothesis 2 as well as presence of psychological diagnosis will be included.

      In all regression analyses, multicollinearity and other assumptions will be checked; in
      particular if the multicollinearity assumption is violated (if VIF > 5 and Tolerance < 0.2;
      Hocking, 2003; O'Brian, 2007).
    
  