
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and feasibility of two different schedules of erlotinib
           hydrochloride and docetaxel in patients with advanced solid tumors. (Phase I [completed
           as of 12/01/2004])

        -  Determine the response rate in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer treated
           with second-line docetaxel and erlotinib hydrochloride. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  Compare the toxicity of two different schedules of erlotinib hydrochloride and docetaxel
           in these patients. (Phase I [completed as of 12/01/2004])

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of two different schedules of erlotinib
           hydrochloride and docetaxel. (Phase I [completed as of 12/01/2004])

        -  Assess the overall survival and progression-free survival. (Phase II)

        -  Determine the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with this treatment
           regimen. (Phase II)

      Tertiary

        -  Perform laboratory correlative studies on patient tissue and blood samples to
           investigate potential predictors of response.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of erlotinib hydrochloride (phase I
      completed as of 12/01/2004) followed by a phase II, open-label study.

        -  Phase I (completed as of 12/01/2004): Patients will be assigned in alternating fashion
           to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

             -  Group I: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 and oral erlotinib
                hydrochloride once on days 2, 9, and 16.

             -  Group II: Patients receive docetaxel as in group I and oral erlotinib hydrochloride
                once daily on days 2-16.

      In both groups, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Patients may then continue to receive erlotinib
      hydrochloride alone in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      In both groups, cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib hydrochloride
      until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 and oral erlotinib
           hydrochloride at the MTD determined in group II of phase I once daily on days 2-16.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may then continue to receive erlotinib
           hydrochloride alone in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples, buccal mucosal cells, and tumor tissue are obtained before and after
      treatment. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression and polymorphisms and p27
      protein expression are assessed by immunohistochemistry. Immunofluorescence (by
      laser-scanning cytometry) is used to detect EGFR and p27.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 87 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  