
    
      Vemurafenib is an anti-cancer treatment indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of adult
      patients with non-resectable or metastatic melanoma carrying a BRAF V600 mutation.

      Cobimetinib is indicated in combination with Vemurafenib in the treatment of adult patients
      with non-resectable or metastatic melanoma carrying a BRAF V600 mutation.

      These treatments are associated with a lot of adverse reactions, which may lead to dose
      reduction, temporary interruption or discontinuation of treatment, which often leads to
      treatment failure or a decrease in treatment compliance.

      The most commonly reported adverse reactions (> 30%) with Vemurafenib are arthralgia, rash,
      photosensitivity reaction, nausea, alopecia and pruritus. The most commonly reported adverse
      events (> 20%) associated with Cobimetinib / Vemurafenib are diarrhea, rash, nausea, pyrexia,
      photosensitivity reaction, increase of alanine aminotransferase, elevation of aspartate
      aminotransferase, blood creatine phosphokinase elevation and vomiting.

      The risk of presenting a phototoxicity adverse event with Vemurafenib in monotherapy or in
      combination with Cobimetinib is very common (≥ 1/10) according to MedDRA.

      Two studies on Vemurafenib as monotherapy have demonstrated these results. One study concerns
      468 patients from a randomized, open-label Phase III study in adult patients with
      non-resectable melanoma or stage IV with a BRAF V600 mutation, the other is a study Phase II
      study in a single group of patients with stage IV melanoma carrying a BRAF V600 mutation
      after failure of at least one prior systemic treatment. The study on the combination of
      Vemurafenib and Cobimetinib is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase III study
      (GO28141), which evaluated Cobimetinib in combination with vemurafenib compared to
      vemurafenib alone Of patients with non-resectable (stage III) or metastatic (stage IV)
      melanoma carrying a BRAF V600 mutation naive from any treatment.

      The use of optimal photoprotection including the repeated daily use of external
      photoprotection products is currently recommended for all patients receiving treatment with
      vemurafenib or with the combination of vemurafenib and cobimetinib.

      The objective of the study is to demonstrate that the application of Photoderm Max SPF50 +
      Milk (UVA / UVB broad spectrum sunscreen) associated with the application of the Photoderm
      Max SPF50 + stick (SPF ≥ 50) on the first day of treatment with Vemurafenib or its
      combination with cobimetinib reduces the occurrence of this adverse event from a frequency (≥
      1/10) to a frequency (≤ 1/10) with regular application to all exposed areas.
    
  