
    
      Background. Upper urinary tract infections (UTIs) are common in children, but attitudes
      toward the diagnosis and the acute treatment are heterogeneous among pediatricians and
      pediatric nephrologists. In effect the choice of antibiotic regimens is largely empirical and
      based on local practice, with no rationale for the choice of oral or parenteral
      administration. A retrospective study (1993-97) showed that in 1333 (36 % M) hospitalized
      children because of a prove UTI, parenteral antibiotic was given initially to 756 (57.2%) of
      the population studied.

      We are aware of a unique randomized clinical trial, which has shown no differences in the
      short term (mean time to defervescence) and long term outcomes (symptomatic reinfections and
      renal scarring) of children receiving oral cefixime for 14 days versus vs initial iv
      cefotaxime for 3 days, followed by oral cefixime for 11 days.

      The management of patients with UTI consists not only in antibiotic treatment of acute
      episodes, but also in the global evaluation of any risk factors. Current recommendations for
      imaging of the urinary tract are not based on prospective studies of outcomes (development of
      renal scars). A recent publication (Hoberman et al) suggests that renal ultrasonography and
      DMSA scanning at the time of acute illness are of limited value and recommends the routine
      use of voiding cystourethrography to identify children with reflux.

      Aims.

      Main objective of the study is:

      1. to compare the efficacy of oral vs initial iv antibiotic treatment in children with a
      first episode of UTI;

      Secondary objectives of the study are:

        1. to assess the diagnostic power of the various imaging technique (renal ultrasonogram,
           voiding cystourethrogram, and renal scanning with technetium-99m-labeled
           dimercaptosuccinic acid);

        2. to evaluate a possible role of genetic polymorphisms implicated in the evolution of
           kidney damage

        3. to obtain area based protocols for the treatment and hospitalization of children with
           UTI.

      Study design. A randomised, controlled, open-label, 2-armed, parallel-group study comparing
      the safety and efficacy of oral antibiotic (10 days of amoxicillin + clavulanic acid 50
      mg/Kg/day), vs initial iv treatment (ceftriaxon 50 mg/Kg/day until defervescence) followed by
      oral treatment (amoxicillin + clavulanic acid) for a total of 10 days, in children with a
      first episode of UTI.

      Criteria for the diagnosis of upper UTI upon entry

        1. Urinalysis (two concordant consecutive tests)

             -  Urine WBC ( higher 25/ul = 1+ with dipstick)

        2. Urine culture (two concordant consecutive tests)

             -  Growth of only one microorganism > 100,000 CFU

        3. Fever higher than 38°C (NB: in the first 6 months of life fever is not an essential
           criterion)

        4. Inflammation indices in the first 48 hours ESR higher than 30 and/or C-reactive Protein
           more than 3 times the upper limit of normal values

        5. Neutrophils higher than the normal values for age

      The diagnosis of upper UTI is made by presence of criteria 1, 2 and at least two of the
      others.

      Assuming that 15% of children with pyelonephritis and treated iv will develop renal scars at
      the 12 month DMSA, defining efficacy as an incidence of 10% per group and setting alfa error
      = 0.05 and power = 80%, 220 patients per group (i.e. a total of 440 patients) are required.

      The computer generated randomization list is stratified for hospital, sex and age (< o > than
      2 years) and based on variable blocks of 10 or more.

      Primary end points are:1. Duration of fever (>38°), 2. Sterilization of the urine, 3.
      Reduction of the blood inflammatory indices, 4. Incidence of renal scarring documented at 12
      month.

      The imaging diagnostic work-up is as follow: sonography (US) of the kidney and the bladder
      and DMSA renal scintigraphy within 10 days from onset of antibiotic treatment and at the end
      of the study (12 months), voiding cystourethrography (VC) 1-2 months after UTI.
    
  