
    
      Platinum-based drugs are used in first line treatment of epithelial ovarian cancer. Despite
      high overall initial response rates, resistance or early relapse can occur. MK-1775 is a
      potent and selective inhibitor of Wee-1 kinase, a kinase that regulates the G2/M checkpoint.
      Since most human cancers retain p53-related G1 checkpoint abnormalities, they are dependent
      on the G2 checkpoint. Annulment of the G2 checkpoint may therefore make p53 deficient tumor
      cells more susceptible to anti-cancer agents. The Phase I study with MK-1775 combined with
      gemcitabine, carboplatin or cisplatin in patients with advanced solid tumors already
      confirmed target engagement of MK-1775.

      In this study Carboplatin will be administered in combination with MK-1775 in a 21 day cycle.
      Ovarian cancer patients with a p53 mutation based on PCR/sequencing will be eligible for the
      study. p53 immunohistochemistry (IHC) wil also be performed.

      This study is a proof of concept (POC) study. To proof the hypothesis that MK-1775 is more
      effective in tumors harboring p53 mutations a single stage study with 21 patients will be
      performed. The final conclusion will then be made as follows: Applying a A'Hern's Single
      Stage Phase II Design, a minimum of 6 responses (RECIST 1.0 or CA125) out of 21 patients will
      provide a 61% power to declare an efficacy of at least a 30% (α=0.05). A response of 13% or
      less would definitively indicate no efficacy of interest.

      Patients will remain on treatment until they no longer have clinical benefit from treatment
      or when toxicity leads to patient withdrawal. Patients will be followed for at least 30 days
      following their last dose of study therapy, or until death, whichever comes first.

      For patients with stable disease follow-up will take place at least until disease progression
      has been documented = until time of progression. Patients discontinued from the study for
      unacceptable adverse experiences will be followed until time of progression and until the
      resolution or stabilization of the adverse experience. These patients with stable disease at
      the end of treatment or who discontinued for unacceptable adverse experiences will be
      evaluated every 2 months at the outpatient department, and CA-125 will be determined. In case
      of CA-125 increase a CT scan will be performed. In patients for whom CA-125 is not a good
      marker, a CT-scan will need to be performed every 2 cycles (42 days), until disease
      progression.
    
  