
    
      The aim of this study will be to apply eye-tracking methods to modify specific components of
      attentional bias in depression. Eye-tracking technology enables us to train attention by
      following strict performance and time-based criteria as well as to specify the components of
      attention (i.e., disengagement from negative information, engagement and maintenance in
      positive information) to be targeted in the training, critical to providing a theory-driven
      intervention (Koster, Baert et al., 2010). In the case of depression, there is also some
      evidence from eye-tracking studies showing that recovery from an induced negative mood is
      better when individuals spontaneously direct their gaze towards positive stimuli (Sanchez et
      al., 2014). Thus extant evidence on attentional biases in depression suggest that
      modification of these biases could be a fruitful way to change participants' mood.

      Although initial positive results of ABM led some authors to propose it as an alternative
      treatment for emotional disorders (Bar-Haim, 2010; MacLeod & Holmes, 2012), some recent
      meta-analysis (Mogoase et al. 2014; Cristea et al., 2015) have reduced the enthusiasm of
      those previous claims.Yet, it is likely that modest results of ABM procedures in depression
      are, in part, based on flawed methodologies. The proposed study aims to rectify several
      limitations of previous designs while opening a new strategy, based in training ocular
      movements, to modify attentional patterns. With a series of methodological and conceptual
      improvements (i.e., trial-by- trial feedback, use of different tasks to measure attentional
      bias and to do the ABM, use of a yoked-group design to control for the time exposure to the
      emotional stimuli in the control group, and use of a stress-test to measure transfer of the
      training to a different task), it is expected that some limitations found in previous studies
      can be overcome. The general aim of the study will be to train adaptive attentional biases
      (i.e., training the maintenance of gaze towards positive stimuli). The use of the new ABM in
      a sample of dysphoric participants will allow us to test if training visual selective
      attention using eye-tracking methodology could be a promising venue for future ABM procedures
      more solidly grounded on current theories of depression.
    
  