
    
      Based on the calculation of the sample size using power analysis of the test, investigators
      plan to include 100 adults with primary knee osteoarthritis in this study. The patients will
      undergo lipoaspiration under sterile conditions of the operating theatre, the collected
      lipoaspirates will be further processed - enzymatically with the use of collagenase or
      mechanically using the Lipogems system. After collection, lipoaspirates will be immediately
      transferred to the laboratory of the Department of Regenerative Medicine with a tissue and
      cells bank in Warsaw, and the preparations will be administered to the patients' knee joints
      in the operating room under ultrasound control.

      The Lipogems system is defined as a minimal tissue manipulation system. In contrast, the
      administration of preparations produced using an enzymatic method requires advanced actions.

      Lipoaspiration will be performed using blind cannulas and vacuum syringes introduced through
      the abdominal wall with a three-millimetre incision on the skin after previous injection to
      the adipose tissue with modified Klein's solution (500 ml of saline solution, 1 ml of
      adrenaline, 40 ml of 2% lignocaine), which makes the collection easier. 10 ml of the
      collected adipose tissue will be used to examine the samples after previous gradient drainage
      from Klein's solution. Immediately after collection, the samples will be sent to the
      laboratory for analysis (cell count testing, culture, phenotype identification, analysis by
      flow cytometry).

      The patients will be monitored in the hospital outpatient clinic for one year after the
      procedure; the control visits will take place: after 2 and 6 weeks, then after 3 and 6 months
      and after a year. A physical examination and the assessment using the KOOS questionnaire will
      be performed. Before the procedure and after one year, an X-ray and MRI with T-2 Mapping will
      be carried out in order to evaluate the condition of the cartilage.
    
  