
    
      A randomized controlled non-inferiority trial comparing therapist-guided internet-delivered
      cognitive behavioral therapy (ICBT) in a stepped care model with face-to-face CBT for
      children and adolescents with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).

      Participants will be randomized to either stepped care ICBT or to gold standard face-to-face
      CBT. One group (stepped care) will be first offered ICBT for 16 weeks. Non-responders at the
      3-month follow-up will receive additional face-to-face CBT. The other group (gold standard
      treatment) will be randomized directly to receive face-to-face CBT for 16 weeks.
      Non-responders will, as in the other group, receive additional face-to-face treatment after
      the 3-month follow-up. The primary endpoint will be at 6-month follow-up. Long-term effects
      are also investigated (1 year, 2 years and 5 years after treatment completion).

      The primary objective is to evaluate whether ICBT in a stepped care approach will be
      non-inferior to gold standard treatment (face-to-face CBT) in reducing OCD symptoms,
      depression, impairment, sleep problems, health and functioning. The secondary objective is to
      a) carry out a full health economic evaluation and b) investigate if self-referred and
      referred participants differ regarding outcome in the two treatment groups.

      The hypotheses are:

        1. An ICBT stepped care approach will be non-inferior to gold standard treatment
           (face-to-face CBT) in reducing OCD symptoms.

        2. The stepped care approach will be associated with lower costs, such as reduced therapist
           and administration times, service utilization, minimized work and school absence for
           families etc., compared to gold standard treatment.

        3. Self-referred patients will benefit significantly better than referred patients
           regarding outcome in the ICBT group, but there will not be any difference in the
           face-to-face CBT group.
    
  