
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hypertension has been clearly identified as a major risk factor for coronary heart disease
      and stroke. Hypertension screening and intervention programs for children are based on the
      concept that high normal blood pressure may be the childhood antecedent of adult hypertension
      or that blood pressure 'tracks' through childhood, adolescence, and adulthood. Blood pressure
      tracking has been well established for adults and young adults but results from various
      studies in children are controversial. At a Symposium on High Blood Pressure in the Young in
      1979, it was concluded that there was insufficient information to recommend specific
      interventions for prepubertal children with blood pressure levels in the upper percentiles of
      the blood pressure distribution. Studies of longer duration with large population sizes and
      repeated blood pressure measurements over time were required to determine if blood pressure
      levels at these young ages were predictive of adult hypertension.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In the Spring of 1978 a total of 10,423 children, ages 6-8 were screened. A subsample was
      invited to join the study of blood pressure measurement. The sample was selected as follows:
      all children in the top five percent of the initial systolic blood pressure distribution; all
      children in the bottom five percent of the initial systolic blood pressure distribution; a
      random sample of one in two of the remaining Black children; a random sample of one in nine
      of the remaining white children; and all the remaining children of other races. Included were
      families of about 200 Native American children. Of 2,641 selected children, 878 refused
      leaving a sample of 1,753. Baseline data on age, race, sex, triceps skinfold thickness,
      dietary history, urinary sodium and potassium excretion, physiological measures, life event
      changes, medical history, demographic data and body size measurements of children and their
      parents were collected at the first home interview conducted between 1978 and 1979. The
      children were followed twice per year in 1978 to 1980 and 1982 to 1985 for blood pressure and
      body size. Annual measurements were made of blood pressure, height, weight, skinfold
      thickness, and body girths. Screenings continued through early 1991 when the cohort was 19-21
      years of age.

      Several substudies were conducted including the relationship of red blood cell cation
      transport to essential hypertension, Type A behavior assessments, and familial aggregation of
      coronary-prone behavior.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  