
    
      Patients with Parkinson's disease often show gait impairment and reduced mobility over the
      disease course. Rare atypical forms of parkinsonism, like multiple system atrophy (MSA) or
      progressive supranuclear gaze palsy (PSP) develop these features in early disease stages. The
      reduced mobility and increased time spent in sitting or lying posture leads to loss of
      physical independence and increased mortality. Since MSA and PSP can currently only be
      treated symptomatically, a long lasting independence and mobility is therefore of great
      importance.

      A positive effect has already been shown in a few studies on specific physiotherapy in
      patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD), and some small studies also give us an
      evidence that physiotherapy in atypical parkinsonism can improve mobility.

      The Mobility_APP study examines the effect of two types of physiotherapy in patients with
      MSA, PSP and IPD. The participants are initially assigned to a type of therapy and they learn
      specific exercises with a physiotherapist every day for two weeks. These exercises will then
      be continued independently at home for another five weeks. Regular checks in the study center
      ensure a precise examination of the physical condition, quality of life and gait pattern. The
      latter will be objectively analyzed with the help of sensors that are worn on the
      participant's shoes. In addition, before the start and at the end of the study, the
      participants are also monitored for one week at home using shoe sensors in order to reflect
      the natural conditions of the patients.

      During the entire study, neither the participant nor the study investigator knows what type
      of therapy is being used in order to guarantee an unbiased analysis (double blinding).

      The aim of this double-blind, randomized-controlled study is to determine effective
      physiotherapy in patients with atypical parkinsonian syndromes in order to maintain mobility
      for as long as possible. If the exercises learned during physiotherapy can be continued
      regularly at home and can improve mobility, this means a big step towards autonomous therapy.
      Frequent visits to therapists can be reduced and sufficient and effective independent therapy
      can still be carried out during times of crisis or phases with increased motor impairment.

      The project is kindly supported by the Fund for the Promotion of Scientific Research (FWF).
      Together with the German Research Foundation (DFG) and Swiss National Science Foundation
      (SNF) in Switzerland this project can be carried out internationally in cooperation with
      renowned centers for neurological and sensor-based research.
    
  