
    
      Screening / Enrollment: At enrollment the research coordinator will create daily epic report
      list, maintain notes on eligible subjects obtain informed consent, verify eligibility, have
      caregiver complete demographics questionnaire in REDCap, and have caregiver complete food
      insecurity survey in REDCap. Research coordinator will notify investigator of + FI screen
      based on score of 3 or higher for household or inpatient tallied in REDCap. Research
      coordinator to activate the Admission/Discharge/Transfers (ADT) notice in Epic and link the
      subjects child in order to be notified when subjects child is discharged. The investigator
      will verify the score for food insecurity positive caregivers and the investigator will order
      the caregiver tray or notify the RC that the RC can order the caregiver tray for FI positive
      caregivers in Epic. The RC will complete a brief study note in Epic to state the caregiver
      was enrolled in the study. The investigator will complete the referral to Texas Children's
      Hospital food bank representative. Parents will receive handouts on caregiver tray, guest
      tray, hospital food resources, and the FIRST link program with the Houston food bank phone
      number (found in attachments).

      All study procedures will be completed after informed consent is obtained. If a caregiver
      declines to participate in the study or screens negative for FI, they will still have the
      option to meet with with social work who is able to provide FI resources including caregiver
      trays, food bank referrals, educational materials, and gift cards depending on the social
      workers assessment.

      Follow up: Research coordinator will complete the follow up survey with caregiver 2 weeks
      after discharge. Subjects should be called daily (Mon-Friday) due to short window for follow
      up (2 weeks after discharge + 7 days). The RC will attempt to contact the subject at least
      three times by phone and one time by email in an attempt to complete the follow-up study
      visit and will notify PI about the non-availability of the subject to complete it. Responses
      will be entered into RedCAP by the RC if the survey is conducted by phone.

      In order to objective data on whether the inpatient intervention was utilized by families the
      investigators will request a caregiver tray report from Morrison's food vendor company for
      the caregiver trays. The report request will include all caregiver trays ordered for West
      Tower 15, 14, and 12 floors: -Person who placed the order -Patient room number -Number of
      trays ordered -Time and date trays ordered -Meal ordered

      Study staff will periodically run EPIC reports to determine the number of caregiver trays
      ordered for the study. This report will be used to reimburse social work for the cost of the
      food trays.
    
  