
    
      The drug fenretinide is a retinoid that is similar to vitamin A. It is believed that
      fenretinide can cause cancer cells to die. SCH66336 is a drug that blocks farnesyl protein
      transferase (a substance needed by cancer cells to grow). It is believed that SCH66336 may
      selectively stop cancer cells from growing while not affecting normal cells.

      Both SCH66336 and fenretinide are taken orally and must be swallowed whole (i.e., the drugs
      may not be broken to make swallowing easier). Individuals who cannot take the study
      medications whole by mouth cannot enroll in this study.

      In this study participants will receive SCH66336 twice a day for each day of a 21-day cycle.
      Participants will also take fenretinide twice a day on Days 1-7 of the same cycle. Before
      beginning treatment, participants will have a complete physical exam, including measurement
      of height, weight, and vital signs. Participants will have blood and urine tests, a chest
      x-ray, and an ECG (heart function test). Females who are able to become pregnant must have a
      negative blood pregnancy test. In addition, all participants will have a neurological exam
      and will complete a questionnaire about their night vision. Some individuals may need an eye
      exam.

      Before beginning treatment, participants will have a biopsy of their tumor and will provide a
      sample of their buccal mucosa (inner cheek). In the biopsy, a sample of tumor tissue will be
      removed with a large needle. The buccal mucosa sample will be obtained by scraping the inside
      of the cheek. Participants will also have an extra blood sample (about 2 tablespoons) drawn.
      The tumor, buccal mucosa, and blood samples are all being obtained for research purposes only
      and will not directly benefit the participant.

      During the study, a physician will examine participants at least once a week for the first
      cycle of treatment. A treatment cycle is 3 weeks. Participants will also have weekly blood
      tests. After the first cycle of treatment, participants will have exams every 3 weeks. In
      addition, participants will have urine tests every 3 weeks, a neurological exam after the
      first 3 weeks and then as needed, and a chest x-ray every 3 weeks. Every 3 months,
      participants will complete a questionnaire about their night vision and will have an eye
      exam, if needed.

      While on this study, individuals will also participate in a pharmacokinetic study to measure
      the levels of the drugs in the blood. On the first day of treatment, the participant will
      have blood samples (about 1 teaspoon each) drawn before taking fenretinide and then 1, 2, 4,
      6, 9, and 12 hours after taking fenretinide. The participant will not take the first dose of
      SCH66336 until after these blood samples have been taken. Additional blood samples (about 1
      teaspoon each) will be taken at these same times on Day 7 of the first treatment cycle and on
      Day 1 of the second treatment cycle. A single blood sample (about 1 teaspoon) will be taken
      before taking the study drugs on Day 7 of treatment Cycles 3, 4, 5, and 6.

      Participants will have biopsies of their tumors, extra blood tests and will provide buccal
      mucosa samples on Days 7 and 21 of the first treatment cycle. These biopsies, cheek
      scrapings, and extra blood tests are for research purposes only and will not directly benefit
      the participant. Approximately two tablespoons of blood will be drawn during each of these
      extra blood tests. This blood, buccal mucosa (cheek), and tumor tissue will be studied to
      learn how the treatment drugs work in the body and what effects they have. Participants may
      remain on the study as long as they are responding to the SCH66336/fenretinide combination
      and as long as their physician feels it is of benefit.

      After completing treatment, participants will be contacted about every 3 months to check on
      the disease status. Participants will come to M.D. Anderson for clinical evaluations every 3
      months for a period of 24 months.

      Fenretinide is in the form of capsules and SCH66336 is in the form of tablets. Participants
      will take the fenretinide capsules by mouth twice a day for seven days in a row at the start
      of each treatment cycle. Participants will take the SCH66336 tablets twice a day for 21 days
      in a row in each cycle. Participants will be given a "pill diary" in which they should record
      when they take the study medications and how many capsules and tablets they take.
      Participants will bring this diary and any unused medication when they return to the clinic
      for their check-ups. At the beginning of a treatment cycle, participants should take both
      drugs together at least 8 hours apart with either a high-fat meal or a glass of whole milk.
      Participants should continue taking the SCH66336 tablets at least 8 hours apart and with a
      meal or a glass of whole milk during Days 8-21 of each treatment cycle. Participants will not
      take fenretinide capsules during Days 8-21 of a treatment cycle.

      While on this study, participants may not drink grapefruit juice.

      This is an investigational study. The FDA has authorized the use of this drug combination in
      research but has not approved it for widespread use. About 40 individuals will take part in
      this study. All will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center.
    
  