
    
      Two nOPV2 vaccine candidates have been developed as attenuated serotype 2 polioviruses
      derived from a modified Sabin 2 infectious cDNA clone. nOPV2 Candidate 1
      (S2/cre5/S15domV/rec1/hifi3) and nOPV2 Candidate 2 (S2/S15domV/CpG40) were generated by
      modifying the Sabin-2 RNA sequence to improve phenotypic stability and make the strains less
      prone to reversion to virulence.

      Sirupus simplex, Propylenglycolum,. European Pharmacopoeia (Ph.Eur.), will be used as
      placebo.

      Due to the withdrawal of Sabin mOPV2 and prohibition of its use from April 2016 onwards, well
      before the availability of nOPV2 for clinical testing, Phase 4 trials have been conducted
      with Sabin mOPV2 to provide control data on safety, immunogenicity, against which data for
      nOPV2 in subsequent Phase I and II studies will be evaluated and compared. The Phase 4 trials
      of Sabin mOPV2 were designed to parallel the expected design of the Phase 1 and 2 nOPV2
      studies with respect to overall design, inclusion of similar study cohorts. As for these
      reasons head to head comparison of nOPV2 and mOPV2 is not possible, the overall clinical
      development plan with the Phase I and II studies was designed taking into consideration the
      unique situation of OPV2 cessation in April 2016, and the global public health need of a
      vaccine with lower risk of VAPP and VDPV for outbreak response in the post-cessation era.

      The Phase 2 study is designed to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of both nOPV2
      vaccines in adults before testing in young children and then infants. The primary objectives
      of the Phase 2 study include the general safety and immunogenicity of the two candidate
      vaccines, primarily based on comparison with historical data obtained in the Phase 4 study of
      Sabin mOPV2 for OPV-vaccinated subjects, in order to establish non-inferior immunogenicity
      and acceptable safety profile. Assessment of the general safety of the 2 candidate vaccines
      in IPV-only vaccinated subjects will be based on comparison with data from a placebo group.

      The novel vaccine will eventually be licensed based on 3 criteria: a similar safety profile
      to the currently licensed mOPV2 of the Sabin strain, non-inferior immunogenicity, and reduced
      reversion to virulence.

      The Phase 2 study will include both OPV-vaccinated and IPV-vaccinated adults to provide
      safety and immunogenicity data relevant to the decision to advance to future studies with
      testing in children who have not been exposed to OPV2.
    
  