
    
      This study will employ a single-site, parallel-arm, and randomized trial design. A total of
      50-100 human subjects- who have a diagnosis of ischemic stroke and taking any one of the
      following oral anticoagulant medication- Coumadin速 (warfarin), Pradaxa速 (dabigatran),
      Xarelto速 (rivaroxaban) and Eliquis速 (apixaban) will be recruited for the study. All
      participants will receive their doctor's treatment-as-usual. 1:1 randomization will be done
      at baseline, those in the +arm will have their medication adherence monitored by means of the
      AiCure platform, and the other participants will be assigned to the control arm of the study.

      Study visits include a screening visit, one or two baseline visits (which ideally will occur
      between 7 and 14 days after the screening visit), and monthly visits for the 12 weeks
      following the last baseline visit. Randomization will occur during the final baseline visit.
      During the final baseline visit, patients assigned to the AiCure intervention arm will be
      provided training on the AiCure platform. While in the clinic, the participants will practice
      using the AiCure app by going through a detailed tutorial that consists of a number of
      interactive training steps. Participants will use a substitute placebo practice medication in
      order to complete the training tutorial.

      Study participants will be reimbursed to cover their time and transportation costs in
      accordance with Institutional Review Board (IRB) guidelines.

      For the length of the study, participants assigned to the AiCure intervention arm of the
      study will be requested to take each dose of their prescribed medication regimen using the
      AiCure app. Data from each dosing event will be saved onto the participant's device and
      encrypted data (including de-identified video and time and date of administration) will be
      automatically transmitted to the centralized dashboard. If the study participant takes a dose
      but does not use the AiCure app (self-reports by confirming administration over the phone to
      a Study Coordinator or manually self-reports on the AiCure App without going through the
      necessary steps), misses a dose (participant fails to take dose prior to 'time for next dose'
      message appears on the device), or uses the AiCure app incorrectly (usability error or
      suspicious behavior), the Study Coordinator and/or the AiCure team will intervene as detailed
      in the escalation protocol.

      Real-time adherence data will be automatically transmitted to the cloud-based centralized
      dashboard for the intervention group. All subjects will have INR and DRVVT measured once a
      month (or more frequently if on warfarin) to monitor medication adherence using a point of
      care device and/or laboratory monitoring (upon Principal Investigator and hematologist's
      discretion) at the clinic visit. All participants will get their prescription refills at
      their monthly visits. In addition, pill counts will be done for all participants. If
      adherence is sub-optimal based on pill count, the study coordinator will document the
      participant's self-reported reasons for sub-optimal adherence. In addition, participants in
      the intervention group will have their AiCure adherence rates reviewed by the assessing
      research staff, and any reasons provided by the subject for sub-optimal adherence will be
      recorded.
    
  