
    
      Cervical carcinoma is one of the most common gynecologic cancers worldwide. The prognosis of
      cervical cancer is favorable, with around 80-90% 5-year survival rate in early stage disease.
      However, advanced disease carries a poor prognosis. Current standard treatment for locally
      advanced cervical cancer, which is not eligible for surgical treatment, is cisplatin-based
      concurrent chemoradiation (CRT). Based on the results of five randomized clinical trials,
      which consistently showed improved survival in patients treated with cisplatin-based CRT, the
      National Cancer Institute (NCI) of the United States announced that 'Strong consideration
      should be given to the incorporation of concurrent cisplatin-based chemotherapy with RT in
      women who require radiation therapy for treatment of cervical cancer' in 1999.

      Although recently reported meta-analysis studies also demonstrated improved local control
      rates and survival with cisplatin-based chemotherapy concurrent to radiation therapy (RT),
      the optimal cisplatin dose and dosing schedule are still undetermined. Among the previous
      five randomized clinical trials, two trials performed by the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG)
      used weekly cisplatin 40 mg/m2 while the other three trials used tri-weekly cisplatin at a
      dosage range of 50 mg/m2 to 75 mg/m2 combined with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Despite the
      diversity in cisplatin dose and dosing schedules, weekly cisplatin at a dose of 40 mg/m2
      concurrent to RT is widely accepted as the standard regimen of CRT because of its
      convenience, equal effectiveness, and favorable toxicity in comparison to other 5-FU combined
      regimens.

      However, as a result of the GOG 165 study, which was closed prematurely because an interim
      analysis found that patients in the 5-FU treatment group were not likely to achieve a better
      outcome, the role of 5-FU (previously popularly included in clinical trials) as a
      radiosensitizer became subject to debate. Furthermore, a clinical trial performed by the NCI
      in Canada comparing pelvic RT alone with weekly cisplatin 40 mg/m2 concurrent to RT failed to
      show improvement of progression free and 5-year survival. While the authors suggested several
      possible reasons for why their study failed to demonstrate a survival benefit with concurrent
      weekly cisplatin 40 mg/m2 chemotherapy, other investigators have tried to find another
      optimal dose and dosing schedule for cisplatin administration.

      In light of the results of the previous clinical trial that indicated 5-FU may not be an
      active radiosensitizer, weekly cisplatin 40 mg/m2 and tri-weekly cisplatin 75 mg/m2 remain
      the most popular cisplatin doses and dosing schedules. However, despite the possible
      advantages of tri-weekly cisplatin 75 mg/m2, which offer an increased peak concentration of
      cisplatin and cisplatin administration during brachytherapy, no clinical trials thus far have
      directly compared weekly and tri-weekly cisplatin-based chemotherapy concurrent to RT.

      Recently the investigators reported a randomized phase II trial to compare the compliance to
      and toxicity of weekly cisplatin 40 mg/m2 and tri-weekly cisplatin 75 mg/m2 administration
      concurrent to RT. The study showed that tri-weekly cisplatin 75 mg/m2 concurrent to RT is
      feasible and increase 5-year survival rate significantly compared to weekly cisplatin 40
      mg/m2 in patients with locally advanced cervical cancer (66.5% in the weekly arm, 88.7% in
      the tri-weekly arm; HR=0.375, 95% CI: 0.154-0.914, p= .03).

      Therefore, in this randomized phase III trial, The investigators intend to confirm the
      survival difference between weekly cisplatin 40 mg/m2 and tri-weekly cisplatin 75 mg/m2
      administration concurrent to RT in this patient population.
    
  