
    
      This study was aimed to determine which cold application material is more effective in pain
      control of patients during chest tube removal process.

      The primary outcomes measures of this study were the effect of cold application materials on
      severity of pain.The secondary outcome measures of this study were duration of cold
      application and analgesic requirements of the patients.

      Procedure Before removal of chest tube, nurse researcher (DS) who is working in the thoracic
      surgery clinic as a nurse, explained aim of study and take informed consent all patients.
      Data were collected with Patient Information Form and NRS.

      Patient Information Form was filled out for each using the information obtained from
      patients/patients' relatives, patient files and health professionals of the clinic and the
      patients' pain severity was measured with NRS.

      The patients were randomly assigned by a computer program to either intervention groups (ice
      pack or gel pad) or control group. Before the chest tube was removed, nurse researcher (DS)
      made cold application with ice pack the first experimental group and cold application with
      gel pad the second experimental group. The control group did not receive any intervention.
      Since the cold application temperature should be reduced to 13.6 °C in order to have local
      analgesic effect in both of the experimental groups the patient's skin temperature was
      measured at one-minute intervals by using an infrared non-contact thermometer (Microlife
      Non-Contact, Switzerland) with a wide measurement range (0-100 °C) and a measurement time of
      three seconds. This application was terminated when the temperature was 13.6 °C and the chest
      tube was removed by the physician.

      Pain severity of all the patients was measured with NRS immediately after and 15 minutes
      after chest tube removal.
    
  