
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the impact of consuming perioperative specialized immunemodulating drinks (SIM,
      Impact Advanced Recovery, Nestle) to oral nutrition supplement control drinks (ONS, Oral
      Nutrition Control, Nestle) on post-operative complications (any versus [vs.] none) within 30
      days after scheduled radical cystectomy (RC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether SIM use compared to ONS reduces late-phase post-operative complications
      within 90 days after scheduled RC.

      II. To assess whether SIM use compared to ONS reduces infections. III. To assess whether SIM
      use compared to ONS reduces skeletal muscle wasting. IV. To assess whether SIM use compared
      to ONS reduces high grade post-operative complications.

      V. To assess whether SIM use compared to ONS reduces readmission rates. VI. To assess whether
      SIM use compared to ONS improves quality of life. VII. To assess whether SIM use compared to
      ONS improves disease-free survival and overall survival.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the impact of SIM use on the expansion of myeloid-derived suppressor cells.

      II. To assess the impact of SIM use on pro-inflammatory cytokines and neutrophil: lymphocyte
      ratios.

      III. To assess the impact of SIM use on post-operative arginine deficiency and amino acid
      metabolism.

      IV. To explore the association of dietary intake variables (nutrition status, calories,
      protein, and immune-enhancing factors) and study outcomes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive SIM orally (PO) thrice daily (TID) on days -5 to -1 and 1-5. Patients
      undergo standard of care surgery on day 0.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO TID on days -5 to -1 and 1-5. Patients undergo standard
      of care surgery on day 0.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 2, 30, and 90 days, and at 6, 9, 12,
      18, 24, and 36 months after surgery.
    
  