
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Compare metastasis-free survival (MFS) of salvage radiation therapy (RT) and gonadotropin
      releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist/antagonist versus (vs.) RT/GnRH agonist/antagonist with
      abiraterone acetate with prednisone and apalutamide for patients with pathologic
      node-positive prostate cancer after radical prostatectomy with detectable prostate-specific
      antigen (PSA).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare health-related quality of life (Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite
      [EPIC]-26, EuroQol [EQ]-5 Dimension [D]-5 Level [L]), Brief Pain Inventory, Patient Reported
      Outcome Measurement Information System [PROMIS]-Fatigue) among the treatment arms.

      II. Compare overall survival, biochemical progression-free survival, time to local-regional
      progression, time to castrate resistance, and cancer-specific survival among the treatment
      arms.

      III. Compare the short-term and long-term treatment-related adverse events among the
      treatment arms.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Validate Decipher score for an exclusively node-positive population and use additional
      genomic information from Affymetrix Human Exon 1.0st array to develop and validate novel
      prognostic and predictive biomarkers.

      II. Validate the PAM50-based classification of prostate cancer into luminal A, luminal B, and
      basal subtypes as prognostic markers and determine whether the luminal B subtype is a
      predictive marker for having a larger improvement in outcome from the addition of abiraterone
      acetate with prednisone and apalutamide.

      III. To optimize quality assurance methodologies and processes for radiotherapy and imaging
      with machine learning strategies.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive standard of care hormone therapy per physician discretion for 24
      months. Patients also undergo standard of care pelvis and prostate bed radiation therapy 5
      days per week over 7-8 weeks beginning within 56 days after first hormone injection if the
      injection is not started prior to registration or within 90 days after first hormone
      injection if the injection is started prior to registration in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo standard of care hormone therapy and radiation therapy as in Arm I.
      Patients also receive apalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD), abiraterone acetate PO QD, and
      prednisone PO QD or twice daily (BID) on days 1-90. Cycles repeat every 90 days for 8 cycles
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 3 years,
      then annually thereafter.
    
  