
    
      Background:

      Bariatric surgery is an effective and increasingly common treatment for obesity and
      obesity-related comorbidities. Among patients undergoing bariatric surgery, as many as 96%
      have NAFLD (Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease) and up to 25% have NASH (Nonalcoholic
      steatohepatitis). Intestinal microbiota has been shown to play pivotal roles in host
      mammalian developmental, immune and metabolic functions. Alterations in the gut microbiome,
      or 'dysbiosis' has been recently linked to the pathogenesis of metabolic disease including
      obesity, insulin resistance, atherosclerosis and liver diseases. Recent studies show that
      modulation of gut microbiota may represent a novel way to treat or prevent NAFLD and its
      progression. Bariatric surgery is associated with major modifications in microbiota
      composition, quantity and function. Potential mediators to the gut microbiota are probiotics
      which are considered to be a safe therapy since its microorganisms composition is found
      naturally in human microflora. Clinical research has shown that probiotic supplementation can
      induce physiological changes in the intestinal flora (e.g., via the secretion of endogenic
      antibiotics and other defensins). Moreover, It was shown that probiotic bacteria are
      assimilated in the gut mucosa, thus replacing and changing the natural bacterial line-up. The
      biopsies taken in the healthy section of the study will help us evaluate all the above
      changes, after 4 weeks of probiotic intervention.

      To date, there is lack of evidence on the use of probiotics in bariatric surgeries with just
      1 randomizes clinical trial in Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery patients.

      Aims:

      To evaluate the effect of 6 months probiotic supplement vs. placebo on clinical and metabolic
      parameters in patients with NAFLD undergoing sleeve gastrectomy surgery.

      Working hypothesis: Modulation of gut microbiota with probiotic will have a beneficial effect
      on clinical and metabolic parameters in sleeve gastrectomy patients with NAFLD.

      To evaluate the effect of 4 weeks probiotic supplement vs. placebo on microbiome composition
      and function in healthy volunteers.

      Methods:

      A randomized double blind clinical trial with 6 months treatment and 6 months follow up
      including 2 treatment arms: probiotic and placebo. One hundred NAFLD patients who will
      undergo sleeve gastrectomy surgery through the bariatric surgery clinic at the Tel Aviv
      Assuta medical center will be enrolled during 2013-2016. Baseline and follow up evaluation
      will be performed at the Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical center and will include: abdominal US
      (hepato-renal index-HRI), Fibroscan, biochemical tests, anthropometric measurements, glucose
      breath test for bacterial overgrowth (BO). Fecal samples will be collected and analyzed for
      gut microbiota utilizing 'state of the art' molecular methods. All patients will fill out
      validated questionnaires of demographic details, quality of life, food intake, food tolerance
      and habitual physical activity. Measurements will be conducted at: baseline, M3 (3 months
      after treatment initiation), M6 and M12. 20 subjects will undergo an additional liver-MRI
      test at baseline and M6.

      Importance of the study: Almost all morbid obese patients have NAFLD and up to 25% have NASH,
      leading to major hepatic and extra-hepatic complications. Only limited data are available
      concerning gut microbiota composition after bariatric surgery and its association with weight
      reduction, metabolic and hepatic parameters. Moreover, there are no clinical trials on the
      role of probiotics administration following sleeve gastrectomy bariatric surgery on hepatic
      parameters. Probiotic supplement after bariatric surgery may improve the therapeutic effect
      of the surgery on hepatic steatosis and may improve also biochemical tests of vitamins (e.g.
      B12), inflammatory mediators (e.g. endotoxin levels) and metabolic parameters, reduce
      bacterial overgrowth and enhance weight loss. The study would help in developing new
      treatment approaches and will contribute to the understanding of the mechanisms underlying
      the hepatic, metabolic and inflammatory consequences of bariatric surgery.

      Probiotic supplement vs. placebo will be given to 30 healthy participants. participants will
      undergo gastroscopy (upper GI endoscopy) + colonoscopy (lower GI endoscopy) before the
      probiotics intervention and after 3 to 4 weeks of probiotic intervention. During the
      procedure, biopsies will be taken from different segments of the GI tract. The study samples
      will be frozen performing the microbial tests. In addition, participants will collect fecal
      samples. In this section, participants will be followed-up for 3 months.
    
  