
    
      The study will be conducted at Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center and will enroll
      40 patients in the PC study group, 20 patients in each control group, and 20 MICU patients.
      Recruitment will occur over two years. The sample size was determined by identifying the mean
      number of patients with PC admitted (38) to WFUBMC per year. Using Whittemore's formula, this
      sample size will be adequate to detect a significant odds ratio of 5 (alpha <0.05) with
      respect to increase in acute lung injury or ARDS risk in patients with > 20 % total lung
      volume contusion with approximately 85% power. The odds ratio for this population in
      developing acute lung injury or ARDS in a previous study was 16.666. Eligible subjects for
      study group will be patients with PC on admission CT; eligible subjects for control group #1
      (CG1) are non-injured patients without PC undergoing a standard general surgical procedure;
      eligible subjects for control group #2 (CG2) are non-chest, non-PC trauma patients who are
      admitted intubated to the trauma ICU; eligible MICU subjects are patients on mechanical
      ventilation admitted to the Medical ICU with acute respiratory failure.

      Informed consent for study group, CG2, and the MICU group will generally be obtained from
      family members as most patients will be unconscious or sedated. If the patient is alert, the
      study will be explained to both the patient and family. Informed consent for CG1 will be
      obtained from the patient and family members in Surgery Clinic prior to elective procedures.
      An initial blood sample will be obtained on all persons in the study group, CG2, and, if the
      patient is ventilated, a BAL will be obtained after signing of the informed consent by the
      patient or LAR. Blood samples and pulmonary samples will be obtained on CG1 patients after
      obtaining signed informed consent, in the operating theater, after they are sedated and
      intubated, though before their elective procedure. Blood and pulmonary samples will be
      obtained from MICU subjects after obtaining signed informed consent.
    
  