
    
      PTSD : Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. This syndrome can be found in people after they
      experience a traumatic event. Literature has shown that preterm delivery can lead to the
      development of PTSD in mothers. PTSD is characterized by symptoms such as:

        -  Re-experiencing the trauma through intrusive distressing recollections of the event,
           flashbacks, and nightmares.

        -  Emotional numbness and avoidance of places, people, and activities that are reminders of
           the trauma.

        -  Increased arousal such as difficulty sleeping and concentrating, feeling jumpy, and
           being easily irritated and angered.

      Each year in France, between 50,000 and 60,000 children are born prematurely (< 37 weeks of
      amenorrhea). Literature has shown that preterm deliveries are associated with the development
      of PTSD (Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder) in mothers. Around ¼ of women suffer from a PTSD
      after giving birth prematurely. Moreover, studies highlighted the consequences of a PTSD on
      the child-mother relationship. Beyond the importance of early detection, it could be
      important to predict factors that make women more likely to develop a PTSD. This study will
      focus on personal factors (5 dimensions of personality). Our hypothesis is that personality
      traits are associated with the likeliness of developing a PTSD after a preterm delivery. ) In
      order to test our hypothesis, we will have two groups: (1) women who gave birth prematurely
      and developed a PTSD and (2) women who gave birth prematurely and did not develop a PTSD.
      Mothers will be recruited in the hospital of Reims a month after delivery. If they accept to
      participate in the study, a face-to-face-1-hour appointment will be scheduled. During this
      appointment, women of both groups will take a PTSD questionnaire (the PPQ - Perinatal PTSD
      Questionnaire) as well as a personality test (the NEO-FFI, see outcome measures) to assess 5
      dimensions of their personality (Neuroticism, Extraversion, Openness, Agreeability and
      Conscientiousness). Individual data will also be collected such as the age of the mother,
      baby's birth weight, severity of prematurity.

      Statistical analyzes will be performed to analyze our results. Student t will be used to
      compare factors associated with PTSD between both groups. Correlation tests (such as
      Bravais-Pearson) will also be used to highlight links between personality dimensions and the
      likeliness to develop a PTSD after a preterm delivery.

      NB: Although no intervention is planned in this research, every woman getting a positive
      score in the PPQ will be addressed to the department's psychologist.
    
  