
    
      Introduction

      The present study will investigate the effect of a high energy, high protein tube feed in
      patients requiring enteral feeding in the community. The primary objective is to evaluate the
      effect of daily intake of the high energy, high protein tube feed, in addition to appropriate
      nutritional management, on total nutrient intakes for 4 weeks. The secondary objectives are
      to evaluate the effect of daily intake of the feed on gastrointestinal tolerance, compliance,
      acceptability and functional measures. Additional exploratory measures will be quality of
      life and micronutrient levels. Enteral tube feeding patients will be recruited by the
      dietitians responsible for their care, from a variety of dietetic services across the United
      Kingdom. Potential participants that require a high energy, high protein tube feed will
      already be known to the Investigating Dietitian or dietetic team at the investigating sites
      or will be referred to the dietetic service during the duration of the study.

      Intervention

      Following a 3 day baseline period, each patient will receive the high energy, high protein
      tube feed for a period of 4 weeks (28 days). The appropriate feed and prescription will be
      determined on an individual basis by the Dietitian responsible for the patient's nutritional
      management, based on the patient's clinical requirement and preference and the Dietitian's
      clinical judgement.

      The study feed is classed as a 'Dietary Food for Special Medical Purposes' (EC Directive
      1999/21/EC, 1999).

      Outcome measures

        1. Nutrient intake (energy, protein, fluid and micronutrients)

        2. Gastro-intestinal tolerance Gastro-intestinal tolerance will be measured using a
           standardised gastro-intestinal tolerance questionnaire.

        3. Compliance with feed prescription Compliance with feed prescription will be assessed
           daily throughout the study

        4. Acceptability Feed acceptability, such as preference and ease of use will be assessed at
           the end of study.

        5. Anthropometry Weight and height will be measured where possible using standard measures.

        6. Patient history Previous nutritional support provided to the patient, previous enteral
           feeding products prescribed, history of intolerance, the need for a high energy, high
           protein feed, weight history and other relevant dietetic history.

        7. Muscle Function (Hand Grip Strength)

        8. Quality of life

        9. Micronutrients levels

      Statistical aspects

      As this is a pilot study no power calculation was undertaken. The sample size of this trial
      is similar to other published trials of tube feeds in patient populations. In addition to
      helping to inform clinical practice, the data collected will also be used to support an
      application to the Advisory Committee of Borderline Substances (ACBS). Recruiting a sample of
      50 patients should enable sufficient data to be collected to meet ACBS requirements for the
      study, while allowing for drop outs during the study period.

      Data will be analysed using repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) or t-test where
      appropriate. Categorical data will be analysed using appropriate methods (e.g. chi-squared).
      Interim analysis may be undertaken after 30 patients have been recruited. Statistical
      analysis will be undertaken using IBM SPSS version 23.0 Armonk, New York, USA.

      Ethical Considerations

      This study will be undertaken in adults with capacity to consent only. In line with the
      guidance of the Medical Research Council, written informed consent will be obtained for each
      participant taking part in the study. The investigator will ensure that the study will be
      conducted in full conformance with the principles of the 'Declaration of Helsinki' (64th WMA
      General Assembly, Fortaleza, Brazil, October 2013) and with the laws and regulations of the
      country in which the research is conducted, whichever affords the greater protection to the
      individual.

      Study Monitoring

      Monitoring will be organised by the sponsor to evaluate the progress of the study, verify the
      accuracy and completeness of the Case Report Forms (CRFs) and to ensure adherence to the
      protocol. Monitoring visits will be scheduled periodically in consultation with the
      investigator. During monitoring, the study monitor will need access to all patient's study
      records and raw data used for and generated during the study needed to verify the data in the
      CRF. If necessary, the investigator must provide the monitor any required background data.

      Confidentiality

      On recruitment to the study, all participants will be allocated a unique study number, which
      will be the only identifier on all participant data that will leave the institution involved.
      For patients consenting to provide blood samples, names will be required to be stored with
      blood sample results. These results will be accessible by the Investigating Dietitian
      responsible for the patient's care. For the purposes of data analysis and any publication and
      dissemination of the data, all results will be analysed and identified using the patient's
      unique study number only. No identifiable personal data will be published.
    
  