
    
      One in ten older adults is a victim of mistreatment, and one third of victims have clinically
      significant depressive symptoms. Depression increases mortality and decreases motivation to
      take self-protective steps. Yet, no elder mistreatment (EM) agencies have embedded
      identification and treatment of depressed EM victims in their programs. The investigators
      developed EM/PROTECT, a behavioral intervention for depressed EM victims, to work in synergy
      with EM agencies that provide safety planning and links to legal services. EM/PROTECT has
      been designed in an iterative process with community EM providers of the NYC Department for
      the Aging (DFTA), to utilize agencies' routine depression screening and service referrals.
      The investigators propose to collect data on the feasibility and acceptability of EM/PROTECT
      as one of three developmental projects under the ALACRITY Center NIMH grant (1 P50
      MH113838-01,PI: Alexopoulos) (IRB 1704018108). We will compare the effectiveness of
      EM/PROTECT with EM enriched with staff training in linking EM victims to community mental
      health services (EM/MH). To ensure rigor and reproducibility, EM/PROTECT or EM/MH will be
      offered to randomly assigned depressed EM victims. All EM victims will receive standard EM
      resolution services from DFTA. EM staff will screen and refer depressed victims to Cornell
      staff, who will describe the study and obtain consent. Standardized assessments will be
      conducted by trained raters blind to participant assignment.

      In addition, the investigators will use both active and passive sensing technology through
      smartphone data collection to supplement in-person data collection with an objective measure
      of socialization and behavioral activation. Smartphone data will be used to explore whether
      adherence to active recordings and time spent carrying the phone is associated with greater
      effectiveness of EM/PROTECT.
    
  