
    
      Musculoskeletal injuries account for 15% of all emergency department (ED) visits in the
      United States. More than 1 million people are treated in the ED every year for an ankle
      sprain; making it the most common musculoskeletal injury. Most ankle sprain patients do not
      receive the recommended care because the vast majority (75-85%) are prescribed opioid or
      non-opioid medication and are not referred for follow-up health care services. Physical
      rehabilitation is the gold standard for follow-up care because of its known benefits as a
      non- pharmacological alternative to pain management and for restoring normal function.
      However, ankle sprain patients aren't referred to physical rehabilitation because of the lack
      of access to timely health care services, particularly for rural communities or underserved
      urban areas. A lack of access and/or increased wait time from referral to the first
      outpatient visit has been associated with detrimental physical and psychological effects. In
      fact, without physical therapy, ankle sprain patients can develop chronic pain, become less
      physically active, report having a worse health-related quality of life, suffer a recurrent
      injury and show early symptoms of post- traumatic osteoarthritis. Telehealth is a novel
      method of care delivery designed to bridge this gap by leveraging live-video communication
      platforms to provide timely health care services. Therefore, the rationale for this project
      is demonstrating the benefits of telehealth to deliver the standard of care for an ankle
      sprain will lead to new methods providing timely access to follow-up health care services for
      patients discharged from the ED for not only an ankle sprain, but a wide variety of
      musculoskeletal injuries. The specific aims for the proposed research include comparing a
      2-week telehealth intervention to the usual care for 1) treating pain, disability,
      health-related quality of life, and physical activity; 2) ankle range of motion, static and
      dynamic balance; 3) opioid and non-opioid medication consumption; and 4) the feasibility,
      acceptability and appropriateness of each intervention. The investigators hypothesize,
      compared to the usual care, participants receiving telehealth will 1) have less pain and
      disability; 2) a better health-related quality; 3) increased physical activity levels; 4)
      greater ankle range of motion; 5) better static and dynamic balance; 5) take fewer opioid and
      non-opioid medication; and 5) report positive feedback. A single-blind, randomized control
      trial will assign 70 ankle sprain patients discharged from the ED to two equal groups
      (Telehealth, usual-care). The telehealth intervention includes 5-live video sessions with an
      investigator providing education about injury management, long-term health and therapeutic
      exercises. The usual care group will follow their physicians' orders. The expected outcomes
      will illustrate the value of immediate access to rehabilitative services delivered via
      telehealth for an ankle sprain.
    
  