
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a leading cause of disability and death
      worldwide. Acute exacerbations of COPD (AECOPD), in particular, serve as marker of an
      accelerated disease course and thus herald an increased risk of not only repetitive AECOPD
      episodes but also deteriorating pulmonary function and death (2). Obstructive sleep apnea
      (OSA), when it occurs in combination with COPD, is an increasingly recognized contributor to
      AECOPD episodes. OSA consists of repetitive sleep-related partial loss of airway caliber
      arising from increased transmural pressures which favor luminal collapse. OSA is estimated to
      afflict 4 to 9% of the populations, a prevalence which is anticipated to climb hand-in-hand
      with the rising incidence of obesity.

      The combination of the two disorders, which has been arbitrarily labeled as Overlap Syndrome
      (OS), has been linked with greater elevations in arterial carbon dioxide tensions and
      pulmonary vascular resistance and lower arterial oxygen tensions than is seen with either of
      its component disorders in isolation. Elevated pulmonary artery pressures may progress to
      cause cor pulmonale, a process whereby compensatory right ventricle remodeling, hypertrophy,
      and eventually, florid heart failure. In the setting of OSA, the therapeutic gold standard is
      nightly continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). Essentially, CPAP machines function by
      administering a single continuous positive pressure airflow to the person's airway via an
      appropriately fitted nasal mask. The applied pressure stents open partially occluded airway
      segments during sleep. Though effective in OSA and OS, it is increasingly realized that for
      OS patients there may exist a reduction not only in airway patency but also in ventilatory
      drive when sleeping such that means to augment per breath volumes may attain incremental
      benefits to the use of CPAP alone. Although CPAP is ineffective in COPD, Bipap has shown
      benefit suggesting that patient with OSA and COPD may derive an improvement in health-related
      outcomes by using a ventilation modality which addresses both of the underlying conditions.

      Bipap functions by combining the single flow in CPAP with a second inspiratory pressure
      assist which not only overcomes sleep-related airway resistance but also increases the
      magnitude of each breath resulting in lower diurnal carbon dioxide tensions and pulmonary
      artery pressures. Bipap may harbor a mortality benefit in COPD; but the study results are
      conflicting. It is unclear if Bipap is more effective at treating OSA than usual CPAP.
      However, it is in the setting of OS that Bipap may assume a prominent role through its
      ability to address both disorders; CPAP for the OSA portion and an inspiratory pressure
      assist to ameliorate the COPD piece. Thus far no study has been conducted to address whether
      OS may derive a particular benefit from Bipap or, more specifically, examine whether Bipap
      may diminish the risk of AECOPD, or heart failure-related hospitalizations.
    
  