
    
      Routine upfront abciximab versus standard peri-procedural therapy in patients undergoing
      percutaneous coronary intervention for cardiogenic shock PRAGUE-7 Trial.

      Hypothesis:

      GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors improve angiographic (TIMI-flow), echocardiographic (LV function) and
      clinical (combined end-point) outcomes in patients with myocardial infarction complicated
      with cardiogenic shock.

      Study design:

      Open "pseudorandomized" multicenter, phase IV clinical trial. The reason for
      "pseudorandomization" (i.e. randomization by even or odd date, when the PCI is performed) is
      ethical: it saves time, what is critical in this clinical setting. It does not delay
      treatment at all, while classical randomization in cardiogenic shock may sometimes delay
      treatment by up to 15 minutes and this is the main reason why randomized trials on shock are
      rarely able to enroll patients.

      Groups:

      Group A - Upfront administration of abciximab bolus followed by 12-hours abciximab infusion +
      standard therapy Group B - Standard peri-procedural therapy with possibility of abciximab
      administration according the interventional cardiologist. Expected rate of peri-procedural
      abciximab administration in this group is 20% of patients.

      Allowed and excluded concomitant medication see bellow in the table

      Group A Group B

      Before PCI Aspirin according to physician All treatment according to Clopidogrel according to
      physician physician Heparin bolus 70IU/kg of body weigh Abciximab bolus 0,25 mg/kg of body
      weigh

      During PCI Abciximab 12-hours infusion 0,125microgram/kg/min Abciximab according to Other
      treatment according to physician physician

      Excluded Thrombolysis, Eptifibatide, Tirofiban Thrombolysis, Eptifibatide, treatment
      Tirofiban

      Proposed sample size:

      80 patients (40 patients in each group). This number of patient permit to complete the study
      within <2 years. Because of this and because of incidence of cardiogenic shock the study
      sample size is not supported statistically.

      Objectives:

      Primary: Thirty-day clinical combined outcome : death / reinfarction / stroke / new renal
      failure.

      (Death = death from any cause, reinfarction = recurrent ischemic symptoms with new increase
      in CK-MB, stroke = any new neurologic deficit lasting > 24 hours, new renal failure =
      increase in creatinine to > 300 micromol/l)

      Secondary: 1) Combined end-point death / reinfarction / stroke / TIMI-flow <3 / EF <30% on
      day 30. 2) Left ventricular EF assessed by echocardiography on the day 30 (in deceased pts.
      EF assumed to be 0%) 3) Rate of major bleeding complication 4) Myocardial blush score after
      PCI 5) TIMI-flow after PCI

      Statistical analysis:

      Thirty-day clinical outcome as well as other categorical characteristics of patients in the
      two groups will be compared by Fisher´s exact test. Group differences in continuous factors
      will be compared by by Student´t-test and the Wilcoxon rank-sum test.

      Cardiac catheterization, PCI and abciximab:

      Patients in both groups will undergo coronary angiography by femoral access using 5F or 6F
      sheath and catheters. All patients will receive standard antithrombotic and anticoagulant
      treatment either during transport or directly at the catheterization laboratory. Patients
      randomized into group A will receive bolus of abciximab given as a bolus dose of 0,25mg per
      kg of body weight immediately after randomization (either in CCU, emergency dept. or upon
      arrival to cath-lab), followed by an infusion of 0,125microgram/kg/min (maximum
      10microgram/min) for 12 hours.

        -  PCI - will be performed immediately after coronary angiography if technically feasible.
           PCI will be performed at infarct related artery (IRA). Intracoronary stent - will be
           implanted if possible. Type, length and size of the stent will be choose according
           decision of invasive cardiologist

        -  Abciximab - will be given to all patients randomized into group A as mentioned above.
           Periprocedural abciximab bolus (0,25mg/kg) followed by 12-hours abciximab infusion
           (0,250 microgram/kg/min) will be given selectively to patients randomized into group B
           according to the decision of invasive cardiologist - we expect that GPIIb/IIIa inhibitor
           (abciximab) will be given to cca 10-20% of patients in this group (what is our current
           routine for the use of GPIIb/IIIa blockers in this setting).

      Angiographic data will be stored on CD. Independent invasive cardiologist blind to clinical
      data and blind to the randomization of the patient, will assess TIMI flow of IRA before and
      after PCI (grade 0-3), myocardial blush score before and after PCI in the area of IRA (grade
      0-3) and TIMI frame count after PCI.

      Echocardiography:

      Complete echocardiographic examination will be performed 24hours, on the day 7 and day 30
      after PCI. Vivid7 ultrasound systems will be used. Data will be stored in digital form if
      possible (otherwise storage on S-VHS will be used). Independent observer will assess:

        -  end-systolic and enddiastolic diameter of left ventricle (parasternal view)

        -  ejection fraction measured using Simson´s method

        -  regional left ventricle function

      Ethical consideration:

      The approval of local ethical committee is required as for any other research protocol.

      Anticipated finding:

      We anticipate to document better angiographic, echocardiographic and clinical outcome after
      upfront abciximab administration in comparison to standard periprocedural therapy in patients
      undergoing PCI for cardiogenic shock. This would be the first randomized clinical trial that
      could support this therapeutic strategy.
    
  