
    
      Giant hiatal hernias, i.e. hernias with hiatal surface area (HSA), as described by Granderath
      et al (2007), exceeding 20 sq.cm, is one of the most challenging problem in minimally
      invasive gastrointestinal surgery. On one hand, according to the literature, the rate of
      utilization of laparoscopic repair of such hernias does not exceed 80 % [Nguyen et al, 2011].
      It means that great proportion of patients is still treated using open approach producing 8 %
      of postoperative complications [Nguyen et al, 2011]. Therefore, improvement of laparoscopic
      techniques for this disorder is very actual question. On the other hand, the mean rate of
      anatomical recurrence following laparoscopic repair of paraoesophageal hernias is 25 % as
      reported in a meta-analysis [Rathore et al, 2007]. It reaches 42 % in some centers according
      to recent literature reviews [Draaisma et al, 2005; Johnson et al, 2006]. Hence, creation of
      new method of hiatal repair diminishing recurrence rate is essential. To interventors'
      opinion, this new method must follow at least a principle of tension-free repair.

      As the most concerning problem or repair of giant hiatal hernias is anatomical recurrence, a
      conception of prosthetic repair was applied for hiatal closure using different types of
      meshes. This dramatically decreased recurrence rate as demonstrated by several recent
      studies. Namely, Frantzides et al (2002) prospectively compared primary repair with on-lay
      PTFE repair and obtained statistically significant decrease of recurrence rate in favor of
      mesh arm: 0% versus 22%. Then, Granderath et al (2004) compared primary suturing and on-lay
      polypropylene mesh repair in prospective randomized trial; the rate of recurrence was
      significantly lower in the mesh arm: 8% versus 26%. Unfortunately, these studies were not
      primarily addressed to relation between hernia size and results. Most specialists use mesh
      when the diameter of the defect is just greater than 5 cm, based on own experience and
      widespread literature data, including studies of Champion et al (1998, 2003). Hiatal surface
      area (HSA), first described by Granderath et al (2007), is more sensitive measure than
      diameter of hiatal hernia defect, and further trials should focus on it.

      However, SAGES trial reported by Frantzides et al. (2010) showed that polypropylene or PTFE
      meshes are characterized by the highest incidence of oesophageal complications although they
      demonstrated relatively lower recurrence rates compared to other meshes. According to most of
      the literature, mesh-related dysphagia rate is 10-15 % in the long-term follow-up [Granderath
      et al, 2005, Targarona et al, 2004]. Interestingly, that composite, i.e. partially absorbable
      meshes, occupied middle position in terms of recurrence and complications rates in this study
      [Frantzides et al, 2010]. Own experience of the interventors of more than 400 laparoscopic
      hiatal repairs using lightweight partially absorbable mesh (Ultrapro, Ethicon) showed minimal
      rate of recurrence (4,9 %) and dysphagia (2,1 %) for large (HSA 10-20 sq.cm) hernias [Grubnik
      et al, 2011]. The interventors applied this safe technique for giant (HSA > 20 sq.cm) hiatal
      hernias, but recurrence rate was 20 % [Grubnik et al, 2011]. This result corresponds to the
      literature, but may be improved. The interventors believe, it is possible to minimize
      recurrence rate of giant hiatal hernias, but it could be achieved by introduction of
      fundamentally new types of prostheses and methods of its fixation.

      To remove the risk of mesh-related oesophageal complications of polypropylene or PTFE meshes,
      biological prostheses were introduced for hiatal repair. However, prospective randomized
      study by Oelschlager et al (2010) demonstrated insignificant difference in recurrence rates
      in prosthesis arm compared to primary repair arm (more than 50 %), although no cases of
      mesh-related complications were observed in prosthesis arm. Similar data regarding biological
      prostheses were retrieved in the study of Frantzides et al (2010). Data from the literature
      and international congresses suggest that current biological prostheses cannot be widely used
      in the setting of giant hiatal hernias due to high rate of recurrences and their high price.
      Thus, based on current literature data, there is insufficient grade 1 evidence for choice of
      optimal method of repair of giant hiatal hernias, and the search for the optimal prosthesis
      is still ongoing.

      Therefore, a fundamentally new prosthesis for laparoscopic repair of giant hiatal defects was
      created. The prototype prosthesis "Rebound HRD-Hiatus hernia" was created by the interventors
      in collaboration with U.S. company, Minnesota Medical Development, Inc. This device is made
      from high quality lightweight PTFE mesh attached to a heart-shaped nitinol frame with a notch
      for oesophagus. Prosthesis may be easily inserted through the trocar using a special tube,
      and expanded to its initial form inside the abdomen. The principle and purpose of using of
      the device and method of its fixation was patented in Ukraine (patents No. 66397, 66399). The
      interventors applied new prosthesis in 29 patients, operated from 2010. All procedures were
      successfully completed. Two main principles are used in a new prosthesis. First, mesh is made
      of lightweight PTFE minimizing possibility of adhesions and related complications. As a
      result, there were no esophageal complications in the cohort. Second, peripheral nitinol
      frame of the prosthesis provides real tension-free repair without risk of prolapse between
      free, i.e. anterior, margin of the mesh and oesophagus, which other meshes do if fixed to the
      borders of the hiatus. As a result, there were no recurrences within mean surveillance of 15
      months in this series. Naturally, final conclusions regarding superior efficacy and safety of
      the new device could be established by prospective randomized study.

      Therefore, the hypothesis of this double-blind prospective randomized trial is: new method of
      nitinol-framed lightweight PTFE mesh (Rebound HRD-Hiatus hernia, Minnesota Medical
      Development, Inc) repair is more effective in terms of recurrence rate compared to sub-lay
      partially absorbable lightweight mesh (Ultrapro, Ethicon, Inc) repair, and is characterized
      by at least similar safety in terms of oesophageal complications.

      The study will enroll at least 50 patients with giant (HSA > 20 sq.cm) types II and III
      hiatal hernias. The basic eligibility criteria will be: absence of oesophageal motility
      disorders, absence of oesophageal shortening requiring Collis procedure, absence of Barrett's
      oesophagus, peptic strictures and other factors that may independently influence the rate of
      recurrence and dysphagia/oesophageal strictures. Thus, the only difference between arms will
      be method of hiatal closure. To exclude fundoplication-related bias, standard floppy-Nissen
      procedure will be performed in every patient.

      Every patient will be operated by single surgical team with an experience of more than 1500
      laparoscopic anti-reflux procedures since 1998. The necessary ethic regulations will be saved
      including informed consent with the statement that patient is unaware of the method of repair
      (double-masked). Every patient will be evaluated preoperatively, 6 months, and 24 months
      postoperatively using symptom questionnaires, quality of life and satisfaction
      questionnaires, barium studies, endoscopic examinations, 24-hour pH testing, and analysis of
      possible reoperations. For issue of efficacy of prosthetic repair, recurrence rate of hernia
      and GERD, which are the primary outcome measure, will be studied. For issue of safety of
      prosthetic repair, rates of long-term dysphagia/oesophageal strictures/mesh erosions, which
      are main secondary outcome measure, will be evaluated.
    
  