
    
      Study Design

      The study consists of 2 stages. The screening study examines the feasibility of screening to
      identify undiagnosed AF in the elderly (>=65 years) using a validated hand-held ECG device
      and the impact of screening on clinical and economic outcomes at the population level.
      Subsequent intervention study is a randomized-controlled study comparing an individualized
      stroke prevention strategy with routine care to prevent stroke in screen-detected AF
      patients.

      Stage 1: AF Screening Study

      Screening will be performed in 2 Cardiology and 4 Family Medicine Specialty Out-Patient
      Clinics (SOPC) at a tertiary referral hospital in Hong Kong. Subjects who meet inclusion and
      exclusion criteria will sign informed consent for Stage 1 and 2 studies separately, prior to
      conducting ECG screening.

      Stage 2: Randomized Study of Individualized Stroke Prevention vs. Routine Care

      Intervention

      Screen detected AF patients (new or known AF) from Stage 1 who are not already receiving
      appropriate OAC for stroke prevention who signed informed consent are randomized 1:1 to
      routine care or an individualized stroke prevention strategy. Participants will be randomized
      using block randomization method to assure both groups have the same number of subjects.

      Individualized Stroke Prevention Strategy

      (i) Patient education on AF and stroke risk. (ii) Assess individual risk of stroke using the
      CHADS2 and CHA2DS2VASc score and risk of major bleeding using the HAS-BLED score (iii)
      Recommendation of evidence-based stroke prevention therapy (iv) Patient audit and follow-up:
      Patients not on appropriate OAC without adequate explanation will be referred to Cardiology
      SOPC for second opinion.

      Routine Care

      The iECG tracing and report is provided to the attending doctor. Prescription of OAC is left
      to the discretion of the attending doctor.

      Follow-up

      Participants will be followed prospectively every 12 months up to 3 years for clinical events
      including death, ischemic stroke, any thromboembolic events, intracranial and other major
      bleeding and stroke prevention therapy. Screen-detected AF patients from Stage 1 who declined
      to participate in the intervention study will be followed up in a registry.
    
  