
    
      The first objective of this research is to investigate both maternal and paternal changes in
      body weight, body composition and energy balance related behaviour during and after pregnancy
      in Flemish couples.

      The second objective is to investigate socio-demographic and behavioural predictors of
      changes in both maternal and paternal body weight and body composition, in order to identify
      those most at risk for postpartum weight gain and retention.

      Couples transitioning into parenthood (age ≥ 18 years, any BMI and socio-economic status)
      will be recruited during the first trimester of pregnancy by gynaecologists from the partner
      obstetrics units at five Flemish hospitals. All couples expecting their first child will be
      asked to participate in the study. Participants below 18 years of age, not speaking the Dutch
      language or suffering from a pathological condition that may influence energy balance related
      behaviour (e.g. diabetes, preeclampsia etc.) will be excluded.

      Using a longitudinal design, participating couples (women and men) will be measured four
      times over the course of approximately one year and nine months. Baseline measurements (T0)
      will take place during the first trimester of pregnancy (at 12 weeks of pregnancy), with
      follow-up measurements at respectively six weeks (T1), and six (T2) and twelve months (T3)
      postpartum.

      At baseline (T0), both retrospective and prospective measurements will be conducted in both
      pregnant women and men expecting their first child. Retrospectively, a self-report
      questionnaire will be used to assess body weight, height and energy balance related
      behaviour, incl. eating (Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) which will be adapted for
      pregnant women), physical activity (International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ -
      Dutch version) and sedentary behaviour. The self-report questionnaire will also include
      questions about sleeping habits, smoking, and socio-demographics. Prospectively, body weight
      (SECA digital weighing scale), height (SECA stadiometer), body composition (TANITA
      Bioelectrical Impedance Analyzer & skin fold thickness measurements at the biceps, triceps,
      subscapular and suprailiac sites) and waist circumference (Cescorf measuring tape) will be
      objectively measured. Women's gestational weight will be monitored by the gynaecologists as
      all pregnant women are being weighed during consultation. The same self-report questionnaire
      (see supra) will be used prospectively, including extra questions about breastfeeding and
      parental leave. In addition, dietary intake will be assessed by a 3-day food diary, whereas
      tri-axial accelerometers (Actigraph) will be used to measure energy expenditure (by rate of
      physical activity and sedentary behaviour) objectively over a one-week period. At followup
      moments (T1-3), the same aforementioned prospective measurements will be carried out.
    
  