
    
      Facilitating the dissemination of disease risk information and promoting engagement in
      healthful behaviors within families may be enhanced by using network-based interventions.
      Network-based interventions are innovative in that they are tailored to the structure of the
      social system within which individuals are embedded. Understanding the social and relational
      factors associated with processes of family risk information dissemination, family
      encouragement, and support is essential to developing network-based intervention tools
      targeting the family. The first objective of the current project is to ascertain those key
      social pathways that can be used in a family-centered network-based intervention that
      promotes disease prevention. To this end, efforts will be focused on assessing whether there
      is a consistent, small set of relational characteristics associated with the dissemination of
      family risk information and processes of both behavioral and emotional adaptation to disease
      risk across various disease and cultural contexts. The second objective is to examine the
      feasibility of using cognitive network approaches to assess social interactions among family
      members as a means to enhance the implementation of a network-based intervention. A cognitive
      network is an individual s perception of the relationships among their family (or network)
      members. Thus, cognitive network approaches can be used to capture an accurate representation
      of family social structure based on the information provided by a small subset of
      optimally-situated family members. Those key social pathways identified within the first
      objective of this research will be used to address the second objective. Families affected by
      diseases and disorders that span the spectrum of genetic penetrance, ranging from highly
      penetrant, monogenetic disease to less penetrant, common complex conditions, will be
      recruited for the study. Further, the current effort will seek to engage samples from diverse
      cultural backgrounds to address our limited knowledge regarding risk communication and
      adaptation in such families and to facilitate generalization of results. Study participants
      will be recruited from established cohorts or ongoing studies, both at the NIH and at
      extramural institutions. Family members will be recruited using a snowball sampling approach
      and will be asked to complete an in-person, web-based and/or telephone survey/interview.
      Interviews will have a semi-structured format to allow for slight deviations in prompts and
      probes to address patient questions. The research addressed in this protocol will lead to the
      development of an innovative methodology with the potential to improve the design and
      implementation of family-based interventions that promote disease prevention.
    
  