
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the disease-free survival (DFS) of medically fit patients who have completed
           surgical resection and adjuvant chemotherapy for high-risk stage II or stage III colon
           cancer when administered a physical activity program with general health education
           materials vs general health education materials alone.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the two intervention arms with respect to overall survival (OS);
           patient-reported outcomes using the SF-36, FACIT-F, PSQI, and HADS questionnaires;
           objective markers of physical fitness using body mass index, hip and waist
           circumference, submaximal exercise testing, and the Seniors' Fitness Test; physical
           activity behavior using the Total Physical Activity Questionnaire (TPAQ); safety profile
           as assessed by NCI CTCAE version 3.0; serum levels of insulin (i.e., IGF-1, IGF-2, and
           IGFBP3); cytokine levels (i.e., IL-1β, IL-6, IL-2, IL-4, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, TNF-α,
           IFN-γ, and GM-CSF) and C-reactive protein levels; economic evaluations including
           cost-effective and cost-utility analyses; and predictors of physical activity adherence
           using the Social-Cognitive Determinants of Exercise Measure questionnaire.

        -  To evaluate the potential prognostic associations of the serum levels of insulin, IGF-1,
           IGF-2, IGFBP3, blood glucose, cytokines (i.e., IL- 1β, IL-6, IL-2, IL-4, IL-8, IL-10,
           IL-12, TNF-α, IFN-γ, and GM-CSF), and C-reactive protein with DFS, OS, level of physical
           activity, and level of fatigue in these patients.

        -  To evaluate the potential prognostic associations of age, gender, country, incremental
           increase in physical activity, and change in cardiovascular fitness with DFS, OS, level
           of fatigue, and quality of life in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to disease stage (II
      vs III), participating center, body mass index (≤ 27.5 vs > 27.5), and ECOG performance
      status (0 vs 1). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment interventions.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive general health education materials regarding nutrition and
           physical activity and undergo the Colon Health And Life Long Exercise Change (CHALLENGE)
           physical activity program consisting of behavior-support sessions and supervised
           physical activity sessions with a physical activity consultant.

             -  Part I (intensive intervention for 6 months): Patients undergo 12 mandatory
                biweekly face-to-face behavior support sessions combined with 12 mandatory
                supervised physical activity sessions to increase their physical activity goal by
                10 metabolic equivalent task (MET) hours/week. Twelve supervised physical activity
                sessions are also recommended on alternate weeks.

             -  Part II (reduced intervention for months 6-12): Patients undergo 12 mandatory
                biweekly face-to-face or telephone behavior support sessions combined with 12
                recommended supervised physical activity sessions to increase their physical
                activity goal by 20 MET hours/week.

             -  Part III (minimal intervention for months 12-36): Patients undergo mandatory
                monthly face-to-face or telephone behavior support sessions combined with
                recommended supervised physical activity sessions to increase their physical
                activity goal to a maximum total of 27 MET hours/week.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive general health education materials regarding nutrition and
           physical activity.

      Patients complete the Total Physical Activity Questionnaire (TPAQ) to assess exercise
      participation and undergo fitness testing periodically by the submaximal exercise test and
      Seniors' Fitness Test (SFT).

      Patients complete the SF-36, FACT-F, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Hospital Anxiety
      and Depression Scale (HADS), and Social Cognitive Determinants of Exercise Measure
      questionnaires periodically. Patients also complete a 30-day resource use diary and undergo a
      health economics analysis by the Work Productivity and Activity Impairment (WPAI)
      questionnaire.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for correlative studies and fasting glucose. Samples
      are analyzed for markers of insulin level, IGF-1, IGF-2, and IGFBP3, cytokine levels (i.e.,
      IL-1β, IL-6, IL-2, IL-4, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, TNF-α, IFN-γ, and GM-CSF), and C-reactive
      protein levels.

      During the 3 year intervention period, patients are followed every 6 months for 3 years and
      then annually for 4-10 years.
    
  