
    
      Recent research has compared the use of intracameral and topical agents with the preoperative
      pupil size and cataract surgery success. Studies have compared topical mydriatics with
      intracameral lidocaine and found no significant difference in dilation. , Other studies have
      compared topical mydriatics with intracameral dilation that includes solutions with and
      without epinephrine in the irrigating solution and concluded that irrigating solutions
      without epinephrine can safely be used with intracameral mydriatics but epinephrine is useful
      when using topical mydriatics. There have also been studies comparing the success of longer
      acting drug inserts of mydriatic agents with the use of intracameral agents. In addition to
      these standard agents, different surgeons have used various formulations of topical and
      intracameral agents to perform mydriasis. As of yet, there is no formal, standardized method
      for mydriasis and no large prospective study comparing the outcomes of the various methods.
      Considerations such as cost and time spent on preoperative mydriatic agents in light of the
      amount of success seen with these agents calls into question the need for such agents. The
      investigators would like to study the amount of pupillary dilation seen with topical
      preoperative mydriatic agents compared to intracameral agents compared to the use of them
      both together.

      This will be a prospective randomized controlled trial. Patients will be consented and
      enrolled at their pre-op visit. They will be randomized to topical drops alone, intracameral
      injection alone, or topical plus intracameral mydriasis. All patients will receive
      intracameral lidocaine, as this is used for its anesthetic effect but also has some mydriatic
      effect. The intervention will take place on the day of the operation. Patients will be
      followed until post-operative month #1.

      Data will be gathered on 4 visits: pre-op clinic visit, day of operation, and post-operative
      day #1 and post-operative month #1. These are all standard visits for routine cataract
      surgery, and this study will not require the patient to make any extra visits. Enrollment
      will continue until the sample size is met.

      Patients cannot be blinded to whether or not they receive topical mydriasis eyedrops, and no
      placebo drops are necessary because patients cannot voluntarily control their pupillary
      constriction, so no placebo effect would be expected. The surgeon cannot be blinded to
      whether or not the patient has received topical mydriasis eyedrops in the pre-op area because
      it will be evident based upon whether or not the patient's eye is dilated. Another researcher
      who was not present in the operating room will grade the photographs and measure the pupil
      size, and this researcher will be blinded to which intervention the patient received.

      Currently, some surgeons use topical plus intracameral mydriasis for mydriasis during
      cataract surgery. It is hypothesized that intracameral mydriasis alone may be sufficient to
      adequately dilate the pupil for cataract surgery. Patients who are not adequately dilated at
      the time of pupil size measurement immediately before the capsulorrhexis step will
      subsequently receive additional pharmacologic mydriasis, visco-dilation, or iris expansion
      devices to dilate their pupil to a size that is adequate for their surgery. Therefore, no
      matter which group the patient is in, their pupil will be eventually dilated to a size that
      is adequate to proceed with surgery.

      There is no placebo or non-treatment group, since all patients must be somehow dilated in
      order to undergo cataract surgery. The purpose of this study is to compare 3 methods of
      dilation.

      The pupil size will be measured after the viscoelastic is injected and before the
      capsulorrhexis is performed. Treatment failure is defined as a pupil size that is clinically
      deemed too small to safely proceed with surgery (approximately less than 5 mm). At this
      point, a rescue intervention will be implemented with additional pharmacologic mydriasis,
      visco-dilation, or iris expansion devices, until the pupil is adequately dilated to proceed
      with surgery. These patients will still be included in the study, and their pupil size prior
      to the rescue intervention is still the primary outcome.

      Participants can choose to stop participating in the study prior to receiving any of the
      mydriasis agents. Should they choose to withdraw from the study, they would end up receiving
      routine mydriasis with topical plus intracameral agents. The study ends on post-op month #1
      for all individual patients. The study enrollment period will end when the sample size is
      met.
    
  