
    
      This study is an open-label extension study to determine the long-term safety and
      tolerability of APD811 in patients with WHO Group 1 PAH who have completed the Phase 2 Study
      APD811-003. Patients must have completed Study APD811-003 and met eligibility criteria for
      Study APD811-007. Additionally, placebo-treated patients who discontinue study drug treatment
      due to clinical worsening in Study APD811-003 will be permitted to enroll in Study
      APD811-007, upon approval of the medical monitor, provided that all end of study procedures
      including right heart catheterization are performed per protocol. The Week 25 Visit in Study
      APD811-003 will serve as the Baseline Visit for Study APD811-007.

      All patients enrolled in Study APD811-007 will receive open-label treatment with APD811. The
      starting dose and titration schedule will be individually determined and in accordance with
      the starting dose and titration schedule optimized from Study APD811-003. Adjustments in the
      dose and titration schedule may be made according to patient tolerability.

      After an individual patient completes Study APD811-003 and that patient's database is locked,
      patient unblinding will occur. Patients on active treatment (APD811) will remain on current
      dose and have onsite clinical assessments performed every 3 months until the patient is
      discontinued from the study.

      Patients in the placebo treatment group will undergo a dose titration period until a stable,
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is reached (up to 9 weeks), followed by a treatment period after
      the MTD is determined during which monthly onsite clinic assessments will be performed for
      the first 3 months and then every 3 months until the patient is discontinued from the study
      or the study is terminated (see Table 2).

      Discontinuation of the study may also occur at Sponsor's decision to terminate the study.
      Dose reductions may be made at any time for safety reasons.

      Incremental dose increases will also be allowed during the Treatment Period at the discretion
      of the investigator (as clinically indicated) and according to the stepwise titration scheme.
      Uptitration should not occur within 6 weeks of an efficacy assessment.

      Patients will be assessed for clinical worsening during each clinic visit. If clinical
      worsening is confirmed, the Investigator may opt to either continue treatment with APD811 at
      the current dose, increase the dose of APD811, interrupt treatment, or discontinue the
      patient at his/her discretion.

      In addition, all patients will be contacted yearly following discontinuation in Study
      APD811-007 to assess mortality status. The mortality status follow-up contact of patients who
      withdraw consent will depend on local regulations or specific agreement with the subject and
      investigator.

      After the last patient enrolled in Study APD811-007 has completed approximately 6 months of
      the study, a cumulative all-patient data analysis will be performed for all patients who
      entered the study. Patients will continue to have visits to the clinic every 3 months
      indefinitely to collect data until marketing approval of APD811 is granted or until the
      Sponsor discontinues the study. At the time of marketing approval or the Sponsor's decision
      to discontinue the study, all on-going patients will complete an End of Study Visit. A 28-day
      Follow-up Visit will be conducted to ensure appropriate subject safety.
    
  