
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial looking at patient satisfaction with a 1-2 week
      postoperative visit versus phone call after minimally invasive hysterectomy. Patients will be
      screened, enrolled, consented, and randomized during the preoperative office encounter, which
      usually takes place 30 days prior to their scheduled surgery. Patients randomized to the
      study group (1-2 week postoperative phone call) will be given a time and date when to expect
      the postoperative phone call. Patients randomized to the control arm will receive a standard
      postoperative visit appointment 7-21 days after surgery. Patients in both arms will receive
      postoperative discharge instructions advising when to contact our office and when to present
      to the emergency room with certain complaints. The patients in the study arm will have
      instructions reinforcing that they will be contacted with a postoperative phone call instead
      of a visit initially; however, patients in both arms will have a postoperative visit 6-8
      weeks following surgery.

      After surgery, patients randomized to the study arm will receive the phone call at 7-14 days
      post-op. The physician performing the phone call will be a minimally invasive gynecology
      fellow in our practice. The provider will use a script to review all of the typical review of
      systems and pertinent postoperative functioning questions typically reviewed and documented
      in our postoperative visit. They will also review the surgical pathology at this time. This
      conversation will be documented in our electronic medical record.

      Patients randomized to the control arm will undergo typical office visit at 7-21 days postop.

      Patients in both arms will have postoperative office visits at 6-8 weeks postop, and will
      complete a survey at that time. The survey is a modified version of the SCAHPS survey to
      assess patient satisfaction with the surgical experience. There will also be some questions
      about the patients' attitudes towards the number and timing of postoperative visits.
    
  