
    
      Cardiac Resynchronization therapy with a defibrillator (CRTd) is a valid treatment for
      patients with heart failure and reduced left ventricle ejection fraction (HFrEF). Indeed,
      CRTd might induce an amelioration in New York Heart Association (NYHA) class, with a
      improvement of left ventricle ejection fraction (LVEF), and a reduction of hospital
      admissions for failing heart worsening. It is relevant to report that this ameliorative
      effect is seen only in a percentage about 70% of CRTd treated patients, that are called CRTd
      responders. However, about 30% of patients do not respond to CRTD, and they experience a
      worse clinical prognosis with an increasing trend toward heart failure (HF) disease
      progression, hospital admissions, and deaths. These patients are defined "CRTd non
      responders" . Actually, there is an increasing trend to find the mechanisms causing this
      therapeutic failure, such as a growing necessity to find new treatments to ameliorate CRTd
      effects, and to improve clinical outcomes in HFrEF patients with CRTd. In this setting,
      authors might speculate that salt and liquid retention represent a relevant pathogenic
      mechanism to cause worsening of NYHA class, with higher rate of hospital admissions for HF
      worsening and worse prognosis. Indeed, numerous studies reported the importance of a
      restricted vs. normal dietary salt intake in patients with HF to ameliorate clinical
      prognosis. Intriguingly, there are not studies investigating the effects of restricted
      dietary salt intake in failing heart patients with CRTd. Secondly, it is not well know how a
      restricted vs. normal dietary salt intake can affect clinical prognosis in CRTd patients.
      Therefore, the study hypothesis was that, a restricted dietary salt intake in addition to
      conventional anti-HF therapy as compared to the normal dietary salt intake in addition to
      conventional anti-HF drugs therapy might ameliorate heart function, and clinical outcomes in
      a population of HFrEF patients treated by CRT-d. Moreover, in this study authors will
      evaluate the effects of restricted vs. normal dietary salt intake in addition to conventional
      anti-HF in a population of failing heart patients treated by CRT-d. To date, in this study
      patients affected by HFrEF after CRT-d implant will be randomly divided in patients receiving
      restricted dietary salt intake plus conventional anti-HF therapy vs. patients under
      conventional dietary salt intake plus anti-HF therapy. In these patients authors will
      investigate at 12 months follow up all cause of deaths, cardiac deaths, hospitalizations for
      HF worsening, CRT-d responders rate, and the arrhythmic burden: atrial fibrillation (AF)
      events, ventricular tachycardia (VT) events, ventricular fibrillation (VF) events, internal
      cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) shocks, and strokes events.
    
  