
    
      Cannabis use disorder (CUD) is a major public health problem associated with significant
      psychiatric and medical morbidity, poor performance, and legal consequences.4 4.2 million
      people in the United States meet criteria for CUD.5 15% of all admissions for substance abuse
      treatment were related to cannabis as the primary, presenting problem in 2014 and 86% of
      those admissions were referred for ambulatory care.6 Despite the large number of patients
      with CUD seeking outpatient treatment, the investigators have limited options available.
      While evidence-based practices (EBP), and specifically psychotherapies, have been studied to
      treat CUD and various approaches have been shown to have clinical utility,7-9 many patients
      have difficulty achieving significant reductions in their use or sustained abstinence.10 This
      is further complicated by patients' limited access to EBPs,11 frequent poor adherence by
      therapists in the community to EBP interventions,12-14 and challenges in treating CUD with
      EBPs when available in community settings.10 Finding effective medications for the treatment
      of CUD is essential. There are no FDA approved medications for CUD. A number of
      pharmacological treatment trials for CUD have been performed.1* While some agents have shown
      promise,15-17 no medication strategy has emerged as clearly efficacious in producing
      abstinence.1,18 As the changing legal landscape influences patients' goals for reductions in
      cannabis use as compared to abstinence only, and with increasing support from the research
      community, future studies need to identify medications that lead to reductions in cannabis
      use.

      Impulsivity has been linked to the predisposition,19 severity,20 and poor treatment
      outcomes21, 22 in cannabis users and CUD, making it a prime pharmacology target. Notably,
      there is an entwined relationship between cannabis and impulsivity. Impulsivity as a
      neurobehavioral trait is associated with cannabis use,and acute and chronic use of cannabis
      has been shown to exacerbate impulsivity, with some mixed evidence likely attributable to
      diverse constructs of impulsivity used across studies. While the investigators may not be
      able to fully determine which came first-the impulsivity or the cannabis use, further
      research is needed to demonstrate whether reductions across constructs of impulsivity can
      lead to improvements in CUD, and vice versa. Over the last two decades, 5HT2C receptor
      agonists have been shown to alter neurobiological systems of addiction and relevant drug use
      behavior in the preclinical literature by increasing inhibitory control on mesolimibic
      dopamine processes and resultant incentive motivation based behaviors,23 both directly and
      indirectly, particularly with regards to their impact on reducing impulsivity.24 In 2012,
      lorcaserin, a selective 5HT2C receptor agonist, was approved by the FDA, allowing for
      clinical exploration of its role in the treatment of substance use disorders, including
      CUD.25 Recently, a fully powered clinical trial of lorcaserin for tobacco smoking cessation
      was positive.26 The primary purpose of this study is therefore to investigate the effect of
      lorcaserin on reductions in cannabis use and multiple constructs of impulsivity in outpatient
      treatment-seeking individuals with CUD.

      Additionally, the investigators will make use of the technological application of ecological
      momentary assessments (EMA), to collect real-time data at key time intervals during the study
      on participants' use of cannabis and other substances in addition to measuring impulsive
      traits through self-initiated, fixed and random phone prompts. This will be a 13-week
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, with week 1 focused on baseline
      assessments of impulsivity (through EMA in vivo and at study visits), weeks 2-3 of medication
      lead-in, and week 4 targeting a reduced cannabis use/quit day through week 13. This "proof of
      concept" study will provide Dr. Brezing with training in randomized controlled trial
      operations, multiple constructs to measure impulsivity, utilization of technology as a
      measurement tool, and identification of outcomes that may prove important to reductions in
      cannabis use.

      Primary Aims:

      (Aim 1) Examine the effect of lorcaserin compared to placebo, on reductions in cannabis use
      among treatment-seeking outpatients with CUD, with the primary outcome measured by average
      weekly mean episodes of any cannabis use (including edibles, vaping, and other variable
      potency cannabinoid products) per day. (Aim 2) Examine the effect of lorcaserin compared to
      placebo on behavioral and self-report measures of impulsivity among individuals with CUD
      during the medication lead-in phase (weeks 2-3).

      Secondary Aim: If the hypotheses of the Primary Aims are supported, the investigators will
      examine whether reductions in impulsivity (during weeks 2-3) mediates the effect of
      lorcaserin on cannabis use (during weeks 8-13).

      Exploratory Aims: To explore the effect of lorcaserin compared to placebo on (1) drop-out
      rates, (2) time to discontinuation from study, (3) treatment adherence, and (4) nicotine use.
    
  