
    
      African Americans are heavily burdened with preventable and treatable diseases, including
      cardiovascular disease, stroke, hypertension, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, sexually transmitted
      diseases (STDs), and cancers. African Americans have the highest age-adjusted death rates for
      heart disease, cancer, diabetes, and HIV/AIDS compared with other Americans. The broad
      objective of this research is to identify strategies to empower African American men to
      engage in healthful behaviors in an effort to help eliminate health disparities.
      Specifically, this research addresses the urgent need for health promotion interventions
      targeting African American men who are living with HIV. Despite the high risk for
      cardiovascular disease and other behavior-linked diseases, including diabetes and certain
      cancers, no studies have developed and tested interventions to encourage behaviors to reduce
      risk of chronic disease in African American HIV positive men, a sub-group comprising the
      largest segment of people living with HIV in the US. Moreover, irrespective of race and sex,
      few studies have tested interventions to increase behaviors to reduce risk of chronic
      diseases in people living with HIV.

      From 2005 through 2007, the estimated number of persons living with HIV rose steadily in the
      37 states with confidential name-based HIV infection reporting. At the end of 2007, an
      estimated 580,371 persons in these states were living with HIV infection, including 48% who
      were African-American and 73% who were men. In 2008, African Americans accounted for 52% of
      all new diagnoses of HIV infection in the 37 states with confidential name-based reporting.
      The estimated rate of diagnoses of HIV was higher in African American men (132 per 100,000)
      than in White men (17 per 100,000), Hispanic men (52 per 100,000), and African American women
      (56 per 100,000). In Philadelphia, where this study will be conducted, two-thirds of the
      people living with HIV/AIDS were African American in 2008, two-thirds were male, and one-half
      were age 45 years or older.

      Since antiretroviral therapy (ART) has been available, there has been durable suppression of
      HIV replication, prevention of AIDS-defining opportunistic infections and malignancies, and
      higher survival and life expectancy rates in people living with HIV. In the US, 67% of people
      living with HIV in 2007 were age 40 or older. Because of the aging of the HIV positive
      population, several chronic non-HIV-related conditions are becoming increasingly important in
      the clinical treatment of HIV. Several reviews have drawn attention to the prevention and
      control of chronic diseases, including diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular, liver, and
      kidney diseases, affecting people living with HIV. Mounting evidence suggests that both HIV
      disease and its treatment with ART can accelerate the risks for chronic diseases associated
      with aging, particularly cardiovascular diseases and diabetes mellitus. Studies indicate that
      as HIV-infected patients live longer, they increasing experience mortality from causes not
      directly attributable to HIV. For instance, among people with HIV, the proportion of deaths
      not directly attributable to HIV increases with age from 36% among 30-year olds to 53% among
      40-year olds and 72% among 50-year olds.

      Quite apart from HIV infection, African Americans have higher mortality rates for
      cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular diseases, and diabetes than do Whites. Some evidence
      also suggests that rates of hypertension and kidney disease are higher among HIV-infected
      African Americans than among HIV-infected Whites. Indeed, in a cohort study, the incidence of
      end-stage renal disease in people without HIV or diabetes was 2.3 times higher among African
      Americans than Whites, in those with diabetes but no HIV it was 2.3 times higher among
      African Americans than Whites, whereas in those with HIV but no diabetes, it was 8.1 times
      higher among African Americans compared with Whites. African Americans also have the highest
      mortality rates and the shortest survival rates for most cancers of any racial/ethnic group
      in the US. The death rate from colon cancer, the third most common cancer among African
      Americans, has decreased over the past 15 years, but incidence and mortality rates are still
      disproportionately high among African Americans, particularly men. The colon cancer incidence
      in African American men was 1.21 times higher than in White men and 1.31 times higher than in
      African American women, and the mortality rate in African American men was 1.44 times higher
      than in White men and 1.42 times higher than in African American women. The poor survival
      rates for colon cancers in African American men are linked to later stage at diagnosis and
      less access to appropriate and timely treatment.

      Studies have shown that regular physical activity or physical fitness is associated with
      reduced risk of early mortality, cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, and colon cancer.
      Consuming fruits and vegetables is associated with a lower risk of cardiovascular disease and
      certain cancers, but only 35% of African Americans report consuming fruit the recommended 2
      or more times per day and only 24% report consuming vegetables the recommended 3 or more
      times per day. These findings underscore the need for interventions to encourage physical
      activity and fruit and vegetable consumption among African Americans. Screening is important
      to detect diseases in the early stages, but African Americans are less likely than Whites to
      report being screened for colon cancer. Reinhold et al. found that, despite significantly
      more visits with their primary care provider, HIV-infected patients age 50 years or older
      were less likely to have ever been screened for colon cancer than age- and gender-matched
      HIV-negative controls, and Bini et al. reported that HIV-infected individuals have a higher
      prevalence of colonic neoplasms and develop advanced neoplasms at a younger age than do
      uninfected individuals.

      Few studies have examined health behaviors among HIV positive individuals, and fewer still
      have tested the efficacy of interventions that target behaviors linked to chronic diseases.
      This research will address this gap in the literature. It will test whether a health
      promotion intervention increases physical activity and other healthful behaviors compared
      with a health-awareness control group. The participants will be HIV positive African American
      men age 40 years and older who are ART patients. Participants will be recruited through the
      Clinical Registry of the Penn Center for AIDS Research, AIDS clinics and service
      organizations, HIV care providers, advertisements in a local newspaper, and word of mouth
      from participants.

      The study will utilize a randomized controlled trial design. Computer-generated random number
      sequences will be used to randomly assign the men to the Men Together Making a Difference
      Health Promotion Intervention or the Health Awareness Control Intervention. The theoretical
      basis of the Men Together Making a Difference Health Promotion Intervention is social
      cognitive theory and the reasoned action approach. The intervention will seek to increase
      self-efficacy, outcome expectancy, behavioral skills, and risk-reduction knowledge for
      behaviors linked to cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes, and cancer, including
      physical activity, fruit and vegetable consumption, fat consumption, and colon-cancer
      screening. The intervention will help men assess their health behavior, identify personal
      barriers to engaging in the behaviors, develop strategies for surmounting those barriers, and
      gain support for behavior change.

      Participants will complete assessments before the intervention, immediately post and 3, 6,
      and 12 months post-intervention. Self-report measures will be collected using audio
      computer-assisted self-interviewing. The primary outcome is a binary variable indicating
      whether the participant met the 2008 Department of Health and Human Services physical
      activity guideline of engaging in muscle-strengthening activity on 2 days and engaging in
      either 20 min of vigorous-intensity activity on at least 4 days or 30 min of
      moderate-intensity activity on at least 5 days in the previous 7 days. The study tests
      whether the Men Together Making a Difference Health Promotion Intervention increases
      adherence to physical activities guidelines during the post-intervention period compared with
      the Health Awareness Intervention control group and whether social cognitive theory and
      reasoned action approach variables mediate the effects of the intervention.

      A power analysis was used to calculate the sample size needed to detect a clinically
      significant difference in adherence to physical activity guidelines of 9.1 percent, a
      relative increase of 58.0%. Based on the sample of HIV positive men age 40 or older in
      Project Eban, estimated correlation among physical activity guideline adherence rates at 3-,
      6-month, and 12-month follow-up is intraclass correlation (ICC) = 0.314. Assuming a 2-tailed
      test, alpha = 0.05, ICC = 0.314, 20% attrition, and a 9.1% increase in physical activity
      guideline adherence from 15.7% in the control group to 24.8% in the health promotion
      intervention group, a total N of 384 men enrolled will yield statistical power of 0.82.
    
  