
    
      Circulating blood platelets are essential in the maintenance of vascular integrity and
      functionality in numerous pathophysiological situations, such as the control of hemorrhagic
      or thrombotic events. Platelets are released into the circulation from highly specialized
      bone marrow cells, the megakaryocytes (MKs) that undergo a complex process of differentiation
      and maturation. This process starts with the differentiation of bone marrow hematopoietic
      progenitor cells (HPC) into enlarging, polyploid immature MKs that evolve into giant cells
      apposed on the bone marrow microvasculature, and finally release into the blood stream
      fragments of their cytoplasm that make the circulating platelets. This ultimate step of MK
      maturation is called thrombopoiesis. Multiple genes are implicated in the whole process, and
      particularly in precisely defining both the size and number of circulating platelets.
      Constitutive thrombocytopenia (CT) are rare hematological diseases etiologically
      heterogeneous, characterized by a markedly decreased number of circulating platelets. In most
      of the cases, thrombocytopenia is accompanied by a change in cell size that very often
      appears as an increased mean volume. Thrombocytopenia is a life-long status for the patient,
      and when circulating platelets are strongly diminished, this may lead to hemorrhagic events
      of variable severity that may require urgent intervention such as transfusion of blood
      products. Depending on the gene that is altered, CT may be present in parallel with other
      blood cell diseases, such myelodysplastic syndrome or leukemia, or even with
      extra-hematological syndromes, such nephropathy, deafness, etc. However, CT can be difficult
      to diagnose and difficult to differentiate from various forms of acquired thrombocytopenia,
      such as idiopathic or drug-induced thrombocytopenia. The ultimate diagnosis for CT is based
      on the molecular diagnosis that must show that a variant gene and protein harboring
      identified mutation(s) do alter platelet production and result in clinical CT.

      Knowledge about the genetic basis of CT is continuously expanding, with ~ 40 genes identified
      so far as causative in CT cases. This identification is based on rigorous criteria such as
      (1) bioinformatics-based evaluation of the pathogenicity of the mutations, (2) genotype -
      phenotype association in informative CT families, and (3) reproduction of the molecular and
      cellular abnormalities noted in the patients by using experimental cellular or animal models.
      All implicated genes and proteins act at important steps during MK differentiation /
      maturation, and particularly during thrombopoiesis. In addition to important biomedical
      outcomes, characterization of mutations of these genes and the impact they have on various
      biological processes is also an irreplaceable source of discoveries in basic cell biology.
      However, in about half of clinically suspected CT cases, genomic analysis of the known
      implicated genes does not recover a variant in one of these genes. Thus, some etiologies of
      CT are yet unknown, and there is still a lot of investigation to perform in order to expand
      and complement the list of genes and mutations implicated in CT. This is important for the
      patients and families, because insuring the diagnosis of CT will avoid misdiagnosis and its
      potential inefficient or deleterious therapeutic interventions, including blood products
      transfusion when non pertinent, while allowing a proposal of an adapted curative/preventive
      medical action, especially when the CT is associated with an extra-platelet or
      extra-hematological syndrome.

      At the Resource and Competence Center for Constitutional Hemorrhagic Diseases (CRCMHC;
      University Hospital Robert Debré, Paris, France), the investigating team has built a cohort
      of more than 650 subjects presenting with CT, which only about half have received a genetic
      diagnosis. Among the patients without such a molecular diagnosis, several, unrelated patients
      with a familial form of thrombocytopenia have been recently investigated by the investigating
      team and shown to harbor variants of genes not yet described as formally implicated in the
      occurrence of CT. However, clinical and molecular genetic evidence must be completed by
      functional studies of the corresponding variant proteins in their cellular environment, and
      this experimental, cell biology approach of the CT pathology makes the basis of the present
      clinical trial. Such functional studies will include:

        -  an evaluation of how blood HPC obtained from patients and family members either with CT
           or free of the disease (the latter taken as normal control subjects), differentiate into
           MKs when seeded in culture dishes, then mature into MKs forming proplatelets, that are
           similar to the early platelets formed in the bone marrow before their release into
           blood. The purpose is to observe and analyze any morphological and protein expression
           abnormality that may be present in CT cells, and absent in non-CT cells. The techniques
           used are cell culture, microscope observation and analysis, both qualitative and
           quantitative, of modifications in protein expression and / or distribution in cells,
           using probes such as antibodies raised against the proteins of interest;

        -  an evaluation of platelet functionalities, such as their ability to adhere to the
           surface of a blood vessel, then to aggregate, an hallmark of their essential role in
           stopping bleeding, and to retract a clot, characteristic of their role in the sealing of
           a damaged blood vessel, thereby avoiding infections and preparing the tissue for repair.
           The aim here is to observe and analyze any alteration of these highly platelet-specific
           functions during hemostasis in CT platelets compared to normal platelets, because
           certain genes affecting the platelet production in the bone marrow may also play a role
           in the functions of circulating platelets. Techniques to be used are microscopy imaging
           of platelet adherence to experimental protein-coated surfaces, or to genuine vascular
           material;

        -  an evaluation of the MK/platelet ultrastructure and biochemistry, focusing on the
           intracellular molecular pathways the variant protein is implicated in. Techniques to use
           for this purpose are confocal or electronic microscopy, protein extraction, purification
           and analysis.

      These experimental studies are conducted in a research laboratory from the National Institute
      for Health and Medical Research (Inserm), "Innovative Therapies in Haemostasis (IThEM)"
      (Faculty of Pharmacy - University of Paris, Paris, France). The laboratory is acting in this
      clinical trial on a collaborative basis with the CRCMHC, which is operating upstream for the
      medical, clinical and genetic characterization of patients and family members who may be then
      asked for enrollment in the trial. The IThEM laboratory has also the expertise to generate
      cellular models for the study of one particular gene and protein variant, that can be
      experimentally introduced into laboratory human primary cells or cell lines in order to
      reproduce the biologic alterations originally observed in cells from the CT patients. This
      serves to strengthen the demonstration that the variant gene is truly pathogenic, but this
      part of the study is outside the present clinical trial because it does not require access to
      biological material from the patients and family members in order to be performed.

      In the whole, this clinical trial is aimed to precisely delineate the mechanism of action at
      the molecular and cellular levels of newly identified CT-associated gene variants, in order
      to confirm or, conversely, invalidate the pathogenicity of the variant gene. It will fulfill
      several objectives, (1) to offer the patient(s) a formal molecular diagnosis of CT, (2) to
      precise and elucidate the phenotypic presentation of the form of CT generated by this
      variant, (3) to help to ameliorate patients' medical support, both for diagnosis and therapy,
      particularly if CT have extra-platelet and / or extra-hematological counterparts, (4) to
      provide patients and family members a pertinent genetic counseling, and (5) to expand the
      validated panel of genes implicated in CT and to be explored on presentation of a new
      suspected case of CT. It will also help in extending the basic knowledge of the process of
      megakaryocytopoiesis and thrombopoiesis, both normal and pathological.
    
  