
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether cabozantinib S-malate (cabozantinib) can significantly improve
      progression-free survival (PFS) compared to placebo in patients with advanced pancreatic
      neuroendocrine tumors (NET) whose disease has progressed after prior therapy.

      II. To determine whether cabozantinib can significantly improve progression-free survival
      (PFS) compared to placebo in patients with advanced carcinoid tumors whose disease has
      progressed after prior therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether cabozantinib can significantly improve overall survival (OS) compared
      to placebo in patients with advanced pancreatic NET whose disease has progressed after prior
      therapy.

      II. To determine whether cabozantinib can significantly improve overall survival (OS)
      compared to placebo in patients with advanced carcinoid tumors whose disease has progressed
      after prior therapy.

      III. To evaluate safety and tolerability of cabozantinib versus placebo in patients with
      advanced pancreatic NET using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and
      Patient-Reported Outcomes Version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (PRO-CTCAE).

      IV. To evaluate safety and tolerability of cabozantinib versus placebo in patients with
      advanced carcinoid tumors using CTCAE and PRO-CTCAE.

      V. To evaluate the overall radiographic response rate of cabozantinib versus placebo in
      patients with advanced pancreatic NET whose disease has progressed after prior therapy.

      VI. To evaluate the overall radiographic response rate of cabozantinib versus placebo in
      patients with advanced carcinoid tumors whose disease has progressed after prior therapy.

      OTHER OBJECTIVES:

      I. Results of the primary analysis will be examined for consistency, while taking into
      account the stratification factors and/or covariates of baseline quality of life (QOL) and
      fatigue.

      QUALITY OF LIFE SUBSTUDY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall quality of life, disease-related symptoms, and other domains between
      the two treatment groups (cabozantinib versus [vs.] placebo) within each cohort of patients
      (pancreatic NET vs. carcinoid tumor). (Quality of Life Substudy Objective - A021602-HO1)

      POPULATION PHARMACOKINETICS SUBSTUDY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the population pharmacokinetic and exposure-response relationships of
      cabozantinib in patients with advanced neuroendocrine tumors.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive cabozantinib S-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks until disease
      progression or start of new anticancer therapy, and then every 6 months until 8 years after
      registration.
    
  