
    
      The purpose of the proposed study is to examine, on a preliminary basis, the feasibility of a
      monitoring and intervention system that will enable the identification and even improvement
      of ineffective (and even harmful) hours of therapy in dynamic psychotherapy.

      The study will take place in the clinic complex located at the Shalvata Mental Health Center
      campus (Shalva clinic, departmental follow-up clinics, day department), and will include 10
      therapists (psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers) and 10 patients.The duration of the
      study will be two months. Once the patient and the therapist have signed an informed consent
      form, they will be integrated into a cellular-based routine outcome monitoring (ROM) that is
      developed specifically for the present study. This system, which is completely separate from
      the clinical systems of the Center, is operated after each session by the therapist. Its
      activation sends an SMS to the patient and to the therapist, in which a referral to a
      designated and secure site in which questionnaires are administered in order to measure the
      patient's condition and the assessment of the therapist and the patient regarding the quality
      of the therapeutic session. In addition, during the entire study period, the hours of
      treatment will be recorded in a dedicated manual recording device. This is done routinely in
      many research institutes in Israel and around the world, with the aim of approving the
      analysis of inefficient or harmful treatment hours. Treatment hours based on ROM data that
      have a negative effect (ie, evaluated negatively by the patient) will be transcribed by the
      therapist, and will undergo full MATRIX analysis. In each treatment pair, an analysis of up
      to two hours will be possible throughout the four months of the study. This analysis includes
      the conversion of the text to MATRIX codes, 3-letter codes that mark the section speaker
      (patient or therapist), the subject of the section (patient, therapist, or both) and its
      character (whether it deals with the ability to experience [ , Or the relationship between
      experiences [interrelation]). The coding will be performed by the principal investigator or
      by the secondary investigator. After the encoding analysis, a MATRIX-based feedback will be
      given by the Principal Investigator to the therapist, in which the recommendations of the
      analysis will be submitted.

      The proposed study combines routine conventional follow-up practices (ROM) in psychotherapy
      with innovative analysis tools (MATRIX), and seeks to be a first and significant step in
      addressing the urgent need to implement managed care in psychotherapy. This has far-reaching
      implications for the management of mental health care in community, clinic, day care and
      hospitalization units.
    
  