
    
      Background Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia (PCD) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by
      dysfunction of motile cilia associated with recurrent infections of the airways, laterality
      defects (Situs inversus totalis in about 50% of cases) and fertility problems. At present,
      mutations in > 40 genes associated with PCD and mucociliary clearance disorders have been
      identified, representing most likely two thirds of all human cases. While being involved in
      the majority of identified PCD genes, our working group has a great expertise in genetic
      analysis and diagnostic work-up of patients with PCD.

      Hallmark symptom of PCD is the chronic purulent lung disease due to the reduced mucociliary
      clearance. Chronic inflammation and recurrent infections of the airways promote continuous
      lung damage, bronchiectasis and could finally lead to total lung failure. For other
      congenital diseases with chronic lung conditions, e.g. cystic fibrosis (CF), an affected lung
      function with a steady decline is well described and spirometry is widely used to monitor
      disease progression. For PCD there are only limited data available and studies often comprise
      small cohorts. In general, available data assume a decline of lung function in PCD patients
      compared to healthy individuals, but less pronounced than in CF. Altogether, results of the
      studies remain heterogeneous, in particular concerning the influence of an early diagnosis
      and a proper treatment on lung function.

      Furthermore, despite a significant progression in genetically solved cases there are almost
      no data on genotype specific lung function in patients with PCD. Recently, there are few
      studies indicating an association between specific ultrastructural or genetic defects, e.g.
      patients carrying mutations in the genes MCIDAS (Multicilin), CCNO (Cyclin O), CCDC39
      (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 39) and CCDC40 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 40) and a severe
      clinical course in particular a worse respiratory phenotype. There might be a less severe
      phenotype in PCD sub-types due to mutations in genes encoding radial spoke components.

      Currently a systematic review shows the high variation of spirometric indices in a great PCD
      cohort. These findings underline the great necessity of detailed characterization of genotype
      specific phenotypes with focus on important parameters such as lung function to better
      understand the natural history of distinct PCD-variants with a view to improve individual
      patient care by tailored treatment activity according to likely disease severity.

      Aim of this study are:

        -  Correlation between genotype and lung function of patients with genetically confirmed
           PCD in an international cohort on a longitudinal basis

        -  Determination of further parameters, such as body mass index (BMI), possibly associated
           with lung function in genetically confirmed PCD patients

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Patients with a genetically confirmed diagnosis of PCD (bi-allelic mutations in a gene,
           known to cause PCD) with typical clinical symptoms of PCD and at least one other method
           confirming PCD-diagnosis

        -  Children and adults diagnosed with PCD of all age groups and able to perform spirometry

        -  Longitudinal datasets with measurements of lung function (FEV1 (forced expiratory volume
           in 1 second), FVC (forced vital capacity), FEV1/FVC, FEF (forced expiratory flow) 25-75)
           (with date and height at the performed measurement, respectively)

        -  at least 3-4 different measurements in at least 2 years of follow up are expected - in
           cases where this is not possible, sporadic data could also be provided

        -  Delivery of datasets to the international PCD registry (NCT02419365) with all necessary
           values within the anticipated time schedules
    
  