
    
      In 2014, newborns represented 1.57% of passages (or 906 newborns) of Emergency Pediatric
      Hospitals CHU de Nice-Lenval. This proportion is significant and steadily increasing (2013:
      820 newborns or 1.46% of passes). The experienced team of pediatric emergency is that the
      majority of consultations respite care and child care could well be managed city. The
      bibliographic data confirms this feeling.

      But no study has examined the course of care of the newborn during its first month of life.
      In 2014, in its recommendations for good practice for the release of motherhood after giving
      birth, the HAS recommends a medical examination by a pediatrician (or a general practitioner
      with experience of pathologies of the newborn) between 6 and 10 days of life. Other
      consultations (midwife, health visitor in PMI) is not required. Moreover, in its brochure to
      mothers, prompt medical attention is recommended in certain situations (fever, vomiting ...)
      but without specifying the organization. The pediatric emergency therefore no place, except
      for emergencies, in the course of care of newborns. But the care pathway proposed by the HAS
      is it feasible? And it reduces unnecessary use of pediatric emergency?

      The main objective of this study is to evaluate the course of care of newborns consultant
      pediatric emergency looks to the recommendations of the 2014 HAS.

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  Identify factors associated with abnormal care course and / or consultation with
           appropriate non emergencies.

        -  Evaluate the reasons why parents of newborns to consult pediatric emergency first-line
           concern and before / after the emergency department visit.

        -  Evaluate the information received by parents on maternity or during medical
           consultations or previous paramedical.

      The primary endpoint is the assessment of the course of care of newborns consultant pediatric
      emergencies of appropriately (that is to say addressed newborn and / or implementation of
      additional tests and / or hospitalization) or not adapted.

      The secondary endpoints are:

        -  Description of clinical and demographic characteristics of the newborn, the social
           characteristics of the parents.

        -  Description of the consultation to pediatric emergencies.

        -  Information Evaluation received by parents on the time of the first medical consultation
           at the exit of motherhood and the reason for consultation to pediatric emergencies.

      This is a biomedical intervention study Routine care, single-center prospective,
      non-randomized. Will be included all newborns (that is to say, child ≤ 28 days of life)
      consultant to hospital emergency NICE-Lenval Hospital, and after obtaining the non-opposition
      of the two parents. The number of patients needed is 280 newborns. The duration of inclusion
      is one year.

      Following consultation with the pediatric emergency, parents will be contacted 2 times:

        -  2-7 days after the consultation: clinical and demographic characteristics of the
           newborn, social characteristics of parents, information received by parents, whether (s)
           consultation (s) Medical (s) or paramedic (s) already completed and anxiety parents
           before / after the emergency department visit.

        -  In the week following the first month of life the child complete the child care course.

      The data on emergency department visit (which made additional tests and fate of the child)
      will be collected from the host software pediatric emergencies.

      This study will evaluate the course of care of newborns, to understand why some newborns have
      improper care pathways, particularly as regards the first medical consultation at the exit of
      motherhood.
    
  