
    
      Effective team communication, coordination, and situational awareness by cardiac arrest team
      members are critical components to deliver optimal cardiopulmonary arrest resuscitation care.
      But the complexity of care during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), numerous providers
      involved, miscommunication, and exogenous factors can all contribute to wresting patients
      care, thus jeopardizing their survival. The aim of this trial is to investigate whether a
      mHealth supportive tool (the interconnected and focused mobile apps on patient care
      environment [InterFACE]) developed as a collaborative platform to support CPR providers in
      real-time and share patient-centered information would increase situational awareness during
      pediatric CPR and improve team communication and performance.

      This clinical trial will be a prospective, single-center, randomized controlled trial in a
      tertiary pediatric emergency department (>33,000 consultations/year) with two parallel groups
      of voluntary pediatric emergency fellows, residents and nurses.

      Situational Awareness (SA), leadership, communication skills and team performance will be
      compared using a shared mHealth supportive tool ("InterFACE", group A) or conventional team
      interactions (group B) during standardized simulation-based pediatric in-hospital cardiac
      arrest scenario (p-IHCA) and life-threatening trauma scenarios using a high-fidelity manikin.
      InterFACE consists of a dual, interconnected mHealth tool composed primarily of a mobile
      device app, namely "Guiding Pad" (PMID: 32292179), interfaced to a remote large liquid
      crystal display (LCD) screen installed in the shock room and situated above the patient's
      head.

      Thirty-six participants will be randomized 1:1 (each team will comprise six participants,
      i.e. a total of 6 teams). The teams will be asked to perform consecutively two 20-min highly
      realistic, scripted CPR scenarios on a high-fidelity WiFi manikin (Laerdal SimBaby, Laerdal
      Medical, Stavanger, Norway) using either the mHealth tool or conventional methods. The
      scenarios will be standardized to strictly follow the 2018 AHA algorithms and the 2018 ATLS
      guidelines.

      In this simulation-based study, each team member will answer the SAGAT queries specific to
      their roles. Leadership will be measured with the resuscitation team leader evaluation (RTLE)
      instrument. Effective teamwork and communication will be measured with the team emergency
      assessment measure (TEAM) instrument. The SUS instruments will be used to measure the
      usability of the mHealth tool. For the trauma scenario, the modified non-technical skills
      scale for trauma (T-NOTECHS) will not be used due to the serious risk of assessment bias with
      this instrument, as emphasized by the consensus-based standards for the selection of health
      measurement instruments (COSMIN).

      Data collection will be carried out by the responsive simulator detectors (Laerdal SimBaby)
      and the two GoPro video cameras. The set-up of both cameras will be standardized. The
      recorded videos will be safely stored in duplicate on secured hard-disk drives in a locked
      room. As all scenarios will be fully video-recorded, all actions, communications and
      interactions will be recorded and later scored by two raters to allow outcomes analysis and
      for the calculation of interrater reliability. All actions performed with the app will be
      automatically saved locally in log files for further analysis. This study offers the major
      advantage to observe a unique 60-min period per resuscitation team. Therefore, neither
      follow-up nor retention plans will be necessary. The resuscitation algorithm is highly
      standardized and deviation from the algorithm is a parameter of interest in this study. Data
      collection will be carried out using the REDCap database (REDCap, Vanderbilt University,
      Nashville, TN, USA).

      This clinical trial will assess the impact of a collaborative mHealth tool to increase
      situational awareness and effective team communication during in-hospital pediatric
      resuscitation. As research in this area is scarce, the results generated from this study will
      be of great importance and may be sufficient to change and improve in-hospital pediatric
      emergency care practice in an era of communication technologies.
    
  