
    
      Mucosal erosions can occur on luminal surface of stomach in approximately 75-100% patients
      during the first 24 hours of intensive care unit admission. These erosions often cause
      bleeding with penetrating superficial capillaries. Clinically significant bleeding
      (Significant decrease in blood pressure or decrease in hemoglobin level of more than 2 g /
      dL) appears to be less than 5% in ICU patients.

      Enteral nutrition (EN) has protective effects against stress ulcer bleeding by neutralizing
      the acidic pH in the stomach lumen, providing a structural and functional integrity of the
      mucosal surface and trophic effect on the GI mucosa. These effects have been shown in some
      studies. The above-mentioned studies are inadequate for clinicians to make suggestions for
      relation between enteral nutrition and stress ulcer hemorrhage.

      The risk factors for stress ulcer hemorrhage are mechanical ventilation, coagulopathy and
      burns.

      Proton pump inhibitors (PPI) and histamine receptor blockers (H2RB) are the main drugs used
      for stress ulcer bleeding prophylaxis.

      Studies have shown that 90% of patients admitted to intensive care units receive prophylaxis
      for stress ulcer bleeding.

      Drugs (H2RB, PPI) used for prophylaxis against stress ulcer bleeding have some undesirable
      harmful effects in critical illnesses. These drugs, which suppress gastric acid secretion,
      can cause hospital-associated pneumonia and Clostridium difficile enterocolitis.

      The studies, for clinical proposals are generally performed in the 1980s and early 1990s.
      Oral intake was stopped in most of the critically ill patients and early enteral nutrition
      was not widely used at the time of these major studies performed. Patients who are receiving
      EN have been shown to develop less stress ulcer bleeding in some studies. In a limited number
      of animal studies, enteral feeding has been shown to protect stress-related mucosal damage in
      the gastric mucosa.
    
  