
    
      Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is thought to affect a significant proportion of
      patients after major surgery (up to 10% at 3 months). This is potentially a major public
      health issue because patients with POCD have prolonged hospital admission, loss of
      independence and mortality. Undoubtedly, if POCD is as prevalent and devastating as has been
      previously reported, the decision to undergo elective surgery should be influenced by the
      risk of developing POCD. Given the scope of the issue, the deficiencies in the literature
      surrounding POCD are concerning. There are many methodological issues with previous studies
      and the diagnosis of POCD in the perioperative period.

      It is imperative that the true natures of postoperative cognitive changes are elucidated so
      that preoperative risk stratification can be appropriately determined. This will lead to care
      pathways and interventions that can modify any possible downward changes thereby reducing the
      negative impact on patients and the health care system.

      Study Hypothesis: The incidence of postoperative cognitive changes in the joint arthroplasty
      population is influenced by postoperative complications, pre-existing mild cognitive
      impairment, and pre-existing comorbid conditions.

      Study Objectives:

        1. To conduct a pilot study for six to 12 months to assess both the rate of recruitment
           (goal of 15 participants/month) and postoperative in-person follow-up (at 6 weeks and
           4.5 months), and determine if a large-scale study of 600 participants is feasible

        2. To determine the sensitivity and accuracy of Cognigram (CogState Brief Battery - CBB)
           for detecting changes in cognitive function during the perioperative period

        3. To determine whether pre-existing mild cognitive impairment (MCI), preoperative chronic
           inflammatory states, and acute postoperative complications affect changes in
           postoperative cognitive function
    
  