
    
      Labour pain is one of the most intense pain known. To relieve this pain, epidural analgesia
      is both the most effective and the safest technique. An epidural analgesia catheter also
      allows for anesthesia in the event of the need for instrumental extraction or emergency
      caesarean section; it is thus recommended by learned societies.

      The 2016 national perinatal survey conducted by the National Institute of Health and Medical
      Research (INSERM) and the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES)
      in France revealed that more than 80% of women had chosen to benefit from an epidural
      analgesia during labour. The first puncture failure rate ranges from 3% to almost 40%
      depending on the study. Identified factors for difficult epidural analgesia catheter
      placement were: non-palpable spinous processes, obesity, spine deformity, inability for the
      patient to maintain an adequate position and poor experience of the operator.

      The success of an epidural analgesia catheter placement depends on the parturient position. A
      poor posture can increase the number of punctures, patient discomfort, and risk of
      complications. An adequate position reverses lumbar lordosis, facilitating the access to the
      intervertebral space. Different positions have been described: the lateral decubitus, the
      traditional sitting position, and its variants such as the squatting position, the "hamstring
      stretch" position, the "pendant position" (with a bilateral axillary support) and more
      recently the cross-legged position. In most cases, insertion of the epidural analgesia
      catheter is performed in sitting position or in lateral decubitus, the choice being generally
      guided by the preference of the anesthetist.

      According to anesthetists' experience in the obstetrical anesthesia unit at Necker-Enfants
      Malades hospital, a cross-legged sitting position is comfortable for parturients, restricts
      interfering movements during the procedure, and provides adequate widening of interspinous
      spaces. This position results in knees and hips flexion, tilting the pelvis backward and
      opening the interspinous spaces, while limiting muscular strain to maintain the position.
      However, literature on this matter is scarce.

      The aim of this study is to prove the superiority of the cross-legged position for successful
      placement of the epidural analgesia catheter at the first puncture without needle
      reorientation compared to a traditional sitting position on the edge of the bed.
    
  