
    
      Interest in and availability of cocaine, marijuana, and opiates have complicated long-term
      investigations into the effects of the widespread recreational use of easily accessible
      substances like alcohol and tobacco. It remains impossible to determine in single site, small
      number studies what effects may be related to the use of a specific drug. By accessing the
      large multi-site population of newborn infants and their mothers available in the NICHD
      Neonatal Research Network, this study is evaluating the short- and long-term effects of
      mothers' cocaine and/or opiate use during pregnancy on their term or preterm infants.

      Maternal practices assessed in this study include the use and abuse of opiates, cocaine,
      alcohol, marijuana, and nicotine. This study will address acute perinatal events and
      long-term medical, developmental, social, environmental, and neurobehavioral outcomes of
      infants whose mothers engaged in these maternal practices. The study will determine whether
      specific acute and long-term effects can be attributed to the use and abuse of specific
      substances.

      Over 2 years, approximately 20,000 infants were screened with a goal of enrolling 16,000
      infants. It was estimated that approximately 20% of infants would have been exposed to
      cocaine or opiates. The determination of exposure was based on self-report by the mother or
      positive meconium assay.

      The first phase of the study evaluated the acute effects of maternal practices on infants.
      This phase involved all mothers who agreed to respond to the initial questionnaire and who
      allowed the meconium drug screen to be performed on their infants. Acute outcomes are being
      compared between infants who were exposed to cocaine and opiates through their mothers' use
      (the exposed group) and infants who were not exposed (the nonexposed group). Acute outcomes
      include abruptio placenta, fetal growth retardation, non-life threatening congenital
      malformations, respiratory distress syndrome, chronic lung disease,
      periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage, necrotizing enterocolitis, retinopathy of
      prematurity, and periventricular leukomalacia.

      The second phase of the study compared 1,400 exposed and nonexposed infants with respect to
      long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes. These infants were among the 16,000 infants enrolled
      in Phase I. It was estimated that 70% of the screened population would consent to participate
      in Phase II of the study, and 50% of these participants would complete all visits over the
      initial 3-year study period (2,000 exposed infants enrolled into Phase II and 1,000 exposed
      infants would complete all follow-up visits). For each exposed infant, an infant of similar
      age, race, sex, and either alcohol history or maternal age was selected from the nonexposed,
      screened population. All infants had physical, neurological, gestational age, and growth
      assessments at birth. The exposed and nonexposed infants were examined at 1, 4, 7, 9, 12, 18,
      24, and 36 months corrected age. Follow-up assessments include medical history, and
      developmental, behavioral, social, and environmental outcomes.

      The third phase of the study compared children at ages 4 to 7. The fourth phase is now
      comparing outcomes in children ages 8 to 11 years old. Assessments include measures of
      cognition, school performance, antisocial behavior, onset of substance use, psychopathology,
      neuroendocrine function, and health disorders. Seventy-one percent of the original sample is
      still enrolled.
    
  