
    
      StOIC-1 is an observational study, and will involve a single visit (see below for schedule).

      The following data will be collected: a) demographic data - age, gender, ethnicity; b) cancer
      diagnosis; c) opioid medications - drug, formulation, dose; d) laxative medications - drug,
      formulation, dose; e) other medications; f) Eastern Co-operative Oncology Group performance
      status

      The participants will be asked the following questions:

        1. Simple question - "Are you constipated?" [Options - yes / no / unsure]

        2. European Association for Palliative Care definition question - "Does the following
           question describe your bowel function: 'the passage of small, hard faeces infrequently
           and with difficulty?' [Options - yes / no / unsure]

        3. Camilleri definition question - "Does the following statement describe your bowel
           function: 'a change since initiating opioid therapy from baseline bowel habits that is
           characterised by any of the following: reduced bowel movement frequency, development or
           worsening of straining to pass bowel movements, a sense of incomplete rectal evacuation,
           harder stool consistency?' [Options - yes / no / unsure

        4. Rome IV diagnostic criteria for OIC

      The participants will also be asked to complete:

        1. Bowel function index (BFI). The BFI is a validated, 3 item, patient-reported tool for
           assessing the treatment of OIC. A BFI score of ≥30 indicates suboptimally treated OIC.

        2. Patient Assessment of Constipation - Quality of Life Questionnaire (PAC-QOL). The
           PAC-QOL is a validated, 28-item, patient-reported tool for assessing the impact of
           constipation over time.

        3. Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale - Short Form (MSAS-SF). The MSAS-SF is a validated, 32
           item, patient-reported tool for assessing physical and psychological symptoms in cancer
           patients.

      The participant will also undergo a palliative care specialist assessment for constipation /
      OIC. The palliative care specialist will be asked to review the patient with regard to their
      bowel function, and then asked the following questions: a) does the patient have
      constipation? [Options - yes / no / unsure]; b) (if appropriate) does the patient have
      opioid-induced constipation? [Options - yes / no / unsure]; c) (if appropriate) does the
      patient have additional causes of constipation? [Options - yes / no / unsure]; d) (if
      appropriate) what additional causes of constipation?I
    
  