
    
      This will be a randomized controlled trial involving good prognosis infertility patients
      undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF) +/- intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). Good
      prognosis is defined as: age <35 years, 1st IVF or IVF/ICSI cycle, normal ovarian reserve
      parameters (antral follicle count (AFC) >12, antimullerian hormone (AMH) > 15 pmol/L, cycle
      day 3 follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) < 10 IU), primarily tubal factor/male factor with
      ejaculated sperm or unexplained infertility, who achieve 3 or more high quality blastocysts
      (adequate quality for either fresh embryo transfer or cryopreservation by 5 days
      post-oocyte-retrieval).

      All participants will be undergoing an IVF/ICSI cycle utilizing either long gonadotropin
      releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist or GnRH antagonist protocols. In the long GnRH agonist
      cycles, participants will take a combined oral contraceptive pill (OCP) for 21-42 days. The
      GnRH agonist buserelin acetate (0.2 mg subcutaneously daily) will be started 5 days before
      the last OCP is taken, for a 5-day overlap, and continued until the day of hCG trigger. In
      the GnRH antagonist cycles, women will either be down-regulated with an oral combined
      contraceptive pill (OCP) for 14-21 days, starting on cycle day 3 of the pre-stimulation
      cycle, or with estrogen 4 mg orally daily starting approximately 7 days post-ovulation in the
      pre-stimulation cycle. Participants continue the OCP or estrogen until the designated stop
      day as determined by the clinic schedule. In both agonist and antagonist cycles, FSH will be
      given to each patient in either recombinant or human menopausal gonadotropin (HMG) forms, at
      doses ranging from 150 IU (international units) to 300 IU daily, as per investigator
      judgment. FSH will start on either a natural day 3 following OCP or estrogen withdrawal, or
      on an 'assigned' day 3, based on scheduling requirements. The FSH dose will be maintained for
      4 days, after which dose titration can occur according to results of follicular development
      seen on transvaginal ultrasonography and serum estradiol levels, which first occurs on cycle
      day 7. Continued ultrasonographic and serum level monitoring will occur every 1-2 days until
      time of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) trigger. In the GnRH antagonist cycles, a GnRH
      agonist will be started at a dose of 250 mcg daily when any of the following first occurs:
      cycle day 9, estradiol level > 2000 pmol/L, lead follicle > 14 mm in diameter, and will be
      continued until time of hCG trigger. Timing of hCG (5000-10,000 IU) administration will occur
      once at least three lead follicles have diameters > 17 mm. Oocyte retrieval will be performed
      36 hours after hCG administration.

      Fertilization will utilize either routine IVF or ICSI, depending upon the etiology of
      infertility and the quality of sperm. With ICSI, only mature oocytes will be inseminated.
      Embryo evaluation will occur per the clinic's standard protocols. Embryo assessment on day 5
      post-fertilization will dictate final eligibility for study enrollment. Consenting
      participants with 3 or more cryopreservation-quality blastocysts (2BB or higher, graded
      according to Gardner's criteria) will then be randomized to either fresh single embryo
      transfer (SET) (and cryopreservation of all good quality supernumerary blastocysts) or a
      single frozen embryo transfer (FET) delayed to the subsequent menstrual cycle following
      cryopreservation of all of the good quality blastocysts. All FET cycles will be performed
      under a standard endometrial preparation protocol involving vaginal estradiol administration
      for approximately 14 days. Luteal support in either fresh or FET cycles will be with vaginal
      micronized progesterone, 200 mg vaginally 2-3 times daily, starting the day following fresh
      ET, and 6 days prior to FET, once documented endometrial thickness of 8 mm or more is
      achieved. The best quality blastocyst will be transferred first. Should the best blastocyst
      not survive warming in the FET group, the second-best blastocyst will be used. All
      cryopreservation will be performed by vitrification. Luteal phase progesterone will continue
      until either 10 weeks gestation (in an ongoing pregnancy) or until a documented negative
      serum hCG level drawn 14 days after the date of embryo transfer.

      With a documented positive hCG serum level, the participant will undergo a transvaginal
      ultrasound at 7 weeks gestation to document number of gestational sacs (implantation) and
      clinical pregnancy rate (positive fetal heart beat). Confirmation of ongoing pregnancy
      (beyond 12 weeks gestation) will be obtained by review of hospital records for ultrasounds
      performed for nuchal translucency measurements or anatomic assessment.

      Randomization at the blastocyst stage is chosen to avoid cycle cancellation if randomized
      earlier. All participants will be randomized by an intention to treat approach. All other
      components of the IVF/ICSI cycle including stimulation medications, monitoring protocols,
      etc. will be at the discretion of the participant's primary IVF physician; while this
      information will be documented it will not constitute criteria for enrollment.

      Each successive enrolled participant to be randomized will choose a sequentially numbered,
      opaque, sealed envelope and be assigned to either the freeze-all or fresh transfer groups,
      based upon the envelope contents derived using computer generated block randomization,
      utilizing random block sizes of 4 and 6 participants, with a 1:1 allocation. The envelop
      contents will be provided by an independent individual not involved in study recruitment or
      clinical care of the participants.
    
  