
    
      This is a prospective single center study that will enroll 200 patients undergoing clinically
      indicated cardiac catheterization for stable ischemic heart disease or unstable chest pain,
      who are also undergoing NIRS-IVUS direct coronary imaging of a culprit lesion based on
      routine clinical indications. The NIRS/IVUS catheter uses near-infrared light (red laser
      light) and intravascular ultrasound (sound waves) to identify fatty plaques in the coronary
      artery. Standard angiography, near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) and intravascular ultrasound
      (IVUS) are three widely used clinical methods to image narrowing within the coronary arteries
      at the time of cardiac catheterization.

      Independently from this study, patients have agreed to a cardiac catheterization (angiogram -
      an x-ray picture of the heart) and possible angioplasty procedure and/or stenting as part of
      clinical care. During the cardiac catheterization if the blockage is bad enough an inflatable
      balloon attached to the end of a thin tube (called a catheter) is positioned in the narrowed
      part of the coronary artery. The balloon is then inflated, which opens the artery so that
      blood can flow more easily. After the balloon angioplasty procedure, a stent may be placed in
      the coronary artery. A stent is an expandable metal tube that helps to hold the artery open
      so that blood can continue to flow through the artery.

      If the doctor determines that there are other blockages of indeterminate severity (≥20%-≤70%
      blockage) that require NIRS/IVUS assessment to better assess the severity of the blockage or
      that angioplasty and/or stenting is necessary the NIRS/IVUS catheter will be used. If severe
      non-culprit blockages are incidentally identified, they may be treated at the discretion of
      the operator. After the invasive coronary catheterization patients will follow Beaumonts
      standard post procedureal treatment guidlines.

      Between one day and one week after the invasive catheterization patients will return for a
      research related non-invasive coronary Cat scan. A coronary Cat scan will be repeated at 24
      months (2 years) to assess any of the blockages of indeterminate severity that were
      identified during your initial invasive cardiac catheterization. Upon arrival for Cat scan a
      nurse will ask the patient a few questions, insert a small tube in one of the patients arm
      veins. Blood will be drawn from the small tub and kidney function will be assessed. All Cat
      scans will be completed under Beaumont Hospital Institutional guidelines for coronary Cat
      scans. If significant blockages are identified, the patient may be notified to complete
      additional testing, which may include a stress test or a coronary angiogram. If other
      non-cardiac incidental findings are noted that require additional clinical or imaging follow
      up, the patient and the primary care physician will be notified.

      A study doctor, nurse, or research coordinator will follow-up with each patient by phone six
      times over five years while participating in the registry. Phone calls will be performed at
      the following intervals from the date of the index procedure: 6 months (± 14 days); 12 months
      (± 30 days); 24 months (± 60 days); 36 months (± 60 days); 48 months (± 60 days); and 60
      months (± 60 days) to ask patients how they are doing and to collect any major adverse
      cardiac events.

      The Plan is for an enrollment period of two years.
    
  