
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of vatalanib and everolimus in patients with
           advanced solid tumors.

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of vatalanib and everolimus in patients with
           advanced solid tumors.

        -  Evaluate the safety and tolerability of vatalanib and everolimus at the MTD in patients
           with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC).

      Secondary

        -  Describe the non dose-limiting toxic effects associated with vatalanib and everolimus.

        -  Describe the pharmacokinetics of vatalanib and everolimus in patients with advanced
           solid tumors.

        -  Determine the functional extent of mTOR inhibition by changes in the phosphorylation
           status of S6K protein in peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients treated with
           vatalanib and everolimus.

        -  Describe any clinical responses seen in patients with metastatic RCC in a dose-expansion
           cohort treated at the MTD.

        -  Observe overall survival of RCC patients treated with vatalanib and everolimus.

        -  Determine the time to progression of patients with RCC treated with vatalanib and
           everolimus.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study followed by a phase Ib study.

        -  Phase I (solid tumors): Patients receive oral vatalanib on days 1-28 and oral everolimus
           on days 15-28 during course 1 and on days 1-28 during all subsequent courses. Treatment
           repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of vatalanib and everolimus until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase Ib (renal cell carcinoma only): Patients receive oral vatalanib and oral
           everolimus at the MTD on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 44 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  