
    
      Trials with a new, first -in-class drug will be done to ascertain safety, tolerability, and
      to explore efficacy in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, including its effects on
      biomarkers. Approximately 240 adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis despite the use of
      methotrexate therapy will be recruited for the study. They will be randomly assigned to one
      of 4 treatment arms; each patient has an equal chance of receiving the placebo, or 100 mg,
      200 mg, 300 mg dose of RWJ-445380. Patients will take the medication daily for up to 12
      weeks. Patients will receive study medication in a blinded fashion, i.e. the patient, the
      doctor and the study sponsor will not know what group the patient is in until all patients
      complete the study. The investigator and the sponsor will monitor the study for the
      occurrence of possible side effects. In addition to a screening visit, patients will have
      visits every week for the first 2 weeks then every 2 weeks until 12 weeks of treatment. After
      12 weeks, there will be a followup visit 4 weeks after the last dose of study drug is taken.
      Medical history, physical examination, blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and ECGs are
      checked periodically. Joints will be assessed to explore whether the drug might affect tender
      and swollen joints. Blood samples will be taken for standard safety laboratory tests as well
      as special tests of the drug blood level, biomarkers to see whether the drug might be
      affecting the biological pathway of antigen presentation, and other markers for rheumatoid
      arthritis. Samples will also be taken to see whether certain types of immune cells are
      affected by taking the drug. Immunization with tetanus vaccine will be done to see if taking
      the drug might affect immune responses to this agent Patients will receive RWJ-445380, 100,
      200, 300 mg, or placebo. Patients will receive oral capsules daily for up to 12 weeks.
    
  