
    
      This is an open-label, multicenter, Phase 1 study of Eryaspase combination with FOLFIRINOX in
      patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Subjects will undergo
      screening in order to determine eligibility.

      The study will use a standard 3+3 method of dose escalation. Patients will be enrolled in
      cohorts of 3. Four dose levels are planned and include 25, 50, 75, and 100 mg of Eryaspase
      with reduced dose irinotecan. Subjects will be assigned to a dose level in the order of study
      entry with at least a 3-day stagger in enrollment between individual subjects. With the 3+3
      design to be employed, doses are not escalated unless all patients receiving the current dose
      have been observed for at least 6 weeks and dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) have been
      reported. The MTD is defined as the highest dose level where at most 1 of 6 patients
      experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT). Three patients will be treated at dose level 0. If
      0/3 experience a DLT, 3 new patients will be enrolled at the next higher dose level. If 1/3
      experience a DLT, 3 additional patients will be enrolled at the same dose level. If 1/6
      patients experience a DLT at any dose level except the highest dose level, 3 new patients
      will be enrolled at the next higher dose level; if 1/6 patients at the highest dose level
      experience a DLT, it will be deemed the MTD and the trial will stop. As soon as 2 patients
      experience a DLT at a given dose level, that dose will be concluded to be above the MTD, dose
      escalation will cease and 3 new patients will be enrolled at the next lower dose level. If 6
      patients were previously treated at that lower dose, the study will halt and that lower dose
      will be declared the MTD. A subject who withdraws from the escalation phase of the study for
      reasons other than a DLT will be replaced.

      FOLFIRINOX treatment will be given on Day 1 and 15 of the 4 weeks cycle and continued until
      unacceptable toxicity or disease progression, for a maximum of 12 cycles. Subjects will
      receive a single intravenous administration of Eryaspase on Day 1 and 15 of 4-weeks cycle.

      The study visits are day 1, 8, 15, 22, during cycle 1 and day 1 and 15 during subsequent
      cycles with a 4-week follow-up period after the end of treatment. Subjects who show at least
      stable disease based on RECIST 1.1 at the end of the 12-week period (Day 85) are eligible for
      the continuation of FOLFIRINOX plus eryaspase treatment until disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.
    
  