
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) describes abnormal kidney structure or function and is a
      significant public health problem. It is common, increasingly prevalent with age and often
      co-exists with significant morbidities, such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension,
      hyperlipidaemia, cerebrovascular disease and coronary artery disease. Patients with a
      diagnosis of CKD have a decreased life expectancy compared with individuals without this
      diagnosis. This is primarily due to cardiovascular disease, but other complications of CKD
      include bone and mineral disorders, anaemia, depression, and malnutrition. Early recognition
      and treatment of these complications is recommended.

      In a proportion of patients, CKD will progress to end stage renal disease (ESRD). This is
      defined as an irreversible decline in kidney function for which renal replacement therapy
      (RRT) is required if the patient is to survive. In one UK study, 4% of patients with CKD
      progressed to develop ESRD requiring RRT over a five and a half year follow up period. The
      decision to commence RRT takes into account symptoms of biochemical disturbance, in
      conjunction with the risks and inconvenience of starting RRT. European Best Practice
      Guidelines recommend that RRT should commence when the estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate
      (eGFR) falls below 15ml/min/1.73m2 or when symptoms of uraemia, fluid overload or
      malnutrition are resistant to medical therapy. In an asymptomatic patient, an eGFR of below
      6ml/min/1.73m2 would also prompt the initiation of dialysis. It is known that the life
      expectancy of patients receiving RRT is shorter than that of the general population and
      varies further dependent on underlying diagnosis and age. For example, the median survival
      for a patient in Scotland aged 45 - 64 years starting RRT for glomerulonephritis is 7.7
      years, whereas the median survival of a patient in the same age group with a diagnosis of
      diabetic nephropathy is 2.9 years. The life expectancy of a male of the same age group within
      the general Scottish population is 24.2 years. Instituting RRT prolongs life and reduces the
      incidence of vasculo-occlusive events in patients with ESRD. As such, patients with CKD
      should be monitored by a nephrologist in order that timely referral for preparation for RRT
      can be made.

      Renal replacement therapy may come in the form of haemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis or renal
      transplantation, and may be managed both in and out of hospital. Haemodialysis (HD) remains
      the most common modality of first RRT in Scotland; of 2885 patients commencing RRT during the
      period 2005-2009, 2264 received HD. In order to undergo HD, there must be a connection
      between the patient's vascular system and the dialysis machine. The most common method is
      surgical creation of an arteriovenous fistula (AVF), into which a needle can be inserted that
      in turn is connected to a dialysis machine. In 2009, 75% of Scottish patients undergoing HD
      underwent formation of an arteriovenous fistula (AVF). Other options for vascular access
      include arteriovenous grafts using synthetic materials and long-term central venous
      catheters, though these are associated with higher rates of occlusive and infective
      complications. AVF are currently regarded as the optimal form of vascular access for HD and
      are recommended by National guidelines. There is excellent evidence that good quality, stable
      vascular access is a major factor in determining survival in this group of CKD patients.
      Unfortunately however, around 24% - 35% of arteriovenous fistulae (AVF) fail at an early
      stage. Some anaesthetic techniques can influence intraoperative blood flow and venous
      diameter, factors which are associated with fistula success. There remains no conclusive
      evidence that any particular anaesthetic technique can significantly influence long term
      surgical outcome. This study aims to investigate whether a regional, compared to local,
      anaesthetic technique can affect fistula patency.
    
  