
    
      This purpose of this study is to learn about the good and bad effects of treating early stage
      lung cancer without having a biopsy of the tumor. Participants in this research will receive
      a type of radiation treatment called Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT). This type of
      radiation is targeted directly at the tumor so that damage to surrounding normal tissue can
      be avoided. SBRT is often used in treating patients with biopsy proven early stage lung
      cancer who cannot have surgery for medical reasons. In this study, SBRT is considered
      experimental because the tumor has not been biopsied. SBRT for early-stage NSCLC has
      consistently proven to provide excellent local control and improved overall survival in the
      medically inoperable patient. The constancy of this finding over a variety of dose schedules
      confirms the robustness of SBRT. This study will utilize 54 Gy in 3 fractions delivered twice
      weekly for peripheral lesions. In order to respect the increased risk of adverse events our
      dose for centrally located lesions will be reduced to 50 Gy in 5 fractions delivered twice
      weekly and for chest wall or rib adjacent lesions will be 60 Gy in 5 fractions. These doses
      are consistent with Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 0236 for peripheral lesions and
      RTOG 0813 for central lesions and are both ≥100 Gy Biological Effective Dose (BED) as
      previously discussed . The investigators of this study routinely prescribe 60 Gy in 5
      fractions for rib adjacent lesions.

      The primary objective is to assess acute and chronic toxicities associated with SBRT of
      unbiopsied early-stage NSCLC.

      Secondary objectives include:

      To evaluate the disease specific outcomes of local control, lobar failure-free survival,
      regional/nodal failure-free survival, distant metastasis-free survival, disease-free
      survival, cause-specific survival, and overall survival associated with SBRT of unbiopsied
      early-stage NSCLC patients.

      To evaluate Pulmonary Function Test (PFT) changes over time following SBRT of unbiopsied
      early-stage NSCLC patients.

      To evaluate the patient's overall quality of life before and after treatment with SBRT of
      unbiopsied early-stage NSCLC patients.
    
  