
    
      Preoperative anemia is common worldwide, ranging from 25% in knee arthroplasties to 60% in
      colorectal malignancies. In Singapore, about a quarter (27%) of all patients have anaemia
      prior to operation at a main tertiary center. Currently, the rate of preoperative anemia in
      Singapore General Hospital (SGH) is 26.6%.

      This is an alarming public health issue as the negative impact of preoperative anemia on
      post-surgical outcomes has been well documented and include increased rates of perioperative
      blood transfusion, mortality, adverse cardiac and non-cardiac complications including
      pulmonary complications, wound infections, systemic sepsis and venous thromboembolism, as
      well as prolonged length of hospital stay and increased healthcare costs. These data suggest
      that reducing preoperative anemia prior to major surgery is imperative to improve clinical
      outcomes and decrease healthcare costs.

      This study responds to an urgent need to optimize the current standard practice for managing
      preoperative anemia. It is designed as an open-label, parallel design pilot randomised
      control trial to determine the feasibility of conducting a larger scale study powered to
      investigate reduction in complication rate. There will be two arms, intervention (IV FCM
      15mg/kg, up to 1000 mg) and usual care (Ferrous fumarate 200mg twice daily). All participants
      will be followed for three months from date of operation.

      60 participants will be randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to either preoperative FCM
      (intervention) or oral iron (standard care). Participants are stratified to surgical type
      (upper or lower intestinal surgeries) and surgical approach (laparoscopic or open). The
      sample size was selected based on the observation that at least 12 participants per group
      provide adequate measurement precision and power to detect associations. The study aims to
      balance 15 participants per stratum to account for dropouts and loss to follow up.

      Written informed consent will be obtained prior to enrolment in the study. Study data will be
      entered into a secure data management system and retained for up to 6 years after the study
      ends, as per institutional guideline. There will be no procedures recorded on electronic
      media.

      The dosing for FCM is based on the maximum dose of intravenous iron that can be safely given
      in a reasonable time period. The selected dose for the study corresponds with the
      manufacturer's recommended IV FCM dose for iron repletion in iron deficiency anemia.
      (Approved product label attached as annex). This dose of 15mg/kg or up to 1000 mg was also
      the dose used in other similar trials, hence facilitating comparison of results across study
      populations. As with the manufacturer's recommendation, the drug will be diluted in 250 ml
      Normal Saline and given over 30 minutes with the patient closely observed for signs and
      symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions during and for at least 30 minutes following each
      injection. If contraindication to IV FCM develops, treatment will be stopped and usual care
      commenced. Such reactions will be recorded and analyzed as an adverse event. The surgeon will
      be informed of the patient's participation in the study.

      The dosing for oral iron would be as per current clinical protocol, which is ferrous fumarate
      200mg twice daily.

      To determine the effectiveness of a single preoperative dose of IV FCM, compared to oral iron
      therapy for treating iron deficiency anemia prior to major abdominal surgery, in reducing
      perioperative blood transfusion requirement and 30-day incidence of postoperative
      complications. Other secondary objectives:

        -  To evaluate the effect of intravenous FCM compared with oral iron on change in
           haemoglobin levels.

        -  To evaluate the effect of intravenous FCM compared with oral iron on length of hospital
           stay and mortality.

        -  To evaluate the effect of intravenous FCM compared with oral iron on health related
           quality of life.

        -  To evaluate resource use and costs associated with the treatment with intravenous FCM
           compared to oral iron.

      Reporting of adverse events involves the PI submitting to the approving CIRB the completed
      SAE Reporting Form within the stipulated timeframe. PI is responsible for informing the
      institution representative (local SAE resulting in death), sponsor or regulatory bodies as
      required and appropriate.

      Reporting timeline to CIRB:

        -  SAE that result in death, regardless of causality, should be reported immediately -
           within 24 hours of the PI becoming aware of the event.

        -  Local life-threatening (unexpected/ expected) SAE should be reported no later than 7
           calendar days after the Investigator is aware of the event, followed by a complete
           report within 8 additional calendar days.

        -  Local unexpected SAE that are related events, but not life-threatening, should be
           reported no later than 15 calendar days after the investigator is aware of the event.

        -  An increase in the rate of occurrence of local expected SAE, which is judged to be
           clinically important, should be reported within 15 calendar days after the PI is aware
           of the event.

        -  Local expected SAE should be reported annually (together with Study Status Report for
           annual review).

        -  Local unexpected and unlikely related SAE that are not life-threatening should also be
           reported annually (together with Study Status Report for annual review).

        -  Local unexpected AE that are related events should be reported at least annually
           (together with Study Status Report for annual review).

        -  Non-local unexpected SAE that are fatal or life threatening and
           definitely/probably/possibly related should be reported not later than 30 calendar days
           after the PI is aware of the event.

      All SAEs that are unexpected and related to the study drug will be reported to HSA. All SAEs
      will be reported to HSA according to the HSA Guidance for Industry "Safety Reporting
      Requirements for Clinical Drug Trials." The investigator is responsible for informing HSA no
      later than 15 calendar days after first knowledge that the case qualifies for expedited
      reporting. Follow-up information will be actively sought and submitted as it becomes
      available. For fatal or life-threatening cases, HSA will be notified as soon as possible but
      no later than 7 calendar days after first knowledge that a case qualifies, followed by a
      complete report within 8 additional calendar days.

      The data and safety monitoring will be performed by the Principal Investigator and
      Co-Investigators, and subjected to audit and monitoring of the practices by Division of
      Research, SGH as well as CIRB.

      The following precautions are in place:

        1. Participants with known conditions that might compromise their safety during the
           administration of the intervention are excluded (see exclusion criteria above)

        2. Baseline vitals such as blood pressure, oxygen saturation and heart rate are taken
           before the commencement of infusion and after the end of infusion

        3. The patient is monitored for 30 minutes after the end of IV FCM infusion for any signs
           and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions

        4. In case of any adverse reactions, participants will be promptly managed according to
           standard clinical guidelines of adverse events / serious adverse events.

      All data will be monitored and reviewed by the PI or Co-investigators. Training will be given
      to the research coordinator and entry of data from the case report forms for analysis will be
      verified by a second person from the study team.

      Data will be entered on paper, prior to being de-identified and entered electronically for
      analysis. Existing perioperative surgical, ICU and hospital data will be used to capture
      patient demographics, procedure urgency, intraoperative procedure and anaesthetic variables,
      blood product utilisation, mechanical ventilation, delirium/coma, ICU and hospital LOS and
      major adverse events. Local research staff will enter de-identified study data onto a
      trial-specific electronic case report form.

      Hard copy of research data will be kept in a locked cabinet within the staff-only area of
      Preoperative Assessment Center, Block 3 Level 1, SGH. Soft copy of all data will be kept on a
      password protected PC within the hospital's secure network, which is located in the same
      staff-only area. All data will be de-identified. The participants will not have their NRIC
      and names displayed in the data. Instead a code will be assigned to each participant to
      protect the confidentiality of the research data. The key to the code will be kept in a
      separate access controlled, staff-only office within the department of anesthesiology, SGH.
      The PI will have access to the identifiers.

      For aim 1, the intervention would be deemed feasible if the following three objectives were
      achieved:

        1. 98.5% of subjects to receive study drug within 5 days of enrolment

        2. Recruitment of 30 participants within 4 months

        3. Complete follow-up in at least 90% of subjects For secondary aims, continuous outcomes,
           mean differences and 95% CIs will be estimated using analysis of covariance. For binary
           outcomes risk ratios and risk differences and their 95% CIs will be estimated using
           binomial regression. For time-to-event outcomes and rates, hazard ratios will be
           estimated using Cox proportional hazards or negative binomial regression models as
           appropriate.

      The investigator(s)/institution(s) will permit study-related monitoring, audits and/or IRB
      review and regulatory inspection(s), providing direct access to source data/document.

      All data will be monitored and reviewed by the PI or Co-investigators. Training will be given
      to the research coordinator and entry of data from the case report forms for analysis will be
      verified by a second person from the study team.

      If successful, the results will inform clinical practice guidelines, result in better patient
      and clinical outcomes, reduce burden on the health care system, and change health-related
      policy. For example, all forms of intravenous iron therapy are currently not subsidized by
      the Singapore government which is in stark contrast with allogenic blood transfusion, which
      is subsidised and readily available at a substantially reduced rate to participants. Hence,
      it will cost the participants more out of pocket to be treated with intravenous iron than to
      have allogenic blood transfusion. Incorporating a preoperative anemia correction protocol in
      the current surgical pathway is a potential strategy to combat healthcare cost inflation and
      the increasing demand for blood products.
    
  