
    
      This study is a single-site, randomized, double-blind, two group trial assessing the PK,
      safety and efficacy of WR 279,396 Topical Cream and Paromomycin Topical Cream in subjects
      with CL. Subjects will be screened over a period up to 28 days for eligibility including
      parasitology for confirmation of ulcerative CL. Subjects will be randomized in a targeted 1:1
      ratio to receive either WR 279,396 (15% paromomycin + 0.5% gentamicin topical cream) (target
      n=15) or Paromomycin Topical Cream (15% paromomycin topical cream) (target n=15) by topical
      application to CL lesions once daily for 20 days. Because the primary objective of this trial
      is to determine PK in all age groups, subjects will be stratified by age: 5-11 yrs, 12-17
      yrs, and ≥ 18 yrs with at least 6 PK subjects in each age stratum and no more than 18 total
      subjects will be randomized in any age range. A target of 30 subjects who complete the PK
      part of the study is the goal. Any subject who does not complete the PK portion of the study
      will be replaced with another subject from the same age group that will be given the same
      treatment assignment to maintain the balance. Safety will be assessed by monitoring adverse
      events (AEs), lesion site reactions, vital signs, and blood creatinine levels. The primary
      efficacy analysis will be by evaluation of an index lesion with secondary efficacy analyses
      including all lesions. Lesions will also be examined for parasite negativity by classical
      means (positive culture for promastigotes or microscopic identification of amastigotes in
      stained lesion tissue) on Day 21.

      In adult subjects, on Days 1 and 20, blood will be collected prior to topical cream
      application and at 0.5h, 1h, 2h, 3h, and 4h ± 5 minutes and 8h, 12h, and 24h ± 15 minutes
      after completion of cream application to determine plasma levels of paromomycin and
      gentamicin to calculate PK parameters. Thus, the last blood draw in this series will occur on
      Day 21. In addition, blood will be collected on Days 4, 7, 12, and 17 ± 1 day before study
      drug application to examine trough plasma levels of paromomycin and gentamicin. A follow-up
      plasma sample for PK analysis will also be obtained on Day 28 ± 2 days.

      Subjects under the age of 18 years will have a total of four blood samples drawn. The first
      will be drawn at pre-application and the second will be drawn at 4 hours ± 5 minutes after
      completion of application of the topical cream on Study Day 1. The third will be drawn
      pre-application and the fourth at 4 hours ± 5 minutes after completion of application of the
      topical cream on Study Day 20. Subjects who receive Paromomycin Topical Cream are not
      expected to have blood levels of gentamicin, but as the study is blinded, plasma specimens
      will be tested for both paromomycin and gentamicin.

      The index lesion (primary ulcerated) and all other ulcerated lesions will be assessed for
      clinical response by measurement of the length and width of area of ulceration. A lesion will
      be considered to be completely cured if 100% re-epithelialization is observed (i.e., this is
      a measurement of ulceration of 0 x 0 mm). Non-ulcerated lesions will also be measured to
      monitor the total area of exposure of lesions to study drug and will be evaluated for cure
      (i.e., absence of signs of an active lesion).

      Subjects will have an in-clinic follow-up weekly (Days 28, 35, 42, 49, 56, and 63 ± 2 days)
      after completion of treatment for safety assessments, lesion measurements, and lesion
      photographs. On Day 21, index lesions in adult subjects that have not completely
      re-epithelialized will be assessed for parasites by classical means (positive culture for
      promastigotes or microscopic identification of amastigotes in stained lesion tissue). An
      interim analysis of all of the data collected on all subjects who were randomized and
      completed the nominal Day 63 follow-up will be performed to make decisions about the final
      design of a Phase 3 trial. Subjects will continue to be followed for outcomes at Day 100 and
      168 ± 14 days. A final analysis of outcomes after the longer term followup period has been
      completed for all subjects will be performed when the trial is closed. Follow-up evaluations
      include AEs, medication use, lesion measurements, and lesion photographs.

      Patients who fail therapy (see definition of failure below) may be administered rescue
      therapy at the discretion of the patient's personal physician.
    
  