
    
      The advent of therapeutic hypothermia has improved outcomes for babies born with
      hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy. However, the risk of death, seizures, cerebral palsy or
      intellectual impairment remains significant, especially among the most severely affected
      infants. Prevention remains a promising strategy to reduce the incidence of complications
      arising from hypoxic-ischaemic neonatal encephalopathy.

      Excessive uterine activity may be one of several aetiological factors that contribute to
      depressed neurological function in the newborn. During labour, uterine contractions can
      compress the fetal cranium at pressures high enough to impair cerebral perfusion. Contraction
      rates greater than 7 in 15 minutes are associated with an increased risk of neonatal
      encephalopathy.

      The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists defines uterine tachysystole as more
      than 5 contractions in 10 minutes, averaged over a 30-minute window. By this definition,
      excessive uterine activity is common and, at best, a non-specific predictor of depressed
      neurological function in the newborn. There is a need for predictors of neonatal
      encephalopathy that are more specific and clinically applicable.

      Contraction and relaxation duration are two measures that closely reflect the proposed role
      of excessive uterine activity in the pathogenesis of neonatal encephalopathy. Prolonged
      contractions with short relaxation periods result in progressive reductions in fetal cerebral
      oxygenation. Shorter uterine contraction periods are associated with an increased risk of low
      umbilical cord pH values.

      Our primary aim is to measure parameters of uterine activity, for example relaxation and
      contraction duration, and determine their relationship with the risk of neonatal
      encephalopathy. We will also investigate how measures of uterine activity interact with other
      measures of labour and fetal well-being, including cervical dilation rates and fetal heart
      rate patterns. In babies with neonatal encephalopathy, we will investigate the relationship
      of uterine activity with electrophysiological, radiological and developmental outcomes.

      We will perform a retrospective case-control study of babies born in the Rotunda hospital
      from 2005 until the present. Cases and controls must be over 35 weeks gestational age and
      have at least 15 minutes of Cardiotocograph (CTG) recording from labour available for
      analysis. Cases will be babies with moderate or severe neonatal encephalopathy of apparent
      hypoxic-ischemic aetiology. Controls will be the first healthy babies born before and after
      the cases to satisfy the study criteria. Controls will be matched for parity.

      The assessor of the CTG recordings will be blind to the disease status of the infants. For
      each recording, every uterine contraction and rest interval will be measured. Summary
      variables created from these measures will be used to compare the case and control groups.
      The primary variable will be mean rest interval duration.

      For further detail please see the study protocol.
    
  