
    
      The JAK/STAT signaling pathway transmits information from extracellular chemical signals to
      the nucleus resulting in DNA transcription. Binding of ligands, such as interferon and
      interleukins, to their specific transmembrane receptors activate associated JAKs.
      Phosphorylation of STAT follows, and the phosphorylated STAT translocates to the cell nucleus
      and activates transcription or suppression of target genes .

      The JAK family of non-receptor intracellular tyrosine kinases is comprised of four members,
      JAK1, JAK2, JAK3 and tyrosine kinase (TyK)2. The JAKs are selectively activated by different
      receptors and have, therefore, distinct in vivo roles. JAK1 is mainly activated by type II
      cytokine receptors. JAK2 is crucial in transducing signals for cytokine receptors involved in
      hematopoiesis (erythropoietin, thrombopoietin and haematopoietic cell development cytokines).
      JAK3 is mainly expressed in B and T lymphocytes, and TYK2 associates commonly with other
      JAKs.

      Cutaneous JAK overexpression has already been demonstrated in a number of inflammatory skin
      diseases (ISDs) including psoriasis, lichen planus (LP), atopic dermatitis (AD), pyoderma
      gangrenosum (PG) and alopecia areata (AA); indicating its crucial role in inflammatory
      keratinocytes.

      Furthermore, the recent discovery of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway opened a new window of
      opportunity for the treatment of ISDs and promoted the development of drugs that block JAK
      activation.

      JAK inhibitors in oral and topical formulations have shown beneficial results in psoriasis
      and alopecia areata. Patients suffering from vitiligo might also benefit from JAK inhibition.
      Recently, significant repigmentation was reported in a patient with vitiligo after treatment
      with tofacitinib, an oral JAK 1/3 inhibitor . However, the knowledge of the cutaneous JAK
      involvement in vitiligo is scarce. Similarly, little is known about cutaneous JAK expression
      in acne vulgaris.

      Considering the previous findings, there is a need for further elucidation of the JAK
      signaling in other skin diseases as vitiligo and acne vulgaris.
    
  