
    
      This is an open-label, non-randomized, 2-arm, 2-period fixed-sequence drug-drug interaction
      study in a total of 36 (18 in each arm) male and female healthy volunteers.

      The study consists of: Screening, Period 1 (substrates only), Period 2 (substrates +
      nitisinone) and Follow-up. In the screening period, subjects will be assessed for
      eligibility. Eligible subjects will be assigned to one of two treatment arms. In Arm A, the
      potential inhibition of nitisinone on CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP2E1 will be investigated. In Arm
      B, the possible combined effect of nitisinone on the renal transporters OAT1 and OAT3 will be
      investigated.

      In Period 1, the subjects will receive a single dose of a CYP cocktail of 3 substrates (Arm
      A) or an OAT1/OAT3 substrate (Arm B). Substrate plasma concentrations will be measured for
      determination of substrate PK; for up to 48 hours in Arm A and for 8 hours in Arm B.

      During Period 2, the treatment and assessments will vary slightly between the 2 treatment
      arms. Nitisinone will be administered for 14 days, without co-administration of any
      substrate, in order to reach steady state and the recommended target plasma concentration,
      before the interaction with the substrates is studied.

      In Arm A, Period 2, subjects will receive nitisinone for 16 consecutive days (14 days on
      nitisinone only and two days on nitisinone + substrate). Nitisinone steady state PK will be
      determined based on plasma and urine samples collected during one dosage interval at steady
      state, on the day before co-administration of the substrates. Nitisinone will then be
      administered together with the CYP substrates, and plasma samples for determination of their
      PK will be collected as in Period 1. There will be a final nitisinone dose on the day after
      substrate administration in order to maintain therapeutic levels throughout the 48-hour
      sampling period.

      In Arm B, Period 2, subjects will receive nitisinone for 15 consecutive days (14 days on
      nitisinone only and one day on nitisinone + substrate). No nitisinone steady state PK
      characterization will be conducted in this arm. On the last treatment day, the subjects will
      receive nitisinone together with the OAT1/OAT3 substrate. This will be followed by 8 hours of
      blood sampling for determination of substrate PK.
    
  