
    
      Background:

        -  Pazopanib is a potent, multi-targeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor of VEGFR-1,
           VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3, PDGFR-alpha, PDGFR-beta, and c-kit with the potential to inhibit
           angiogenesis, lymphangiogenesis, and tumor growth that may have an advantage over agents
           with a narrower kinase specificity profile.

        -  Pazopanib has shown activity in renal cell cancer with tumor shrinkage and stable
           disease; Phase I, II, and III trials as single therapy and in combination with lapatinib
           are ongoing or planned in patients with various solid tumors.

        -  Pazopanib appears to be well tolerated at doses from 50 mg three times weekly to 2000 mg
           daily; the most common adverse events are hypertension, diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, and
           hair depigmentation.

      Objectives:

        -  To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of
           pazopanib in groups of patients with varying degrees of hepatic dysfunction (mild,
           moderate, and severe) in order to provide appropriate dosing recommendations for
           pazopanib in such patients.

        -  To characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) profiles of pazopanib
           and metabolites (GSK1071306, GSK1268992, GSK1268997, and GW700201) in patients with
           varying degrees of hepatic dysfunction.

        -  To document the non-DLTs associated with administration of pazopanib in patients with
           hepatic dysfunction.

        -  To explore correlations of the Child-Pugh classification of hepatic dysfunction with the
           observed toxicities, plasma PK, and PD of pazopanib administration.

        -  To document any antitumor activity associated with pazopanib treatment of patients
           enrolled on this study.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adult patients must have histologically or cytologically confirmed solid tumor or
           lymphoma that is metastatic or unresectable and for which standard curative or
           palliative measures do not exist or are no longer effective.

        -  Patients must have adequate renal and bone marrow function.

      Study Design:

        -  Patients will be stratified into four cohorts according to their hepatic function.

        -  Pazopanib will be administered orally once daily on days 1-21 of a 21-day cycle.

        -  Blood samples for PK will be collected from all patients.

        -  A minimum of 2 and a maximum of 12 patients will be accrued in each liver dysfunction
           group at each dose, with 12 patients entered at the recommended dose level in each
           group. At least 12 patients will be accrued in the normal liver function group. The
           estimated maximum accrual is 132 patients, including all centers.
    
  