
    
      Carotid artery stenosis is a well-known cause of atheroembolic stroke. Stroke prevention in
      these patients has been the focus of intense investigation. Cognitive impairment is a more
      insidious but poorly understood outcome in patients with "asymptomatic" carotid stenosis who
      have not suffered a stroke. Cognitive function describes how a person produces and controls
      mental processes such as thinking, learning, and problem solving. It is an important outcome
      measure that affects patient well-being and their ability to live independent productive
      lies. It is well-known that cognitive impairment coexists in patients with stroke from
      carotid stenosis. However, isolated cognitive deficits in patients with asymptomatic carotid
      stenosis have not been looked for, and have therefore not been reported in any detail.
      Asymptomatic carotid stenosis affects 2-12% of people. With 23.4 million Veterans in the
      country, at least 1 million (4.3%) have asymptomatic carotid stenosis and are at risk for
      cognitive impairment. A subset analysis of the Cardiovascular Health Study found cognitive
      decline in 34% of 32 patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis. In this proposal, the
      investigators will define the extent of initial and progressive cognitive impairment in
      Veterans with carotid stenosis who are currently labeled as "asymptomatic" in the absence of
      a focal neurologic deficit (stroke, transient ischemic attack). Programs to prevent,
      postpone, or mitigate cognitive impairment in patients with carotid stenosis will depend on
      the identification of mediators for cognitive impairment. Microembolic brain injury and
      cerebral hypoperfusion have been associated with cognitive impairment in elderly individuals.

      Therefore plaque architecture, plaque composition, microembolic counts, serum inflammatory
      markers, and cerebral hypoperfusion are likely mediators of impaired cognition in patients
      with asymptomatic carotid stenosis. As part of this proposal, the investigators will identify
      the biological mechanisms by which carotid stenosis could result in cognitive impairment.

      The goal of this proposal is to perform a systematic, adequately powered study to measure the
      magnitude of cognitive impairment in asymptomatic carotid stenosis, its impact on quality of
      life, and its potential pathophysiological mechanisms. Information from this study will
      define an unsuspected morbidity of carotid stenosis and identify subsets of patients at risk
      for cognitive impairment. It will form the foundation for future studies on prevention,
      pre-emptive treatment, or rehabilitation of patients with carotid stenosis. It will also
      improve the selection of patients with carotid stenosis to decrease unnecessary
      revascularization procedures.

      Specific Aim 1 will assess if patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis differ in cognitive
      function compared to age-matched controls without carotid stenosis but with similar vascular
      risk profiles. The investigators hypothesize that in patients with asymptomatic carotid
      stenosis 50% who survive stroke free for 2 years; the change in overall and domain-specific
      cognitive function will be significantly different compared to those without stenosis. The
      study will recruit 284 subjects and will detect a clinically significant difference in
      cognitive score with 90% power. The investigators will use a novel battery of cognitive tests
      specifically developed to address the unique issues relating to carotid stenosis.

      Specific Aim 2 will define plaque-morphometric, biologic, and hemodynamic characteristics
      that correlate with cognitive impairment in patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis. The
      investigators hypothesize that carotid plaque architecture, plaque composition, microembolic
      counts, serum pro-inflammatory markers, and cerebral hypoperfusion could each mediate
      cognitive decline over a 2-year follow-up period. The investigators will implement a novel
      clinical 3D B-mode ultrasound imaging technique developed to obtain reliable serial plaque
      measurements.

      Specific Aim 3 will measure the impact of cognitive impairment on quality of life. The
      investigators hypothesize that at 2 years, regardless of plaque features, cognitive
      impairment will correlate with a reduction in health-related quality of life measures.
    
  