
    
      This work represents a part of a larger collaborative prospective study called PariS-TBI
      (Severe Traumatic Brain Injury in the Parisian area) financed by the French National
      Authority for Health. The Paris-TBI study was undertaken in 2004, to provide epidemiological
      data. Patients aged 15 or more were included if they had sustained a severe TBI in the
      Parisian area during a 20-months period (2005-2007), defined by an initial Coma Glasgow Score
      (GCS) of 8 or less. Data from patients' demographics, injury characteristics, acute and post
      acute phase were collected prospectively. A total of 504 patients were included, of which 257
      were alive at the time of this study. Patients (n = 134) were evaluated through a phone
      interview at one year post traumatism, and had a face-to-face evaluation at four years
      post-injury (n = 147).

      Investigations of the present work will be undertaken at eight years after the injury.
      Patients of the initial cohort will be contacted through post and phone call. Information
      about this follow up study will be given orally and through written form. Informed consent of
      patient or legal advisor will be obtained before setting an appointment for the evaluation.

      Evaluation will take place either in the patient's place of living, or in a clinical setting
      in the hospitals Broussais, Paris, France or Raymond Poincaré, Garches, France, according to
      the patient's choice.

      A trained neuropsychologist will lead the evaluations, during an interview with the patient
      and the informal caregiver, defined as the person (family member or friend), most responsible
      for day-to-day decision making and care for the patient. If a patient cannot attend the
      interview, a short questionnaire will be proposed to him by the neuropsychologist by phone.

      Demographic and pre-traumatism clinical data will be available from the initial study, as
      well as data on type and severity of traumatism, and on evolution during acute care. Data
      from the one-year and the four-year assessments will be available.

      Data assessed through the present study will include an evaluation of deficiencies: presence
      of somatic deficiencies, mood difficulties (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Score), cognitive
      deficiencies (Dysexecutive Questionnaire, questionnaire of complaints, filled in both by the
      patient himself and by his proxy). Neuropsychological testing will include the California
      Verbal Learning Test, Trail Making Test, the WAIS-IV Processing Speed Index, and the
      6-Elements Test.

      Activities will be evaluated by the Glasgow Outcome Scale-Extended, and specifically through
      questions addressing driving ability, and ability to perform instrumental activities.

      Professional activity and change, and quality of life at work will be assessed through a
      standardized questionnaire.

      Data on patients' clinical care and services will be collected, including medical care,
      therapies, home assistance, socio-vocational assistance. Unmet need of services and barriers
      to care access will be assessed through a standardized questionnaire.

      Data on the quality of life of the informal caregiver and an evaluation of the burden of care
      will be collected, using the ZARIT questionnaire. Data on economical consequences of the
      injury on the patient, and on his care provider will be collected.

      The exploitation of this large database will enable an up-to-date description of the long
      term outcomes of severe TBI patients in the Parisian area. It will be used to clarify the
      role of several factors on long term activities and participations and on informal care
      burden.

      The comparison with the previous evaluations will allow evaluation of late evolution and of
      its determinants.
    
  