
    
      Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a chronic, disabling functional gastrointestinal disorder
      that is characterized by abdominal pain or discomfort and a disturbance in bowel habit.
      Approximately five million Canadians currently suffer with this chronic illness, which can
      have a significant impact on work and school absenteeism, productivity, social functioning
      and quality of life (Fedorak et al., 2012). Although the etiology of IBS is still unclear,
      there is increased interest in the role of the gut-brain axis in the development and
      maintenance of IBS. A growing body of evidence has identified changes in the composition,
      temporal stability and metabolic activity of the gut microbiome in IBS (Bolino & Bercik,
      2010). Moreover, there is evidence for bidirectional communication between the gut and the
      brain, such that the gut microbiota appear to influence as well as be modulated by brain
      activity through neurohumoral mechanisms (Collins, Surette, & Bercik, 2012).

      Currently, medications are the most widely used treatment for IBS (Ford et al., 2009; Ford et
      al., 2014). Although there is good evidence for the effectiveness of medications in reducing
      IBS symptomatology and improving quality of life, these medications are also often associated
      with unpleasant side effects. As a result, there is a growing interest in the utilization of
      psychological treatments, including cognitive behaviour therapy, for IBS. Cognitive behaviour
      therapy is a psychotherapeutic approach that addresses maladaptive cognitive processes and
      behaviours in a systematic, explicit fashion. Although there is good evidence for the
      effectiveness of cognitive behaviour therapy for the treatment of IBS (Ford et al., 2009;
      Ford et al., 2014), there is a lack of research examining the mechanisms through which
      cognitive behaviour therapy influences symptoms of IBS.

      Accordingly, the current study has three aims: 1) to evaluate the effectiveness of group
      cognitive behaviour therapy for IBS on IBS symptomatology and quality of life; 2) to examine
      whether there are any changes in the gut microbiome from pre to posttreatment; and 3) to
      examine whether changes in the gut microbiome following cognitive behaviour therapy mediate
      changes in IBS symptomatology and quality of life. The current study has the potential of
      increasing knowledge about the role of the gut microbiome in IBS as well as the mechanisms of
      cognitive behaviour therapy for IBS.
    
  