
    
      This clinical trial investigates the safety and the preliminary clinical benefit of the
      hemiverse shoulder prosthesis. Implantation of this newly developed hemi-prosthesis is
      intended for patients who do not qualify for a regular reverse or hemi-prosthesis due to
      severe medical conditions, poor bone stock or critical status of the rotator cuff.

      To evaluate the clinical condition of the patient a clinical examination including evaluation
      of the

        -  Constant-Murley score,

        -  Subject shoulder value and

        -  visual analogue scale are performed before inclusion and during the regular follow-ups.
           To evaluate the bone stock and the musculature a conventional radiological status and a
           computed tomography of the shoulder will be performed.

      Surgical procedure:

      A delto-pectoral approach is preferred. The incision starts immediately lateral to the
      coracoid tip and extends to the insertion of the deltoid on the Humerus. The subscapularis
      tendon is exposed and detached from the humerus. The humeral head is exposed and dislocated
      from the joint using an oscillating saw the humeral head is resected. The shaft is prepared
      to receive a regular humeral stem which is definitely implanted with 0° retroversion. A trial
      implant is inserted and reduced into the joint. Free mobility of the joint is tested and the
      stability of the implant documented. According to the trial implants the definite implant is
      assembled and implanted. After reduction of the implant the subscapularis tendon is
      reattached to the humerus using transosseous sutures. Regular closure of the incision is
      performed.

      After-care:

      Immediately post operatively a anteroposterior radiograph is performed. For the first two
      post-operative weeks the arm is immobilised in a sling and external rotation is allowed until
      0° and flexion until 90° in internal rotation. Thereafter gradual increase of active mobility
      is allowed until the weeks post operatively, when full load bearing of the arm is allowed.
      Regular follow-up visits include evaluation of the Constant-Murley score, Subject shoulder
      value and visual analogue scale. Additionally conventional radiographic status
      (anteroposterior lateral and axillary view) are performed post-operatively on day 1 or 2,
      week 6, 4.5 months, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years.
    
  