
    
      Each subject will receive 1 mg/kg/day of inhaled Ambisome® for four days prior to the BAL
      (bronchoalveolar lavage) procedure. The dosage of 1 mg/kg was calculated by extrapolating the
      dosage of 1.6 mg/kg for the surface area of the rat lung to the human lung surface area in a
      60 kg individual.

      All four doses will be given in the presence of a physician and/or study coordinator. The
      forty eight subjects will be randomized such that six subjects undergo the BAL at 1, 12, 24,
      48, 72, 96, 120, and 168 hours after the last dose of inhaled Liposomal amphotericin B
      (AmBisome®).

      A blood sample (5 ml) will be obtained prior to the fourth dose of study medication and on
      the day of bronchoscopy (pseudo steady state trough). Concentrations of amphotericin in the
      serum, and bronchoalveolar lavage will be measured at pre-specified intervals after
      administration of liposomal amphotericin B (AmBisome®) in lung transplant recipients
      undergoing routine bronchoscopy as mentioned earlier.

      A 5 ml blood sample will be recovered at the time of bronchoscopy for the purpose of
      determination of serum amphotericin B concentration and for the determination of serum urea
      concentration.

      The bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage of subjects is done as a part of routine
      transplant care. Subjects will be followed for the follow-up of results of bronchoscopy at
      the interval deemed necessary by their transplant pulmonologist. The samples (blood and
      bronchoalveolar samples) will be under the control of the principal investigator of this
      research project. To protect confidentiality, all personal identifiers (i.e., name, social
      security number, and birth date) will be removed (de-identified) and replaced with a specific
      code number. The information linking these code numbers to the corresponding subjects'
      identities will be kept in a separate, secure location (ID lab at 8th floor Scaife Hall). The
      investigators on this study will keep the samples indefinitely. Samples may be given to
      investigators outside of UPMC or may be utilized in future studies about infectious diseases.
      If the samples are given to investigators not associated with this study, the samples will be
      provided without any identifiers. No genetic testing will be done on the samples obtained.
    
  