
    
      Is subxiphoid route VATS surgery better than Intercostal VATS surgery for lung cancer?

      Video assisted thoracoscopic surgery for lung cancer (VATS) is less traumatic than
      traditional open surgery for lung cancer. A novel uniportal VATS technique involving a
      subxiphoid route for thoracic surgery has been occured. It is reported that subxiphoid route
      VATS surgery is better than Intercostal VATS surgery in post-operative pain and quality of
      life, but this has never been documented in a randomized trial. Some surgeons hesitate to use
      subxiphoid VATS because it is technically more demanding, others question if the two methods
      are oncologically equal. Regardless, VATS has been implemented as a routine method for lung
      cancer surgery several places around the world, while Shanghai pulmonary Hospital is one of
      the best to perform subxiphoid VATS. The investigators have launched the first randomized
      controlled trial in the world comparing the two surgical methods to investigate any
      differences in length of hospitalization, postoperative pain, life quality within the first
      year.

      The investigators include patients with stage I lung cancer, and randomize between subxiphoid
      VATS and Intercostal VATS in a design where both the patient and doctors doing general rounds
      in the ward are blinded until discharge because the dressing on the surgical wound is
      identical, regardless of the surgical method. The surgeon cannot influence clinical decisions
      including time to discharge, which is decided by other specialist surgeons. Pain evaluation
      is performed 1 time daily and followed 6 months using the VAS-score, life quality is
      evaluated continuously during the first 6 months using SF-MPQ-2 questionnaires.

      200 patients will be asked to participate in each study at shanghai pulmonary Hospital,china
      in collaboration with surgeons from department of thoracic surgery.
    
  