
    
      Intervention Description:

      The pre-operative CT scan will be reviewed by the surgeon with the radiologist to determine
      if the nodule can be excised using thoracoscopic staple wedge techniques. After informed
      consent, the patient will be seen by an anesthesiologist to determine risks and benefits of a
      general anesthetic. The patient will initially come to the CT scanner suite in the radiology
      department. The CT guided percutaneous microcoil nodule localization procedure, will be
      performed consciously under local anaesthesia Using sterile technique and local anesthetic, a
      biopsy needle (22 gauge) pre-loaded with an 6 cm long platinum microcoil will be placed 10mm
      deep to the suspicious pulmonary nodule using CT guidance. The coil will be deployed such
      that one end will be adjacent to the nodule and the other end will lie free on the: lung
      surface. The patient will be transferred to the Laurel OR where they will be placed under
      general anesthesia with a double lumen endotracheal tube in order to allow collapse of the
      involved lung during the thoracoscopic excision of the marked lung nodule. The patient's
      blood pressures, oxygen levels, pulse and ECG will be monitored. The thoracoscopic excision
      of the nodule will be performed using the microcoil as a localizing device. Using the
      preoperative CT scan, the study surgeon will mark the insertion sites for thoracoscopic
      instruments. Instruments for video-assisted thoracoscopy include a rigid 5 mm thoracoscope, a
      light source, a video-camera and monitor, and 5 mm grasping forceps. The patient will be
      draped. A 5mm thoracoscopic port is inserted into the thorax percutaneously and the lung is
      examined with the thoracoscope. The nodule location will be identified by the end of the
      microcoil that sits on the surface of the lung. A second 5 mm port is put in place and the
      end of the microcoil grasped under thoracoscopic visualization. Multiple endoscopic are
      placed via a third 12mm port and the nodule and coil are completely excised under
      fluoroscopic guidance. The resected nodule is placed in an endoscopic bag and brought out
      through the large port site. If the lesion cannot be excised by the VATS technique the
      patient will undergo an open rib spreading thoracotomy for excision of the marked nodule. The
      indications for thoracotomy at this time are:poor visualization of the lung, pleural
      symphysis with scarring, uncontrollable bleeding or inability to completely resect the lesion
      with the thoracoscopic endostapler.

      The specimen is sent for frozen section pathological examination. If the lesion is benign the
      thoracic cavity is irrigated with saline and a small chest tube is put in place and attached
      to under water drainage. The incisions are then closed and the lung is re-expanded. The
      patient is then transported to the post-anesthetic room similar to other patients undergoing
      general anesthesia. If the lesion is a non-small cell cancer of the lung the patient may
      undergo a sampling of lymph nodes at that time followed by formal lobectomy. If the patient
      has inadequate pulmonary function to tolerate a lobectomy and the lesion has been completely
      excised the surgeon may choose to stop the operation at that time and follow the patient.
    
  