
    
      Introduction:

      The goal of a usability evaluation is to assess the degree to which a system is effective,
      efficient and favours positive attitudes and responses from the intended users. Exergames in
      particular present unique usability challenges. Because games are fundamentally different
      than general productivity tools, traditional usability instruments valid for productivity
      applications may fall short when used for serious games.

      Additionally, serious games target audiences may not play games regularly; usability issues
      alone can hinder the game play process negatively affecting the learning experience. For this
      reason, user-based evaluation for exergames with adequate test user group is very important
      to ensure that heterogeneous population will be able to interact easily with innovative
      applications.

      Exergames:

      Exergames are defined as: ''Any number of types of video games that require the game player
      to physically move in order to play''.

      The important aspect, in comparison to a normal videogame, is that the player uses full body
      movements to control on-screen action and is required to expend a significantly greater
      amount of energy compared with resting levels.

      One of the areas that have received attention of video game researchers is that of
      therapeutic sessions. When exergames were used with elderly people for therapeutic sessions,
      it showed that special needs have to be considered.

      The GameUp project:

      For this reason the project GameUp was started. On their Website the project consortium
      state: "We will use IT technologies to promote mobility by encouraging elderly persons to be
      more physical active and motivating them to move more by increasing their self-efficacy". In
      this context exergames for elderly people were designed for Kinect® for windows. Kinect®
      observes all the body movements from the game player, so that they can operate the game with
      their body movements. In this context the game player is forced to move his body frequently
      in a way that increases his agility.

      Therapist's view:

      How do physiotherapists view the arrival of exergames in therapy rehabilitation setting,
      especially exergames for elderly people? Studies that focus on the therapist's view are
      really rare. One reference came to the conclusion that: "Video games should not be seen as a
      replacement of a therapist. The presence of the therapist will always be necessary for these
      patients to ensure that they play the game in the correct seating position, to provide mental
      support and social interaction during game play." But how do therapists view the use from
      exergames which patients could do by themselves as self-training during rehabilitation or at
      home? The same reference argues: "The therapist is paramount in introducing games or virtual
      rehabilitation to end-users; if he will not adopt the tool in his practice, neither will the
      patients."

      Purpose of the Study:

      The aim of this study is to evaluate, if elderly people accept exergames as self-training
      method and if this exergame is user-friendly for elderly people and physiotherapists. An
      additionally goal is to examine how physiotherapists evaluate the therapeutic benefit from
      this exergame.

      Research Question:

      Are exergames useable and accepted for self-training for elderly people, by themselves as
      well as by physiotherapists?

      Design of the user trial:

      This study is a usability design with qualitative and quantitative aspects. In one part, with
      patients, physical strain and designs facets will be investigated and in another part with
      physiotherapists, the therapeutic relevance and design features will be explored. Ideally the
      attributes required to make the product usable should be specified and measured
      quantitatively against predefined goals.

      Number of users needed:

      How many users are needed for a usability study is a controversial subject in the literature.
      One main point is that: "The test users should ideally reflect the serious game's target
      audience in terms of age, gender, education and any other demographic characteristics". In an
      other study is mentioned two other important aspects: It seems that serious usability
      problems were only found with the 13th and 15th participant. Furthermore for a usability
      test, it is the aim to find a study design that uncovers usability problems at the lowest
      cost.

      In consideration of these arguments this study protocol will include 13-15 participants with
      different mobility levels. As the mobility level is the most important demographic character,
      it should be reflected by the user group.

      For the physiotherapist the most important demographic character is their experience with
      exergames, so for this reason 13-15 physiotherapists with different experiences with
      exergames will be tested.

      Measurements:

      Heart Rate (HR):

      Heart rate is an indicator of cardiovascular strain and provides an objective measure of
      physical work load. HR of the elderly user will be measured before playing the game, directly
      after finishing the game and after two minutes break.

      The predefined usability criterion is: The mean HR of 80% of elderly users will be below 110
      beats per minute. Previous studies have specified that heart rate between 90 and 110
      indicates moderate cardiovascular strain.

      Rate of Perceived Exertion (RPE):

      Borg's RPE-Scale is a standardized, reliable and valid tool to describe the perception of
      exertion. Elderly users will be presented the Borg's 15-graded RPE scale immediately after
      completion of the task and will be asked to rate their perceived exertion.

      The predefined usability criterion is: The RPE-score of 80% of elderly users will be below
      14. This is based on previous studies where scores of more than 13 RPE have been associated
      with an increased relative risk for musculoskeletal symptoms.

      Body Part Discomfort Scale (BPD Scale):

      The Body Part Discomfort Scale has become a standard discomfort assessment tool in ergonomics
      research. Elderly users will be presented with a body map at the beginning and immediately
      after completion of the user trial.

      The predefined usability criterion is: BPD Scale reports of 80% of the elderly users will be
      below 4. This is based on previous studies where moderate discomfort levels for any body part
      were selected as a threshold where redesign should be considered.

      Task Analysis:

      The Perceive, Recall Plan and Perform System (PRPP) is a process-oriented assessment that
      employs task analysis methods to determine problems with task performance. For this usability
      study a task analysis will be done during an elderly user or a physiotherapist is playing the
      game. The major task steps will be analysed to identify where the users struggles with the
      game design.

      The predefined usability criterion for elderly user is: 80% of the elderly users can perform
      60% of the needed steps without assistance.

      The predefined usability criterion for the physiotherapists is: 80% of the physiotherapist
      can perform 80% of the needed steps without assistance.

      User Questionnaire:

      Furthermore to the objective measurements the users will be asked questions about their
      feelings and opinions about the game. Especially the physiotherapists will be asked if they
      see a positive therapeutic aspect and if they could imagine giving patients exergames as
      self-training exercises. This will be done with a questionnaire that includes open questions
      and five-point Likert scale questions. This is based on publications where it is considered
      important that the user has a positive attitude towards the product, to ensure regular and
      widespread use.

      Data analyses:

      Quantitative data will be collected to review the predefined usability criteria as specified
      above, using simple descriptive statistics. As sampling will be selective rather than random
      and the sample size will be small, statistical calculations will most likely be restricted to
      using median values and ranges. The median is used when no normal distribution of the data is
      expected and is considered a more robust value since it is not influenced by extremes.

      Qualitative data will be presented as a written summary of the open questions from the
      questionnaires.
    
  