
    
      Of the 100 subjects who will participate in this study, 50 will be in the extensive treatment
      group and 50 will be in the standard care group. Subjects in the extensive treatment group
      will use Doxycycline capsule, 100 mg, taken twice daily, sunscreen SPF 30 or higher,
      moisturizer applied to the face, hands, feet, neck, back, and chest each morning after
      sunscreen, hydrocortisone 1% cream applied to the face, hands, feet, neck, back, and chest
      each evening.

      Subjects will start taking the capsule and applying the creams three days prior to beginning
      cetuximab therapy. They will continue this regimen of taking the capsule and applying the
      creams for 8 weeks. If they develop severe skin rash as a result of cetuximab therapy, the
      study doctor may decide to reduce the amount of the dose of cetuximab that they receive or
      prescribe other medicines according to standard treatment recommendations, just as he/she
      would if the subject was not participating in this study. Subjects will be monitored at
      enrollment, 3 weeks into cetuximab treatment and at the end of cetuximab treatment for
      adherence, side effects and quality of life.

      The standard care group will not receive preventive treatment, but they will be allowed to
      use sunscreen and moisturizer if desired. They, too, will be monitored at enrollment, 3 weeks
      into cetuximab treatment and at the end of cetuximab treatment for adherence, side effects
      and quality of life.

      If a subject is assigned to this group and they develop a severe skin rash, the study doctor
      will treat their rash according to standard treatment recommendations, which may include
      Hydrocortisone 1% cream, Doxycycline capsules or other medications.

      There will be a follow-Up period for both extensive treatment and standard care groups. At 6
      months, 12 months, 18 months and 24 months, after the end of the subject's 8 week study
      treatment period, they will be contacted by telephone or discussed during their routine
      clinic visit.
    
  