
    
      In large number of elderly patients aged between 50 and 75 years, the arterial disease is
      prevalent (1%-7%). It has a significant impact on the quality of life. Pain, fear of limb
      loss, increased inactivity, and poor lifestyle choices which finally ended by disability.
      Disability in turn makes communities and counties carry more efforts and charges.

      The incidence of critical limb ischemia (CLI) is increasing, and diabetic patients are
      especially prone to developing ischemic and neuro-ischemic foot ulcers. Twelve to 25% of
      diabetic patients may develop a foot lesion over time. Diabetic patients often present with
      more extensive tissue loss compared to non-diabetic patients. The importance of
      revascularization of the lower limb in patients with CLI has been well established, and
      expedited revascularization is mandatory once an ischemic foot ulcer is detected.

      Although there is still a role for surgical bypass, over the last several decades the use of
      endovascular techniques has become more frequent. This development has been made possible by
      the evolution of endovascular devices and operator skills. The less-invasive endovascular
      approach is the preferred treatment method, especially in the frail diabetic patient with
      multiple comorbidities. Incisional wound healing in diabetic patients can also be
      problematic. In both open and endovascular revascularization there is a clear difference of
      approach in patients with CLI caused by inflow disease (iliac, femoral, and popliteal
      disease) and those with (additional) infrapopliteal involvement. Whereas in above-the-knee
      disease, it is clear that flow in the stenotic or occluded segment needs to be
      re-established, in below-the-knee (BTK) disease, potentially three vessels can be
      revascularized, and this poses a therapeutic dilemma. Choosing the correct target for
      revascularization can present a critical, complex issue in challenging cases, especially when
      multilevel arterial disease is present. Revascularization can be accomplished by using two
      approaches: "complete" revascularization (one vessel is better than none, two to three
      vessels are better than one) or "wound-related" revascularization. With CLI, the healing of
      an ulcer is blood-flow-dependent and the goal of treatment should be to get the best possible
      blood supply to the foot (direct revascularization). In practice this is not always feasible,
      and in order to guide the choice of which BTK vessel should be revascularized, the angiosome
      concept has been proposed, based on the idea that specific anatomical regions are perfused by
      specific arteriovenous bundles.

      Prostaglandins are potent vasoactive agents with wide variety of other actions -
      vasodilatation, fibrinolysis and inhibition of platelet aggregation. PG infusion therapy may
      show a promising results in patients where such new reconstructive procedures are not
      feasible or failed and also as an adjunctive when there is a residual ischemia after the
      revascularization procedures.
    
  