
    
      Heart failure is a life-threatening condition in which the heart can no longer pump enough
      blood to the rest of the body. It is important for individuals with heart failure to closely
      monitor their symptoms and seek out medical attention when appropriate. Swelling and weight
      gain are common heart failure symptoms that indicate excess fluid buildup in the body and
      worsening heart function. Closely monitoring and responding to these symptoms can be a
      strategic way to prevent heart failure exacerbations. However, many patients ignore symptoms
      and are reluctant to seek care. Specialized monitoring programs can help heart failure
      patients to respond more appropriately to their symptoms.

      Traditionally, heart failure patients living in rural areas have had limited access to formal
      monitoring programs. Fluid Watchers is a program designed to help heart failure patients
      living in rural areas improve self-management of symptoms, specifically excess fluid buildup.
      The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of two versions of Fluid Watchers
      at improving the hospitalization and death rates of individuals with heart failure who live
      in rural areas.

      In this 2-year study, 710 participants will be randomly assigned to either the Fluid Watchers
      LITE program, the Fluid Watchers PLUS program, or a usual care control group. Individuals in
      both Fluid Watchers groups will attend a one-on-one educational session that will include
      heart failure counseling and information on self-monitoring and care-seeking strategies.
      Participants in the PLUS program will receive additional counseling, audio tapes, and
      follow-up telephone calls on a biweekly basis. All participants will record self-monitoring
      adherence and contact with healthcare providers. Outcome measures will be assessed during
      either clinic or home visits at study entry and Months 3, 12, and 24, and will include number
      of emergency department visits, number of physician visits, heart failure severity, and
      quality of life.
    
  