
    
      Introduction：A multi-national research that included data from Taiwan found that chronic
      headache is one of the top two disorders (alongside with chronic low back pain) with the most
      patients having longest years of living with disabilities through year 1999 to 2017. It does
      not only impact a sufferer's ability to work, but also limit one's participation in a variety
      of daily housework, leisure activities, etc. Quality of life is also impacted. According to a
      systematic review on behavioral interventions for migraine, cognitive behavioral therapy
      (CBT) is one of the most common non-pharmacological practices implemented and studied. CBT
      has been found to be effective in reducing the intensity and frequency of headache, compared
      to waitlist controls. Another commonly discussed non-pharmacological treatment for migraine
      is exercise therapy.

      In regard to the controversial findings from therapeutic clinical trials, the unsolved puzzle
      is: why do some show improvements while the others remained unchanged or worse? It is found
      that psychological resilience for pain can be a determining factor in task persistence
      despite the interruption of pain. Pain resilience specifically refers to the cognitive and
      behavioral aspects of an individual when one is trying to deal with pain. In a study
      investigating negative pain beliefs (i.e. fear avoidance and pain catastrophizing) and pain
      outcomes (functional and movement aspects), pain resilience was found to moderate the
      relationship between pain beliefs and pain outcomes. The authors found that only in
      individuals with low level of pain resilience was the negative pain beliefs related to
      greater movement-relate pain. Since pain resilience is such an important capacity/ dynamic
      process in coping with chronic pain, the current study aims at investigating how pain
      resilience can be a moderating factor determining the outcome of pain management in patients
      with migraine.

      Objectives：The primary objective of the current study is to explore the moderation effect of
      pain resilience between initial pain and the treatment outcome of the holistic healthcare
      programs. The investigators hypothesize that participants with higher level of pain
      resilience will show more improvements in the quality of life, less disability (assessed with
      MIDAS), less frequency and lower severity of pain, and higher heart-rate variability after
      training. A secondary finding that can be obtained through the study is the comparison
      between the enhancement of heart rate variability in participants receiving different kinds
      of non-pharmacological therapies.
    
  