
    
      Approximately 600 subjects will be enrolled in the study, of which at least 150 subjects aged
      2-6; at least 140 subjects aged 7-11; at least 120 subjects aged 12-17 and up to 90 subjects
      will be adults. Subjects must have mild-moderate AD involving at least 5% treatable %BSA
      assessed on baseline/Day 1. Treatable %BSA will be defined as the percent of a subject's
      total body surface area that is AD involved, excluding the scalp.

      Eligible subjects will be randomized at the Baseline/Day 1 visit. Randomization will be
      stratified by eligibility for TCS or TCI treatment as per national approved labels. Cohort 1
      will be for subjects who are eligible for TCS therapy, and Cohort 2 will be for subjects who
      are not eligible for TCS therapy but eligible for TCI therapy. The investigational products
      will be applied BID for 28 days to the Treatable body surface area (BSA) identified at
      Baseline/Day 1.

      The primary efficacy endpoint is the percent change from baseline in the Eczema Area and
      Severity Index (EASI) total score at Day 29.

      For the efficacy comparison of crisaborole versus vehicle, subjects from both Cohort 1 and
      Cohort 2 are included in the analysis, adjusted for cohort effect. For the efficacy
      comparison of crisaborole versus TCS, only subjects from Cohort 1 are included in the
      analysis. For the comparison of crisaborole versus TCI, only subjects from Cohort 2 are
      included in the analysis.

      Safety and efficacy assessments will be conducted at the investigator site by a clinical
      assessor blinded to treatment assignment.

      Scheduled study visits for all subjects will occur at Screening, Baseline/Day 1, Day 8, Day
      15, Day 22, Day 29 (End of treatment/Early termination), Day 43 or 14 Days after last dose if
      subject is terminated early from treatment. A follow up telephone call will be made by site
      staff to the subjects/subject's legally acceptable guardian(s) on Day 60 or at least 28 days
      after last dose if subject is terminated early from treatment. The Day 60 visit will be
      completed in the clinic for subjects enrolled in the OCT sub-study.

      To further explore the benefit/risk of crisaborole ointment, 2%, a sub-study to evaluate
      differences in atrophic skin changes across study treatment groups in Cohort 1 will be
      conducted at select sites.

      The sub-study will include obtaining Optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging to evaluate
      atrophic changes in epidermal thickness during and after treatment with study investigational
      product in Cohort 1. This sub-study also provides an opportunity to explore differences in
      Transepidermal Water Loss (TEWL) and cutaneous inflammatory and barrier biomarkers associated
      with AD within the stratum corneum (SC) across treatment groups in Cohort 1. The Aquaflux (an
      evaporimeter) will be used in this sub-study to evaluate TEWL during and after treatment at
      select sub-study centers. Tape-strips will also be used in this sub-study to evaluate SC
      biomarkers from AD lesional and non-lesional skin.

      This sub-study will include approximately 60 subjects from Cohort 1 that are enrolled in the
      main study (C3291037). Subjects will follow the main study assessments and visits as per the
      schedule of activities for the main study but will also follow additional procedures as
      described in the protocol. The telephone call at Day 60 in the main study is replaced with an
      in-clinic visit for sub-study participants.
    
  