
    
      Tako Tsubo Cardiomyopathy presents with sudden onset of chest pain that mimics a myocardial
      infarction (MI) and is precipitated by major emotional/physical stress. Classically, the
      coronary arteries are normal and yet, the left ventricular (LV) angiogram shows a
      characteristic, extensive and severe wall motion abnormality, some develop cardiogenic shock,
      cardiac rupture or embolic stroke. In the weeks following onset, the wall motion
      abnormalities gradually recover: this led to the assumption that Tako Tsubo Cardiomyopathy is
      self-limiting, reinforced by the absence of myocardial damage on cardiac Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging. However, the investigators and others have shown that Tako Tsubo Cardiomyopathy
      recovery is not rapid, being characterised by severe global oedema, which persists for 3-4
      months after presentation. The investigators showed profound decrease in cardiac energetics
      during the acute Tako Tsubo Cardiomyopathy phase compared to healthy controls. This improved
      significantly at follow up but remained reduced compared to healthy controls.

      These objective findings of incompletely resolved myocardial oedema and energetic impairment
      are in contrast with the more rapid apparent recovery of Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction
      but are in keeping with the persistence of symptoms previously reported in literature and
      with the investigators' own clinical observations from the Tako Tsubo Cardiomyopathy
      follow-up clinic at the institution.

      The persistence of symptoms (fatigue, recurrent chest pains, decreased exercise capacity)
      could be due to either:

        1. Subclinical degree of impairment in cardiac energetics/function (reflecting either an
           even more prolonged status of incomplete recovery or a pre-existent cardiomyopathy)
           which despite a normalised for almost normalised ejection fraction at rest results in
           cardiac limitation during exercise, or

        2. Physical deconditioning after an acute, severe illness.
    
  