
    
      Little information is known about the intraocular pharmacokinetics of intravitreal
      aflibercept injection in human eyes of Diabetic macular edema (DME) patients. In addition,
      the durability of intravitreal aflibercept injection in vitrectomized eyes is not known,
      since individuals with a history of vitrectomy have been excluded from clinical trials in
      DME. Although we recently conducted a prospective study (the DRAW study) to evaluate the
      intraocular pharmacokinetics of IAI in eyes with neovascular age-related macular degeneration
      (AMD), this research did not include eyes with DME. There has been a paucity of studies on
      systemic levels of free aflibercept following intravitreal aflibercept injection in DME
      patients, which would have implications for normal vascular hemostasis and wound repair in
      which vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) plays an important role. The proposed
      research will fill in these gaps in the knowledge base for intravitreal aflibercept
      injection.

      Two arms (non-vitrectomized, and vitrectomized) are included in the study to evaluate the
      effect of vitrectomy on the intraocular and systemic pharmacokinetics of intravitreal
      aflibercept injection. A sample size of 60 eyes was chosen to provide a sample of 30
      non-vitrectomized eyes and 30 vitrectomized eyes to evaluate. This sample size will allow for
      an initial determination of the pharmacokinetics of intravitreal aflibercept injection inside
      the eye and in the systemic circulation of eyes with DME.

      One eye per patient may be eligible. In this research proposal, participants will be followed
      for 12-month period. Study eyes will receive intravitreal aflibercept at baseline and then
      starting at month 2 there will be no mandatory injection. Subject will receive additional
      aflibercept on an as needed basis (PRN) if DME is still present. AC fluid and blood draw will
      be performed prior to first PRN dose of intravitreal aflibercept.

      Study will involve following procedures: bio-microscopy, dilated fundoscopic exam,
      measurement of intraocular pressure, measurement of best corrected visual acuity (BCVA),
      fundus photograph, optical coherence tomography (OCT) and OCT-Angiography (OCT-A). Patients
      will be followed monthly for 12 months.
    
  