
    
      Although smoking prevalence is decreasing in Hong Kong, there are still 615,000 daily
      cigarette smokers in Hong Kong in 2017 and half will be killed by smoking which accounts for
      over 7,000 deaths per year. Smoking also accounts for a large amount of medical cost,
      long-term care and productivity loss of US$688 million (0.6% Hong Kong GDP). Smoking is a
      highly addictive behavior and it is difficult for smokers with strong nicotine dependence to
      quit without assistance. On the other hand, reaching and helping the many smokers who have no
      intention to quit is a challenge, because they are unlikely to seek professional help from
      smoking cessation services.

      The Quit and Win programme provides an opportunity to reach and encourage a large group of
      smokers to make quit attempt and maintain abstinence. The Quit and Win model posits that
      smokers participating in the contest will have higher motivation to quit with incentives and
      better social support. Studies have found that such quitting contests or incentive programs
      appeared to reach a large number of smokers and demonstrated a significantly higher quit rate
      for the quit and win group than for the control group.

      SC services utilization rates are markedly low in Hong Kong. The latest Thematic Household
      Survey reported that only 3.3% daily smokers had ever used SC services. Among never-used
      smokers, only 3.1% of them were willing to try the SC services. The previous trial in QTW
      Contest 2016 depicts a similar pattern. Despite over three quarters of participants (77.0%)
      in the HAR group had chosen an SC service. Among them, only a small percentage (34.9%)
      actually used the SC service. Most smokers (65.1%) failed to attend the SC service under the
      HAR intervention. Consequently, better interventions are needed to extend the reach of SC
      services and smokers who had chosen an SC service but fail to attend.

      The previous trial in QTW Contest 2013 showed a small cash incentive with early notifications
      increased quit attempt by self-directed help, but it did not increase abstinence and the use
      of formal cessation aids. Therefore, financial incentive-based SC programme focusing on
      promoting existing SC services use is warranted.

      Therefore, the present study will examine (1) the effectiveness of a combined intervention of
      face-to-face brief cessation advice (AWARD), active referral of SC service plus financial
      incentive on encouraging SC services use and (2) explore the use of CBPR model to build
      capacity and to engage community partners in taking on this important public health issue for
      sustainability in the community. In addition, a process evaluation will be conducted to
      assess the effectiveness of the recruitment activity and how it is linked with the overall
      program outcomes.
    
  