
    
      Articular cartilage, similarly to bone tissue, has a high sensitivity to physical stimuli and
      it has been shown that these are able to significantly modify the cartilage metabolism. There
      are several methods for applying a physical stimulus to articular cartilage: direct current,
      pulsed electromagnetic fields, electric fields and ultrasound. In vitro, all techniques have
      been shown to influence the metabolism of isolated chondrocytes. In vivo and in the clinic,
      the use of the biophysical stimulus for the treatment of the joint must respond to the need
      to treat the articular cartilage in its total extension and thickness, in addition to
      involving the joint structures, for example meniscus, ligaments, synovial membrane up to to
      the subchondral bone.

      To date, these problems have been solved exclusively with the use of specific pulsed
      electromagnetic fields I-ONE®, as well demonstrated in the CRES study (Cartilage Repair and
      Electromagnetic Stimulation (Massari L, JBJS 2007). In vitro, I-ONE® therapy produces a
      significant increase both in the proliferation of chondrocytes in the presence of IGF-1
      growth factors, and in the synthesis of proteoglycans, also in the presence of inflammatory
      phenomena in the breeding ground, such as IL-1B (De Mattei M, Connect Tissue Res 2003,
      Osteoarthritis cartilage 2004, 2009).

      In vitro studies on neutrophils, synoviocytes and chondrocytes have shown that I-ONE® therapy
      increases the availability of adenosine A2A receptors and, acting as chondroprotective drugs,
      reduces tissue damage due to the inflammatory response (Varani K, Br J Pharmacology 2002,
      Osteoarthritis Cartilage 2008, Vincenzi F PLoS One 2013). These results have been
      demonstrated in animal models of osteoarthritis where, stimulation with I-ONE® therapy led to
      a reduction in the progression of osteoarthritic knee injuries (Fini M, J Orthop Res 2005,
      Biomed Pharmacother 2008). In sheep undergoing osteochondral transplantation, I-ONE® therapy
      has been able to favor the formation of new subchondral tissue, decreasing the areas of
      resorption and avoiding its complete resorption (Benazzo F, JOR 2008). A high synthesis of
      anabolic factors, such as TGF-β, and an inhibition of the synthesis of pro-inflammatory
      cytokines such as TNF-α and IL-1β have been observed as evidence of an anabolic and trophic
      effect. In rabbits subjected to osteochondral lesions, I-ONE® therapy has proven effective in
      significantly improving the quality of both bone and cartilage regenerated tissue in
      osteochondral defects in the presence of collagen scaffolds and Mesenchymal Stem Cells
      (MSCs). MSCs have the potential to differentiate into a chondrocyte phenotype however the
      presence of pro-inflammatory cytokines in particular IL-1β is able to inhibit chondrogenesis.

      The anti-inflammatory activity of I-ONE® therapy effectively counteracted the degenerative
      effect of IL-1β by significantly improving cartilage regeneration compared to unstimulated
      lesions. This explains, even in vivo, the anti-degenerative, reparative and anti-inflammatory
      effect of treatment with I-ONE® therapy (Veronesi, BMC Musculoskeletal Disord. 2015). In the
      clinical practice, I-ONE® therapy is able to prevent and/or slow down the degenerative
      phenomena that follow surgical operations. The latter result has been demonstrated both in
      patients undergoing anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, and in patients with cartilage
      lesions treated with arthroscopic microfractures, in patients undergoing ONE STEP method with
      bone marrow concentrate and scaffold, and in patients undergoing total knee prosthesis with
      or without patellar resurfacing (Benazzo F KSSTA 2008, Zorzi C KSSTA 2007, Moretti B BMC
      Musculoskeletal Disord. 2012, Adravanti P International Orthopedics 2014, Cadossi M Foot
      Ankle Int 2014). All clinical studies have shown a reduction in NSAID intake and an
      anticipated functional recovery time in patients treated with I-ONE® therapy compared to
      those belonging to the non-treatment group. Also in the conservative treatment of joint
      pathologies, such as spontaneous osteonecrosis (Marcheggiani Muccioli Eur J Radiol 2012) and
      knee osteoarthritis in the initial stage (Gobbi Cartilage 2013) I-ONE® therapy has proven
      effective in reducing the bone area marrow edema and in improving the functional recovery of
      the joint. Both in conservative and post-surgical treatment, the results were maintained even
      in the long term (follow-up 2 and 3 years after the treatment).

      Similar results have been found after treatment with I-ONE® therapy in patients with
      patello-femoral pain, a frequent pathology in sports, especially in women, whose
      etiopathogenesis is controversial and attributable to several factors, including a
      malalignment of the joint, a dysplasia of the patella or of the femoral trochlea (Servodio
      Iammarone C 2016). The anterior knee pain, which accompanies this pathology, can become
      chronic over time and become highly limiting for sports. I-ONE® therapy has proven effective
      in promoting joint function, resolving painful symptoms and promoting a rapid return to
      sports, maintaining the result over a year. I-ONE® is an easy-to-use therapy that eliminates
      the possible side effects that characterize drug therapy and its use is well accepted by
      patients. Since cartilage degeneration is an irreversible process, it is essential to
      intervene early with an effective chondroprotective treatment, which is able to maintain an
      intact cartilage in the long run while also preserving the quality of the subchondral bone
      tissue (of fundamental importance for the survival of the articular cartilage).

      In conclusion, the control of the joint microenvironment, by means of a non-invasive method,
      such as the biophysical stimulus, constitutes an important therapeutic possibility, which
      assumes a great importance in the presence of osteo-cartilaginous pain in the knee. In about
      70% of the lesions of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL), the presence of trabecular
      microfractures due to the impact of the subchondral bone, called bone bruises, is associated.
      These are characterized by the presence of hemorrhage, edema, necrosis and fibrosis: they are
      most frequently located in the external compartment of the knee (most often in the lateral
      femoral condyle) and associated with intense pain (accentuated by the weight-bearing). These
      lesions tend to reabsorb very slowly and cause intense pain especially during the
      post-operative period in ACL reconstruction, with limitation and lengthening of recovery
      times. This is mainly due to the difficulty of weight-bearing during the first post-operative
      month (Papalia R Open Access J Sports Med 2015) The following study has as main objective to
      evaluate whether the use of I-ONE® therapy can reduce post-operative pain thanks to the
      modulation of inflammation in patients with bone bruise on the knee after anterior cruciate
      ligament (ACL) injury if applied 15 days before and 60 days after ACL reconstruction surgery
      for 4 hours a day compared to a control group (no-treatment). Both groups will be able to
      take anti-inflammatory drugs for pain control as per normal clinical practice.

      The secondary objective of the study are: quantify the reduction in the size of the bone
      bruise area, improving the level of knee function and the amount of anti-inflammatory drugs
      used in the aforementioned patients in the postoperative period compared to a control group.

      I-ONE® therapy will be initiated in the 15 days preceding the ACL reconstruction surgery and
      in the first 60 days following the surgery, only in the treatment group. The control group
      will not be treated with I-ONE® devices (no-treatment). Paracetamol 1000 mg will be supplied
      to both groups, to be taken for pain control as per normal clinical practice.Drugs and I-ONE®
      devices will be delivered to the patient on the day of the pre-hospitalization visit which
      takes place routinely 15 days before the surgery. Clinical assessments using rating scales
      will be performed in both groups on the day of the pre-hospitalization visit, immediately
      before ACL reconstruction and during outpatient visit at 1, 2, 4, 12 and 24 months after ACL
      reconstruction. Magnetic resonance imaging will be performed 2, 4 and 12 months after surgery
      to highlight both the integration of the pro-ACL graft and the reduction of the bone bruise
      area. In particular, to quantify the resolution of the bone bruise area expected in the
      treatment group, the magnetic resonance performed 2 months after surgery will be used.
    
  