
    
      RATIONALE

      Central venous catheter (CVC) infections are one of the major causes of infections acquired
      in intensive care unit (ICU) patients. About 25% of bloodstream infections recorded in ICUs
      are secondary to proven catheter-related infections and up to 80% of the so-called primary
      bacteraemia may be caused by catheters. Pittet et al. have estimated that nosocomial
      bloodstream infection, irrespective of its source, was associated with an overall 35%
      attributable mortality and a prolonged hospital stay of 32 days, including 8 days in the ICU.
      Prevention of catheter-related infections is a priority for infection control programs. Clear
      preventive measures include strict barrier precautions during insertion and careful aseptic
      techniques during subsequent manipulations of catheters. Other preventive measures, including
      the use of catheters specifically designed to inhibit microbial colonisation, such as
      antimicrobial-coated catheters, are not universally accepted or recommended for routine use,
      also due to their high cost. Previous trials have demonstrated a 50% risk reduction of
      infection rates when using antiseptic-coated catheters; however, their efficacy in reducing
      catheter related bloodstream infections is still unclear. A new generation of silver
      nanoparticle impregnated CVCs (Logicath AgTive®, Medex Medical INC., UK), has become recently
      available, but no clinical trial documenting their activity in preventing microbial
      colonization of catheters has been carried out so far. In this study, we want to assess the
      ability of this new generation catheters to prevent short-term (< 28 days) catheter-related
      infections in critically ill patients, in comparison with conventional untreated catheters.

      STUDY POPULATION

      All consecutively admitted critically ill patients needing central venous catheterization for
      more than 5 days.

      TRIAL OBJECTIVE AND PURPOSE

      The objective of this study is to test the ability of these new medicated catheters, to
      reduce the risk of Central Venous Catheter Related Infections (CVCRI) in ICU patients. CVCRI
      is defined as a positive culture from the catheter when hemoculture is concurrently positive
      for the same microbial strain for at least two consecutive times.

      TRIAL DESIGN

      Study Design

      This is a randomized, open, controlled, parallel multicenter study involving 5 Italian ICUs
      and the supporting clinical microbiology laboratories under the supervision of Prof. Massimo
      Antonelli, for the clinical issues and Prof Gianfranco Donelli, for the microbiology issues.
      Statistical evaluation of the data will be under the responsibility of Dott. Andrea De
      Gaetano, belonging to the Biomatematic Laboratory of the Italian National Research Council
      (CNR-IASI).

      Endpoints

      The primary end-point is the difference in raw percentage occurrence of CVCRI (on a patient
      basis) between groups A and B.

      The secondary end-point are the infection-free time and the probability of CVCRI as a
      function of multiple predictors.

      METHODS

      Randomization and blinding

      An Internet-based randomization scheme, stratified by center, age and gender will be
      employed, indicating the allocated treatment at the moment of enrollment. The randomization
      procedure will require that when guide wire exchange is performed, a catheter from the same
      allocation group (medicated or not medicated) is used. The treatment will be open to the
      physician performing the procedure, and data collection will indicate group membership as A
      and B in random order. While the data manager will hold the key to the group/treatment
      associations, both the adjudication committee members (deciding on database record freezing)
      and the statisticians performing the analyses will be blinded to treatment allocation.

      Insertion and maintenance of catheters

      Recommendations will be provided to study centers to comply with maximal barrier precautions
      during insertion and repositioning of catheters, if indicated. A transparent, semipermeable
      dressing, will be provided to all the participating ICUs to be used after insertion, to allow
      daily inspection of the insertion site. Subsequent dressings will be carried out as
      clinically indicated, at 2 to 5 days intervals. Line tubing and three-way stopcocks will be
      changed on the basis of each unit's protocol at 1 to 3 days intervals, although changing
      these after each blood product transfusion and following the administration of lipid
      solutions will be required.

      The catheter will be kept in place as long as required in the absence of complications.
      Catheters will be removed when no longer required, or because of malfunction, when suspicion
      of infection or otherwise unexplained bloodstream infection occurs; and in the presence of
      gross inflammation or pus at the catheter insertion site. In situ treatment of catheter
      infection will not be allowed.

      Data recorded

      The following information will be recorded upon inclusion: age, sex, date of hospital
      admission and to the intensive care unit; underlying disease and severity (McCabe class);
      admission category (medical, surgical, whether or not scheduled, or trauma), diagnosis and
      primary organ failure on ICU admission. The severity score SAPS II, organ dysfunction and
      SOFA score will also be recorded, as well as the presence of an active infection focus,
      ongoing antibiotic therapy, and presence of other intravascular devices. Patients will be
      followed up to 48 hours after catheter removal. Data recorded will include: a) Mechanical
      complication occurring during insertion (number of venipunctures, arterial puncture,
      hematoma, pneumothorax); b) presence of local signs suggesting infection (erythema at the
      catheter skin entry site, scored as 0: absence; 1+: <5mm; 2+: 5-10mm; 3+: >10mm; presence of
      induration or purulence); c) presence of a systemic inflammatory response syndrome or of
      symptoms characterizing severe sepsis; d) Presence of other documented infection ; e) other
      intravascular devices in place or inserted each day; f) dressing changes; g) Results of blood
      and catheter-tip cultures, and of other clinically significant microbiological samplings; h)
      antibiotics administered.

      Microbiological data

      Blood cultures will be obtained when temperature is > 38°2 or < 36°5C. Diagnostic samples of
      any other suspected infection foci will be taken as clinically indicated. Upon catheter
      removal, the intravascular catheter tip will be cultured using the semi quantitative culture
      described by Maki et al. (Maki DG, Weise CE, Sarafin HW. A semiquantitative culture method
      for identifying intravenous-catheter-related infection. N Engl J Med 1977;296:1305-1309).
      This technique involves rolling of the catheter distal tip on Agar plate and reading the
      high-density colonization on a semiquantitative culture (more than 15 colonies on each
      plate).

      Inclusion Criteria

      Patients will be eligible when insertion of a central venous catheter (CVC) at a new site
      (subclavian or internal jugular) has to be planned for therapy or monitoring of at least
      3-day duration.

      Exclusion Criteria Age below 18 years and all patients with a history of failed
      catheterization attempts or the need for catheterization at a site of previous surgery,
      skeletal deformity, or scarring.

      Data analysis

      A Clinical Evaluation (Adjudication) Committee composed of the two coordinating investigators
      (Prof. Massimo Antonelli and Prof. Gianfranco Donelli) and the statistician (Dr. Andrea De
      Gaetano) will assess, blindly with respect to the randomization group, the evaluability of
      catheters and the classification of all episodes of bloodstream infection and of catheters
      having a positive culture, according to the above definitions. Catheters will be excluded
      from the analysis when insertion fails. Catheters that have not been adequately followed-up
      until the time of removal (transfer to another unit or hospital) will be censored on the last
      day of follow-up in the ICU and classified by the Committee as infected or uninfected, using
      the data available up to the last day of follow-up and any bacteriological data subsequently
      received.

      ASSESSMENT OF SAFETY

      Adverse Events

      Complications of the procedure will be classified according to a Complications Diagnosis
      Dictionary. Text comments will be added to the recordings as appropriate. Descriptive
      analysis of the complications as well as comparison of complication rates (overall and by
      family of most frequent complications) will be obtained.

      STATISTICS

      Sample Size and Power Computation

      The catheter-related infection rate was estimated at 10% in the conventional catheter group.
      Assuming a 50% relative reduction (to 5%) in the silver impregnated CVC treated group, the
      number of patients needed (or equivalently the number of patients enrolled, assuming an
      attrition rate of 10%) for each treatment group in order to reach the desired statistical
      power is reported below, assuming a Type I error level of 0.05 and depending on the
      significance level and the number of tails of the statistical test.

      Two-tailed tests will be considered throughout. A power of 80% will be considered sufficient.
      Therefore, 472 patients per group should be enrolled.
    
  