
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine if fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-PET/CT imaging can be reproducibly and
           effectively applied in the early assessment of response to chemotherapy in patients with
           newly diagnosed stage II-IV Hodgkin lymphoma.

        -  To determine if a negative FDG-PET/CT scan after 2 courses of ABVD chemotherapy
           comprising doxorubicin hydrochloride, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine can be
           used to predict a group of patients for whom it is safe to reduce therapy by the
           subsequent omission of bleomycin, without detriment to progression-free survival.

        -  To determine if treatment intensification in response to positive FDG-PET/CT imaging
           after 2 courses of ABVD chemotherapy can improve the outcome by comparison with previous
           series.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-PET/CT imaging at baseline. Patients then receive
      ABVD chemotherapy comprising doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, bleomycin IV, vinblastine IV, and
      dacarbazine IV on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Between days 22 and 25 of course 2,
      patients undergo a second FDG-PET/CT scan to assess response. Subsequent therapy is based on
      FDG-PET/CT scan results.

        -  Negative FDG-PET/CT scan: Patients with a negative FDG-PET/CT scan are randomized to 1
           of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I (ABVD chemotherapy): Patients receive ABVD chemotherapy comprising
                doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, bleomycin IV, vinblastine IV, and dacarbazine IV on
                days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence
                of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II (AVD chemotherapy): Patients receive AVD chemotherapy comprising doxorubicin
                hydrochloride IV, vinblastine IV, and dacarbazine IV on days 1 and 15. Treatment
                repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Positive FDG-PET/CT scan: Patients with a positive FDG-PET/CT scan are assigned to 1 of
           2 chemotherapy regimens, as determined by the participating center.

             -  BEACOPP-14 chemotherapy: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV and
                cyclophosphamide IV on day 1; etoposide IV on days 1-3; oral procarbazine
                hydrochloride and oral prednisolone on days 1-7; and bleomycin IV and vincristine
                IV on day 8. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) on days
                8-13 OR pegfilgrastim SC once on day 8. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 4
                courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  BEACOPP-escalated chemotherapy: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV and
                cyclophosphamide IV on day 1; etoposide IV on days 1-3; oral procarbazine
                hydrochloride on days 1-7; oral prednisolone on days 1-14; and bleomycin IV and
                vincristine IV on day 8. Patients also receive G-CSF SC beginning on day 8 and
                continuing until blood counts recover OR pegfilgrastim SC once on day 8. Treatment
                repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of BEACOPP chemotherapy, patients undergo a third FDG-PET/CT scan to assess
      response. Patients with a negative FDG-PET/CT scan receive 2 more courses of BEACOPP-14 or 1
      more course of BEACOPP-escalated chemotherapy. Patients with a persistently positive
      FDG-PET/CT scan may receive radiotherapy to sites of FDG uptake or salvage chemotherapy, at
      the investigator's discretion.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4
      months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.
    
  