
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine whether the addition of atezolizumab to a regimen of paclitaxel, pertuzumab,
      and trastuzumab will improve the progression-free survival (PFS), as assessed by investigator
      using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria, relative to a
      regimen of paclitaxel, pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and placebo in patients with newly documented
      HER2-positive measurable metastatic breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the addition of atezolizumab to a regimen of paclitaxel, pertuzumab,
      and trastuzumab will improve the overall survival (OS) relative to a regimen of paclitaxel,
      pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and placebo.

      II. To determine whether the addition of atezolizumab to a regimen of paclitaxel, pertuzumab,
      and trastuzumab will improve the overall objective response (OR), assessed by investigator
      using RECIST 1.1 criteria, relative to a regimen of paclitaxel, pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and
      placebo.

      III. To determine whether the addition of atezolizumab to a regimen of paclitaxel,
      pertuzumab, and trastuzumab will improve PFS, OR, and/or duration of objective response
      assessed by retrospective blinded central review using RECIST 1.1 criteria, relative to a
      regimen of paclitaxel, pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and placebo.

      IV. To determine whether the addition of atezolizumab to a regimen of paclitaxel, pertuzumab,
      and trastuzumab will decrease the incidence of subsequent brain metastases in patients
      without known brain metastases at study entry relative to a regimen of paclitaxel,
      pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and placebo.

      V. To determine whether the addition of atezolizumab to a regimen of paclitaxel, pertuzumab,
      and trastuzumab will contribute to increased patient-reported fatigue in comparison to a
      regimen of paclitaxel, pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and placebo.

      VI. To determine the utility of PD-L1 immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining as a predictive and
      prognostic biomarker associated with clinical response, as assessed by investigator using
      RECIST 1.1 criteria, to atezolizumab in combination with paclitaxel, trastuzumab, and
      pertuzumab.

      VII. To determine the immune-related toxicity profile of the two treatment regimens.

      VIII. To determine the cardiac safety profile of the two treatment regimens.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the addition of atezolizumab to a regimen of paclitaxel, pertuzumab,
      and trastuzumab will improve the progression-free survival and overall objective response,
      assessed by investigator using immune-modified RECIST (iRECIST) criteria, relative to a
      regimen of paclitaxel, pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and placebo.

      II. To identify potential biomarkers that can predict benefit from the addition of
      atezolizumab in patients with newly documented HER2-positive measurable metastatic breast
      cancer treated with a regimen of paclitaxel, pertuzumab, and trastuzumab, and placebo.

      III. To explore the toxicity profile of the two treatment regimens using patient-reported
      symptomatic adverse events in addition to standard adverse event reports.

      IV. To determine the feasibility and added value of frequent assessment of toxicity using
      Patient Reported Outcomes (PRO)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) with
      electronic(e)PRO reporting.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive pertuzumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 22,
      trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 22, paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes on days 1,
      8, 15, 22, 29, and 36, and atezolizumab IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 22. Cycles for
      pertuzumab, trastuzumab and atezolizumab repeat every 6 weeks and treatment with paclitaxel
      repeats every 6 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive additional 3 cycles of paclitaxel in the absence
      of progression at the investigator's discretion.

      ARM II: Patients receive pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and paclitaxel as in Arm I. Patients also
      receive placebo IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 22. Cycles for pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and
      placebo repeat every 6 weeks and treatment with paclitaxel repeats every 6 weeks for up to 4
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive
      additional 3 cycles of paclitaxel in the absence of progression at the investigator's
      discretion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years and
      then every 6 months for 4 years.
    
  