
    
      The introduction of Highly Active AntiRetroviral Therapy (HAART) for AIDS and HIV has
      improved survival considerably. However, HIV patients treated with HAART show significant
      metabolic symptoms, such as lipodystrophy, dyslipidemia, and insulin resistance. A possible
      contribution to these dysmetabolic symptoms in HIV/HAART is a decrease in mitochondrial
      function, resulting in a decreased fatty acid oxidation. Life style modulation such as
      aerobic exercise and L-carnitine supplementation may be beneficial to mitochondrial function.
      Aerobic exercise improves the biogenesis and function of mitochondria. A combined regime of
      aerobic and resistance training has been demonstrated to increase lean body mass and reduce
      overall fat and truncal fat and the levels of triglyceride and LDL cholesterol. L-Carnitine
      plays an important role in the transfer of long-chain acyl groups into the mitochondrial
      matrix and potentially improves energy metabolism. Further, L-carnitine supplementation
      decreases serum triglyceride levels in HIV/HAART patients with hypertriglyceridemia. However,
      little is known whether these life style modulations act synergistically in HIV/HAART
      patients.

      We hypothesize that a mixed regimen of exercise (including both resistance and aerobic
      exercise) and L-carnitine supplementation will improve mitochondrial dysfunction in HIV/HAART
      patients, and therefore, alleviate dysmetabolic symptoms such as dyslipidemia and insulin
      resistance. In this randomized, placebo-controlled study, we will explore whether a mixed
      regimen of exercise, including both resistance and aerobic exercise, and L-carnitine
      supplementation affect lipids and remnant lipoproteins, adipokines, insulin resistance; blood
      lactate levels and VO2max; and kinetics of leucine and triglyceride-rich lipoproteins among
      African-American and Hispanic HIV-positive subjects undergoing HAART. Effects on muscle
      mitochondrial function will be assessed using exercise tests and body composition assessment
      (DEXA and Bioimpedance), while effects on hepatic mitochondrial function will be assessed
      measuring the relation between leucine and VLDL-apoB metabolism. We believe that the proposed
      study will help to elucidate underlying mechanisms for metabolic complications and will offer
      new possibilities for intervention to reduce negative metabolic effects in HIV/HAART
      patients.
    
  