
    
      1. INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE The vertebral arthrodesis is one of the surgical procedures
           most used for the treatment of deformities, trauma and degenerative diseases with
           instability of the spine (Rajaee et al., 2012; Yoshihara and Yoneoka, 2015).

           Using bone grafts and tools, such as metal rods and screws, this procedure creates a
           fusion between two or more adjacent vertebrae, in order to stabilize the spine.

           The success of fusion, intended as the neo-formation of trabecular bone radiographically
           detectable, may depend on the characteristics of the bone graft used and its properties
           as well as the surgical technique used. In the absence of autologous bone the biological
           process that leads to bone regeneration is characterized by three critical elements: the
           osteogenic potential, the osteoinductive factors, the osteoconductive scaffold. The
           ideal bone substitute possesses all three of these properties, combined with excellent
           compatibility and biological safety (Ludwig et al., 2000; Park et al., 2013).

           The local autologous bone harvested from the iliac crest has been and is still
           considered the "gold standard" in the treatment of spinal fusion. However,
           contraindications and potential complications associated with the use of autologous bone
           are well known (Dimar et al., 2009; Gruskay et al., 2014; Kim et al., 2009; Miyazaki et
           al., 2009). In order to overcome these limitations, several alternatives have been
           developed, clinically tested and are today available on the market: growth factors
           (BMPs) (Carragee et al., 2011; Kannan et al., 2015), allogenic bone or heterologous (
           Gupta et al., 2015; Park et al., 2013), demineralized bone matrix (DBM) and synthetic
           ceramic materials to name a few (Abdullah et al., 2011; Fischer et al., 2013; Hsu et
           al., 2012) . Despite all of these materials have been extensively studied (Abdullah et
           al., 2011; Alsaleh et al., 2012; Hsu et al., 2012; Miyazaki et al., 2009) the available
           data are often uneven in quality, type of study, assessments performed and conclusions
           reached (Hsu et al., 2012; Kannan et al., 2015; Miyazaki et al., 2009).

           The ceramic bone substitutes of synthetic origin (Nickoli and Hsu, 2014), such as
           collagen, tricalcium phosphate (TCP) (Dai and Jiang, 2008), calcium phosphate (CaP),
           calcium sulphate (CaS) and hydroxyapatite (HA), have been designed and developed as
           osteoconductive scaffolds with characteristics and properties very similar to those of
           human bone, able to support the regeneration and bone remodeling, and go into slow
           resorption (Alsaleh et al. , 2012; Gao et al., 2014; Hsu et al., 2012; Kaiser et al.,
           2014; Kho and Chen, 2008; Korovessis et al., 2005; Lee et al., 2009; Zhou and Lee, 2011)
           .

           Fin-Ceramica Faenza SpA is a company engaged in the development of innovative solutions
           in the field of bone regeneration, and one of the latest solutions in the field of bone
           substitutes proposes the use of hydroxyapatite-based ceramic composites, biomaterials
           biomimetic new generation (Blackbeard et al., 2013; Zhou and Lee, 2011). Among these
           biomaterials, SintLife is a bone substitute consisting of Mg-HA crystals nano (sintered
           at body temperature). pre-clinical and preliminary clinical data show Sintlife the
           safety of the product and support the ability to use it as a bone substitute for spinal
           fusion (Brodano Barbanti et al., 2015; Brodano et al., 2014; Manfrini et al., 2013).

        2. IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF MEDICAL DEVICE SintLife is an implantable medical
           device, not active, with bone substitute function.

           SintLife features reabsorbtion cell-mediated. SintLife is a bone substitute, in paste
           form, consisting of physiological saline (percentage to 46%) and nanocrystals of
           magnesium-substituted hydroxyapatite (Mg-HA). The Mg2 + ions are introduced within the
           crystalline cell of HA in the same position and percentage found in the human bone
           mineral phase. E 'was shown that the presence of Mg2 + deforms the structure of the HAS
           crystalline cell by making it unstable and biologically active, thus promoting bone
           formation, remodeling, and a rapid resorption mediated by the cells of the material. In
           addition, the Mg-HA actively interacts with the water molecules to quickly capture key
           proteins involved in osteogenesis.

           SintLife interacts with the cells that form bone and promotes the deposition of new bone
           tissue. Thanks to its specific chemical composition and biomimetics, the nanostructure
           and the surface properties, it is reabsorbed and remodeled by the action mobile phone in
           a physiologically appropriate time (6-18 months), remaining at the application site for
           the duration of growth and of maturation of new bone.

           During the remodeling phase, one can observe the resorbing activity of osteoclasts to
           work around the particles of the material, until a complete bone regeneration (5).
           SintLife is classified as a Class III medical device, is CE marked and complies with
           current European legislation on medical devices (EC Directive 93/42 / EC amended 2007/47
           / EC).

        3. PURPOSE, OBJECTIVES AND EVALUATION This pilot study is to evaluate the potential
           effectiveness of bone substitute SintLife within the spinal surgery in spinal
           stabilization applications for degenerative diseases.

           In particular, the investigators aim to evaluate:

             -  the ability of bone regeneration / molding, defined as the presence of trabecular
                bone continuous bridge and absence of radiolucent lines, verified by diagnostic
                imaging (CT) and evaluated by means of in accordance with the scale Brantingan

             -  the patient's state of health, through the comparison of the functional-symptom
                pattern between pre- and post-operative, verified by the scores Oswestry Disability
                Index (ODI), Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and EuroQol (EQ-5D);

             -  the safety of the medical device, through the impact of any adverse events,
                complications, unexpected reactions, accidents.

        4. STUDY DESIGN

      4.1. Study characteristics This collection of clinical data is set up as post-market pilot
      study. It will be included in the study all consecutive patients who require spinal fusion
      surgery, in accordance with the inclusion and exclusion criteria as voluntary and after
      signing the informed consent. Patients will be treated and followed postoperatively according
      to normal clinical practice, surgical and therapeutic in place at the Rizzoli Orthopaedic
      Institute of Bologna.

      The total duration of data collection is 36 months:

        -  the stage of patient enrollment is 18 months from the date of approval of the study by
           the Ethics Committee of the center;

        -  the phase of post-operative monitoring is 18 months, with planned at 6, 12 and 18 months
           follow-up (± 15 days before scheduled date).

      In relation to the literature up to now produced, it is considered advisable to provide a
      post-operative control at 18 months since the chemical composition and biomimetic
      hydroxyapatite-magnesium shows remodeling and resorption, in a physiologically time comprised
      between 6 and 18 months, as well as for other reported in Section 4.

      18 months is therefore the appropriate follow up to verify the medium term biomaterial
      behavior.

      All data will be collected in a systematic, timely and uniform in a specific report form
      (SRD) paper.

      4.2. Treatment directions Patients will be treated for degenerative diseases of the spine,
      such as lumbar stenosis, spondylolysis and spondylolisthesis, degenerative disc disease.

      The fusion technique used will be the posterolateral arthrodesis, of one or more vertebral
      levels included in the lumbosacral (L1-S1), obtained by means of screws and bars, together
      with a preparation of the transverse processes treated with bone substitute in order to
      Sintlife obtain new bone formation and then spinal fusion. It also provided the ability to
      associate interbody posterolateral arthrodesis with the use of cage.

      4.3. Visits plan During each visit (pre-operative, intra-operative, post-operative and
      follow-up) will be the responsibility of the surgeon to fill in the specific section in
      gathering data of every patient card.

      The activities for each visit will be carried out as described below and as shown in the flow
      chart of visits (paragraph 2):

        -  preoperative examination (pre-op) - signing the informed consent, assessment of the
           criteria for inclusion - exclusion, recording demographic data and medical history, the
           SEA assessment and ODI;

        -  intervention - surgical report, TC, reports of potential adverse events intraoperative
           or immediate postoperative;

        -  follow-up visit at 6 months after surgery - report of any adverse events, the SEA
           assessment, ODI, EQ-5D;

        -  follow-up visit at 12 months after surgery - report of any adverse events, the SEA
           assessment, ODI, EQ-5D, TC;

        -  follow-up visit at 18 months after surgery - report of any adverse events, the SEA
           assessment, ODI, EQ-5D, TC.
    
  