
    
      Background: Infliximab is the active ingredient in a drug currently sold by the trade names
      Remicade, Remsima and Inflectra. Infliximab neutralizes tumor necrosis factor (TNF) α, a
      chemical messenger (cytokine) in the immune system, and belongs to a class of drugs called
      "TNF inhibitors". This class of drug comprises effective, biological agents used in the
      treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases. The use of TNF inhibitors is increasing, and
      infliximab is the third bestselling drug by value in Norway in 2013. By being a recombinant
      monoclonal antibody with a murine region, infliximab is associated with infusion reactions.
      8-55% of patients receiving infliximab have an infusion reaction. Infusion reactions are
      unintended reactions that occur during infusion of the drug and up to 14 days after. The
      incidence varies widely in different studies and seems difficult to determine due to
      variations in reporting of reactions, different definitions of reactions and retrospective
      data collection. Protective factors, risk factors and the causes of the reactions are not
      well known. Different treatment strategies are being used, but evidence of efficacy varies.

      Aim: The aim of this study is to estimate the incidence of infusion related reactions and
      investigate risk factors and immunological mechanisms of infusion reactions to infliximab in
      patients with a chronic inflammatory disease.

      Primary objective:

      Estimate the incidence of infusion reactions in patients with chronic inflammatory disease
      receiving infliximab

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Evaluate the correlation between infusion reactions and the formation of antibodies to
           infliximab.

        -  Identify individual risk factors for infusion reactions to infliximab.

        -  Identify immunological mechanisms of infusion reactions to infliximab.

        -  Identify immunomodulatory effects and immunological changes in the patients during
           treatment with infliximab.

      Study population: The study will be a prospective, longitudinal study where all departments
      with patients starting infliximab or switching infliximab from one supplier to another in the
      Western Norway Health Region (Helse Vest RHF) are invited to participate.
    
  