
    
      Providing care for a family member with Alzheimer's disease and related dementia (ADRD)
      negatively affects caregivers' physical and mental health.Despite numerous studies on
      developing interventions for ADRD family caregivers of Caucasian Americans, it is not clear
      what interventions are effective in reducing the stress of family caregivers of Asian
      Americans. The purpose of this study is to develop a culturally sensitive and effective
      intervention to reduce the stress of dementia caregivers of Chinese Americans. It is
      necessary to prioritize Chinese American ADRD caregiving research because of: (a) the
      increasing needs of ADRD caregivers of Chinese Americans, the largest and fastest-growing
      ethnic group of Asians in the United States; (b) erroneous conclusions about Chinese American
      health in current research and policy practices due to omission, aggregation, and
      extrapolation; (c) health inequality issues ignored by the "model minority" stereotype of
      Asian Americans in general; (d) mental health vulnerabilities of older Chinese Americans; and
      (e) unresolved challenges of Chinese American caregivers such as lack of health literacy,
      concerns about stigma, failure to maintain family harmony, social isolation, and barriers to
      accessing culturally competent services. Given these concerns and the lack of health
      professionals who can speak Chinese and understand Chinese culture and norms, this study aims
      to develop a peer mentoring program to support dementia caregivers by empowering the human
      resources of experiential caregivers in Chinese American communities.

      Informed by the sociocultural stress and coping model and relevant empirical evidence, the
      investigators designed the Peer Mentoring Program (PMP) to train and monitor experiential
      caregivers in providing mentoring support for caregivers in the same ethnic community.
      Experiential caregivers in the same ethnic community could understand the caregiving journey
      embedded in Chinese cultural values and the international migration experience. In the PMP,
      experiential caregivers will be hired and trained as volunteer peer mentors and monitored in
      providing mentoring support to dementia caregivers to address cultural beliefs about dementia
      and family caregiving, develop culturally effective coping strategies, and enhance culturally
      appropriate social support. The intervention is promising given the needs of Chinese
      caregivers, positive results of a previous trial in a senior volunteer program in Chinese
      Americans communities, benefits of volunteering for older adults, preliminary analysis
      results of data from our pilot study (70% Chinese caregivers reported a desire to receive
      peer mentoring support), and the potential of developing a cost-effective and sustainable
      intervention that could be applied in other racial and ethnic minority communities.

      This proposed study will use a community-based participatory research (CBPR) approach based
      on a partnership of multidisciplinary researchers, health professionals, family caregivers
      and older volunteers in NYC to accomplish Stage 0 (Aim1) and Stage I (Aims 2 and 3) for
      behavioral intervention development and to develop Stage II and/or Stage IV (Aim 3).

      Aim 1: To study the challenges and enablers of successful caregiving for persons with ADRD in
      Chinese American communities in New York City (NYC). The investigators will analyze recently
      collected data from in-depth interviews and questionnaire-based surveys to identify robust
      challenges, barriers, resources, and successful coping strategies among these caregivers,
      which will help develop the PMP intervention manual.

      Aim 2: To develop the PMP intervention protocol. Using the analysis results from Aim 1 in
      collaboration with multidisciplinary researchers and professionals, I will develop the
      volunteer training manual, intervention protocol, and screening and evaluation tools.

      Aim 3: To examine the feasibility and acceptability of PMP. A pilot randomized clinical trial
      of five volunteers and 30 caregivers (15 to intervention, 15 to control) will be conducted.
      Qualitative and quantitative data from caregivers, volunteers, and professional collaborators
      will be collected to evaluate feasibility and acceptability of recruitment, randomization,
      intervention adherence, treatment fidelity, and administration of measures. Based on the
      results of feasibility and acceptability test, The investigators will refine the intervention
      and inform a subsequent larger randomized control trial (RCT) to initiate an efficacy or
      hybrid stage of intervention development.
    
  