
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate if there is sufficient evidence to continue to the Phase III component by
      evaluating the objective response rate (ORR) for cell cycle gene alteration positive patients
      registered to S1400C treated with palbociclib. (Phase II) II. If the study meets the criteria
      specified in S1400, the study will be amended to include a follow-on randomized Phase III
      trial. (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate investigator-assessed progression-free survival (IA-PFS) and overall survival
      (OS) of cell cycle gene alteration-positive patients treated with palbociclib. (Phase II) II.
      To evaluate the duration of response (DoR) among cell cycle gene alteration positive patients
      treated with palbociclib who achieve a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)
      (confirmed and unconfirmed) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.
      (Phase II) III. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with
      palbociclib. (Phase II)

      TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify additional predictive tumor/blood biomarkers that may modify response or
      define resistance to palbociclib beyond the chosen biomarker for biomarker-driven
      sub-studies.

      II. To identify potential resistance biomarkers at disease progression. III. To establish a
      tissue/blood repository from patients with refractory squamous cell carcinoma (SCCA) of the
      lung.

      OUTLINE: As of 09/01/2016, all arms are closed to accrual.

      ARM I (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 09/01/2016): Patients receive palbociclib orally (PO) on days 1-21.
      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 12/18/2015): Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) on day
      1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Upon progression, patients may be eligible to re-register to Arm III.

      ARM III (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 09/01/2016): Patients in Arm II eligible for re-registration
      receive palbociclib PO on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, all patients are followed up every 6 months for the
      first 2 years and then at the end of the year 3 from date of sub-study/re-registration.
    
  