
    
      Cervicogenic headache is a very frequent complaint that is commonly faced by general
      population. The International Headache Society placed cervicogenic headache in the secondary
      headache sub-group. The global prevalence of headache is about 47%, whereas 15% to 20% of
      those are Cervicogenic headache .Females are four times more prone to Cervicogenic headache
      than males. Persons with chronic Cervicogenic headache experience significant restriction of
      everyday function and are limited to social involvement, and emotional sufferings. Beside
      this, the poorer quality of life is seen in these individuals than normal. Headache can be
      classified as primary or secondary. Primary headache originates from a vascular or muscular
      source such as tension-type headache. Secondary headache is related to other structures with
      cervicogenic headache being the most common type that is related to cervical spine
      dysfunction. Up to about 70% of frequent intermittent headache are reported with associated
      neck pain making cervicogenic headache difficult to diagnose.

      The C1-C2 segment is considered essential to be examined in Cervicogenic headache diagnosis.
      Moreover, muscle tightness especially of the upper trapezius and sternocleidomastoid muscles
      with impaired strength and neuromotor contract of the cervical flexors (superficial and deep)
      are frequently encountered in subjects with Cervicogenic headache. Different therapeutic
      approaches have been proposed for treatment of headaches; with physical therapy,
      pharmacological drugs, and cognitive therapies most commonly used. Several studies reported
      that manual therapy of the cervical spine can decrease pain intensity, frequency, and
      duration in addition to reduction in neck pain and disability. The "mobilization with
      movement" concept, known as the Mulligan concept, is entirely distinct from other forms of
      manual therapy. Mulligan described the sustained natural apophyseal glide on the joint with
      active movement done by the patient in the direction of the symptoms. This glide should be
      pain-free, with proper force applied by a trained person.

      The efficacy of sustained natural apophyseal glide C1-C2 has been proven in a research in
      patients who were experiencing acute to subacute Cervicogenic headache for both short and
      long-term periods. Mulligan recommended that mobilization should be done towards the
      restricted site or in the direction of symptom reproduction, which is difficult to find in
      patients experiencing headache and dizziness in only one direction. There is evidence that
      mobilizing symptomatic and asymptomatic cervical levels results in immediate improvement of
      pain and segmental mobility at the same level as well as adjacent areas. sustained natural
      apophyseal glide Mulligan mobilizations are one of the most popular manual therapy techniques
      found to be effective in treating Cervicogenic headache as mentioned in the "Neck Pain
      Guidelines 2017" recommended by American Physical Therapy Association , which reported that
      patients with neck pain and Cervicogenic headache had significant improvement with
      self-sustained natural apophyseal glide C1-C2 for both short and long-term periods.

      Additionally, sustained natural apophyseal glide as a treatment modality can be applied to
      all the spinal joints, the rib cage and the sacroiliac joint. They provide a method to
      improve restricted joint range when symptoms are movement induced. The therapist facilitates
      the appropriate accessory zygoapophyseal joint glide while the patient performs the
      symptomatic movement. The facilitatory glide must result in full-range pain-free movement.
      Sustained end range holds or overpressure can be applied to the physiological movement. This
      previously symptomatic motion is repeated up to three times while the therapist continues to
      maintain the appropriate accessory glide. In particular, a cervical sustained natural
      apophyseal glide is applied with the patient seated, and thus, the spine is in a vertical
      (i.e. weight bearing or loaded) position.

      Mobilization is very effective in the management of Cervicogenic headache. The group of
      patients who are given sustained natural apophyseal glide showed significantly greater
      improvement in neck disability index. A research study has shown that the headache sustained
      natural apophyseal glide is more effective as compared to the reverse headache sustained
      natural apophyseal glide in the reduction of pain on headache scale. Another research study
      has shown that C2 sustained natural apophyseal glide and reverse sustained natural apophyseal
      glide technique were effective in reducing functional disability and headache intensity.
      Also, C2 sustained natural apophyseal glide was found to be more effective in reducing
      headache intensity when compared with the other group.
    
  