
    
      Vaginal acidity is thought to be one means by which the vagina prevents overgrowth or
      colonization by harmful microbial flora. Sperm and many STD pathogens, including HSV-1 and
      HSV-2, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Treponema pallidum, Haemophilus ducreyi, and a variety of
      bacterial vaginosis-associated bacteria, are inactivated at pH less than 5 in vitro.
      BufferGel, a vaginal spermicide and microbicide, is an acidic buffer that maintains the
      vagina at or near its natural state of mild acidity. Formulated at vaginal pH (pH 3.9),
      BufferGel prevents or limits the semen-induced rise in vaginal pH. Carbopol 974P, the
      buffering agent in BufferGel, is a high molecular weight, cross-linked, polyacrylic acid used
      as a gelling or tableting agent in many pharmaceuticals; it has a well-documented record of
      mucosal safety in animals and humans. This study will determine the safety and contraceptive
      efficacy of BufferGel spermicide used with a diaphragm compared to Gynol II spermicide used
      with a diaphragm. The study will also measure the frequency of bacterial vaginosis, urinary
      tract infections, and cervical lesions in women using BufferGel compared with Gynol II.

      Participants in this study will be fitted for a diaphragm and randomized to receive either
      BufferGel or Gynol II. All participants will be instructed on the use of the test product
      with the diaphragm. Participants will be followed through 6 menstrual cycles (approximately 7
      months) and will have 4 study visits and one study phone call. Some participants may enroll
      in an extended version of the study and be followed for an additional 6 cycles and 2
      additional study visits. Study visits will include a gynecologic exam, Pap smear, and blood
      and urine tests. Participants will be asked to keep a diary to record information on product
      use. Some participants may also be asked to enroll in a colposcopy substudy. These
      participants will undergo colposcopy at study entry and after cycles 1, 3 and 6.
    
  