
    
      The subject population will consist of selected patients proven by genetic testing, muscle
      biopsy or antibody testing to have CMS or LEMS. Consideration for entry in our clinical study
      will require referral from a treating pediatrician or neurologist. Dr. Maselli will examine
      patients and deem which are appropriate for neurophysiologic examinations at the University
      of California, Davis Medical Center. In vitro neuromuscular recordings of anconeus muscle
      biopsy material (as well as standard light and electron morphologic analysis) or
      documentation of a genetic mutation associated with congenital myasthenia will be required in
      some patients to confirm the diagnosis of CMS.

      If a participant decides to volunteer, and if the diagnosis of Congenital Myasthenic Syndrome
      (CMS) or Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome (LEMS) has not been established, the participant
      may need to undergo a muscle biopsy or a blood sampling for DNA testing. The investigators
      will obtain a blood test (serum chemistry) before participants start treatment and then once
      a year after the start of 3,4-DAP treatment. Participants will also have an
      electrocardiograph (EKG) before starting treatment, and every 2 years after the start of
      3,4-DAP treatment. All study participants will then return to the clinic once each year (or
      more often if the neurologist feels it is necessary) for follow-up care.

      Participants will receive treatment with the study drug until it is approved by the FDA for
      use in patients with CMS or LEMS, until the investigator stops the study drug (because it
      doesn't work for the participant or it is unsafe for to take), or until the study is ended
      for other reasons (i.e. safety concerns are discovered, etc.), whichever comes first.
      Participants will be allowed to stay on other medications for myasthenia or add other
      medications to treat their condition, as necessary.

      If participants have an unclear history of episodes resembling seizures as determined by the
      investigator, they should not to drive or operate heavy machinery for the first 6 months of
      the study.

      Participants may not participate in this study if they are pregnant or breastfeeding or if
      they are a woman of childbearing potential who plans to become pregnant while on the study.
      It is unclear how 3,4 DAP can effect an unborn fetus. Therefore, women of childbearing
      potential will have a pregnancy test prior to starting the study drug and periodically
      throughout the study, if needed. Participants who think they may have become pregnant during
      the study should tell the study doctor immediately.
    
  