
    
      The REDUCTION trial is a prospective multicentre cohort study conducted at the level I
      emergency departments of the University Medical Center Groningen, Isala hospital (Zwolle, The
      Netherlands) and the level II trauma center Nij Smellinghe hospital (Drachten, The
      Netherlands). The increased availability of Computed Tomography (CT) in the emergency
      department is leading to an overuse for patients with suspected maxillofacial injury. The use
      of a clinical decision aid could lead to more expedient use of diagnostic imaging within this
      population of patients. Therefore, all maxillofacial trauma patients admitted to the
      emergency department are included in this trial if the consultation is within 7 days after
      trauma. Both maxillofacial trauma patients admitted to CT scan and patients without a
      radiological confirmed diagnosis are included. The research protocol was approved by the
      institutional review board of the University Medical Center Groningen (Groningen, The
      Netherlands). Informed consent was waived as patients are treated according to the standards
      of care. Upon admission, each patient with maxillofacial injury will be allocated as a
      midfacial or mandibular trauma. During physical examination, either by the emergency
      physician or surgical resident, a pre-defined selection of clinical parameters will be
      assessed focussing on the assessment of potential presence of fractures in the maxillofacial
      region. The standardization of this examination will be ensured using a pocket map and easy
      accessible online instructional video's. The clinical parameters, fracture likelihood and
      physical examination findings will be structurally reported in electronic health record
      software using a smart tool dedicated for maxillofacial injury. Data regarding patient
      demographics, mechanism of injury, concomitant injury, diagnostic outcome and radiation dose
      parameters will be derived from the medical records.
    
  