
    
      Adolescents and young adults (AYAs) with cancer comprise a unique population within the
      larger cancer community. This is primarily due to distinct differences in disease biology
      compared to older and younger patients, as well as their unique psychosocial needs. AYAs with
      cancer historically have unmet needs relating to management of their mental health and
      treatment-related symptoms. One particular area of unmet need is distress management during
      cancer treatment, reported in nearly one third of AYAs with newly diagnosed cancer. Reasons
      for distress are multifactorial, including lack of medical information, worries about future
      life goals and fertility, and social isolation from peers and family. Proactively addressing
      and preventing this distress is critical for forestalling the high rates of depression,
      anxiety, and post-traumatic stress seen in AYAs. One promising but under explored
      intervention with the potential to mitigate distress is group-based physical activity.
      Multiple studies cite physical activity's benefits for patients with cancer, while oncology
      and sports medicine societies recommend including physical activity as part of comprehensive
      cancer care. Group physical activity intervention models have been successful in creating
      sustainable improvements in physical and psychosocial health in other populations with
      cancer, though can present transportation and scheduling barriers. Additionally, medical
      providers and participants undergoing treatment for cancer may be hesitant to engage in
      group-based physical activity interventions during times of neutropenia given infection risk.

      Dr. Rao's mentors have extensive preliminary data that guided her project's development. The
      theoretical model for this study's intervention delivery is based on Dr. Rovniak's Social
      Networks for Activity Promotion (SNAP) model, and targets optimizing the physical environment
      where physical activity is received, as well as the importance of social network environments
      and interactions. Dr. Schmitz has been at the forefront of the movement to incorporate
      physical activity into the care of patients with cancer and cancer survivors. She has led
      multiple trials, including a large randomized controlled trial to assess the safety of upper
      body exercise among breast cancer survivors with and without lymphedema (Physical Activity
      and Lymphedema Trial [PAL]). Dr. Sciamanna's work has evaluated the implementation of a group
      strength training intervention in elderly patients, which has been found to be safe and
      effective, as well socially beneficial to its participants. Dr. Williams is the founder and
      president of Hip Hop for Public Health (HHPH) a non-profit organization which has
      successfully utilized hip-hop music to deliver sustainable health messages pertaining to
      nutrition and physical activity in youth.

      The preliminary data as noted above set the foundation for this project, which builds on the
      importance of social network environments and interactions in encouraging physical activity.
      This is particularly true for adolescents as a whole, as social support has been found to be
      an especially important factor in the promotion of physical activity. Specifically for AYAs
      with cancer, physical activity has been cited as an area of preferred clinical program focus
      for AYAs with cancer and those who have completed treatment. Thus, a group-based physical
      activity intervention among AYAs with cancer could address an area of unmet need that
      potentially improves the psychosocial health of this patient population. Delivery using a
      virtual platform is culturally appropriate for AYAs with cancer, a unique patient population
      that is technologically savvy, and interested in using social media platforms to create a
      sense of belonging and community.
    
  