
    
      SAMPLE COLLECTION: Saliva collection will be performed using Salivette (SARSTEDT, Germany)
      and following the manufacturer's instructions. Briefly, the cotton swab will be inserted in
      the subject mouth and chewed for 60 seconds. The saliva collection will be achieved through
      centrifugation of the swab (1000 g x 2 minutes), recording all the related parameters
      (storage temperature and the time between collection and analysis). All the collection
      procedures will be performed at least two hours after the last meal and teeth brushing.

      SAMPLE PROCESSING AND PREPARATION: Before the analysis, a drop of saliva (3 ul) will be
      deposited on a commercially available aluminum foil and dried overnight. The aluminum foil is
      fundamental to achieve the Surface Enhanced Raman Scattering, increasing in this way the
      saliva Raman signal.

      DATA COLLECTION: Raman spectra will be acquired using an Aramis Raman microscope (Horiba
      Jobin-Yvon, France) equipped with a laser light source operating at 785 nm with 100% (512mW)
      laser power. Acquisition time will be set at 30 seconds with double acquisition and 2 seconds
      delay time to prevent the formation of artifact spectra. Before each analysis, the instrument
      will be calibrated using the reference band of silicon. All the signals will be acquired in
      the region between 400 and 1600 cm-1 with a resolution of 0.8cm-1, acquiring at least 25
      spectra following a square-map. The software package LabSpec 6 (Horiba Jobin-Yvon, France)
      will be used for map design and the acquisition of spectra.

      DATA PROCESSING AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: All the data will be fit using a fourth-degree
      polynomial curve to set the baseline and consecutively normalized using unit vector. The
      contribution of aluminum will be removed from each spectrum. The statistical analysis will be
      performed using the multivariate approach. Briefly, principal component analysis and linear
      discriminant analysis will be applied to extract the principal components and the canonical
      variables. These features will be used for the leave one out cross-validation (LOOCV), subset
      validation and correlation with the clinical parameters. Mann-Whitney will be performed on
      PCs scores to verify the differences statistically relevant between the analysed groups. The
      analysis will be performed using Origin software (OriginLab, USA)

      CORRELATION: Partial correlation with Pearson's and Spearman's coefficients will be performed
      on the variables extracted and the clinical parameters, using as control covariates the age
      and sex of the subjects. Only values with p < 0.001 will be considered as statistically
      relevant.

      TRANSLATION: The data and the classification model will be applied with a portable Raman
      equipped with a laser emitting at 785 nm and with a spectral resolution comparable with the
      one used for the previous analysis
    
  