
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose of EGFRBi-armed autologous activated
           T-cells (ATC) when administered in combination with low-dose aldesleukin and
           sargramostim (GM-CSF) in patients with recurrent, refractory, or extensive (metastatic)
           non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

      Secondary

        -  Assess clinical outcome based on tumor responses, overall survival, and progression-free
           survival.

        -  Monitor changes in sera concentrations of the tumor marker in association with
           EGFRBi-armed ATC administration throughout the study and at time points thereafter in
           patients with elevated levels of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) prior to beginning the
           study.

        -  Monitor patient sera for human anti-mouse antibodies (HAMA).

        -  Evaluate immune response, which may reflect immune augmentation in response to
           EGFRBi-armed ATC infusions, in peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) samples as well
           as purified immune cell populations.

        -  Investigate proliferation in response to ex vivo stimulation with NSCLC tumor-associated
           antigens, sera cytokine profiles (Th1 vs Th2), cytotoxicity of patient PBMC, and
           interferon gamma ELISPOTS as a surrogate marker for assessing generation of
           EGFR-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTL).

      OUTLINE: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) are collected by 1 or 2 leukaphereses for
      the generation of activated T cells (ATCs). The PBMCs are activated with OKT3 (anti-CD3) and
      expanded in aldesleukin for up to 14 days. The ATCs are then armed with EGFRBi.

      Patients receive EGFRBi-armed autologous ATCs IV over 30-60 minutes twice weekly for 4 weeks
      (a total of 8 infusions) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients also receive low-dose aldesleukin subcutaneously (SC) once daily and sargramostim
      (GM-CSF) SC twice weekly beginning 3 days before the first ATC infusion and continuing for 1
      week after the last ATC infusion.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.
    
  