
    
      In Ontario, most victims of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) do not receive Advanced
      Cardiac Life Support (ACLS); rather, they receive only Basic Life Support (BLS) from Primary
      Care Paramedics (PCPs), where the survival rate is approximately 5%. Every one of these
      patients is transported to the Emergency Department (ED), where the vast majority are
      pronounced dead. Conversely, patients who do not respond to ACLS by Advanced Care Paramedics
      (ACPs) are pronounced dead in the field via patching to the Base Hospital Physician (BHP).
      Implementation of a termination of resuscitation (TOR) guideline for the PCP's use would
      decrease the number of non-viable patients transported to the ED.

      A reduction of unsuccessfully resuscitated cardiac arrest patients transported to the ED
      would have numerous advantages. First, it may improve the efficiency of the ED health care
      system because cardiac arrest patients in the ED require immediate attention that is diverted
      from potentially more salvageable patients. Second, the risk of injury and the monetary costs
      for the paramedic and the public would be minimized with fewer "light and sirens" transports
      which are known to be hazardous to motorists, pedestrians, and EMS personnel. Additionally,
      it is less expensive to pronounce non-viable patients in the field. And, finally termination
      of resuscitative efforts in the field permits the paramedic to turn his attention and skill
      set to supporting the family through the initial stages of grief.

      The most recent American Heart Association (AHA) emergency cardiac care guidelines suggest
      that there is a need to develop TOR protocols for PCPs in situations where ACLS care is not
      rapidly available, and call for more scientific evidence to support the implementation of
      such guidelines.

      We derived and prospectively validated a clinical prediction rule to guide PCP termination of
      resuscitation in out of hospital cardiac arrest.

      The TOR implementation study aims to document the usefulness of the TOR guideline, as
      specified by a newly developed medical directive, in decreasing the rate of transport of OHCA
      patients to the ED. Secondary aims of this implementation study will be to describe the rates
      of erroneous application of the guideline. The comfort of use of the rule among paramedics
      and base hospital emergency physicians will be described.

      This will be a multi-centre prospective implementation study involving a combination of urban
      and rural regional EMS systems across Ontario. Included will be consecutive patients who
      suffer from non-traumatic cardiac arrest (i.e. of presumed cardiac etiology). Identical to
      the derivation and validation phase, patients will be excluded from the study if: their
      arrest is due to trauma, drowning or drug overdose; they receive any prehospital ACLS care;
      they possess a documented "Do Not Resuscitate" directive; or they are less than 18 years of
      age.

      Cases that meet inclusion criteria will be enrolled consecutively. For each cardiac arrest,
      paramedics will respond to the call as usual and initiate resuscitation attempts. Patients
      suffering from cardiac arrest that (1) was not witnessed by EMS personnel; (2) had no shocks
      delivered by anyone; and (3) have had no return of spontaneous carotid or femoral pulse meet
      the criteria for TOR. In these circumstances PCPs will patch to the local BHP using the
      standard patching process. The BHP will then direct the paramedic to either continue
      resuscitation and transport, or terminate resuscitation in the field based on the TOR
      guideline and their clinical judgment of each individual call. In the case of failure of the
      paramedic to reach the BHP, the paramedic is directed to continue resuscitation and transport
      as per normal procedures, regardless of what the TOR guideline recommends. Data for each case
      will be requested from both the paramedic and the emergency physician using a uniform data
      collection sheet and the standardized Ontario Ambulance Call Report (ACR).

      The rate of patient transport to the ED will be calculated. The obtained rate of transport
      will be compared to the theoretical rate obtained in the validation study, 37.4% using a one
      sample test, two sided, test of proportions, in order to evaluate the utility of the rule to
      decrease transport rates. Rates of erroneous application of the rule by both paramedics and
      emergency physicians will be calculated by identifying and tabulating the various reason for
      non-compliance. Occurrence of adverse patient outcomes, such as ROSC after TOR will be
      closely monitored.
    
  