
    
      General aim: The overall aim of this project is to prospectively evaluate the impact of a
      COVID-19 infection on the severity of the cancer therapy-related complications and the QoL of
      patients with cancer undergoing chemotherapy using a digital PROMs platform.

      Objective 1: Evaluate the effect of a COVID-19 infection on the severity of cancer
      therapy-related side effects and patients' QoL

      Rationale: The functionality of this platform will be based on three main principles:

        1. The digital PROMs platform will provide patient-tailored information throughout the
           course of their disease and up to one month after the end of their chemotherapy
           concerning complications and COVID-19. This will support the cancer patients during
           their disease with specific advice based on the side effects they document. First, this
           will help comfort patients and reduce their anxiety and insecurity in these stressful
           times. Second, they will receive information regarding measures they can take to tackle
           their specific complications. Third, this will encourage patients to seek help in case
           of a possible COVID-19 infection and/or severe side effects by contacting the
           oncological support team or their physician.

        2. The platform will prospectively collect QoL data using validated patient-reported
           questionnaires and specific COVID-19 questionnaires via a mobile application.

        3. The platform will be fully integrated into the electronic health record (EHR) of the
           patient and will provide a structured report of the questioned complications for the
           physician. This will allow the medical oncologist to monitor the medical journey of the
           patient during and up to one month after their chemotherapy. As such, the medical
           oncologist can finetune the cancer treatment and supportive care measures towards the
           needs of the patient.

      Hypothesis: "An COVID-19 infection will aggravate the severity of the cancer therapy-related
      complications and thereby diminish the patients' QoL."

      Objective 2: Evaluate the patient benefit of digital PROMS platform Rationale: The
      implementation of a digital PROMs platform for cancer patients has demonstrated multiple
      benefits in the past, ranging from enhanced patient satisfaction, detection of unrecognized
      problems, earlier detection of complications, and/or more specific supportive care measures
      leading to an improved treatment outcome and QoL.

      Hypothesis: "The use of a digital PROMs platform for cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy
      during the COVID-19 pandemic will lead to (1) an improved patient satisfaction and general
      knowledge on the oncologic supportive care measures and (2) a reduction in patient distress
      and anxiety".

      General approach (for both objectives): A prospective, cohort study will be set up in
      patients with cancer undergoing chemotherapy. Patients will be stratified during treatment in
      two groups: (1) COVID-19 positive and (2) negative patients. Patients will be instructed to
      fill in validated Qol, distress/anxiety, and COVID-19 specific questionnaires via a digital
      platform from the day of inclusion up to 1-month post-chemotherapy.
    
  