
    
      Summary/Proposal: Reduced Intensity Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation for High-Risk Relapsed
      Pediatric Hematologic Malignancies and Patients Ineligible for Standard Transplantation We
      propose a phase II trial of reduced intensity conditioning with Bu/Flu/ATG in pediatric
      patients with hematologic malignancies at high risk for transplant related mortality with
      standard transplantation. Patients qualify based on organ system dysfunction, active but
      stable infection, history of previous transplant, or late stage disease. We plan to enroll 45
      patients through the Pediatric Blood and Marrow transplant Consortium (PBMTC) and anticipate
      that the outcome of the trial will pave the way for phase II or III disease specific
      protocols addressing efficacy of the approach compared to standard transplant approaches in
      better risk patients.

      Hypothesis High risk pediatric hematologic malignancy patients ineligible for standard
      myeloablative HCT undergoing reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) HCT can achieve a sustained
      engraftment rate > 90% with a 100day TRM < 30% using either bone marrow or PBSC from related
      or unrelated donors. High risk pediatric patients undergoing RIC-HCT using related or
      unrelated cord blood can achieve a sustained engraftment rate >80% and a 100d TRM <30%.

      Rationale for Reduced Intensity Approaches in High Risk Patients There are a number
      patient-specific risk factors associated with increased transplant related mortality. They
      can be broadly placed into three categories: pretransplant organ system dysfunction, active
      infections at the time of transplant, and degree of pretransplant therapy (previous
      transplants, third or subsequent remission, etc.).

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the likelihood of achieving sustained
      donor engraftment using reduced intensity conditioning (fludarabine/busulfan/ATG) followed by
      hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) with either cord blood, bone marrow or peripheral
      blood stem cells (PBMTC) in pediatric patients with hematopoietic malignancies who are at
      high risk of transplant related mortality (TRM) with myeloablative HCT. Patients qualify
      based on organ system dysfunction, active but stable infection, history of previous
      transplant or late stage disease. We plan to enroll 45 patients through the Pediatric Blood
      and Marrow Transplant Consortium (PBMTC) and anticipate that the outcome of the trial will
      pave the way for phase II or III disease specific protocols addressing efficacy of the
      approach compared to standard transplant approaches in better risk patients.

      Study procedures Patients receive their conditioning regimen consisting of fludarabine,
      busulfan, and ATG and then receive their stem cell transplant. Patients receive
      immunosuppression consisting of cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil. Patients with
      persistent or progressive disease may receive donor lymphocyte infusion off protocol.
    
  