
    
      Our institution performs therapeutic Interventional Endoscopy in around 750-1000 patients a
      year. During these interventional procedures, advanced and emerging imaging techniques
      including choledochoscopy, choledochopancreatoscopy, confocal endomicroscopy,
      chromoendoscopy, narrow band imaging, etc. are conducted for presumptive or definitive
      diagnoses in some of the patients suffering pancreatico-biliary disorders; including
      malignancies. Early and accurate diagnosis is necessary to improve the prognosis for
      pancreatic cancer or cholangiocarcinoma. Initial studies have shown that advanced imaging
      including confocal microendoscopy may majorly impact the clinical management of patients by
      providing accurate diagnosis early on. Choledochoscopy is used for microendoscopic
      visualisation of lumen and mucous membrane, for diagnosis, classification and therapy of
      abnormally functioning gall-bladder and pancreatic systems. New refinements have allowed for
      single user direct imaging with endobiliary biopsy. SpyGlassTM Direct Visualization System
      (Boston Scientific, Natick, MA) is a platform designed to enhance diagnostic accuracy during
      ERCP (Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography) and allowing guided biopsy. It is an
      FDA approved instrument with the ability of performing cholangiopancreatoscopy by a single
      endoscopist during ERCP. A 1.2 mm working channel exists within the Spyglass system allowing
      for instrument access to the biliary or pancreatic tree. Advanced Endoscopists at various
      centers in the U.S, and outside U.S., use Choledochoscopy with SpyGlass to assist in the
      confirmation of diagnosis in patients having Billiary lesions. However, there is little data
      and thus neglibible evidence regarding the agreement of SPY interpretation within doctors.
      However, advanced endoscopists have only recently started to employ the SpyGlassTM Direct
      Visualization System for single operator choledochoscopy. Hence we lack enough data to
      accurately evaluate the sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, technical feasibility, safety and
      cost effectiveness of such imaging devices. Evaluation of these factors would help us compare
      them to conventional diagnostic options; and consequently help us identify appropriate
      imaging techniques for biliary and pancreatic disorders and improve clinical management of
      patients.

      The purpose of this registry is to record information and evaluate the impact of SpyGlassTM
      Direct Visualization System for choledochoscopy on the management of pancreatico-biliary
      disorders. The registry will evaluate diagnostic performance and overall clinical management
      impacted by SpyGlass.
    
  