
    
      Due to the current opioid epidemic, there has been increased focus on the prescribing
      patterns of physicians and greater incentive to reduce the amount of narcotic pain medication
      prescribed.

      A prospective study was recently published in Annals of Surgery by Ruffolo et al. which
      described an opt-in narcotic treatment program for 216 patients who underwent outpatient
      endocrine cervical surgery (1). Patients were counseled in the pre-operative visit that after
      the surgery, they would be provided the option of narcotic pain medication versus
      over-the-counter medication. Prior to discharge, patients were evaluated by a member of the
      surgical team and offered a choice of postoperative pain medications. The study found only 4%
      of patients requested narcotic pain medication and achieved a 96.6% reduction in
      postoperative narcotic use. No patients called in to request narcotic pain medication after
      discharge.

      The study participants were compared to a retrospective cohort of patients who were given
      narcotic medication postoperatively as the default option. There have been no randomized
      controlled trials comparing the two pain medication strategies in outpatient cervical
      endocrine surgery. Additionally, in that study, the level of postoperative pain was not fully
      assessed and quality of life measures were not studied.

      In our institutional practice, having a member of the surgical team visit the patient at the
      bedside to assess pain level is not part of the standard postoperative work flow, given that
      the operative team is usually operating at the time the patient is discharged. In order to
      assess the feasibility of implementing such a program within our practice, we plan to develop
      alternative methods of presenting the decision for postoperative pain treatment in the
      immediate postoperative period that fits into our standard practice.

      Significance:

      Given the current health care and political climate, there has been increasing focus on
      reducing the amount of narcotics prescribed by health care providers. Based on the results of
      the above cited study, we believe implementing an opt-in program at UCLA will also
      significantly decrease the amount of opioids prescribed for postoperative pain. However, we
      will improve upon that study but assessing pain levels in the week immediately after surgery
      to ensure patients are not suffering from excessive pain levels at home without notifying
      providers, and compare these pain levels to patients who are randomized to standard
      postoperative care (automatically dispensed with a narcotic prescription). We will also
      assess quality of life measures after surgery to compare the impact of pain management
      strategy on the postoperative experience.

      Ruffolo et al. demonstrated the feasibility in reducing the amount of narcotics prescribed by
      a significant level by initiating an opt-in program and empowering patients to make their own
      health care decisions. Incorporating this type of program into the standard operative work
      flow will maintain efficiency while working towards the goal of reducing narcotic usage. If
      we can demonstrate the feasibility of implementing such an opt-in program within the section
      of Endocrine Surgery, expanding the program to other divisions of ambulatory surgery in
      different surgical subspecialties may also be possible.

      1. Ruffolo LI, Jackson KM, Juviler P, et al. Narcotic Free Cervical Endocrine Surgery: A
      Shift in Paradigm. Ann Surg. 9000;Publish Ahead of Print.
    
  