
    
      Finding a safe and effective method of improving blood glucose (BG) control without weight
      gain is one of the major goals of diabetes research. Previous research studies have shown
      that Levemir and Byetta are safe and effective medications in the treatment of type 2
      diabetes. Both drugs have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for
      the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The use of Levemir and Byetta in combination in this study,
      is investigational, meaning it is not approved by the FDA for this use. However, the FDA has
      allowed the use of Levemir and Byetta in combination in this study of safety and
      effectiveness in improving blood sugar levels with little or no weight gain in people with
      type 2 diabetes.

      Levemir is a long acting insulin that is usually taken once a day at bedtime and can last for
      up to 24 hours. Unlike most insulins that lower blood glucose levels, but cause weight gain,
      clinical research trials suggest that Levemir may lower blood glucose levels without causing
      weight gain and may even result in weight loss.

      Byetta is not insulin, but improves blood glucose control by mimicking the action of hormones
      in the gastrointestinal tract called incretins. The incretin hormones trigger the release of
      insulin from the pancreas and allow insulin to work more effectively in the body. Byetta also
      delays the movement of food from the stomach into the small intestine. As a result, people
      taking Byetta may feel "full" faster and longer, so they eat less. The most common side
      effect with Byetta is mild to moderate nausea, which improves with time in most people.
      Clinical research trials that have studied the effects of Byetta have shown that, in addition
      to lowering blood glucose levels, the use of Byetta resulted in weight loss.

      There have been no previous studies that have compared Levemir to Byetta in patients who have
      failed to achieve blood glucose goals with two or three oral diabetes medications.
    
  