
    
      Design: Multicenter Prospective Observational Birth Cohort Study

      Population:

      Patients with haemophilia A and B with FVIII/IX levels of <1 to 25% born between 1-1-2000 and
      1-1-2030.

      Intervention:

      No intervention; only documentation of patient characteristics and parameters of routine
      patient care and outcome

      Main outcome parameters:

      Outcome: clinically relevant inhibitor development, bleeding pattern and joint status on
      physical examination and imaging.

      Determinants: baseline FVIII/IX levels, measurement of inhibitory antibodies, family history,
      FVIII/IX gene mutation, details on replacement therapy (according to each infusion for the
      first 50 treatment days, and annually thereafter) and surgeries.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

        -  No burden for the patients. Well-defined clinical data will be collected from the
           medical files. Participating in this registry will not change the number of visits to
           the clinic. All outcome parameters that are collected (including laboratory results) are
           part of routine clinical care.

        -  Direct benefit is not to be expected. However, the direct interaction between centres
           that treat patients with rare diseases improves both clinical care and will result in
           better guidelines and as such may provide indirect benefit.

        -  Multicentre participation: haemophilia is a very rare condition. Therefore, collecting
           data on a multi-centre observational cohort is the only way to study this specific
           population.

        -  The registry concerns young boys with haemophilia and cannot be performed in older
           patients, as >90% of inhibitors occur develop during the first 50 exposure days, and the
           results of prophylactic replacement therapy are highly dependent on the initiation of
           this treatment.
    
  