
    
      Investigators will recruit patients <40 years with no background morbidities who are being
      treated with IVF or IVF intra cytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) for acceptable indications.
      Only patients reaching a blastocyst transfer will be recruited ; this criterion will assist
      in minimizing embryonal quality as a factor in the implantation chance. The investigators
      will limit the quality to good quality embryos, which in the unit's routine practice are
      transferred in a single embryo transfer. On Day 5, embryos will be scored for blastocyst
      formation. Blastocysts will be graded according to the size of the blastocyst, the assessment
      of the inner cell mass (ICM) and trophectoderm development as suggested by Gardner. Good
      quality embryos (Grade 1-2) will be defined as those where at least: "3" score if the cavity
      completely fills the embryo, "B" when the ICM is loosely grouped with several cells and "B"
      when the trophectoderm has very few cells forming a loose epithelium. Lower criteria embryos
      on Day 5 will be defined as poor quality embryos (Grade 3 or 4). Blastocyst grading will be
      performed by two trained embryologists, each with over 10 years of experience. The study will
      not involve any change in the conventional IVF treatment; the only change will involve a 3D
      trans-vaginal ultrasound at the morning of the embryo transfer, before patients are
      initiating bladder filling (a common request from all abdominally assisted embryo transfers,
      facilitating an easier pathway to the uterus and an excellent view). The estimated time for
      the ultrasound test is 5-8 minutes and will include recording of the following variables :
      endometrial thickness, endometrial pattern, endometrial -myometrial junction appearance,
      subendometrial wave contractions (presence and number), endometrial surface area. The
      information will be recoded under the patients' unique study identity number and will be
      stored in a special computerized archived file secured by Meir medical center data protection
      and computer unit. The data will not affect any treatment decisions in the IVF unit unless
      this examination will reveal for the first time the presence of an unknown uterine polyp or
      the presence of a hydrosalpinx. Such scenario is improbable since in the performing unit,
      patients are routinely going through a uterine cavity assessment and a pelvic ultrasound scan
      prior to an IVF cycle. If this indeed happens then the ultrasound unit will contact the IVF
      unit and the treating physician will discuss the data with the patient in order to decide
      whether to go on with the transfer or to freeze the embryo/s until treating the new findings.
      Upon completion of 150 patients/studies, the ultrasound file will be analyzed by two highly
      trained and experienced examiners. Each of the variables collected will be used in a
      multivariate model for implantation incorporating the patient's age.
    
  