
    
      Based on an internal system-wide review of mental health services and the Mental Health
      Action Plan submitted to Congress in November, 2011, the Office of Mental Health Operations
      (OMHO) has undertaken an effort to establish behavioral health interdisciplinary plans
      (BHIPs), which are intended to provide General Mental Health (GMH) care throughout the
      Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The BHIP goal is to build effective interdisciplinary
      teams, which will provide the majority of care for Veterans in GMH. It is now expected that
      every Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) establish at least one BHIP in the current
      initial phase (begun in late fiscal year 2013), and that the effort scale-up subsequently.
      Not surprisingly, progress has been uneven.

      In 2015 OMHO incorporated the Collaborative Chronic Care Model (CCM) as an evidence-based
      model by which to structure BHIPs. Consistent with BHIP goals, CCMs were developed to provide
      anticipatory, continuous, collaborative, evidence-based care. CCMs consist of 6 elements:
      delivery system redesign, use of clinical information systems, provider decision support,
      patient self-management support, linkage to community resources, and healthcare organization
      support. Replicating Effective Programs with External Facilitation (REP-F) has been shown to
      be effective in implementing complex care models, including CCMs for mental health, both
      within and beyond VA.

      Thus in conjunction with OMHO, the investigators propose this project with the Specific Aim
      of evaluating the impact of REP-F in implementing CCM-based BHIPs and their effect on Veteran
      health status. The investigators propose a Hybrid Type III implementation-effectiveness
      stepped wedge controlled trial, specifically hypothesizing that:

      H1: REP-F-based implementation to establish CCM-based BHIPs, compared to existing centralized
      technical assistance will result in: (H1a) increased Veteran perceptions of CCM-based care,
      (H1b) higher rates of achieving national BHIP clinical fidelity measures (implementation
      outcomes), and (H1c) higher provider ratings of the presence of CCM elements.

      H2: CCM-based BHIPs, supported by REP-F implementation, will result in improved Veteran
      health outcomes compared to BHIPs supported by dissemination material alone (intervention
      outcomes).

      The investigators will utilize the national BHIP rollout as a vehicle for this project. Using
      a stepped wedge design the investigators will randomize 9 VAMCs that have requested support
      in establishing a BHIP to 1 of 3 waves of REP-F support: immediate implementation support vs.
      4-month vs. 8-month wait with dissemination of CCM materials (3 sites per wave). Fidelity and
      health outcome measures will be collected in a repeated measures design at 6-month intervals,
      and analyzed with general linear modeling.
    
  