
    
      The objective of the protocol is to investigate the human innate and adaptive immune
      responses in blood (only for adults) and nasopharyngeal mucosa resident cells to the live,
      attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) in both adults and children. The investigators hope to
      learn how the upper respiratory tract (URT) epithelial cells, the primary target of
      respiratory viruses, and the B cells and T cells, two major components of the immune system,
      respond to the influenza vaccine.

      The volunteers will be enrolled in two age groups:

      Group A: Up to 12 healthy non-twin volunteers, 2-8 years old, will be given seasonal LAIV.
      Each volunteer will complete a total of 3 visits. Volunteers will be divided in 2 sub-groups
      A-1 (n=6) and A-2 (n= 6) in order to collect nasopharyngeal swabs on different schedules (Day
      1 or Day 2). Volunteers will be assigned to these sub-groups based on convenience sampling.
      Both sub-groups will complete the Day 0 and Day 28 visits and one visit at either Day 1 or
      Day 2 post-immunization. Specimens will include nasopharyngeal swabs collected at Day 1 for
      Sub-group A1 and Day 2 for Sub-group A-2, and Day 28 for both sub-groups. No blood samples
      will be collected in this age group.

      Children with no prior influenza vaccine history will receive a second dose of vaccine (LAIV)
      at least 28 days after the first study dose, according to the ACIP guidelines.

      Group B: Up to 18 healthy non-twin volunteers, 18-49 yrs old, will be given seasonal LAIV
      vaccine. Each volunteer will complete a total of 5 visits. Volunteers will be divided into 3
      sub-groups B-1, B-2 and B-3 in order to collect nasopharyngeal swabs and blood specimens on
      different schedules (Day 0-6 hrs, Day 1 or Day 2). Volunteers will be assigned to these
      sub-groups based on convenience sampling. All sub-groups will complete visits at Day -7, Day
      0 pre-immunization, Day 7 and Day 28 and 1 additional time point: Sub-group B-1 at Day 0, 6
      hours post-immunization, Sub-group B-2 at Day 1 and Sub-group B-3 at Day 2. A nasopharyngeal
      swab will be collected at each visit except for Day 0 (baseline) and Day 7. A blood sample
      will be collected at each visit except Day -7
    
  