
    
      1. Outpatients planned for elective minor surgery, routinely done with LMA, will be asked
           to participate in the study.

        2. The patient is preoxygenated for 3 min. Anaesthesia is induced with 0.15 mcg/kg
           sufentanil and 1 - 4 mg/kg propofol. Routine monitoring is used together with
           BIS-monitoring. No neuromuscular relaxing agent is used. Patients lungs will be
           ventilated with a face mask for 3 min and then the LMA will be inserted while the neck
           of the patient is flexed, the head extended. LMA cuff is completely deflated. The LMA is
           inserted using a single-handed rotational technique. Failed insertion is defined as:
           failed passage in the pharynx, malposition (air leak) and ineffective ventilation
           (expired tidal volume<25% of administered volume). The time between picking up the LMA
           and successful placement is recorded. When failed on the first attempt the LMA will be
           inserted with a digital guided technique. A Third attempt will be a gum-elastic-bougie
           guided technique.

        3. Oropharyngeal leak pressure is determined at 0-40ml cuff volume in 10 ml increments. The
           expiratory valve of the circle system is closed at a fixed gas flow of 3 l/min and
           noting the airway pressure at equilibrium (max allowed 40 cmH2O)

        4. Fiber optic position: 4=only vocal cords visible, 3=vocal cords + posterior epiglottis,
           2=vocal cords + anterior epiglottis, 1=vocal cords not seen. Fiber optic position will
           only be evaluated if available at the moment of the study.

        5. Cuff pressure is set at 65 cmH2O using a manometer and patients lungs are ventilated at
           a tidal volume of 10 ml/kg, at a respiratory rate of 12/min. Presence of air leak is
           detected by listening over the mouth, gastric air leak (stethoscope over epigastrium,
           larynx, drain tube air leaks (lubricant over proximal end) or end-tidal CO2 > 45 mmHg.
           Respiratory settings are changed at the discretion of the anesthesiologist after
           successful placement.

        6. Correct gastric tube placement is assessed by suction of fluid. Cardiorespiratory data
           are collected: bradycardia >100/min, tachycardia >, hypotension, hypoxaemia

        7. Upon removal of the LMA at the end of the procedure the device will be checked for blood
           staining.

        8. At discharge from day surgery unit patients will be asked for presence of sore throat.
    
  