
    
      Sedentary behavior is an independent risk factor for chronic disease and premature mortality.
      Despite a growing awareness of the health risks associated with prolonged sitting, Americans
      spend upwards of 10 hours per day in a sedentary state. Many leisure-time activities and
      careers of modern society involve prolonged sitting, necessitating an urgent need to identify
      strategies that mitigate the health consequences of these behaviors. Recent evidence suggests
      that interrupting prolonged periods of sitting with short breaks of walking or cycling
      improve postprandial glucose and lipid handling throughout the day. Thus, relatively small
      quantities of movement represent an efficacious strategy for improving indices of metabolic
      health. However, more cost-effective and practical interventions that do not require extra
      space (i.e. walking) or equipment (i.e. cycling or a treadmill desk) beyond one's immediate
      sedentary space (e.g. office, desk) would help reduce real and/or perceived barriers of
      adopting this efficacious disease risk-reduction behavior. A currently understudied
      consequence of prolonged sitting may also be a desensitization of skeletal muscle's ability
      to use ingested protein, which overtime can result in detriments to the quantity and quality
      of this important tissue. Body-weight resistance exercise (RE) can augment the body's ability
      to use ingested protein to support the maintenance of skeletal muscle mass, and therefore may
      represent a novel exercise mode to minimize consequences of prolonged sitting. The proposed
      research will be the first to investigate the influence of interrupting prolonged sitting
      with short breaks of body-weight resistance exercise (RE) on postprandial glucose and protein
      metabolism. Importantly, the efficacy of this approach will be directly compared to short
      breaks of walking, which has previously been reported to improve postprandial glycemia in
      healthy adults.
    
  