
    
      Purpose: This will assess whether sensitive tests for urine or serum biomarkers are able to
      detect acute kidney injury following cardiopulmonary bypass surgery in the context of
      congenital heart disease.

      Background: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is defined as an abrupt decrease in renal function
      resulting in retention of nitrogenous (urea and creatinine) and non-nitrogenous waste
      products. AKI is a common complication following cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) surgery,
      occurring in up to 30% of adult patients following CPB surgery, increasing morbidity,
      mortality, and resource utilization.

      Patients with cyanotic heart disease who undergo CPB surgery are also at risk of developing
      AKI. These patients require multiple surgeries over the course of their lifetime to correct
      their congenital cardiac lesions. Cyanosis alone causes a glomerulopathy characterized
      clinically by sub-nephrotic range proteinuria, with higher prevalence related to length of
      time prior to initial corrective procedures.

      Pharmacological strategies for treatment of AKI have shown little efficacy in previous
      studies. Thus, recent studies have aimed to evaluate novel plasma and urinary biomarkers for
      early diagnosis of AKI, based on the hypothesis that outcomes may improve if AKI were
      identified and treatment initiated earlier. Urinary IL-18 and NGAL have been shown to be
      predictive markers of AKI after cardiopulmonary surgery in a pediatric population with a
      variety of congenital heart defects. This ultimately reduced detection time from 40 hours
      with conventional serum creatinine assays, to 4-6 hours with urinary IL-18 and NGAL. Serum
      Cystatin C has also been shown to be as reliable as serum creatinine in predicting kidney
      filtration levels, particularly for subjects with reduced muscle mass such as a population
      with congenital heart disease.

      However, no study has evaluated the utility of such markers in a combined pediatric and adult
      congenital heart disease population. These patients are unique because of the multitude of
      CPB surgeries required throughout their lifetime, degree of life spent cyanotic and, thus,
      may differ in their susceptibility to cardiac surgery associated AKI.

      Our long term goal is to evaluate the value of urinary and serum biomarkers for early
      detection of AKI in this unique patient population. Currently, the investigators propose to
      perform a pilot study to evaluate the feasibility of the study methods and to obtain
      preliminary data to assist in power calculations for a larger study.

      Methods: The investigators will enroll a total of 20 patients undergoing pulmonary valve
      replacement. All patients will have a history of a conotruncal anomaly with previous
      corrective surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass. Enrollment will occur at the time of
      cardiology or cardiovascular surgery consultation.

      After informed consent and assent is obtained, urine and serum samples will be collected for
      the study protocol. Urine specimens for creatinine, NGAL, and IL-18 will be collected
      pre-operatively for baseline measurement in addition to post-operatively at 6, 12, 24, and 72
      hours. Cystatin C will be measured pre-operatively to assess chronic renal function. Serum
      creatinine will be measured pre-operatively and post-operatively at 12 hours and daily as
      part of usual clinical care.

      Patients will be followed for 7 days after surgery or until the day of hospital discharge,
      whichever occurs first. Data collected from the hospital chart will include: demographics,
      medical and surgical history, type of surgical procedure, underlying congenital heart
      disease, baseline serum creatinine and renal function, serum creatinine(s) throughout
      hospitalization, daily urine output, need for dialysis, date of death or discharge. The
      primary endpoint is development of AKI based on serum creatinine reaching double baseline or
      requirement for acute dialysis, as described in the RIFLE- Risk, Injury, Failure, Loss, and
      End Stage Renal Disease- model of renal insufficiency.
    
  