
    
      Background:

        -  Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is a curative option for many children
           with cancer and certain genetic disorders. However, recipients of stem cell transplant
           must deal with years of disfigurement and symptoms arising from an undesirable side
           effect of transplant, specifically chronic graft-versus-host-disease (cGVHD).

        -  Children living with cGVHD often face many years of a disabling and painful chronic
           illness compounded by the side effects of prolonged immunosuppression, particularly
           long-term steroid use.

        -  Chronic GVHD can involve almost every organ although it most commonly affects the skin,
           eyes, mouth, liver, intestines, lung and the musculoskeletal system.

        -  There has been a large effort through the NIH cGVHD Consensus Consortium to standardize
           definitions, grading and response criteria for patients with cGVHD on clinical trials.
           Because of the absence of evidence suggesting which response criteria truly correlates
           with improvement, the NIH Consensus Panel has recommended following not only physical
           signs of chronic GVHD, but also symptoms of GVHD.

        -  The Lee cGVHD Symptom Score has been recognized as a core cGVHD outcome measure in the
           adult population, however, the instrument has not been validated for use in
           children/adolescents younger than 18, and many of the symptom terms used in the Lee
           cGVHD Symptom Scale may not be well understood by younger children.

        -  There is currently no available pediatric patient-reported outcome (PRO) measure of
           cGVHD symptom bother.

      Primary Objective:

      -To develop a psychometrically valid Pediatric cGVHD Symptom Scale (PCSS) and a companion
      parent-proxy measure as counterparts to the Lee cGVHD Symptom Scale.

      Eligibility:

        -  Children of 5 to 17 years of age, who have undergone prior allogeneic stem cell
           transplant

        -  Clinical diagnosis of cGVHD

        -  Currently receiving systemic treatment for cGVHD (including phototherapies), or has
           tapered systemic therapy for cGVHD to discontinuation within the past 12 months

        -  No evidence of malignant disease relapse including molecular relapse and minimal
           residual disease. Patients with mixed chimerism are eligible to participate

        -  Comprehend and speak English

      Design:

        -  This multicenter non-interventional psychosocial trial will address the study aims in
           two projects: 1) a qualitative project using cognitive interviewing to confirm the
           comprehension and ease of response to the PCSS, and 2) a quantitative project to
           evaluate test-retest reliability, construct validity and responsiveness of the PCSS, as
           well as to explore concordance of symptom ratings by patients and parent proxies.

        -  In Project 1, we will conduct at least 20 cognitive interviews of patient and proxy
           dyads (parent/guardian) within each age group (5-7; 8-12; 13-17) for a sample of 60
           pediatric transplant survivors with cGVHD to refine the symptom items and response
           choices to ensure that they resonate across the developmental spectrum. Cognitive
           interviews will evaluate the clarity and comprehension of the PCSS items, the ease and
           accuracy of judgement of the response choices, and any errors in understanding the
           response choices, and will refine the PCSS in accordance with study data, before
           proceeding to Project 2.

        -  In Project 2, we will evaluate test-retest reliability, construct validity, and
           responsiveness of the PCSS, in association with the NIH Global cGVHD Symptom Severity
           Score, the Peds QL, clinician ratings of organ specific cGVHD severity scores and cGVHD
           severity using the NIH criteria, in a sample of 120 pediatric transplant survivors with
           cGVHD reflecting three age groups (5-7 years; 8-12 years; 13-17 years) of equal numbers.
           In subjects ages 13-17, we will also compare responses on the PCSS with those from the
           Lee Scale, to determine the youngest age at which adolescent respondents can comprehend
           the Lee Scale.

        -  This study will include CCR investigators as well as extramural investigators at
           national study sites.
    
  