
    
      This is a prospective, cross-sectional study utilizing a study population at Chromalloy
      American Kidney Center, an outpatient dialysis unit, which currently serves approximately 150
      End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) patients.

      After enrollment, patients will be provided with a schedule for data collection. A standard
      12-lead ECG will be performed.A small non-invasive device (MyPatch Holter monitor) will be
      attached to each patient's chest before their first weekly dialysis session to measure heart
      rhythm and arrhythmia generation. After the recorder is attached, a standard set of bedside
      autonomic function tests will be administered. These tests include standing from supine
      position, hand grip, Valsalva maneuver and deep breathing.Changes in heart rate, heart
      rhythm, and blood pressure in response to these maneuvers will be assessed. The holter
      monitor will be worn for the next 92-96 hours and removed after completion of their regular
      third weekly dialysis session (Friday or Saturday). The data from these holter monitors will
      be analyzed by the Heart Rate Variability Lab at Washington Univeristy. No modifications to
      the Holter monitor devices will be made for this study.

      Patient vital signs pre/intra/post dialysis by standard protocol will be obtained, including
      the following parameters: blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen saturation, relative blood
      volume/hematocrit, dialysate flow rate, blood flow rate, ultrafiltration volume.Participant
      serum sodium, chloride, potassium, blood urea nitrogen, and magnesium immediately prior to
      and after dialysis session will be measured. Participant serum potassium and magnesium levels
      every 30 minutes for the first 2 hours of the first weekly dialysis session will be measured
      by taking 1mL of blood from the dialysis circuit. Effluent dialysate, which contains no blood
      or cellular components, will be collected concurrently with serum sample analysis every 30
      minutes during the first weekly dialysis session by taking 10mL of fluid from the dialysate
      drain line to be analyzed for sodium, chloride, and potassium. Serum potassium levels will
      also be measured immediately prior to and after second and third weekly dialysis sessions by
      taking 1mL of blood from dialysis circuit. The capability to draw blood from the dialysis
      circuit/tubing has already been incorporated as an industry standard and no modifications to
      standard dialysis circuit will be made. This will ensure that the patient will not have any
      needle sticks to obtain necessary samples. Obtained serum samples will subsequently be coded
      and sent to the Core Lab for Clinical Studies (CLCS) at Washington University for processing
      and destruction there after.

      All specimens will be assigned a de-identified study code that will be stored in a
      secure/locked location separate from collected data. All clinical data obtained will be
      de-identified and entered into a datasheet on a Washington University secure encrypted
      server. In addition, the Washington University in St. Louis School of Medicine Institute for
      Informatics, Informatics Core Services (ICS) will be used for centralized management and
      processing of collected data. Washington University in St. Louis belongs to a consortium of
      institutional partners that work to maintain a software toolset and workflow for electronic
      collection and management of research and clinical trial data. The Research Electronic Data
      Capture (REDCap) system will be utilized for data collection and processing in our study. The
      REDCap servers are securely housed in an on-site limited access data center managed by the
      Research Infrastructure Services at Washington University. All web-based information and
      transmission are encrypted with storage on a private, firewall protected network.

      Data collected by Holter monitors and serum electrolyte measurements will subsequently be
      analyzed by the research team.

      Participation in this study will not interfere with regularly scheduled thrice weekly
      dialysis treatments and clinic workflow. Nor will participation in this study result in
      modification of previously prescribed treatment.
    
  