
    
      The population is expanding and aging. With the increasing aging population demographics and
      life expectancies, the number of very elderly patients (age ≥ 75) undergoing surgery is
      rising. Elderly patients constitute an increasingly large proportion of the high-risk
      surgical group. In 2010, patients aged 75 yrs and over represented only 2.1% of patients
      undergoing high risk surgery in France (PMSI database), but concentrated 27% of in-hospital
      deaths.

      Cardiac complications and postoperative pulmonary complications are equally prevalent and
      contribute similarly to morbidity, mortality, and length of hospital stay. Specific
      optimization strategy of general anesthesia has been tested in high-risk patients undergoing
      major surgery to improve outcomes. Meta-analyses have demonstrated that goal directed
      hemodynamic therapy significantly reduced mortality and surgical complications in high-risk
      patients. A lung-protective ventilation strategy in high-risk patients undergoing major
      abdominal surgery was associated with improved clinical outcome. Retrospective studies
      indicated that a combination of excessive depth of anesthesia, hypotension and low anesthesia
      requirement resulted in increased mortality. These approaches of peroperative care remain
      discussed in the literature and have also to be incorporated in the common clinical practice.
      Moreover, few of these reviews performed a sensitive analysis in the elderly.

      Whether a multi-parametric optimization strategy of anesthesia including several specific
      interventions will impact the short-term postoperative major morbidity and mortality in
      elderly is not known. The addition of depth of anesthesia monitoring to hemodynamic
      monitoring and goal directed hemodynamic therapy may improve tissue perfusion by reducing
      hemodynamic side effects of anesthetic agents, particularly in elderly where the therapeutic
      window of these agents is reduced. The effects of low protective ventilation may also by
      additive to the previous measures by reducing the perioperative build-up of oxygen debt. Our
      hypothesis is that a combined optimization strategy of anesthesia concerning hemodynamic,
      ventilation, and depth of anesthesia may improve short- and long- term outcome in elderly
      undergoing high risk surgery.
    
  