
    
      Background/Rationale: Many Veteran primary care patients experience impairing symptoms of
      anxiety, but rates of behavioral treatment are low. Primary Care-Mental Health Integration
      (PCMHI), in which mental health clinicians embedded in primary care provide brief treatment,
      affords an opportunity to address this treatment gap. However, behavioral interventions that
      are compatible with the brief PCMHI treatment format and able to accommodate a wide range of
      anxiety presentations are needed. Accordingly, Veterans Anxiety Skills Training (VAST) was
      designed to be evidence-based, transdiagnostic, feasible for PCMHI, and Veteran-centered.
      VAST consists of empirically-supported cognitive-behavioral therapy techniques adapted into a
      manualized modular intervention specifically designed for delivery in PCMHI.

      Objectives: The specific aims of this study are to: (1) Compare patient clinical outcomes for
      VAST vs. PCMHI usual care between baseline and 16 weeks (post), and also examine whether
      treatment gains are more likely to be maintained for VAST vs. PCMHI usual care at 28 weeks
      (follow-up); (2) For participants receiving VAST, explore patient-level predictors of (a)
      early (8 weeks) and (b) overall (16 weeks) treatment response; and (3) Conduct a
      mixed-methods process evaluation of VAST implementation to examine rates of, barriers to, and
      facilitators of achieving and sustaining high-fidelity intervention delivery.

      Methods: In this multi-site, hybrid type I effectiveness-implementation randomized clinical
      trial, 178 adult Veterans with elevated anxiety symptoms will be recruited from primary care
      at the Syracuse and Buffalo VA Medical Centers. PCMHI providers will be randomized to deliver
      either VAST or usual care (routine PCMHI care, meaning whatever care the provider deems
      appropriate), and Veteran participants will be randomized to condition. VAST (up to six
      30-minute sessions) consists of a standard initial and final session as well as up to 4
      cognitive-behavioral skills modules. The primary outcome (Overall Anxiety Severity and
      Impairment Scale [OASIS]) and secondary outcomes (anxiety and depressive symptom severity,
      functioning, quality of life, suicidality) will be assessed at baseline, 16 weeks (post) and
      28 weeks (follow-up). Symptom severity and impairment will also be assessed at 4, 8, and 12
      weeks as part of Aim 2. The fidelity of VAST delivery by PCMHI providers will be measured and
      tracked, and VAST providers will complete semi-structured interviews at the beginning and end
      of the study.

      Analytic plan: Multi-level modeling will be used to evaluate the hypothesis that patient
      clinical outcomes will improve more from baseline to post (16 weeks) for participants
      receiving VAST compared to PCMHI usual care. The primary analysis will be conducted using the
      intention-to-treat approach. Multi-level modeling will also be used to examine group
      differences in the secondary outcomes at post (16 weeks) and the primary outcomes at
      follow-up (28 weeks). Multivariate logistic regression will be used to explore predictors of
      early (8 weeks) and overall (16 weeks) VAST treatment response (defined as a decrease of 4 or
      more points on the OASIS). A mixed-methods process evaluation will examine the proportion of
      PCMHI providers who achieve and sustain high-fidelity VAST delivery as well as barriers to
      and facilitators of high-fidelity delivery.
    
  