
    
      Maintenance of adequate anticoagulation is of critical importance when patients are placed on
      extracorporeal life support, such as ECMO. During ECMO, a patient's entire blood volume is
      constantly exposed to the artificial surfaces of the ECMO circuit. This exposure activates
      the clotting cascade, and not only is the circuit at risk for clot formation, but the patient
      is also at risk for thromboembolic events. Hence anticoagulation is vital in allowing the
      ECMO circuit to support a patient's entire cardiopulmonary system for an extended period of
      time. Anticoagulation on ECMO is achieved primarily by the use of a heparin continuous
      infusion. Heparin's main mechanism of action is to bind to and activate an enzyme called
      antithrombin III (AT III). AT III is the principal inhibitor of the blood coagulation serine
      proteases - Thrombin and Factor Xa. In the presence of, and when bound to heparin, the
      inhibitory activity of AT III is greatly enhanced. AT III deficiency has been shown to be a
      common finding in pediatric patients requiring ECMO. Our center has reported that most
      neonatal patients requiring ECMO also have a significant degree of ATIII deficiency prior to,
      and during ECMO bypass. This deficiency may lead to challenges in achieving adequate
      anticoagulation while on ECMO. For this reason, our institution already supplements
      antithrombin during pre-ECMO circuit priming and for maintaining AT III levels above 70%
      during the entire length of ECMO support. Optimizing AT III levels may then improve
      anticoagulation while on ECMO. This study aims to determine the pharmacokinetics of
      recombinant antithrombin (ATryn®) supplementation. To date, the use of ATryn® has primarily
      been studied in adults. There is no published data to date, and no current studies on the
      pharmacokinetics of antithrombin III in neonates, and hence no published data on the
      pharmacokinetics of antithrombin III in the neonatal ECMO population. Since the use of
      antithrombin III in the neonatal ECMO patient population has not been thoroughly studied, the
      use of antithrombin III supplementation varies greatly among different neonatal intensive
      care units. Therefore, studies that aim at determining the pharmacokinetics of antithrombin
      III, particularly in ECMO patients, are important because of the lack of data and published
      studies in this patient population. By determining the pharmacokinetics of ATryn® in our
      neonatal ECMO patient population, we will aid in establishing standardized dosing and
      administration protocols for the supplementation of antithrombin in this specific patient
      population.

      Summary of Risks and Benefits: ATryn® is FDA approved for use in the prevention of
      peri-operative and peri-partum thromboembolic events in hereditary antithrombin III deficient
      patients. ATryn® is a transgenically produced recombinant antithrombin concentrate from goat
      milk that is preservative free. It has an identical amino acid structure with minor
      glycosylation differences to endogenous human AT IIII. When assayed in the presence of excess
      heparin, the potency and efficacy of ATryn® is not different from that of plasma-derived AT
      III concentrates.5 ATryn® is administered as a continuous intravenous infusion, with
      weight-adjusted loading and maintenance dosing regimens as recommended by the medication's
      package insert. As dosing is specific to a patient's weight, this theoretically minimizes the
      risk for overdosing. In addition, as dosing is administered as a continuous infusion that is
      titrated to maintain stable AT III levels, there is the additional potential for less
      fluctuations in a patient's AT III levels. Not only will anticoagulation be optimized
      throughout the duration of ECMO support, but theoretically there may be a decreased need for,
      or less fluctuations in a patient's heparin requirements. This may furthermore minimize the
      risk for thromboembolic events within the ECMO circuit and the patient. Additionally, ATryn®
      is preservative free and because it is a recombinant product, it should be free from the risk
      of viral infection or prion transmission.
    
  