
    
      1. Study Style: Prospective, Controlled Clinical Trial

        2. Objectives:

             1. To determine the capacity for a portable head-mounted virtual visual field-testing
                device, with capacity for remote testing, to accurately analyze visual function in
                various retina, neuro-ophthalmic and glaucoma disorders.

             2. To compare virtual visual field results with the "gold standard," Humphrey visual
                fields.

        3. Subjects: Consecutive patients already scheduled for visual fields for various retina,
           glaucoma and neuro-ophthalmic conditions and normal controls.

      SETTING AND PROTOCOL FOR HUMAN RESEARCH:

        1. Location: Ophthalmology Department, Jacobi Medical Center, Bronx New York.

        2. Recruitment: Patients already presenting to the eye clinic or seen on the wards at
           Jacobi Medical Center will be offered a chance to participate as volunteers. No other
           active recruitment will be done.

        3. Retention and Dropout: Investigators will encourage patients to complete their testing.
           However, it will be made clear that they can drop out at any time without need to
           provide a reason. Dropouts will be replaced with other consenting patients.

        4. Protocol (Interventions and Timing):

             1. Consecutive patients presenting to the Jacobi eye clinic and wards who are
                diagnosed with neurologic, glaucoma and retina conditions and already are scheduled
                to have Humphrey visual field analysis, will be asked if they would like to
                voluntarily participate in this study.

             2. Interested patients will be have the study explained to them and an informed
                consent taken by the study resident/technician.

             3. The standard Humphrey visual field (HVF) will be conducted by the technician (5-10
                minutes) in the usual manner.

             4. The option of doing the virtual fields immediately, on the same day, will be
                offered vs returning to conduct the test within 3 months.

             5. The virtual reality headset will be applied and instructions in the patient's
                preferred language provided through the earpiece of the virtual visual field (VVF).
                When the patient indicates they wish to proceed, the test will be started by the
                technician.

             6. The technician is already versed in conducting both versions of the visual field
                tests.

        5. Clinical Analysis: All fields will be stored digitally within each Health Insurance
           Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) compliant device-specific website for later
           analyses by respective Attendings (glaucoma, retina and neuro-ophthalmology/neurology).

        6. Data Collection:

             1. The patients' demographic details, visual field pattern deviation, and global
                indices (mean deviation, f and pattern standard deviation) and reliability indices
                (fixation losses, false positives/negatives will be documented in the data
                collection Excel sheet.

             2. Supporting ancillary tests (optical coherence tomography, retina photography and
                neuroimaging) will be collected for each patient and reported findings documented.
                These tests are part of normal standard of care assessment of patients at Jacobi
                Medical Center.

      STUDY POPULATION:

        1. Consecutive clinic and ward patients (>18yrs old) with glaucoma, retinal or neurological
           disorders able to understand, consent and deemed physically able to perform the visual
           field tests.

        2. Power Calculation:

             1. Alpha 0.05

             2. Power 80%

             3. Using the findings of mean deviation (MD) in perception of light from a previous
                VVF glaucoma study : mean (SD)=-3.78 (7.49) dB units in glaucoma patients and 0.587
                (2.588) dB in the controls.

             4. 39 patients and 39 controls in each sub-population (retina, glaucoma and
                neuro-ophthalmology) will be required to sufficiently power the study. Round
                numbers of 40 cases and 40 controls for each study to be sufficiently powered.

      For all three studies, 120 study cases in total will be tested with clinical conditions and
      120 normal cases as normal controls. 240 cases in total will be tested.There will be
      confounding variables that can be addressed with subgroup analysis or multivariate regression
      analysis.

      INFORMED CONSENT:

        1. The informed consent to participate in the study will be taken at the site of testing at
           Jacobi Medical Center.

        2. The informed consent will be taken by one of the study residents or the study
           technician.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Excel and SAS (Statistical Analysis Software, SAS institute Inc. Cary,
      North Carolina, USA) software will be used for descriptive assessment and statistical
      analysis of the data set and generation of graphs.

        1. Data will be used to test the hypothesis that the virtual visual field headset is able
           to accurately detect visual field defects in ophthalmic conditions and develops visual
           field maps and global indices that compare favorably with the gold standard, Humphrey
           visual fields.

        2. Interim analyses will be conducted for each sub-population (glaucoma, retina, neurology)
           when they reach the power number ~40.

        3. Once all data is de-identified, it will be analyzed using SAS software.

        4. Descriptive data will be determined with basic percentages.

        5. Aggregate means of global indices of each study group: retina disorders, glaucoma of all
           stages (1-mild; 2-moderate; 3-severe; 4-indeterminate) and neuro-ophthalmic conditions,
           will be compared with their control group and VVF compared to HVFusing t-test,
           Chi-square, Mann-Whitney and Kruskal-Wallis tests.

        6. Correlation between the parameters of virtual visual field test and Humphrey visual
           field including time for test, mean sensitivity (MS, expressed in decibels), fixation
           loss (FL), false negative (FN), false positive (FP), mean deviation (MD) and pattern
           standard deviation (PSD) will be assessed using linear regression models that will
           account for confounding variables such as age, visual acuity and other ocular
           conditions.

        7. Statistical significance will be set at p<0.05.
    
  