
    
      Although use of bare metal stents has reduced restenosis in coronary vessels with a diameter
      ≥3 mm when compared to plain balloon angioplasty, most of the dedicated randomized studies
      have failed to show a beneficial effect of stent over balloon angioplasty in vessels with a
      small reference diameter. In spite of refinements in stent design and periprocedural therapy,
      the risk of restenosis after bare metal stenting in this setting remains elevated. Nowadays,
      percutaneous coronary interventions in small vessels account for 35-67% of interventional
      procedures performed in patients with coronary artery disease and, when bare metal stents are
      used, restenosis will be detected in more than 35% of the treated patients and a repeat
      revascularization procedure will be needed in more than 20% them. Several randomized trials
      have shown that stents eluting antiproliferative drugs, with sirolimus- and
      paclitaxel-eluting stents the only devices approved for commercial use so far, are highly
      effective in reducing restenosis when compared with bare metal stents. Subgroup analysis from
      these trials have shown that the efficacy of either sirolimus stent or paclitaxel stent
      extends also to those patients who undergo coronary stenting in small sized vessels. In
      addition, three randomized studies of sirolimus-eluting stents and bare metal stents used in
      coronary arteries smaller than 3 mm have reported 82-96% reduction in the relative risk of
      restenosis with the sirolimus stents thus, providing convincing evidence on the role of
      drug-eluting stents as an effective treatment strategy for coronary arteries with a small
      reference diameter.

      At present, there is no direct evidence on the relative efficacy in the prevention of
      restenosis of sirolimus stent and paclitaxel stent after implantation in small coronary
      vessels. Selecting the most effective device for this particularly high-risk category that
      accounts for a large proportion of percutaneous coronary interventions, may have important
      clinical and economic implications. Comparisons of data from subgroup analysis of different
      trials have suggested that there might be differences in the efficacy to prevent restenosis
      between sirolimus and paclitaxel stents. However, indirect comparisons are subject to many
      limitations and consequently, conclusions based on their results may be erroneous. Therefore,
      reliable guidance on the selection of the most effective drug-eluting stent for treatment of
      lesions in coronary vessels with a small reference diameter could be provided only from a
      head-to-head comparison between these devices.

      Comparison:

      Sirolimus-eluting stent and paclitaxel-eluting stent in patients undergoing stenting in small
      coronary vessels.
    
  