
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate whether combination treatment with temozolomide (TMZ) + olaparib shows
      preliminary evidence of clinical activity among patients with advanced uterine leiomyosarcoma
      (LMS) as measured by the confirmed objective response rate (ORR).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity profile associated with the combination treatment. II. To
      evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) associated with the combination treatment.

      III. To evaluate what proportion of uterine LMS tumors exhibit homologous recombination (HR)
      deficiency as measured by (1) genomic alterations in HR components at baseline and (2)
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair protein RAD51 homolog (RAD51) foci formation at baseline
      and while on study treatment.

      IV. To evaluate the feasibility of these assays in human tissue, and to preliminarily
      evaluate for any association between presence of HR deficiency as measured by each assay and
      increased clinical benefit from the study treatment.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate what proportion of uterine LMS tumors exhibit HR deficiency as measured by
      Schlafen family member number 11(SLFN11) protein expression at baseline.

      II. To evaluate the feasibility of these assays in human tissue, and to preliminarily
      evaluate for any association between presence of HR deficiency as measured by this assay and
      increased clinical benefit from the study treatment.

      III. To evaluate MGMT protein expression in uterine LMS tumors, and to preliminarily evaluate
      for any association between MGMT expression and increased clinical benefit from the study
      treatment.

      IV. To perform an optional third tissue biopsy in patients who initially benefit from study
      treatment but later show early evidence of disease progression to evaluate for changes in the
      status of the RAD51 foci, MGMT, and SLFN11 assays at that time.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice per day (BID) and temozolomide PO once daily (QD)
      on days 1-7. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, and
      then every 6 months until death or withdrawal of consent.
    
  