
    
      Recent cohort studies demonstrated reduced breast cancer risks among women with a history of
      fractures or low bone mineral density (BMD). In the Study of Osteoporotic Fractures, each
      standard deviation increase in distal radius BMD was associated with a 50% increased risk
      over three years of follow-up, while in the Framingham study, women in the highest quartile
      of metacarpal bone mass had a 3.5-fold higher risk than women in the lowest quartile. The
      impact of the severity and timing of bone loss on risk has not been investigated, and the
      extent to which other risk factors (family history, lifestyle, and exogenous hormones) modify
      the relationship with BMD is unknown.

      To elaborate on these research questions, we conducted a follow-up study of postmenopausal
      women who volunteered for the Fracture Intervention Trial (FIT), a trial of the
      bone-enhancing drug alendronate. The BFIT follow-up study includes 15,595 of the 22,695 FIT
      volunteers. Surviving members of FIT were contacted to ascertain incident cancers and to
      provide updated risk factor and fracture history through a self-administered questionnaire.
      To supplement baseline serum samples, we used a nested case-control approach to collect
      buccal cell specimens for biomarker measurement, including endogenous hormones and genetic
      polymorphisms involved in either bone growth (e.g., vitamin D receptor) or hormone metabolism
      (e.g., CYPI7, COMT). Operative and pathology reports were used to validate self-reported
      cancers. The social security numbers and contact names provided by FIT participants at
      baseline facilitated comprehensive follow-up and a National Death Index search for those who
      could not be located.

      This large cohort includes extensive baseline information on major breast cancer risk
      factors, and thus is ideal for evaluating potential interactions with BMD and the effects of
      BMD on other cancer sites. Endometrial cancer has been reported to occur more frequently
      among women with a history of fracture, but no previous studies have investigated its
      relationship to BMD. We are investigating whether proximal femur BMD predicts breast cancer
      risk; whether breast cancer risk factors among postmenopausal women modify the relationship
      with BMD; whether BMD predicts cancer risk; and whether biomarkers offer etiologic clues
      about BMD and cancer risk. Currently, we are examining: 1) the relationship of serum
      adipocytokines to endometrial cancer risk, and 2) the relationships of serum estrogens and
      metabolites to postmenopausal breast cancer risk. The baseline and follow-up data and the
      collection of additional biospecimens should enable us to answer important questions about
      BMD and other cancers.
    
  