
    
      Background In the current COVID-19 pandemic with coronavirus, SARS-COV2, the Danish Health
      Authorities recommend using facial masks in the health care sector when handling patients
      presumed or proven to be infected with the virus. However, the use of facial masks outside
      the healthcare system is not recommended by the Danish Health Authorities. Challenges when
      using facial masks outside the health care system include wearing the mask consistently, an
      efficacy of the mask of app. 8 hours necessitating a change of mask throughout the day, and
      that it is not sufficiently tight enough to safely keep the virus out. Moreover, the eyes
      (mucous membrane) remain exposed. Compliance could also be another challenge. Health
      Authorities in other countries have different recommendations for the use of facial masks and
      the authors of the Lancet study concluded; "Universal use of face masks could be considered
      if supplies permit. In parallel, urgent research on the duration of protection of face masks,
      the measures to prolong life of disposable masks, and the invention on reusable masks should
      be encouraged."

      SARS-COV2 is assumed to primarily enter the body via the mouth through respiratory droplets
      or possibly through inhalation of aerosol containing the virus. From the mouth the virus is
      assumed to spread to the airways and the gastro-intestinal tract. SARS-COV2 is also known to
      be transmitted via physical contact, helped along by the fact that the virus can survive on
      surfaces for at least 72 hours. Touching such a contaminated surface can transfer the virus
      to the mouth via the hand - and thus lead to infection of the person. A study with 26 medical
      students showed that they touched their face on average 23 times per hour, and that in 44 %
      of the incidents they touched their mucous membranes3. A Japanese questionnaire study showed
      that facial masks reduced the risk for school children for getting influenza by 15 %4. N95
      mask and surgical facial masks are presumed to have the same effect for healthcare personnel
      when providing protecting from infection with influenza.

      Facial masks are assumed to protect against viral infection in two ways;

        1. By reducing the risk of getting the virus via mouth or nose through the air via
           respiratory droplets or aerosol

        2. By reducing the transfer from virus-contaminated hands to the mouth or nose

      About 10 % of the Danish population is estimated to get COVID-19 during the present
      pandemic-wave; this corresponds to 600,000 Danes. Later COVID-19 waves are expected to occur.
      The epidemic in Denmark is expected to be at the highest point in medio April. In April and
      May it be estimated that >2 % of the population will be infected per month.

      Hypothesis The use of surgical facial masks outside the hospital will reduce the frequency of
      COVID-19 infection.

      Method The participants recruited are people working outside of their home, who have not
      previously been infected with COVID-19 and who do not wear facial masks (e.g. healthcare
      personnel) when working. They will be randomized for

        1. Normal behavior according to the authority's recommendations or

        2. Normal behavior according to the authority's recommendations and use of facial masks

      Participants will be instructed in using the facial mask consistently when outside their home
      (and at home when receiving visits from others. The instruction is given in writing and via
      an instruction video. The participants will be contacted once weekly to optimize compliance.
      It will be registered if the participants are diagnosed with COVID-19. Participants, who are
      not tested positive for COVID-19 in the study period will perform a self-test if having
      symptoms or when the study ends (instruction video).

      Perspective The study can determine whether use of facial masks in the public is beneficial
      and if there is an effect this could have great impact on the current as well as any future,
      similar epidemics.

      Interested participants can register through a link in the add to our research registration
      database RedCap. The participant will then receive written information and can then register.
      They will receive a COVID-19 screening test set and (+/-) facial masks ( 2 per day) for the
      first month. If the participant experience symptoms, he/she will register their symptoms in
      RedCap, test with a swab-test and send the swab-test to the study investigator for analyses.
      If negative, new test-sets are sent out - if positive, the participant will be referred to
      the hospital. This process continues until the participant is tested positive for COVID-19,
      the pandemic is considered finished by the Danish authorities or when the study ends on May 7
      2020. At study end, all participants perform antibody screening and swab test, and send it to
      the study investigators.

      Power calculation With an infection frequency of 2 % in the study period, an expected
      reduction of the risk to 1 % should be demonstratable with a power of 80 % and a p-value of 5
      %, if including a total of 4,636 patients randomized 1:1. If the infection frequency is
      higher the power of the study will be higher. With an expected defection of 20 % a total of
      6,000 participants will be included.

      Authority approvals from The Danish National Committee On Health Research Ethics and The Data
      Protection Agency have been granted.

      A detailed study analyses plan (SAP) will be finalized before data are analyzed.

      Central registry data will be collected later when made available by national health
      authorities.
    
  