
    
      This study will be a prospective, randomized, controlled, double-blinded, single-centre trial
      with two parallel groups. The primary outcome will be endothelium-dependent vasodilation as
      measured by iontophoresis and laser speckle contrast imaging (LSCI).

      Participants will be recruited following a preeclamptic delivery at Kingston Health Sciences
      Center. Following confirmation of eligibility, they will be randomized to treatment or
      control groups. Randomization will be performed as block randomization with a 1:1 allocation
      ratio. In total, 44 participants will be recruited and randomized, with 22 being assigned to
      each treatment arm.

      Prior to discharge from the hospital, investigators will assess both vascular functional and
      biochemical variables in each participant. Using LSCI, a non-invasive imaging modality,
      investigators will continuously measure microvascular blood flow in the volar forearm in
      response to dilute drug solutions administered using iontophoresis. Iontophoresis refers to
      the non-invasive administration of drugs under the influence of an applied current.
      Iontophoresis of acetylcholine, an endothelium-dependent vasodilator, and sodium
      nitroprusside, an endothelium-independent vasodilator, will occur, the response to which will
      be recorded using LSCI.

      At the study outset, investigators will record additional biophysical parameters such as
      blood pressure, weight, and BMI. Blood will be drawn and serum analysis of lipid profile,
      fasting glucose, high sensitivity C-reactive protein, s-Flt-1, platelet-derived growth
      factor, and uric acid will occur. Urine will be collected for analysis of albumin: creatinine
      ratio. Findings will then be integrated to calculate a lifetime cardiovascular risk score,
      which is used to categorize individuals as low risk or high risk.

      Study participants who are assigned to the oral aspirin arm of the study will receive 81 mg
      oral aspirin. Over-encapsulated 81mg aspirin tablets will be used. Study participants in this
      arm will take 81mg aspirin daily for 6 months. A standard placebo pill, the same size, shape,
      and color of the oral aspirin will also be used. The placebo will be administered to the
      participants randomized to the placebo group in the same manner the oral aspirin would be
      administered - they will take the pill daily for 6 months.

      On a monthly basis, all participants will be contacted by study personnel to confirm that
      they have been taking their medication, and that there are no adverse effects to report.

      In addition to either LD-ASA or placebo, both groups will receive our center's current
      standard of care of cardiovascular assessment and lifestyle counseling at the Maternal Health
      Clinic (MHC) at Kingston Health Sciences Center. MHC appointments take place at 6 months
      postpartum. At the MHC appointment, vascular reactivity testing will occur again, followed by
      biochemical analyses, to assess vascular functional recovery due to the drug.
    
  