
    
      This study uses a within-subjects, double-blind, placebo-controlled design and will be
      carried out in Hong Kong (The Hong Kong Polytechnic University).

      Participants who will be recruited are 40 glaucoma patients aged 18 to 80, diagnosed with
      primary open-angle or normal-tension glaucoma with relative scotoma in both eyes. All
      participants will take part in 4 stimulation sessions (completion of active a-tDCS, tACS,
      tRNS, and sham stimulation in random order) with at least 48-hour separation between visits
      to wash out active stimulation effects.

      The primary outcome is high-resolution perimetry that will be used to measure the visual
      field of participants. The secondary outcome is multifocal visual evoked potential (mfVEP)
      that will be used to measure the electrophysiological changes in the visual cortex.

      The study consists of 5 visits:

      Visit 1: Eligibility assessment (refer to the inclusion and exclusion criteria).

      Visits 2 - 5: Stimulation sessions (completion of active a-tDCS, tACS, tRNS, and sham
      stimulation in random order) with at least 48-hours separation between visits to wash out
      active stimulation effects. An established protocol will be used. Briefly, active a-tDCS (2
      mA), tACS (2 mA), tRNS (2 mA) or sham a-tDCS will be delivered for 20 minutes. The anodal
      electrode will be placed at Oz (visual cortex) while the cathodal electrode will be placed on
      the left cheek to facilitate stimulation of cells corresponding to the para-central retina
      that are located within the calcarine sulcus. Active stimulation will involve the delivery of
      2 mA current continuously, while the fade-in-short-stimulation-fade-out approach will be used
      for the sham condition, in which the stimulation will be ramped down after 30 seconds of
      stimulation. Both the participant and experimenter will be masked to the stimulation type.

      The average detection accuracy, response time, and functional connectivity will be analyzed
      using a within-subjects ANOVA with factors of Stimulation type (a-tDCS vs. tACS vs. tRNS vs.
      sham) and Time (pre and post-stimulation). Significant interactions will be investigated
      using post-hoc Bonferroni-adjusted paired sample t-tests. A significant interaction between
      Stimulation type and Time for the primary outcome followed by a significant post-hoc
      comparison with a p-value <0.05 favoring tRNS would be consistent with our hypothesis.
    
  