
    
      This study will evaluate the proportion of patients with organ-confined intermediate risk
      prostate cancer (OC-IRPC) undergoing focal ExAblate™ MRgFUS prostate treatment that will be
      free of clinically significant PCa which requires definitive treatment at 2 years after
      completion of their ExAblate™ treatment and to demonstrate the safety of focal ExAblate™
      MRgFUS treatment.

      Clinically significant PCa requiring definitive treatment is defined as pathology findings
      from whole-gland, imaging-guided, extended mapping biopsy of Gleason Score (GS) > 7

      The primary efficacy endpoint in this trial, measured at 24 months with whole-gland extended
      imaging-guided mapping biopsy, is Response scored dichotomously for each subject as follows:

        -  Response = 0 ("Failure"): Positive mapping biopsy defined as Gleason Score > 7
           (indicating definitive treatment) in any part of their prostate gland

        -  Response = 1 ("Success"): Negative mapping biopsy defined as Gleason Score < 7.

      Safety of ExAblate™ treatment will be determined by evaluation of the incidence and severity
      of device related complications from the first treatment day visit throughout entire
      follow-up duration.

      All adverse events will be captured and recorded. However, the safety of the ExAblate™
      treatment will be defined by the incidence and severity of treatment or device related
      adverse events, grades III - V (CTCAE version 4.03; 2010-06-14).

      Secondary Effectiveness Outcomes:

        1. % of patients with negative 5-month follow-up biopsy results in the treated part of the
           prostate

        2. Treatment effect on patients' Quality of Life (QoL), the following validated
           self-reported urogenital functioning assessment instruments will be used before and
           following treatment at pre-specified intervals.

             1. Urinary symptoms - IPSS

             2. Urinary continence - ICIQ-UI-SF

             3. Sexual function - IIEF-15

        3. PSA levels and post-treatment PSA kinetics will also be assessed
    
  