
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum-tolerated dose of veliparib (ABT-888) (days 1-12 of a 21-day
      schedule) in combination with cisplatin (day 3) and gemcitabine (days 3, 10) in patients with
      advanced, previously untreated carcinoma of the bile ducts, gallbladder or pancreas,
      non-small cell lung cancer, or transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder/urothelial tract.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Describe the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and other toxicities associated with veliparib
      in combination with cisplatin plus gemcitabine as assessed by CTCAE v4.0.

      II. Determine the recommended phase 2 dose of veliparib (ABT-888) (RP2D) in combination with
      cisplatin plus gemcitabine.

      III. Document anti-tumor activity of veliparib (ABT-888), cisplatin, and gemcitabine as
      assessed by RECIST 1.1.

      IV. Determine the plasma pharmacokinetics of veliparib (ABT-888), cisplatin, and gemcitabine.

      V. Determine the abundance of gemcitabine triphosphate in PBMCs following gemcitabine
      administration.

      VI. Measure the abundance of DNA-platinum adducts in tumor tissue following cisplatin
      administration.

      VII. Measure PARP enzymatic activity in PBMC and tumor tissue following study treatment.

      VIII. Perform an exploratory correlation between abundance of BRCA and other proteins
      assessed by tumor immunohistochemistry and clinical response.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of veliparib and gemcitabine
      hydrochloride. Patients are stratified according to presence of suspected or known BRCA
      mutations (no vs yes).

      Patients receive veliparib orally every 12 hours on days 1-12, gemcitabine hydrochloride IV
      over 30 minutes on days 3 and 10, and cisplatin IV over 60-120 minutes on day 3. Courses
      repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      with suspected or known germline BRCA mutations may continue to receive single-agent
      veliparib continuously in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients may undergo blood, tumor tissue, and hair follicle sample collection periodically
      for pharmacokinetic and correlative studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.
    
  