
    
      Background

      Identification of critically ill and high-risk patients at hospital admission is a major
      triage task in the emergency department. Rapid identification and treatment of such patients
      improves survival, reduces complications during admission, duration of hospitalization and
      the costs of treatment. Reduced heart rate variability (HRV), a marker of autonomic imbalance
      towards sympathetic dominance, has been shown in several studies to be associated with a poor
      prognosis in patient groups like myocardial infarction, heart failure, ischemic heart
      disease, and others. Besides HRV other hemodynamic variables like cardiac stroke volume,
      cardiac output and peripheral resistance will potentially improve diagnosis of critically ill
      patients by providing better prognostic value.

      Aims & objectives

      To develop and validate a prognostic model (based on selected variables derived from Finapres
      measurements, HRV, CO, and TP) for 30-day mortality and/or acute deterioration in patients
      who are admitted acutely to the department of emergency medicine or cardiology, University
      Hospitals of Bispebjerg & Frederiksberg

      Methods & Materials

      The study is designed as an observational prospective cohort study. The aim is to enroll 1635
      patients in total. During a period of 6 to 9 months all patients admitted to the acute
      medical/emergency department at Bispebjerg Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark adn who fulfills
      inclusion criterias will be examined with a 10 minutes examination with the Finapres Nova
      device. Patients admitted to the departments of medicine/emergency medicine / Cardiology at
      Bispebjerg Hospital will also be included.

      Expected outcomes and perspectives

      Several scoring algorithms have been used in the emergency departments to facilitate early
      recognition of patients with high risk of serious outcomes. There is need to develop better
      clinical tools to be used in the emergency departments.

      The investigators expect to outperform current triage methods by including HRV and
      hemodynamic parameters.
    
  