
    
      Non-specific low back pain is defined as low back pain not attributable to a recognizable,
      known specific pathology (e.g., infection, tumour, osteoporosis, fracture, structural
      deformity, inflammatory disorder, radicular syndrome, or cauda equina syndrome). It is second
      only to the common cold as the most common affliction of mankind and is among the leading
      complaints bringing patients to physicians' offices. The reported point prevalence of
      non-specific low back pain is as high as 33 percent, its one-year prevalence as high as 73
      percent and its lifetime prevalence exceeds 70% in most industrialized countries, with an
      annual incidence of 15% to 20% in the United States of America. In physically active adults
      not seeking medical attention, the annual incidence of clinically significant non-specific
      low back pain with functional impairment is approximately 10 to 15 percent. In China,
      non-specific low back pain has become one of the leading causes of disability-adjusted
      life-years (DALYs) in 2010. Some authors reported the prevalence of non-specific low back
      pain as 41% in Chinese adolescents.

      Management for patients with non-specific low back pain is challenged by the problems that
      most back pain has no recognizable cause (>85%), an underlying systemic disease is rare, and
      most episodes of back pain are unpreventable.

      Acute non-specific low back pain (lasting three to six weeks) usually resolves in several
      weeks, although recurrences are common and low-grade symptoms are often present years after
      an initial episode. Risk factors for the development of disabling chronic or persistent
      non-specific low back pain (variously defined as lasting more than three months or more than
      six months) include preexisting psychological distress, disputed compensation issues, other
      types of chronic pain, and job dissatisfaction.

      The goals of management for patients with non-specific low back pain are to decrease the
      pain, restore mobility, hasten recovery so the patient can resume normal daily activities as
      soon as possible, (iv) prevent development of a chronic recurrent condition, and restore and
      preserve physical and financial independence and comfort.

      Unfortunately, few if any treatments have been proven effective for non-specific low back
      pain in meta-analyses, including limited bed rest, physical activity and exercise, back
      schools, traction, massage, chiropractic, radiofrequency denervation, paracetamol, opioids
      and, ultimately, surgery (in cases of cauda equina syndrome, infections, tumors and fractures
      compressing the spinal cord, mechanical instability of the back, and, perhaps, intractable
      pain with a positive straight-leg-raising test and no response to conservative therapy).
      Earlier studies demonstrated that muscle relaxants are effective in the management of
      non-specific low back pain, but the adverse effects require that they be used with caution.
      Accordingly, the aforementioned guideline by the American College of Physicians is only based
      on low- and moderate-quality evidence.

      Recently extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT) was introduced into the management of
      non-specific low back pain. The use of extracorporeal shock waves (ESWs) in medicine was
      first reported over 30 years ago as a treatment for kidney stones, and is commonly referred
      to as extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL). Extracorporeal shock waves are also used
      as a treatment for various musculoskeletal conditions such as calcifying tendinopathy of the
      shoulder, epicondylitis, Achilles tendinopathy and plantar fasciitis, and is commonly
      referred to as 'extracorporeal shock wave therapy', or 'ESWT' to differentiate from ESWL.
      ESWT is effective and safe, and for the aforementioned conditions randomized controlled
      trials (RCTs) on ESWT were the predominant type of RCT listed in the PEDro database and/or
      obtained the highest PEDro scores among all investigated treatment modalities.

      There are three different types of ESWs used in ESWT for musculoskeletal conditions, focused,
      defocused and radial, and several modes of operation of focused, defocused and radial
      extracorporeal shock wave generators. Focused, defocused and radial ESWs are single acoustic
      impulses with an initial high positive peak pressure between 10 and 100 megapascals (MPa)
      reached in less than one microsecond (µs). The positive pressure amplitude is followed by a
      low tensile amplitude of a few microseconds duration that can generate cavitation. They are
      further characterized by a short life cycle of approximately 10-20 µs and a broad frequency
      spectrum. Focused ESWs differ from radial ESWs in the penetration depth into the tissue, some
      physical characteristics, and the technique for generating them. However, without going into
      detail, there is no scientific evidence in favor of either radial ESWT (rESWT) or focused
      ESWT (fESWT) with respect to treatment outcome, and no scientific evidence that a certain
      fESWT technology is superior to the other technologies.

      Several molecular and cellular mechanisms were reported on how ESWs might mediate their
      pain-relieving action. Specifically, exposure of the distal femur of rabbits to focused ESWs
      decreased the amount of Substance P (SP) in the periosteum and diminished the number of
      neurons immunoreactive for substance P in dorsal root ganglia L5. Furthermore, application of
      shock waves to rat skin decreased calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) immunoreactivity in
      dorsal root ganglion neurons. Substance P is concentrated in unmyelinated C-fibers
      (responsible for throbbing, chronic pain) and a subpopulation of slowly conducting, lightly
      myelinated A-delta nerve fibers, and is released at central and peripheral terminals of
      sensory nociceptive neurons after stimulation. CGRP is a marker of sensory neurons typically
      involved with pain perception and was immunohistochemically co-localized with substance P in
      capsaicin-sensitive axons. Activation of peripheral small diameter sensory neurons by local
      depolarization, axonal reflexes, or dorsal root reflexes releases substance P and CGRP. Both
      substances then act on target cells in the periphery such as mast cells, immune cells and
      vascular smooth muscle cells, thus producing inflammation. This phenomenon is called
      neurogenic inflammation, and is an inflammatory symptom that results from the release of
      substances from primary sensory nerve terminals. Evidence has emerged that chronic
      inflammation contributes to the etiology of pain in insertion tendinopathies such as tennis
      elbow and chronic plantar fasciitis. Furthermore, it was found that SP (as well as
      interleukin 1 alpha and transforming growth factor beta-1) are involved in the pathogenesis
      of tennis elbow, without apparent infiltration of inflammatory cells. Moreover, depletion of
      substance P was repeatedly shown to reduce experimentally induced inflammation of paws and
      joints in laboratory animals. It is therefore reasonable to hypothesize that reduction of SP
      and CGRP in the target tissue in conjunction with reduced synthesis of this molecule in
      dorsal root ganglia cells plays an important role in ESWT-mediated long-term analgesia in the
      treatment of musculoskeletal conditions.

      With respect to non-specific low back pain it is important to note that in rats, the presence
      of SP and CGRP immunoreactive nerve fibers was demonstrated in the lumber facet joints.
      Furthermore, SP immunoreactive fibers were found more extensively in lumbar intervertebral
      discs from patients with discogenic low back pain than in normal control discs, together with
      the formation of a zone of vascularized granulation tissue from the nucleus pulposus to the
      outer part of the annulus fibrosus along the edges of the fissures. These findings suggested
      that the zone of granulation tissue with extensive innervation along the tears in the
      posterior part of the painful disc may be responsible for causing the pain of discography and
      of discogenic low back pain. Accordingly, ESWT could be of great significance in the
      treatment of persistent non-specific low back pain.

      The studies on ESWT for non-specific low back pain performed so far have only established
      very limited evidence of efficacy and safety of ESWT for non-specific low back pain. This is
      due to low sample size, lack of power analyses, lack of reporting critical information such
      as the follow-up interval, and the fact that only one RCT on this indication was performed so
      far.

      Accordingly, further research is needed to support the use of ESWT for non-specific low back
      pain. Taking into account the well-known molecular and cellular mechanisms of action of ESWT
      in pain relief (outlined in detail above), the proven efficacy and safety of rESWT for
      treating musculoskeletal conditions, and the fact that a ceratin rESWT device provided by
      Electro Medical Systems (Nyon, Switzerland) has become by far the best investigated ESWT
      technology in the field of Evidence Based Medicine, it is reasonable to hypothesize that
      treatment of non-specific low back pain with rESWT is not only effective and safe but will
      get widespread acceptance and clinical use as soon as effectiveness and safety will be
      demonstrated in a randomized controlled trial. This is the purpose of the proposed project.

      The standard therapy of chronic non-specific low back pain at the Department of Pain Medicine
      at the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University consists of the non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drug Celecoxib and the antispasmodic drug Eperisone (hereafter, "C-E drug
      therapy"). Considering the established evidence of superiority of combination therapies of
      rESWT and other treatment modalities (such as the combination of rESWT and plantar
      fascia-specific stretching in case of chronic plantar fasciitis and the combination of rESWT
      and eccentric loading in case of chronic midportion Achilles tendinopathy) the proposed study
      will specifically test the hypothesis that rESWT in combination with C-E drug therapy is
      statistically significantly more effective than either rESWT or C-E drug therapy alone in the
      treatment of chronic non-specific low back pain.
    
  