
    
      This is going to be an open label randomized controlled clinical trial that will involve 174
      mothers delivered by elective cesarean section in Mulago National Referral hospital ward 5B
      antenatal and post natal wards.

      Mulago hospital is at the apex of a 6 tier health system and is the largest public hospital
      with 31,400 deliveries annually 26.14% by cesarean section and of these 5.6% are elective
      cesarean sections.

      Simple randomization was done where 174 cards were numbered 1-174 {(87 labelled Single Dose
      (SD) and 87 labelled Multiple Dose (MD)} inserted in an envelop shuffled and then the mother
      was allowed to pick a card randomly. This was done by the research assistant who reviewed the
      mother again in theater to ascertain if they still met the eligibility before the
      intervention was done.

      Method This will be an open label single center superiority randomized clinical trial
      involving 174 eligible participants (87 in each arm) who will have delivered by elective
      cesarean section in Mulago hospital. They will be randomly allocated into two arms. One arm
      will receive single dose IV ceftriaxone 2g and metronidazole 500mg 30-60 minutes before the
      operation and the second arm will receive IV ceftraixone 1g with 500 mg of metronidazole
      during the operation and continue for 72 hours and discharged with oral antibiotics.

      The mothers will be reviewed twice daily for evidence of infection. Their vitals (BP, Pulse,
      Temperature and respiratory rate), state of the wound and uterus, amount color and smell of
      the lochia during the first 2-3 post operative days. Both arms will have a 14 day follow up
      where they will come back for review on the 7th and 14th post operative day.

      Objective:

      The general objective is to compare the incidence of post operative infections among mothers
      that receive single dose pre operative Ceftriaxone and metronidazole compared to multiple
      doses at delivery by elective cesarean section in Mulago National Referral Hospital. at 14
      day post operative.
    
  