
    
      Rationale:

      - Patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) have a poor survival due to
      inadequate loco-regional control. Increasing the dose will lead to better loco-regional
      control and survival. However, with the current treatment planning strategies, increasing
      this dose would result in intolerable toxicity of the organs at risk (OARs, healthy tissue
      surrounding the tumor). Therefore, new treatment planning strategies have to be developed to
      improve local control and therefore overall survival of patients with stage III NSCLC.

      Currently, the radiation oncologist uses a combination of imaging modalities for the
      delineation of the lung tumor and lymph nodes: four-dimensional (4D)- computed tomography
      (CT) scan, CT-scan with intravenous contrast and the positron emission tomography (PET)-CT
      with fluorodeoxyglucose as a radioactive tracer. However these imaging modalities have some
      disadvantages.In current clinical practice, large treatment volumes are irradiated. This
      results in an increased dose to OARs. Consequently, further increasing of the dose to the
      tumor would result in intolerable toxicity.

      The investigators believe that MRI can be used to improve visualization of the tumor and
      lymph nodes and characterize their motion, based on promising results in recent literature.
      MRI can potentially be used to obtain more accurate (thus smaller) treatment volumes. This
      will lead to a smaller dose to the OARs and enable safe dose escalation.

      Unfortunately there are no MRI protocols in the literature available aimed at radiotherapy of
      lung cancer.

      The objective of this study is twofold. The investigators would first like to use MRI in
      volunteers to select the appropriate techniques for motion compensation. Furthermore, MRI
      settings will be sought which can be used to image lung and mediastinal parenchyma.

      Second, the investigators would like to assess the MRI sequences found in volunteers for the
      visualization of tumors and lymph nodes in patients with stage III NSCLC. Furthermore, the
      investigators would like to assess if MRI can be used for (automatic) motion characterization
      of tumor, lymph nodes and organs at risk.

      The sequences found in this study will be used in a future study on the added value of MRI
      for radiotherapy treatment planning of stage III NSCLC, in which MRI will also be compared to
      PET-CT.

      Objectives:

        -  To select the appropriate techniques to image lung and mediastinal parenchyma.
           Furthermore, MRI settings will be sought which can be used for motion compensation.

        -  To optimize and validate MRI for the visualization and motion characterization of tumor,
           lymph nodes and mediastinal parenchyma in patients with stage III NSCLC.

      Study design: Observational study.

      Study population:10 healthy volunteers and 20 patients with pathologically proven stage III
      NSCLC with lymph node metastases (i.e. excluding T4N0) referred to the department of
      Radiation Oncology.

      Procedure: Healthy volunteers will undergo an MRI scan without intravenous contrast. Patients
      will undergo a contrast-enhanced MRI scan.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

        -  Healthy volunteers will undergo an MRI scan with a maximal duration of 45 minutes. One
           visit to the hospital (lasting approximately 75 minutes) is required and the healthy
           volunteers will receive a gift voucher with a value of 25 euros. MRI-safety screening is
           required before the MRI scan, and consists of routine screening according to the
           clinical guidelines as determined by the Department of Radiology of the UMCU.

        -  Patients will undergo an MRI scan with a maximal duration of 45 minutes. The total visit
           to the department (including patient preparation, changing of clothes etc.) will last
           approximately 75 minutes. For determination of renal function, a recent value of the
           Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) (≤21 days) has to be available.

      After proper screening, the use of MRI is safe. The use of gadolinium contrast (Gadovist) has
      a very low risk of contrast induced allergy. For the patients included in the study there is
      no individual benefit.
    
  