
    
      90 Y Zevalin and rituximab are both designed to attach to lymphoma cells, causing them to
      die.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. You will have a
      physical exam. Blood (about 2 to 3 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.
      You will have a chest x-ray and computerized tomography (CT) scans of the neck, chest,
      abdomen (stomach area), and pelvis.

      A PET scan is also recommended. A PET (Positron Emission Tomography) scan is a medical
      technique that monitors the activity in the brain and other organs by tracking the movement
      of a special radioactive solution through the body. The radioactive solution is either
      inhaled as a mist or injected into a vein. The radioactive solution is usually made from
      simple sugar that has radioactive particles attached to it. After the solution is injected
      into a vein or inhaled, the PET scanner takes pictures of the radioactive solution as it
      moves through the body and collects in various organs. By watching how the solution travels
      through the body and studying where the solution collects, researchers can learn the extent
      of disease in certain organs in the body.

      You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG -- a test that measures the electrical activity of
      the heart). You will have a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy performed. To collect a bone
      marrow aspirate and biopsy, an area of the hip or chest bone is numbed with anesthetic, and a
      small amount of bone marrow and bone is withdrawn through a large needle. Women who are able
      to have children must have a negative blood or urine pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be given diphenhydramine
      (Benadryl) by vein and you will take acetaminophen (Tylenol) by mouth before each dose of
      rituximab. This is done to help decrease the risk of developing side effects of rituximab.
      You will then receive 1 dose of rituximab by vein over about 4-6 hours on Day 1 of treatment.
      After treatment with rituximab, you will then be given 111 In Zevalin (this is a radioactive
      agent that binds to rituximab to help with imaging exams), by vein over about 10 minutes.
      This is so researchers can use a special camera to see where the drug is in your body.

      You will have imaging performed (on a camera, like an x-ray) on either Day 2 or 3. On Day 8
      (7 days after the first dose of rituximab) you will receive a second dose of rituximab. You
      will also be given Benadryl, Tylenol, and 90Y Zevalin in the same manner as on Day 1.

      If you experience intolerable side effects while on this study, you may be removed from this
      study. Your treatment on the study will end on Day 8.

      You will return for follow-up tests for 4 years. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn
      weekly for the first 3 months. Blood (about 2 tablespoons each time) will also be drawn at
      month 6 and 9 of the first year, and every 6 months in the second, third, and fourth years.
      You may also have CT scans, PET scans (which are recommended), x-rays, and bone marrow
      biopsies and aspirates performed, if your doctor thinks they are necessary.

      Your participation on this study will end in about 4 years.

      This is an investigational study. 90 Y Zevalin and rituximab are FDA approved and
      commercially available. Their use in this study is investigational. Up to 36 patients will
      take part in this multicenter study. Up to 36 patients will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  