
    
      Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is commonly used in management of advanced or recurrent
      prostate cancer. It also frequently used adjuvant to curative-intent radiation therapy for
      localized prostate cancer. Low testosterone levels during androgen deprivation commonly cause
      adverse effects reducing quality of life. Most common adverse effects include fatigue, weight
      gain, loss of lean muscle mass, hyperglycemia and hypercholesterolemia.

      Regular exercise, especially programs involving combination of both aerobic exercise and
      resistance training has been shown to reduce to reduce adverse effects of ADT on physical
      functioning and quality of life. It may also improve disease prognosis.

      The study compares effects of supervised and unsupervised exercise on plasma lipid parameters
      (total cholesterol, LDL, HDL and triglycerides) and glucose levels (fasting plasma glucose,
      glycated hemoglobin), overall quality of life and on average daily exercise activity in men
      with prostate cancer and under ADT. As secondary outcome we will study effect on continued
      exercise activity after the intervention, changes in body composition, blood pressure and
      risk of fractures, castration resistance as well as death due to prostate cancer and due to
      any cause.

      Study hypothesis is that supervised exercise will improve quality of life, lipid and glucose
      parameters and increase daily exercise activity more that non-supervised exercise. We also
      expect higher continued exercise activity, greater changes in body composition and blood
      pressure and lowered risk of fractures and death in the supervised exercise group.

      This is a randomized, controlled clinical trial. The study aims to recruit 40 men on ADT for
      prostate cancer. This will be a pilot study to estimate effect sizes in Finnish population to
      inform further larger trial.

      All participants attend introductory lecture, where a urologist informs them about adverse
      effects of ADT and positive effects of exercise during ADT, exercise instructor gives advice
      for training both at home and in the gym and nutritional therapeutist tells about nutrition
      to overcome adverse effects of ADT and support training.

      After the introductory lecture the participants are randomized 1:1 to either the supervised
      or non-supervised exercise group (Figure). Men in the supervised group participate in
      progressive group exercise sessions twice a week for total of 12 weeks at the Varala sports
      academy in Tampere, Finland. Each exercise session includes both aerobic and resistance
      training targeting all major muscle groups (Additional document I, exercise program). The
      non-supervised group will exercise independently for 12 weeks according to the instructions
      given at the introductory lecture. The first control visit will be after this first period of
      12 weeks of exercise.

      After the first follow-up visit both group will continue non-supervised exercise for 12
      weeks, after which the second control visit will be arranged. Special focus on the second
      control visit is to see how many in each group has been able to carry on active exercising,
      i.e. has the intervention promoted long-term change in exercise activity.

      Both study group will be given Polar wrist activity monitors to be used 24 h/day for the
      entire course of the study.

      All participants are asked to fill validated quality of life surveys EORTC QLQC-30 (overall
      quality of life) and EORTC QLQC-PR25 (prostate cancer-specific quality of life) at baseline
      and again at 1st and 2nd control visits. Additionally, qualitative evaluation of quality of
      life as well as perceived possibilities and obstacles for exercise are evaluated in
      individual- and group interviews during the study visits. Plasma lipid and glucose
      parameters, blood pressure and body composition will be measured at each of these visits.

      At each visit a separate blood sample is taken and stored for future measurement of
      biomarkers associated with prostate cancer progression, glucose and lipid metabolism and
      effects of exercise.
    
  