
    
      Study Design: multicenter, open-label, randomized, controlled trial of parallel groups with a
      final blind evaluation.

      Study sites. The following hospitals will participate in the study: Valme (Sevilla), la Fe
      (Valencia), Virgen del Rocío (Sevilla), Gral Yagüe (Burgos), San Pedro de Alcántara
      (Cáceres), Dr Peset (Valencia), Severo Ochoa (Madrid), Reina Sofía (Córdoba), Dr Negrín (Las
      Palmas de Gran Canaria), Virgen de la Victoria (Málaga), Río Hortega (Valladolid), Costa del
      Sol (Málaga), Marqués de Valdecilla (Santander), Albacete (Albacete), Virgen del Puerto
      (Cáceres), Puerta de Hierro (Madrid), Consorcio Sanitario de Terrassa (Barcelona), Getafe
      (Madrid), Gral de Alicante (Alicante), Morales Meseguer (Murcia), Tomelloso (Ciudad Real),
      and Fundación Jiménez Díaz (Madrid). All centers from Spain.

      Methods: consecutive outpatient women aged 18-75 years and referred to the sleep clinics for
      suspicion of OSA will be studied. They will undergo a diagnostic home respiratory polygraphy,
      and those diagnosed with moderate-to-severe OSA (AHI ≥15) will be eligible for this study and
      randomized to optimal CPAP treatment or conservative treatment for 12 weeks. Every women will
      fulfill a standardized protocol and different quality of life questionnaires. Office blood
      pressure will be measured. Fasting blood samples will be collected to assess glucose and
      lipid metabolism. All the measurements will be performed at baseline and after 12 weeks of
      follow-up. Women will be examined at the time of inclusion, after 4 weeks of follow-up and at
      the end of follow-up (12 weeks).

      149 women with moderate-to-severe OSA need to be enrolled in each study arm, according to the
      sample size calculated to achieve a clinically significant improvement in the Quebec Sleep
      Questionnaire. The results will be analyzed both on an intention-to-treat basis and on a
      per-protocol basis (data only from patients who finish the study and show good adherence to
      CPAP, defined as an average objective use of at least 4 hours/day).
    
  