
    
      Background and purpose:

      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the 5th most common cancer in the world and the 3rd most
      prevalent cause of tumor-related deaths. Portal vein tumor thrombus (PVTT) occurs in up to
      44% of HCC patients at the time of death and approximately 10-40% of patients at time of
      diagnosis. PVTT has a profound adverse effect on prognosis, with a very short median survival
      time (2-4 months). The presence of PVTT also limits treatment options, such as liver
      transplantation and curative resection. The optimal treatment for patients with HCC and PVTT
      remains largely controversial.

      The Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) group recommended the tyrosine kinase inhibitor
      sorafenib as a standard therapy for patients with advanced-stage HCC (BCLC stage C),
      including HCC patients with PVTT. However, in the Sorafenib Hepatocellular Carcinoma
      Assessment Randomized Protocol (SHARP) trail, on which the BCLC recommendations were based,
      patients with vascular invasion represented only 38.4% of the total study population. This
      result may not directly imply a survival gain with sorafenib treatment in HCC patients with
      PVTT. Additionally, the median survival time for patients with advanced HCC, including
      vascular invasion or extrahepatic metastases, treated with sorafenib is short - only 6.5
      months in Asia. Thus, more effective treatment strategies have been strongly required to
      increase survival rate.

      Some studies have reported a survival benefit in patients with PVTT who underwent
      transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), even in patients with main portal vein tumor
      thrombus. Iodine-125 brachytherapy alone had also showed promising efficacy as a new method
      for unresectable HCC with PVTT. Results of our previous study indicated that TACE combined
      with Iodine-125 seeds implantation might be a good choice for selected patients with PVTT.
      Thus, we conduct this study to farther evaluate the effect of TACE combined with Iodine-125
      seeds implantation for HCC with PVTT.

      Methods:

      HCC was diagnosed by biopsy or according to the non-invasive criteria following the European
      Association for the Study of Liver/American Association for the study of Liver Disease
      guidelines. The presence of PVTT was confirmed by three-phase dynamic CT or MR. The types of
      PVTT were classified into four subgroups: type I, PVTT in segmental branches of portal vein
      or above; type II, PVTT affecting left/right portal vein; type III, PVTT affecting main
      portal vein (MPV); and type IV, PVTT affecting superior mesenteric vein (SMV).

      270 patients met the eligibility criteria will be included in this study and randomized to
      two group: group 1, patients received TACE combined with Iodine-125 seeds implantation; group
      2, patients received TACE alone.

      TACE procedure:

      solution of doxorubicin hydrochloride (20-40 mg) and 5-Fu (500-1000 mg) is infused into the
      feeder vessels of HCC. Then, An emulsion of 2-20 ml lipiodol and 20-50 mg lobaplatin is
      administered into the feeder vessels. The total amount of chemotherapy drugs is depended on
      the patient's body weight. Finally, gelatin sponge or polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) particles,
      which are mixed with contrast material, were administered into the feeder vessels until
      stasis of arterial flow was achieved. In patients with an arterioportal shunt, embolization
      with 300-1000 μm PVA is performed to occlude the shunt by superselective catheterization
      before infusion of lipiodol and lobaplatin emulsion.

      Iodine-125 seeds implantation procedure:

      Iodine-125 seeds implantation into PVTT is conducted 7 days after TACE when liver function
      tests demonstrated values comparable to those obtained before TACE. Each particle was 4.5 mm
      in length and 0.8 mm in diameter, with a radioactivity of 0.6-0.8mCi, radioactive half-life
      of 60.1days, and radiation energy of 27.4KeV. The volume and shape of PVTT is obtained by
      CT/MR images and used to calculate the matched peripheral dose and determine best
      percutaneous access route and numbers of Iodine-125 seeds using our three dimensional
      conformal radiation therapy Treatment Planning System (TPS). Implantation was guided by CT
      and Iodine-125 seeds are implanted into inside PVTT or around the PVTT (parenchymal or tumor
      issue from PVTT less than 1.7 cm) 5 mm apart along the length of PVTT using 18G needles.

      Follow-up and re-treatment:

      All patients revisit our institution for follow-up examinations including contrast enhanced
      CT/MRI every 4-6 weeks after the first treatment. The laboratory tests are checked within one
      week before and after the first TACE or Iodine-125 seed implantation, and every 4-6 weeks
      during follow-up. Patients who have a tumor response rating of complete response will be
      required to revisit 3 months interval. At each visit, TACE or Iodine-125 seed implantation or
      combination of TACE and Iodine-125 seed is repeated if the following criteria are reached: 1)
      images indicating viable intrahepatic tumor tissue or PVTT; 2) Child-Pugh class A or B, and
      no contraindication to TACE and Iodine-125 seeds implantation.
    
  