
    
      Mohs surgery is a very effective option in removing non-melanoma skin cancers, as the tissue
      being removed is analyzed the same day. If there are remnants of cancer cells in the tissue
      removed, the Mohs surgeon will go back and remove further tissue and repair the surgical One
      option for treating non-melanoma skin cancer is Mohs Surgery, also known as Mohs Micrographic
      Surgery or Mohs Procedure.

      Mohs surgery is a full-day procedure where your skin cancer will be removed and processed
      immediately after in our lab. The investigators look at the edges of the skin that the
      investigators have removed to see if there is any cancer left. If any of the edges show that
      there is still cancer, the investigators go back and remove more. The investigators will
      repeat this process until all of the margins of your skin are clear from cancer. After all
      the cancer is removed, the investigators will reconstruct the area that has been removed to
      give you the best cosmetic and functional result.

      Throughout this procedure, the investigators will inject local anesthetic or "freezing" to
      reduce the discomfort associated with skin cancer surgery. There are two different types of
      local anesthetic that the investigators are studying to reduce this pain. One anesthetic is
      called lidocaine and the other is bupivacaine. A third option is to use a combination of
      lidocaine and bupivacaine. Lidocaine and bupivacaine are both approved by Health Canada for
      its use in providing local anesthesia.

      WHY IS THIS STUDY BEING DONE? The purpose of this study is to look at which of the approved
      interventions (lidocaine, bupivacaine or a combination of the two injected sequentially)
      works best to reduce pain during and after Mohs surgery.

      HOW MANY PEOPLE WILL TAKE PART IN THIS STUDY? It is anticipated that about 105 people will
      take part in this study from The Mohs Clinic at the Parkdale Dermatology Clinic of The Ottawa
      Hospital.

      This study should take three months to complete and the results should be known in about 6
      months.

      ASSIGNMENT TO A GROUP If you decide to participate then you will be "randomized" into one of
      the groups described below. Randomization means that you are put into a group by chance (like
      flipping a coin). There is no way to predict which group you will be assigned to. You will
      have a one in three chance of being placed in either group. Neither you, the study staff, nor
      the study doctors can choose what group you will be in.

      You will not know which group you are in, but the study doctor and study staff will.

      WHAT IS THE STUDY INTERVENTION? Group 1: Lidocaine alone If you are randomized to this group
      you will receive lidocaine as your local anesthetic.

      Group 2: Bupivacaine alone If you are randomized to this group you will receive bupivacaine
      as your local anesthetic.

      Group 3: Lidocaine and bupivacaine used in combination If you are randomized to this group
      you will receive both lidocaine and bupivacaine used in combination during your procedure.
      First you will receive injections of lidocaine and then immediately afterwards you will
      receive injections of bupivacaine. Roughly equal volumes of lidocaine and bupivacaine will be
      used and the investigators expect the overall volume of local anesthetic (compared with group
      1 and 2) that will be injected will be similar. The investigators expect the total number of
      needle pokes to be similar.

      WHAT ELSE DO I NEED TO KNOW ABOUT THE STUDY INTERVENTION? All of the study interventions are
      considered standard of care for the use of local anesthetics in Mohs procedure. Local
      practices for using anesthetics are center dependent.

      If you have side effects while you are on this study, the study doctor may make changes to
      the intervention.

      If you require greater than three levels during your Mohs procedure, your data will be
      collected but will be excluded from the main study analysis. Patients requiring greater than
      three levels during their Mohs procedure are excluded because they often require more complex
      skin reconstruction surgery which can be more painful afterwards. The vast majority of
      patients undergoing Mohs surgery require one to three levels and it is these patients that
      the investigators are hoping to apply the results of our study to.

      QUESTIONNAIRES As part of the study, you will be required to complete the same short
      questionnaire a total of nine times. This questionnaire will only be done by participants in
      this study.

      The questionnaire will be completed at The Mohs Clinic just prior to your surgery and you
      will complete the questionnaire at home after your surgery at various time points (at 2, 4,
      6, 8, 12, 24, 36 and 72 hours post surgery). The purpose of the questionnaire is assess the
      level of your surgical/incisional pain after Mohs surgery and enquire about any additional
      pain medications that you have taken after the surgery. It will take approximately 2 minutes
      to complete the questionnaire You will be asked to bring all of the completed questionnaires
      with you when you return to the Mohs Clinic for your follow-up visit one the investigatorsek
      after your surgery.

      The information you provide is for research purposes only. You can choose not to ansthe
      investigatorsr questions if you wish.

      Even though you may have provided information on a questionnaire, these responses will not be
      reviethe investigatorsd promptly by your health care team. If you wish them to know this
      information please bring it to their attention.
    
  