
    
      After IRB approval, experiments will take place in the Human Circulation Research Laboratory
      in the Department of Health and Exercise on the University of Oklahoma Norman campus. All
      subjects will complete a total of 3 visits. The first is a screening and time control visit
      to provide informed consent and to ensure the potential participant meets all inclusion
      criteria and no exclusion criteria. Once consented and enrolled, participants will complete a
      time control trial (CON). On separate days (visits 2 and 3), participants will complete
      placebo (PLA) and melatonin (MEL) in a randomly ordered, single-blind, counter-balanced
      design. PLA or MEL treatment will precede testing by 30min to maximize absorption into the
      circulation (Bartoli, 2013).

      All experiments (CON/PLA/MEL) will begin with the subject lying supine for 5 min of quiet
      rest where baseline measurements are taken, followed by their left foot being passively
      placed in the iced water to complete a cold pressor test (CPT). Following the CPT
      participants will be given 10 minutes of rest to recover all variables to pre-CPT values.
      After which participants will be given a hand grip dynamometer to complete 7 minutes of
      exercise at an intensity of 20% MVC at a 1s contraction to 2s relaxation cycle paced by a
      metronome. During the final 2 minutes of the 7 minutes of exercise the participant's right
      foot will be placed in the iced water such that the participant will be completing a CPT
      during rhythmic grip exercise. After the completion of exercise, the subject will remain
      supine for 10min. Then the a Total Labile Signal (TLS) procedure will be conducted. Where the
      experimental limb is occluded using a blood pressure cuff for 5min. The cuff is then rapidly
      deflated. The lowest oxyhemoglobin measured during the occlusion is recorded. After the TLS
      procedure, the subject will be de-instrumented and will leave the laboratory.
    
  