
    
      Background:

      Imaging technology for the rapid diagnosis of medical conditions is an indispensable tool in
      the emergency department (ED). However, increasing and inappropriate use of costly and
      potentially dangerous imaging is a growing healthcare concern. The long-term health risks of
      radiation exposure, and the resources consumed by increased use, pose serious threats to the
      integrity of the investigators' health care system and the population at large. Computed
      tomography (CT) is frequently used in the emergency department setting to evaluate patients
      with mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI) and suspected pulmonary embolism (PE) to eliminate
      diagnostic uncertainty by either confirming or ruling out serious injury and illness.
      However, these tests are often used in lieu of alternate and safer strategies with equivalent
      accuracy and effectiveness. Fortunately, well-validated decision-support tools exist that can
      safely identify low risk patients who are unlikely to benefit from CT imaging, avoiding
      unnecessary diagnostic imaging and radiation exposure, and making better use of limited
      health system resources. However, decision-support is under-used in clinical practice, and
      research to optimize their uptake has yielded mixed results.

      Study Objectives:

      The investigators will conduct a cluster-randomized trial to evaluate whether the
      implementation of decision-support into standard clinical practice for ordering CTs will (a)
      decrease the number of CTs ordered, (b) increase the appropriateness of the CTs that are
      ordered (e.g. by increasing diagnostic yield but avoiding any missed diagnosis).

      Scope:

      The scope is to focus on two conditions for which validated decision-support exists: MTBI and
      PE.

      These conditions were selected because internal AHS data shows significant variability
      (15-90%) in the ordering of CTs for patients presenting with these conditions, and because
      validated decision-support exists for these conditions (e.g. Canadian CT Head Rule, Well's
      Score, Pulmonary Embolism Rule-Out Criteria).

      The scope includes all hospitals in Alberta with an ED and in-house CT. There are 17 of these
      hospitals in Alberta from Fort McMurray to Medicine Hat. The investigators have obtained
      operational approvals to conduct the researchers' study in all 17 hospitals from the
      Emergency Chief at each site, and from ED and Diagnostic Imaging leadership at the level of
      each Zone as well as the Province. The scope is limited to patients presenting to the ED.

      Methods:

      The study design is a cluster randomized trial. In the Calgary Zone, the investigators will
      randomize half of the investigators' ED physicians to receive decision-support for MTBI, and
      half to receive decision-support for PE.

      Outside of the Calgary Zone, the investigators will randomize by site, so half of sites will
      receive decision-support for MTBI, and half will receive decision-support for PE. Each half
      of the randomization will serve as a control for the other group. The reason the
      investigators are randomizing by physician in the Calgary Zone is because the Computerized
      Physician Order Entry system in Calgary allows us to implement such a randomization, whereas
      outside of the Calgary Zone the heterogeneity of order entry systems does not make it
      feasible to randomize by physician, but it is feasible to randomize by site.

      The implementation of decision-support for CT ordering will be mandatory and is supported by
      operational and clinical leadership. By integrating decision-support into the existing
      systems to order CTs, a physician (or site) randomized to MTBI or PE decision-support will
      have to consider those tools prior to ordering a CT. However, decision-support does not make
      decisions about who receives a CT; it merely provides additional information about how likely
      a CT is to be diagnostically useful. All decisions regarding diagnostic or therapeutic
      interventions are the sole responsibility of the physician in consultation with the patient.
      The primary outcomes measured by this study will be (a) the percentage of MTBI and PE
      patients receiving a CT scan, and (b) the "appropriateness" of CT scans ordered. This last
      point can be measured in a variety of ways, such as the percentage of low-risk patients (as
      defined by decision-support) receiving CT, as well as the diagnostic yield of the CTs that
      are ordered.

      Procedure:

      This study will be supported by several strategies including the integration of
      decision-support into CT ordering procedures in consultation with participating sites. This
      will also be supported by a voluntary pre-intervention Physician Survey to measure knowledge
      and attitudes towards CT ordering and decision-support, as well as the perceived barriers to
      implementing decision-support in their practice. Finally, throughout the intervention
      physicians and sites will be provided with "audit and feedback" (clinical informatics) on
      their CT ordering practices in relation to their peers. This feedback will be provided
      through existing AHS data systems through the Department of Data Integration, Measurement,
      and Reporting.
    
  