
    
      Lowering sodium intake and the use of salt substitute have been proved to lower blood
      pressure levels. Effects on the risks of vascular outcomes have not been defined in an
      adequately powered randomised trial. Rural Chinese are known to consume very large quantities
      of sodium and to suffer from very high rates of hypertension and stroke. This study is a
      large scale cluster randomised trial done in rural areas of China. The study will define the
      effects of a salt substitute-based sodium reduction strategy on the primary outcome of
      stroke. Secondary endpoints will include major cardiovascular events and total mortality. The
      study will be conducted in 600 rural villages across five Northern Chinese provinces and
      Tibet. The study will recruit 35 individuals at elevated risk of stroke from each village for
      a total of 21,000 participants. The participating villages will be randomised into
      intervention and control group with 1:1 allocation. Recruitment will prioritise individuals
      with a history of stroke but also include older individuals with high blood pressure. Follow
      up is scheduled for 5 years. Individuals in intervention villages will receive repeated
      dietary advice and a supply of low sodium salt substitute while individuals in control
      villages will receive dietary advice at baseline only. Every 6 months throughout follow-up
      each individual will be contacted by phone call to inquire about the occurrence of stroke,
      hospitalisation for any cause and diagnoses of any other serious illnesses. The interview
      will be structured and done by individuals masked to the randomised assignment of each
      individual. For all deaths identified and all events that might possibly be non-fatal strokes
      a home visit will be made. A series of process indicators including urinary sodium, urinary
      potassium, blood pressure, knowledge about sodium and use of salt substitute will also be
      measured on a random sample of at least 20 individuals drawn from a random selection of 60
      villages at baseline and every year thereafter.
    
  