
    
      The intervention programme has been developed, manualized, and rigorously tested in our
      previous study (1). This programme is largely a replica of our original programme. Two social
      workers will deliver the resilience intervention. One of the two interventionists who
      delivered the intervention in our empirical study is still available. One more social worker
      will be selected from recently trained interventionists to deliver this intervention.

      This resilience intervention (see Supplement 2) consists of 4 sessions, each lasting for 2
      hours, finished within two weeks. This intervention is built on the international and local
      evidence about positive characteristics that promote successful immigration and effective
      strategies that enhance psychological well-being.

      We will promote this intervention programme in new immigrants, and recruit participants by
      open recruitment, contacting current service users of the community agency, referral and cold
      call. Orientation gatherings will be organized to screen for eligible immigrants.

      The resilience + information intervention consists of 4 sessions, each lasting for 2.5 hours,
      finished within two weeks. In each session, the resilience section will last for 2 hours
      (identical to the resilience intervention), and the information intervention will be half an
      hour. Similar to our previous information intervention, this information section will cover
      transportation, housing, medical service, education, and employment, the important
      information helpful for the immigrants' adaptation.

      Participants will receive four sessions, either the resilience intervention or the resilience
      + information intervention. Unlike most programmes that have not been developed in the
      community, we have identified some key strategies to reduce attrition during the
      intervention. Before each session, social workers will call participants to remind them of
      the coming session. During the intervention, we will provide child care upon participants'
      request. For those who are unable to attend a specific sessions, social workers will conduct
      a make-up on the content, and provide general encouragement that attendance of further
      sessions will bring important gains. During the follow-up period, social workers will send
      reminder postcards to participants. At the end of the intervention, participants will obtain
      a certificate in recognition of their participation in this programme. Evaluation will be
      conducted before the first session (pre-intervention) and immediately after the intervention
      (post-intervention).
    
  