
    
      When someone has an injury to the hand or wrist, often the person's doctor and therapists
      will ask them to use a cast or a splint to protect the body while it heals. They also may ask
      the person not to do certain movements, or any activities where it is necessary to use the
      hand for squeezing or gripping. This is important to allow healing, but the injured arm can
      become weaker during this period. New research has demonstrated that performing specific
      forms of exercise on the uninjured side can help speed recovery on the injured side, even
      when the injured hand is still in a cast.

      Two of these types of exercise are called cross-education and mirror visual feedback.
      Cross-education means doing resistance or strengthening exercises on the uninjured side while
      the injured side is resting. Mirror visual feedback is performing exercise or movements with
      the uninjured hand in front of a mirror, hiding the injured hand resting behind the mirror,
      so it looks like the injured hand is doing the exercises too. The investigators think both of
      these exercises work because they use the same part of the brain, part of our movement
      control network that helps us coordinate movements on both sides of the body. Perhaps they
      might work even better if used together.

      This study will test cross-education, mirror visual feedback or cross-education combined with
      mirror visual feedback added to the usual therapy after a hand or wrist injury. The
      investigators need to be sure that this is better than usual care, so some people who
      participate in the study will just have the usual care, and not do any extra exercise.
      Because limited research has been done on these methods after injury, this will be a small
      study to test the best ways to run a big study that will provide solid proof about these
      ideas. That means the investigators will ask participants to keep track of how often they do
      their exercises, and to tell the study team about any problems or concerns they have when
      they are doing their exercises.

      If it can be demonstrated that cross-exercise and/or mirror visual feedback can speed up or
      improve recovery after a hand or wrist injury, it might help participants get back to work
      and their usual activities faster and with less pain. These treatments don't cost a lot of
      money or need a lot of special equipment, so they could be used in many different countries.
      If the study can show these exercises help with hand and wrist injuries, they might also be
      able to be used for therapy after stroke, or with other kinds of injuries like foot and ankle
      fractures.
    
  