
    
      Chewing is a function that is defined as the grinding of solid food and making them ready for
      swallowing. Chewing begins with the acceptance of solid food with the lips. The rotational
      and lateral movements of the tongue is also necessary during grinding the solid food in the
      molar region. In the molar region, grinding is carried out with the help of salivary and
      salivary enzymes. Chewing behavior is a learned function. The child begins to chew at 6
      months and the coordinated movement to the 9th month continues to develop. Together with
      experience, chewing activity continues to develop. The families have a primary role in
      chewing training. In some children, the chewing function does not develop as desired. Many
      children with developmental, medical, or oral motor problems have difficulty in grinding and
      swallowing solid foods. Therefore, it is very important to assess the ability of the child's
      chewing and determine the treatment goals. Assessment of the child's ability to chew should
      begin by considering chewing as a function. For this reason, the Karaduman Chewing
      Performance Scale (KCPS) was developed at the Hacettepe University, Faculty of Health
      Sciences Department of Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation. The chewing performance of the child
      during chewing a biscuit is scored by the therapist between 0-4. 0 refers to normal chewing,
      4 means no bite and chew. The family has a primary prescription in the identification of the
      chewing disorder in children to plan appropriate rehabilitation program and implementation of
      the training. Therefore, it is very important to investigate the validity and reliability of
      classification systems that can be applied by parents. The purpose of this study is to
      determine the validity and reliability of the reliability and validity of family report
      chewing evaluation (Karaduman Chewing Performance Scale-Family report).
    
  