
    
      The proposed study is a multi-site randomized controlled clinical trial evaluating the
      efficacy of a peer mentoring program for improving the self-management of youth with IBD. The
      primary outcomes are youth QOL and functioning in typical life activities, which can remain
      significantly impaired even when the disease is in remission, but have received little
      empirical attention. Secondary outcomes are disease outcomes, including disease severity and
      clinical outcomes (hospital admissions, clinic appointments, missed appointments,
      procedures). Mentor and parent QOL will also be assessed as secondary outcomes. Mechanisms
      that may contribute to the effects of the Mentoring Program will be investigated: Parent and
      child self-efficacy, illness uncertainty, coping, social support and child perceived stigma
      may mediate relationships between mentoring and outcomes. Sex will be explored as a
      moderator.

      A total of 200 youth and their parents and 100 mentors will be enrolled in the study.
      Eligibility criteria for youth include age 10-17 years, parent and child English fluency, and
      no documented neurodevelopmental disorder or history of hospitalization for a psychiatric or
      behavioral disorder. Mentors will be ≥16 years, ≥1 year post-diagnosis of IBD and managing
      their IBD well. They will be rigorously screened via online application, interview, checks of
      references, driving records, and social media, background check, and successful completion of
      a 3-hour training. Youth will be randomly assigned to the Mentoring Program or an
      "Educational Activity" comparison group, with baseline assessments occurring prior to
      randomization. Follow-up assessments will occur post-intervention and 6 months later. Youth
      in the Educational Activity group will be yoked to those in Mentoring Program, and the timing
      of their follow-up assessments will correspond to their yoked peer.

      The Mentoring Program was developed via focus groups, an NIH-funded pilot study, national
      mentoring resources, and the PI's 10 years of experience with Big Brothers Big Sisters. It
      consists of year-long, 1:1 mentee-mentor relationships with group educational activities,
      online educational information, and a parent support component. Matching mentors and mentees
      is based on gender (same), age, geographical proximity, ethnicity, and interests. Mentors and
      mentees are expected to have weekly contact (e.g., text, phone), with in-person contact 1 - 2
      times per month, one of which can be attending a group activity together. The investigators
      expect the relationship to last 1 year, which is associated with better outcomes than shorter
      relationships.

      Group activities target self-management skills through experiential opportunities, modeling,
      and direct instruction. Educational topics include nutrition, stress, IBD and school, and
      disease management, and are taught by experts in each content area (e.g., dietitian,
      pediatric gastroenterologists). They also provide opportunities to socialize with other
      mentors and mentees: lunch and games are provided before or after the educational event.
      Parents in the Mentoring Program participate in a social/support group facilitated by an
      Investigator while mentees and mentors are socializing. Parents join the mentees and mentors
      for the educational topics.

      The Educational Activity comparison group consists of separate educational group events on
      the same topics (with no social or support time), educational information posted online, and
      monthly encouragement to engage in activities in the community.

      Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a modification was approved so that all study activities can be
      conducted virtually, e.g., the in-person mentor-mentee monthly activity can be conducted via
      Skype, and group activities are live streamed.
    
  