
    
      Thoracolumbar (TL) fractures occur in 8-15% of blunt trauma patients cared for in major
      trauma centers. These fractures can be devastating and commonly occur in patients who endure
      high-energy trauma (e.g. motor vehicle accidents). TL fractures occur mainly between T10 and
      L2. The "3 Column Model" attempts to identify criteria that can predict instability of TL
      fractures. This model divides the spine into anterior, middle, and posterior areas. Stability
      is dependent on the integrity of two out of three of the columns. Major spine injuries are
      those that involve mechanical or neurologic instability.

      The four major types of injury include compression, burst, seat-belt, and
      fracture-dislocation. Compression fractures account for 50-70% of all TL fractures and
      usually consist of compression failure of the anterior column. Burst fractures comprise
      approximately 14% of all TL injuries. These injuries usually involve compression of both the
      anterior and posterior column. Seat-belt fractures (aka flexion-distraction fractures)
      account for 10% of TL injuries and occur most commonly in patients who are wearing only the
      lap belt (i.e. no chest belt) during motor vehicle trauma. These injuries typically involve
      compression of the anterior column with distraction failure of both the middle and posterior
      columns. Finally, the fracture-dislocation type fracture occurs with massive direct trauma to
      the back, causing failure of all three columns and translational injury.

      Patients with TL fractures may present with TL spine pain, midline TL spine tenderness, TL
      spine bony deformity, or neurologic deficit. Oftentimes these patients were in high-velocity
      traumatic scenarios, including falls from heights, crush injuries, motor vehicle crashes with
      ejection, unenclosed vehicles (ex. motorcycles), or automobile versus pedestrian accidents.
      Diagnosis is confirmed via computed tomography (CT) imaging or plain radiographs. CT imaging
      is typically more accurate than plain radiographs but can be poor in certain subtypes of
      injury. MRI can be utilized to assess the integrity of the ligaments and surrounding soft
      tissues.

      There is currently no universally accepted system for classifying the severity of TL
      fractures. One proposed system is the Thoracolumbar injury classification and severity score
      (TLICS). Points are awarded based on radiographic findings, neurologic status, and the
      integrity of posterior ligamentous complex. The final numeric score is used to guide
      treatment, with higher scores indicating need for surgery. Neurologic deficit favors surgery.

      There is no clear consensus on the best treatment approach for TL fractures. For situations
      where conservative management is decided (i.e. surgery is not required or is
      contraindicated), patients are treated with recumbency and delayed ambulation in orthosis
      with serial radiographs to determine need for further intervention. The surgical management
      for more severe/unstable fractures usually involves posterior instrumentation with
      percutaneous or open pedicle screw fixation.3 While the traditional open pedicle screw
      fixation technique has demonstrated good radiologic and clinical outcomes, a minimally
      invasive percutaneous approach has been increasingly used in recent years. The minimally
      invasive technique potentially carries the advantage of less operative blood loss, shorter
      operative time, smaller incisions, potentially less postoperative pain, and overall shorter
      hospital stay. There are a few studies published in the literature, but more studies are
      needed to establish the treatment modality that is the most efficacious and safe for these
      patients.

      At the University of Texas Southwestern (Parkland Hospital), the investigators evaluate and
      treat a large population of patients with TL fractures. Previous trials in the literature
      comparing open and percutaneous fixation of TL fractures have been series of ~100-200
      patients. These studies have shown variable results, with many concluding similar outcome
      results for the two surgical techniques. The purpose of this study is to compare a larger
      number of patients (~500) who have undergone either surgical approach to determine the best
      technique in terms of clinical and radiographic outcomes. The investigators believe this
      study will provide neurosurgeons with invaluable information about the safety and efficacy of
      different treatment modalities for TL fractures in this patient population.
    
  