
    
      Many studies seem to attest the superiority of excision and reconstruction of the natal cleft
      with a flap rather than the open excision with secondary healing. Jamal et al. found a
      significantly lower recurrence rate with a rhomboid excision and reconstruction with a
      Limberg flap versus open excision and secondary healing (p=0.005) in a prospective controlled
      randomized trial including 49 patients. Keshuari et al. obtained the same significant results
      in their prospective controlled randomized study including 321 patients, with a rate of 1.2%
      of recurrence in the Karidakis flap repair cluster versus 7.5% in the excision with healing
      by secondary intention cluster. The time for complete wound healing was also significantly
      amended .

      The reconstruction of the natal cleft with a Karydakis or Limberg flap seemed to be superior
      in terms of recurrence compared to open excision. But those flaps led to a significant and
      discernable scar.

      The parasacral perforator flap has been described by Garrido et al. in 2002. It appears to be
      a good alternative, offering all the benefits of the reconstruction of the natal cleft in
      terms of lower rate of recurrence and lower time for complete wound healing. It also gives a
      better aesthetic result.

      In this trial, patients will be operated under general anesthesia. A Methylene blue injection
      will identify the limits of the pilonidal sinus. An excision of the whole width of the
      relevant area will be performed, with depth reaching the presacral fascia. In the A group, a
      parasacral perforator flap repair of the natal clef will be done, and in the B group healing
      by secondary intention by dressing will be performed. Patients will be followed in
      consultation at 15 days, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years.

      During these visits, a potential clinical recurrence will be detected, the time to be
      completely healing will be evaluated, the period of loss of normal activities will be noted,
      the quality of life will be assessed by a standardized generic measure (EQ-5D-5L) and by a
      specific score (DLQI), and post-operative complications will be collected.

      The aim of this study is to assess the efficacy and the security of the reconstruction of the
      natal cleft with the perforator parasacral flap versus open excision with secondary healing
      in the treatment of sacrococcygeal pilonidal sinus.

      A medico-economic analysis evaluating the incremental cost-effectiveness and cost-utility
      ratio will be also done at 2 years. Additionally, an evaluation of the production costs of
      the new strategy (i.e. parasacral perforator flap) will be performed from the specific
      perspective of hospitals.
    
  