
    
      The limited data available in the literature suggest that insulin resistance, low-grade
      inflammation and muscle lipid infiltration may negatively impact torque production capacity
      and promote neuromuscular fatigability. Insulin resistance thus has effects on blood
      perfusion of active muscles, via effects on the autonomic nervous system (Petrofsky and al.
      2009). Insulin resistance is also associated with a disruption of Na+/K+ pump activity,
      excitation-contraction coupling, intracellular ATP concentration (Orlando and al. 2016) and
      mitochondrial function (Slattery and al. 2014). All these effects are expected to increase
      the development of peripheral fatigue in obese patients with type 2 diabetes and impaired
      mitochondrial function is expected to result in impaired post-exercise recovery capacity.
      Inflammation can also affect the torque production. Some studies have shown a negative
      correlation between muscle torque production and inflammatory status in obese adolescents
      (Ruiz and al. 2008) and seniors (Visser and al. 2002). Inflammation is associated with
      reduced muscle mass, which may result from inhibition of protein synthesis (Guillet and al.
      2012). Inflammation could also have negative effects on the nervous factors of torque
      production, via the stimulation of afferences III and IV, as suggested in the healthy subject
      (Dousset and al. 2007). However, this has never been demonstrated. Finally, oedema associated
      with the inflammatory reaction could modify the architecture and muscle dimensions, as
      demonstrated in healthy subjects (Ishikawa and al. 2006) or those suffering from inflammatory
      diseases (Kaya and al. 2013). To date, the consequences of low-grade inflammation, combined
      or not with aging, on the muscle and nervous factors of force production in obese adults have
      yet to be characterized experimentally. Muscle lipid infiltration can also have negative
      effects on muscle protein synthesis (Tardif and al. 2014) and especially on strength. This
      has been frequently reported in non-obese elderly people (Sipilä and Suominen 1994).
      Interestingly, another study reported a negative correlation between intramuscular lipid
      content and level of quadriceps voluntary activation in non-obese elderly people (Yoshida and
      al. 2012), which may explain the correlation discussed above. To our knowledge, no data are
      available for adult obese patients. However, it can be assumed that lipid infiltration would
      have inhibitory effects on the level of activation of motor units, and therefore on the
      production of force. It is also likely that lipid infiltration limits muscle architectural
      adaptations to overweight (contractile and adipose tissues competing to develop in a
      restricted muscle volume). Mathematical modelling of the effects of lipid infiltration on
      muscle mechanics (Rahemi and al. 2015) suggests that intramuscular lipids could disrupt
      contractile activity by limiting the shortening of muscle fascicles, and transverse muscle
      deformation during muscle contraction. However, these theoretical predictions have yet to be
      confirmed by experimental data.

      The PLANEUROB research project is a physiological observational study comparing the
      respective effects of mechanical overload, metabolic disorders and age on torque production,
      fatigability and functional capacity in obese people. Subjects will have to perform a fatigue
      protocol, an adapted Margaria test and a 6 minutes walking test in one session. Blood
      samples, muscular ultrasound scanner and physical activity assessment will also be achieved.

      Data will be analysed using LabChart 7.3 Pro software (ADInstrument, New South Wales,
      Australia), ImageJ (NIH Image, Bethesda, Maryland, USA) and Statistica 8.0 software
      (StatSoft, Inc.) and significance will be accepted at a two-sided alpha level of p<.05. The
      normality and homogeneity of the variables will be checked respectively from a Shapiro- Wilk
      test and a Barlett test. If normality and homogeneity of the variables are verified, absolute
      values of variables (Torque, EMG, mean grey, etc.) will be compared using two factors (age x
      metabolic disorders) analyses of variance (ANOVA) with repeated measures. If analyses reveal
      a significant effect of any factor or interaction of factors, post-hoc Newman-Keuls tests
      will be performed to determine differences between the different conditions.
    
  