
    
      Background: There is extensive evidence that cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is an
      effective method of treating common psychiatric disorders such as depression, health anxiety
      and insomnia. However, access to CBT is very limited. Furthermore, evidence suggest that
      internet-delivered CBT (iCBT) is as effective as traditional CBT. However, many psychiatric
      patients are not sufficiently improved by current interventions. Functional brain imaging has
      proven to be a promising method for predicting treatment outcomes in psychiatric treatment.
      Calculations on brain signal variability based on the blood-oxygen-level-dependent, BOLD
      signal (BOLD-fMRI) is a relatively new technique, shown to accurately predict chronological
      age and cognitive performance. Preliminary data from the investigators' lab suggest that
      pre-treatment BOLD-fMRI variability is predictive of CBT outcome in patients with social
      anxiety disorder.

      Objectives: The objective of the study is to investigate whether objective measurements of
      brain function, in comparison with subjective experiences and self-reports (e.g., rating on
      treatment credibility and patients expectations about the treatment), contribute to better
      prediction of treatment outcome. The prediction model will be tested on iCBT for three common
      forms of mental disorders (depression, insomnia and health anxiety). Furthermore,
      participants will be compared with healthy controls to better understand neurobiological
      factors that may contribute to mental illness. Preliminary data from the investigators' lab
      suggest that BOLD-fMRI variability differs between social anxiety disorder participants and
      healthy individuals.

      Method: A sample of outpatients scheduled for iCBT treatment for depression, insomnia or
      health anxiety at the Internet Psychiatry Unit will be invited to participate in the study.
      In addition to clinical participants, a healthy control group will be recruited via
      advertisement in social media.The length of the iCBT intervention is 12 weeks, during which
      participants engage in web-based treatment modules in a sequential manner, guided though a
      digital messaging system by a licensed psychologist who provides support and feedback on
      progress and assignments.

      Measuring instruments: Brain imaging is performed before the patients initiate psychiatric
      treatment. The brain will be examined with structural and functional magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) using an EPI sequence to capture the BOLD signal (Philips 3-Tesla, 32 channel
      head-coil).

      During the online self-referral process and during clinical intake interview, data on a
      number of potential predictor variables are collected:

        -  Within the social-demographic domain: age; gender; relationship status (dichotomized as
           being single or not); level of education rated on a 7-point scale (1 = less than 7-9
           years in school; 2 = 7-9 years in school; 3 = incomplete vocational or secondary school;
           4 = vocational school; 5 = secondary school; 6 = university, started but not completed
           studies; 7 = completed university studies); employment status dichotomized as working
           full-time or not; and having children.

        -  Within the clinical characteristics domain: duration of illness (years since onset),
           history of psychotropic medication, history of inpatient psychiatric care, history of
           depression, attempted suicide, currently on medication, and currently on psychotropic
           medication.

        -  Presence (yes/no) of any comorbid illness is assessed using the the Mini-International
           Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI), including panic disorder, agoraphobia, social anxiety
           disorder, insomnia, health anxiety, mild depressive episode, moderate depressive
           episode, severe depressive episode, recurrent mild depressive episode, recurrent
           moderate depressive episode, recurrent severe depressive episode, recurrent depression
           without current symptoms and dysthymia.

        -  Having a family history of mental illness is assessed prior to treatment, screening for
           having a family history of dependence / substance abuse, bipolar disorder, depression,
           minor depression, neuropsychiatric condition, anxiety, panic disorder, psychosis, social
           anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder-like symptoms, suicide attempts or suicide
           completed.

        -  Treatment process factors including perceived treatment credibility measured during the
           second week in treatment, measured with the Treatment Credibility Scale (TCS) where
           patients' attitudes to the credibility of the treatment and expectancy regarding
           treatment effectiveness are rated on a 10-point scale (0 = not at all to 10 = very
           much). Second, treatment adherence is measured at post-treatment, reflecting the degree
           of use of the ICBT program operationalised as the total number of activated treatment
           modules.

      Measurements only administered at screening/pre-treatment:

        -  Panic Disorder Severity Scale - Self rated (PDSS-SR; all participants)

        -  Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale, Self-report (LSAS-SR; all participants)

        -  Social Phobia Inventory (SPIN; all patients)

        -  The Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT; all participants)

        -  The Drug Use Disorders Identification Test (DUDIT; all participants)

        -  The Adult Self Report Scale (ASRS-V1; all patients)

        -  WHO Disability Assessment Schedule (WHODAS 2.0; all participants)

        -  Metacognitive Beliefs in Health Anxiety (MCQ-HA: health anxiety participants)

        -  Working Alliance Inventory (WAI; health anxiety participants)

        -  General Self-Efficacy scale (S-GSE; insomnia participants)

      Behavioural measurements before/while undergoing MRI (all participants):

        -  Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS)

        -  Affect (valence and arousal). "How much pleasure or discomfort are you feeling right
           now? (1-9)" and "How calm or upset do you feel right now? (1-9)"

        -  Karolinska Sleepiness Scale (KSS)

        -  Subjective unit of discomfort (SUD): fear and distress (0-100)

        -  Self-rated health (SRH-5)

        -  Short Grit Scale (Grit-S)

      Predictors of treatment outcome

        1. Behavioral predictor(s) of treatment outcome:

             -  Questions about desired and expected treatment improvement. These include a)
                treatment credibility and b) modified PHQ-9, SHAI and ISI questionnaires where the
                participants' expectation after completed treatment is self-rated for each item as
                well as participants' desire of improvement on a 0-100 scale for each item.

             -  Ecological momentary assessments (EMA) with repeated sampling of participants'
                current behaviors and experiences in real time (4 times/day, during approximately 5
                days prior to MRI procedure), including sleep problems, sleepiness, depressive
                symptoms, fear and discomfort. The purpose is to measure different and varied
                experiences / feelings over time. Variability in experiences will be compared to
                the participant's variability in brain function to answer the question of whether
                emotion variability can predict treatment outcomes. The specific EMA questions
                include the following: PHQ-2, Karolinska Sleepiness Scale (KSS), Item 1 from ISI,
                Item 1 from SHAI, and subjective units of discomfort (fear and distress).

             -  Social Network Index (SNI)

             -  Emotion categorical ambiguity task

        2. Brain-signal variability predictor(s), as derived from the following BOLD-fMRI
           experiments (all participants):

             -  Face localizer task

             -  Repetition suppression: faces (neutral, sad, angry, fear), scenes, verbal condition
                (รก 60-90 seconds)

             -  Faces

             -  Scenes

             -  Mooney faces

             -  Retinotopy, i.e., traveling-wave method
    
  