
    
      Each dollar invested in maternal, child health (MCH) yields a nine-fold benefit. Home
      visiting has been repeatedly demonstrated efficacious in improving MCH outcomes, including
      when delivered by CHW in low and middle income countries (LMIC). However, when home visiting
      programs are scaled, they are not effective. Africa has particular challenges with broad
      implementation of effective interventions often associated with the poorly trained and poorly
      monitored health personnel, in this case, CHW who are perinatal home visitors.

      The investigators have shown that with training, supervision, and accountability, CHW home
      visits are effective in a successful randomized controlled trial (RCT) conducted in
      peri-urban townships in Cape Town, South Africa. CHW were trained to address HIV, alcohol,
      and malnutrition among all pregnant women in a neighborhood - to avoid stigma and to address
      multiple challenges concurrently. The visits significantly improved maternal and child
      outcomes over three years. Based on these results, the Philani Intervention Model served as
      one model for re-engineering primary health care for 65,000 CHW in South Africa. The Mthatha
      Provincial Government has agreed for the Philani Program to train, monitor, and supervise
      their already-hired CHW. This RCT will evaluate whether routinely implementing training and
      monitoring CHW behavior and MCH outcomes with mobile phones, and providing data-informed
      supervision, will result in CHW becoming more effective. Stellenbosch University interviewers
      will independently assess outcomes of each mother at pregnancy, and of the mothers and
      infants within two weeks of post-birth, 6 months, 15 months, and 24 months later. The primary
      outcome will be maternal HIV/TB testing, linkage to care, treatment adherence and retention
      in medical regimens, depression, and parenting; and her child's physical growth, cognitive
      functioning, and behavior adjustment.
    
  