
    
      The purpose of this project is to develop a usable bedside hand therapy device that that
      takes advantage of early neuroplasticity following stroke and cervical spinal cord injury
      (SCI), to retrain functionally relevant movement in individual fingers of the neurologically
      impaired hand. It is well established in neuroscience that neural recovery and
      neuroplasticity at the level of cortex in animals and humans is dependent on active motor
      practice. In this pilot project the investigators will determine and assure that this
      second-generation device, which has not yet been used in humans, is usable in the clinical
      setting and that patients with stroke and cervical SCI find it a meaningful tool for
      relearning hand movement. The investigators will also assess whether use of the device daily
      for 2 weeks results in improved functional hand use, improve finger strength and improved
      ability to control individual finger movements. Although these abilities are foundational to
      functional manipulation of objects with the hand, there is presently no specific therapeutic
      interventions, nor time available in conventional early (acute) rehabilitation to address
      these goals. Thus, early intensive hand recovery is an obvious but unmet need in
      neurorehabilitation. The goals for this one-year project are determine if the device:

        1. can facilitate improve hand function.

        2. can improve finger strength and individuation.

        3. is usable in a clinical setting and serves as a meaningful therapy tool to patients with
           stroke and cervical SCI.

      If successful, this project will lead to a refined therapy protocol in preparation for a
      larger clinical trial to establish efficacy of this training approach for both stroke and
      cervical spinal cord injury. Both stroke and SCI populations were chosen as this tool could
      potentially have benefit for both groups. In addition, studying both patient populations
      provides generalizability to a wider group of individuals needing rehabilitation. If outcomes
      are suggestive of efficacy this device will evaluated in a large multi-center pivotal trial
      in preparation for transition to the clinical marketplace as new rehabilitation technology
      that has proven scientific evidence supporting its efficacy in early hand rehabilitation.
    
  