
    
      To determine if you are eligible to participate in this study you will be asked to undergo
      some screening tests or procedures. Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be part
      of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns out you do not take part in the
      research study. If you have had some of these tests or procedures recently, they may or may
      not have to be repeated. These procedures include a medical history, performance status,
      medical record review, routine blood tests, electrocardiogram, echocardiogram and research
      blood samples. If these tests show that you are eligible to participate in the research
      study, you will begin the study treatment. If you do not meet the eligibility criteria, you
      will not be able to participate in this research study.

      You will begin the study with up to two cycles of chemotherapy that is an accepted approach
      treatment of your type of leukemia. This is called consolidation chemotherapy. If you
      experience severe side effects, you may only be given one cycle. You will begin to take
      sulindac after you complete consolidation therapy. The consolidation therapy that is commonly
      used for your type of cancer is a chemotherapy drug called cytarabine. Each cycle of
      consolidation chemotherapy will be 28 days, or four weeks. You will receive cytarabine via IV
      infusion on Days 1-5 of each cycle, over a period of 3 hours. You will be admitted to MGH for
      approximately a week during each cycle of consolidation chemotherapy with cytarabine.

      Before starting sulindac, the same tests and procedures done at the screening visit listed
      above will be repeated. This visit is "Day 0", meaning it takes place prior to study
      treatment with sulindac. In addition, you will also have a sample of your bone marrow taken
      for research purposes. This sample is related to the study and will help us understand better
      the activity of the study drug, sulindac, on leukemia cells and the effect of the body on the
      sulindac.

      You will take sulindac twice a day. Sulindac comes in the form of tablets and can be taken at
      home by mouth. Your first day of taking sulindac will be called day 1. The following tests
      and procedures will be one in the outpatient clinic on Day 1 of the study: Blood samples will
      be taken at 3 points on day 1. These will occur before the first dose of sulindac, 1 hour
      after the first dose of sulindac, and 4 hours after the first dose of sulindac. Approximately
      3 teaspoons of blood will be drawn each time. These samples are related to the study and will
      help us understand better the activity of the study drug, sulindac, on leukemia cells and the
      effect of the body on sulindac.

      You will come into the clinic for dosing on day 2 (Visit 3) of the study. Approximately 3
      teaspoons of blood will be drawn before dosing. 3 teaspoons of blood will also be drawn prior
      to dosing on days 8, 15 and 28 of study treatment with sulindac. These samples will be stored
      for as long as research is ongoing with currently no end date. You will continue sulindac
      twice daily for the duration of the study, which will be 12 months.

      You will be monitored for bleeding, since COX inhibitors can also decrease platelet function
      and affect clotting abilities, and for gastritis or ulcer disease, as COX inhibitors can
      damage the lining of the stomach. These occur in the minority of participants, but you will
      be monitored closely on this study for these unexpected effects.

      If you develop toxicities on therapy, your dose of sulindac may be reduced or if your
      symptoms are severe enough, you may be taken off sulindac. If for whatever reason you are
      unable to participate in the study or adhere to the schedules and study treatments, you will
      be taken off the study treatment and discontinued from the study. You may choose to stop
      treatment and come off the study at any time.

      We would like to keep track of your medical condition and overall health following the 12
      months of study treatment on study with sulindac. This will not involve any communication,
      but only occasional review of your medical record in regards to medical condition and overall
      health.
    
  