
    
      Myopia has been increasing in prevalence and severity throughout the world over the last 30
      years. Increasing levels of myopia are associated with increased frequencies and severity of
      various ocular pathologies, including cataracts, glaucoma, retinal detachments and other
      retinal pathologies and myopic maculopathy. Slowing myopia progression at a young age before
      the eye reaches excessive axial length may help to reduce the future risks of these ocular
      pathologies.

      Conventional spectacles and contact lenses are prescribed to correct myopia by moving the
      central focus of the eye for distance viewing from in front of the retina to on the retina
      centrally, or at the fovea. To varying degrees, these lenses allow the light to focus behind
      the retina, at varying peripheral retinal locations. These findings have led to efforts to
      design spectacle and contact lenses which correct peripheral blur to reduce myopia
      progression.

      The consensus theory for how both multifocal contact lenses and orthokeratology can control
      myopia progression is that they each can reduce, eliminate, or reverse relative peripheral
      hyperopic defocus. Existing published studies on the use of multifocal contact lenses to
      control myopia in humans have utilized lenses with the distance correction in the center with
      peripheral plus power to correct the peripheral hyperopic defocus. Until recently, there have
      been no daily disposable multifocal lenses in the US market with distance center designs.

      The NaturalVue contact lens from Visioneering Technologies, Inc. is the first daily
      disposable distance center multifocal in the US. It has a novel extended depth of focus
      design where the distance correction is in the center of the optical zone, surrounded by a
      zone with a seamless, rapid transition from the distance power to a highly plus power at the
      edge of the optical zone.

      This study will analyze the myopia progression of patients in the investigator's practice
      while wearing their habitual visual corrections for periods up to two years prior to being
      switched to NaturalVue contact lenses. They will then be followed for up to two years after
      beginning use of this novel lens design and the differences in their myopia progression after
      NaturalVue versus before NaturalVue will be analyzed. Axial lengths will be measured with the
      IOLMaster after switching to NaturalVue, at six-month intervals and will be compared to axial
      lengths which have been collected with habitual corrections.
    
  