
    
      The primary goal of perioperative fluid therapy is to optimize patient blood volume for a
      given degree of cardiac function and thereby promote adequate end organ tissue perfusion. In
      the ideal situation, a surgical patient would maintain a euvolemic total blood volume (TBV)
      that promotes optimal tissue oxygenation, nutrient supply, and removal of metabolic waste
      products. Current methods to assess perioperative TBV and manage intravenous (IV) fluids,
      which include fluid algorithms, physiologic parameters, blood studies, and clinician
      intuition, are either inaccurate or require highly specialized equipment and training.
      Therefore, clinicians are faced with the formidable task of attempting to titrate IV fluids
      with the goal of preserving optimal tissue perfusion in the perioperative period without
      knowledge of the patient's actual TBV. This long standing clinical conundrum, and the
      potential iatrogenic consequences of hypo- or hypervolemia, has recently produced a
      significant degree of inquiry into direct and indirect methods to evaluate cardiac output as
      a product of fluctuating TBV. The goal of much of this investigation is to generate an
      evidence-based methodology for administration of perioperative IV fluids to promote euvolemia
      and preserve adequate tissue perfusion. There is strong evidence from the civilian anesthesia
      and surgical literature that the use of various indicators of cardiac output as a marker of
      TBV and a guide for fluid therapy, so called Goal Directed Fluid Therapy (GDFT), leads to
      significantly better perioperative patient outcomes. However, current GDFT management
      protocols rely heavily on technology not readily available within or sufficiently ruggedized
      for use in the military field setting where ongoing accurate estimation of TBV to guide fluid
      replacement in the presence of major trauma, and its physiologic aftermath, may be critical
      to survival. Therefore, the primary objective of this study is to assess the accuracy of
      determining patient TBV using measurement of red blood cell volume (hematocrit, or HCT) with
      a point-of-care testing device relevant to the military setting, before and after
      hemodilution with a standard IV solution. The specific aims of the proposed research are to:

        1. Determine subject total blood volume using the gold standard DAXOR Blood Volume
           Analyzer-100 Analysis System (Radiotracer Dilution Technique).

        2. Compute estimated subject total blood volume using venous blood hematocrit values drawn
           before and after an intravenous fluid bolus (Hemodilution Technique).

        3. Correlate inter-subject radiotracer dilution technique-derived total blood volume with
           hemodilution technique-derived total blood volume.

      Hypothesis:

      The calculated total blood volume derived by a simple clinically applicable hemodilution
      technique will highly correlate with the gold standard laboratory radiotracer dilution
      technique.

      The proposed study will examine the utility of a simple, clinically applicable, and adaptable
      method to assess a patient's TBV that does not rely on sophisticated, technology-dependent,
      direct or indirect measures of cardiac output. Development and confirmation of the accuracy
      of a simple method to intermittently determine a patient's TBV in the perioperative setting
      would revolutionize the ability of a practitioner to match perioperative IV fluid
      administration to the goal of optimizing cardiac output and tissue perfusion. The tremendous
      potential positive impact of this work on surgical and anesthesia care in both the military
      and civilian settings is evident in the brief but expansive existing work demonstrating
      significant improvement in patient outcomes using GDFT techniques. The proposed study is
      potentially the first step in a future program of research to bring the benefits of GDFT into
      austere settings.
    
  