
    
      Rationale: Two prior randomized controlled trials (RCT) have highlighted the importance of
      hip muscle activation and strengthening as a treatment strategy for patellofemoral pain
      (Khayambashi, 2014; Khayambashi, 2012). Here, we propose a pilot study to acquire preliminary
      data to power a larger study to reveal the neural mechanism underlying the effectiveness of
      this intervention to promote its evidence-based incorporation into clinical practice.

      Intervention: 4 weeks of quadriceps muscle versus 4 weeks of hip strengthening exercises.

      Purpose: To determine changes in brain functional connectivity related to pain reduction
      induced by the strengthening exercises.

      Study population: Males and females with a history of unilateral knee pain.

      Methodology: Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) will be used to quantify functional
      connectivity of brain regions related to hip muscle activation. Functional connectivity will
      be quantified before (pre) and after (post) 4 weeks of quadricep or hip muscle strengthening
      exercises.

      Arms: As above, there are 2 arms. 4 weeks of quadriceps strengthening exercises (Arm 1)
      versus 4 weeks of hip strengthening exercises (Arm 2).

      Outcomes: At the pre and post-intervention sessions in each participant, we will quantify the
      brain functional connectivity between hip muscle motor cortex and the 1) thalamus, 2) basal
      ganglia, and 3) insula, and 4) the periaqueductal gray. We will also quantify self-report of
      pain and biomechanical function of the knee and hip.

      Follow-up: A six month follow-up is planned for this pilot study.

      Analysis Plan and Statistics: Functional connectivity of hip muscle motor cortex will be
      extracted using standard statistical software for brain mapping. A repeated measures ANOVA
      will be used to assess change in functional connectivity in the hip and knee group. Pain
      decreases in the both groups will be quantified and reported.
    
  