
    
      This is a single arm Phase II clinical trial. All patients will receive continuous dosing of
      dabrafenib at 150 mg PO bid and trametinib beginning at Cycle 3 Day 1, at a starting dose of
      2 mg PO once daily until progression of disease, withdrawal of consent, or the development of
      intolerable treatment associated toxicity. An MRI will be performed after 28 days of
      treatment with dabrafenib. Patients who have unequivocal disease progression in the brain at
      that time will be deemed to have disease progression at 4 weeks. Patients with a complete
      response of all lesions in the brain will continue to receive dabrafenib and trametinib on
      study but they will not undergo SRS. For patients with stable disease or partial tumor
      responses in the brain, Gamma Knife radiosurgery will be performed on treatment cycle 2, day
      1 (+/- 3 days, 28 day cycle) using a stereotactic head frame and MRI imaging in accordance
      with FDA-approved procedures.

      Melanoma brain metastases

      Cutaneous melanoma is the most aggressive form of all skin cancers. Worldwide, it is
      currently expected that approximately 132,000 people will be diagnosed with melanoma each
      year and some 37,000 people are expected to die of the disease annually. Brain metastases are
      a major source of morbidity and mortality in patients with metastatic melanoma and
      approximately 3 out of 4 develop brain metastases at some point in their disease course. The
      prognosis of metastatic melanoma with CNS involvement is dismal1, and, until recently, no
      medical therapy demonstrated clear evidence of activity against melanoma in the brain. For
      patients with fewer than 4 brain lesions and no brain lesion greater than 3 cm in diameter,
      stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is the standard-of-care. By delivering highly focal
      irradiation to melanoma brain metastases, SRS confers local control rates exceeding 80% for
      lesions under 2 cm in diameter. However, SRS does not treat micrometastatic disease in the
      brain, and new brain metastases develop in approximately half of patients treated.

      Furthermore, local control rates are lower for lesions larger than 2 cm in diameter. As a
      result, the median overall survival for melanoma patient treated with SRS is only 7 months.

      BRAF mutant melanoma

      The RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway is a critical proliferation pathway in many human cancers. This
      pathway can be constitutively activated by alterations in specific proteins, including BRAF,
      which phosphorylates MEK1 and MEK2 on two regulatory serine residues. Approximately 90% of
      all identified BRAF mutations that occur in human result in a V600 E/D/Kamino acid
      substitution. This mutation appears to mimic regulatory phophorylation and increases BRAF
      activity approximately 10-fold compared to wild type. BRAF mutations have been identified at
      a high frequency in specific cancers, including approximately 40-60% of melanoma. The
      frequency of this activating mutation and the pathway addiction to which it leads makes
      mutated BRAF an extremely attractive target.
    
  