
    
      Recommendations of care in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) advocate for patient involvement and
      management of his/her own health.

      The observation of the sole rate of use of websites specialized health patients might
      indicate that this involvement is occurring for a large number. Indeed, yet in 2010, more
      than 71% of French Netizen used the Internet to search for information related to their
      health according to a 2012 survey from the French National Order of Medical Doctors. Focusing
      on rheumatology, 68% of French patients have already used the Internet to search for
      information related to their arthritis as shown from a 2012 survey of the French Society of
      Rheumatology. In this medical field, these results reflect the fact that in France since
      years 2000, patients' associations and institutions, edited websites to offer patients a
      direct and easier access to information on diseases or treatments.

      Nevertheless, it is useful to observe the type of service provided to the patient on these
      sites: the majority of these sites, even the most recent offer only the dissemination of
      information and never have been studied on this informative nature. These sites should be
      considered as an introductory step toward patient involvement.

      Indeed, patients involvement is effective if they are really "active" and produce data, e.g.
      when him(her)self notes personal information online, manages a 'health book' virtual or
      self-assessing internet. In other words, involvement makes sense when it contributes to an
      "improvement" doctor-patient exchanges and when at last it leads to an increase in entropy.

      Especially the latter type of use, i.e. the patient self-reported measure (patient-reported
      outcomes), can be a manner to both involve the patient in his care, and to feed the medical
      decision support with the certified rheumatologist. Moreover, it appears that the
      self-measurements in particular by the RA patient, are reliable.

      In recent years, new services on the web or mobile begun to address this need and allowed
      patients to report issues relating to their health (current treatments, etc..), and to
      perform self-measures (pain, activity, morning stiffness, etc..). Notwithstanding visibility
      increasingly strong, it is striking to note that these tools, including those for
      self-measurement, have been little evaluated in terms of impact, for example on
      doctor-patient exchanges.

      Indeed, Investigators have chosen to measure the characteristics of these exchanges, as
      perceived by the patient: effectiveness, quality and overall quality of care using dedicated
      tools.

      In France, the patient protection committee (CPP) has ranked this study in "Soins Courants"
      (Usual Care).

      The study will use the web-based platform (*) Sanoia.com, partner of the French Society of
      Rheumatology, which provides a trusted environment to its users via anonymity. This platform
      is recognized as innovative by the French Ministry of Research and relies on a data hosting
      architecture approved by the Ministry of Health. The statistical analysis of users data is
      limited to research purposes and placed under the dual supervision of patient associations
      and medical societies. These features are the source of its success in terms of audience with
      patients (> 145,000 health records created in September 2012).

      Specifically Sanoia offers, among other benefits, Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) patients to list
      their medical history and access to tools for self-measures, whether generic (e.g. notepad
      symptoms, followed by medications taken, etc.), or more specific to RA (e.g. RAPID3: routine
      assessment of patient index data, Health Assessment Questionnaire, Rheumatoid Arthritis
      Impact of Disease (RAID) score. Based on these data, a customized selection of information
      (based on an Internet monitoring performed by patient association ANDAR and validated by the
      medical society SFR) is displayed.

      The main objective of this study is to quantify with RA patients the effect of a website
      (Sanoia) on the quality of patient-doctor interactions, as perceived by the patient using the
      french translations of the physician investigator to investigate the perceived efficacy ot
      the patient-physician relationship (PEPPI) Questionnaire during the 12 months observation
      period.

      (*) : SANOIA is a personal health record platform that does not embed or to connect to social
      networks.
    
  