
    
      There is mounting evidence that the gut microbiome plays a vital role in health and
      wellbeing. In particular, population-association and mouse model studies have demonstrated
      that gut bacteria can be reproducibly linked to obesity and diabetes. There is, however, a
      lack of progress in translating current scientific knowledge to healthcare practices in part
      due to the strong influence of biogeography and demography on gut microbiomes. Another major
      knowledge gap in gut microbiomes is the ecology of gut viruses and their associations with MS
      despite having intimate relationships with human and bacterial hosts.

      In this study, the investigators aim to assess variation in the gut microbiomes of patients
      with MS with reference to the healthy population in Hong Kong, and to explore gut
      microorganisms as predictive/diagnostic markers of MS and clinical outcomes associated with
      medical interventions. This will be achieved through studying microorganisms in the stools of
      participants. The investigators will use the 16S small subunit ribosomal RNA (16S rRNA)
      marker gene to create compositional profiles of the gut microbial community in healthy and
      individuals with MS to identify bacterial populations that are associated with the onset and
      progression of MS. A subset of samples will be selected for bulk DNA sequencing based on
      their stool community profiles and/or MS parameters to obtain genomic information of the
      microorganisms involved.

      Participants who undergo intervention as part of their routine medical care for MS will be
      invited to provide stool samples following intervention. These stools will be used to profile
      gut microbial communities to investigate whether their compositions undergo changes
      reflective of medical intervention. Here, the aim is to investigate whether resolution of MS
      symptoms can be linked to alterations in gut microorganisms, and the hypothesis is that their
      profiles will more closely resemble healthy individuals following medical intervention.
    
  