
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To estimate the 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) of HIV-negative patients with
           stage III-IV Hodgkin lymphoma treated with response-adapted therapy based on
           fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-PET imaging after 2 courses of doxorubicin hydrochloride,
           bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD).

        -  To estimate the 2-year PFS of patients who are PET-positive after treatment with 2
           courses of ABVD and an escalated dose regimen comprising cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin
           hydrochloride, etoposide, vincristine sulfate, bleomycin, procarbazine hydrochloride,
           and prednisone (BEACOPP).

      Secondary

        -  To estimate the 2-year overall survival (OS) of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To estimate the response rate (i.e., complete and partial responses) in patients treated
           with these regimens.

        -  To evaluate the toxicity of these response-adapted regimens.

        -  To document the feasibility of centralized, real-time review of FDG-PET imaging for U.S.
           cooperative group studies.

        -  To prospectively evaluate the overall response rate, complete response rate, PFS, and OS
           of HIV-positive patients treated with these response-adapted regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      All patients undergo baseline whole-body fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-PET/CT imaging before
      beginning chemotherapy. Patients then receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, bleomycin IV,
      vinblastine IV, and dacarbazine IV (ABVD) on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days
      for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Between
      days 22 and 25 of course 2, patients undergo a second FDG-PET/CT scan to assess response.
      Subsequent therapy is based on FDG-PET/CT scan results. Patients are stratified according to
      FDG-PET positivity (yes vs no). Patients who are FDG-PET-negative continue treatment with
      ABVD for up to 4 additional courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients who are FDG-PET-positive are then further stratified according to HIV
      positivity (yes or no) and receive 1 of the following treatment regimens:

        -  Escalated-dose BEACOPP chemotherapy: HIV-negative patients receive escalated-dose
           BEACOPP chemotherapy comprising doxorubicin hydrochloride IV and cyclophosphamide IV on
           day 1, etoposide IV on days 1-3, oral procarbazine hydrochloride on days 1-7, oral
           prednisone on days 1-14, and bleomycin IV and vincristine IV on day 8. Patients receive
           filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously on days 8-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up
           to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Standard-dose BEACOPP chemotherapy: HIV-positive patients receive standard dose BEACOPP
           chemotherapy comprising doxorubicin hydrochloride IV and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1,
           etoposide IV on days 1-3, oral procarbazine hydrochloride on days 1-7, oral prednisone
           on days 1-14, and bleomycin IV and vincristine IV on day 8. Treatment repeats every 21
           days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Six to eight weeks after completion of chemotherapy, patients undergo a post-treatment
      FDG-PET/CT scan.

      Some patients may undergo bone marrow biopsy at 1 month after the last course of
      chemotherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 7 years.
    
  