
    
      An increasing prevalence of type 2 diabetes is associated with an aging population, a
      significant rise in the prevalence of obesity, and a sedentary lifestyle. In Italy,
      prevalence of diabetes is approximately 6%, with 90-95% of diabetic subjects having type 2.
      Strong evidence supports the importance of physical activity in the management of type 2
      diabetes. However, current guidelines are difficult to put into action in this target
      population because of barriers and poor patient long-term compliance so it is difficult even
      identify the best strategies for physical activity behavior change. Existing studies employ
      small groups and clinically-based approaches with limited theoretical grounding for
      recommended health behavior change. Most fail to offer practical, sustainable, economically
      viable solutions, with documented long-term intervention efficacy. This study proposes to
      monitor any objective measurable changes in LTPA over a 3-year period after behavioral
      interventions (Physician recommendations for daily PA with and without supervised exercise
      training including individual theoretic & practical counseling). Hopefully, such behavioral
      intervention would offer a feasible procedure for long-term maintenance of physical activity
      and thus meet the call for a change of paradigm to move beyond the limited clinical focus by
      including theoretically population-based and "real-life" approaches for the management Type 2
      Diabetes.

      After the selection for eligibility and a run-in period, patients will be randomized in two
      groups: 1) exercise (EXE) group receiving theoretical & practical exercise counseling
      including 2 sessions/ per wk for 1 month of supervised exercise training; and 2) control
      (CON) group receiving standard care including general physician recommendations for daily PA.
      Changes in physical activity behavior will be quantified using an accelerometer, in addition
      to a daily diary.
    
  