
    
      Brain tumors are the first cause of cancer mortality in children and the 3rd cause in young
      adults. The most frequent brain tumors are gliomas and among them the most common type is
      astrocytoma. The most malignant astrocytoma is Glioblastoma (GBM). Standard therapy of newly
      diagnosed GBM patients includes surgery, irradiation and temozolomide (TMZ) chemotherapy with
      1-year and 5-year survival rates at 30% and 3%, respectively. For the treatment of recurrent
      GBM, TMZ is widely used even if the optimal dosing schedule and the minimal time interval
      from first line are unknown. Other appropriate therapeutic options include Lomustine, an
      alkylating drug, and Bevacizumab, an anti-angiogenic agent targeting VEGF-A, approved only in
      selected countries (i.e. North America, Switzerland). Controlled trials are rare for
      recurrent glioblastoma, consequently therapeutic decisions are mostly based on low-level
      evidence.

      Amongst innovative strategies, immunotherapy is considered as one of the most promising.
      Immunotherapy stimulates the natural properties of the immune system to protect against
      cancer growth. Therapeutic vaccines (active immunotherapy) are expected to elicit a cytotoxic
      immune response to tumor-associated antigens, destroying malignant cells without harming
      normal cells. The cells involved in this response are T lymphocytes, which can sense abnormal
      peptides at the tumor cells surface. One critical step towards the development of therapeutic
      vaccines was the identification and validation of glioma antigens. This is an obstacle the
      investigators have circumvented with the characterization of several immunogenic glioma
      peptides by screening the peptidome of ex vivo human glioma samples. This led to the
      development of a multipeptide vaccine called IMA950.

      IMA950 is composed of 9 synthetic tumor-associated HLA-A2-restricted peptides (TUMAPs), two
      MHC class II-binding peptides and one HLA-A2-restricted HBV-derived peptide, the latter used
      as marker of vaccine immunogenicity. The HLA-A2 allele is expressed by approximately 45% of
      the Swiss population. As the interactions between peptides and their corresponding HLA
      molecule are highly specific, only HLA-A*02 positive patients will be included in this trial.
      The reasons why this set of peptides is very promising for vaccination are as follows:

        1. Tumor peptides have been isolated from ex vivo samples:

        2. They are over-expressed in glioma (compared to normal tissues)

        3. They are derived from proteins involved in the malignant process

        4. They are immunogenic in vitro in healthy donors and in glioma patients

        5. This is a MULTI-peptide vaccine IMA950 was investigated in a monocentric phase I/II
           trial for newly diagnosed glioblastoma and WHO grade III gliomas using poly-ICLC as
           adjuvant (PI: P-Y. Dietrich, NCT01920191, study completed, final results in preparation
           for publication). A total of 19 patients (16 with GBM and 3 with anaplastic astrocytoma)
           were included, with a median number of 9 injections received per patient (range: 4-11).
           The multipeptide vaccine did not show any serious safety issues, apart from some mild
           inflammatory reactions at the injection site, peritumoral or resection cavity
           edema/tumor flare manageable with steroids, as well as peri-vaccinational transient mild
           headache, fatigue and flu-like syndrome (grade 3 events: 42.1%, grade 4 events: 21%, no
           grade 5 events). Regarding vaccine immunogenicity, CD4 T-cell responses were detected in
           the majority of patients (58%) and were usually sustained. The CD8 T-cell responses were
           detected in 63% of patients, with 37% of them being multi-TUMAP responders. Median
           overall survival from date of surgery was 21 months (range: 10 - 41 months) for the
           overall cohort, with a 19 months survival for the GBM-only cohort (range: 10-41 months),
           which compares favorably with the reported median survival of 15 months with the
           reference treatment of temozolomide-based chemoradiation. PFS was 93% and 56% at 6 and 9
           months respectively.

      Despite the T cell ability to detect tumor peptides that are naturally presented by tumor
      cells, these T cells do not normally become activated and do not protect the body against the
      cancer, as tumor cells on their own are only poorly immunogenic. For effective T cell
      activation, the help of co-stimulatory molecules, which are expressed on activated
      professional APCs, e.g. dendritic cells, is required. During infections, the activation of
      APCs is triggered by molecular patterns common to all pathogens of a class (e.g. RNA
      viruses). These patterns, also referred to as "danger signals", are not provided by peptides
      themselves. Consequently, artificial danger signals have to be provided with a tumor vaccine
      to induce the required co-stimulation on APCs. In combination with a vaccine, such substances
      with a non-specific immunostimulatory effect are called adjuvants. Poly-ICLC, (Hiltonol®,
      Oncovir) is a synthetic double-stranded ribo-nucleic acid (dsRNA) mimicking viral pathogen
      associated molecular patterns (PAMP) that activates multiple elements of innate and adaptive
      immunity.

      The importance of intact immune surveillance in controlling outgrowth of neoplastic cells has
      been known for decades. The PD-1 receptor-ligand interaction is a major pathway hijacked by
      tumors to suppress immune control. The normal function of PD-1, expressed on the cell surface
      of activated T-cells under healthy conditions, is to down-regulate unwanted or excessive
      immune responses, including autoimmune reactions. Binding of PD-1 ligands (PD-L1 and PD-L2)
      to the PD-1 receptor inhibits T-cell activation triggered through the T-cell receptor.
      Pembrolizumab (Keytruda™) is a potent and highly selective humanized monoclonal antibody
      (mAb) designed to directly block the interaction between PD-1 and its ligands. Impressive
      response rate and prolonged survival were first observed for metastatic melanoma, but the
      clinical benefit of this mAb was recently shown to extend to several other cancer types.
      There is a strong rationale to investigate the role of PD-1/PD-L1 blockade in malignant
      glioma, since (i) we and others have previously reported that PD-L1 expression by glioma
      cells may contribute to tumor-related immunoresistance; (ii) PD-L1 is also expressed by
      tumor-infiltrating macrophages and circulating monocytes; (iii) expression of PD-L1 on
      circulating monocytes was shown to correlate with worsened survival in patients who received
      the HSPPC-96 vaccine for newly diagnosed and recurrent GBM. The 200 mg Q3W dose will maintain
      individual patient exposures within the exposure range demonstrated to be well tolerated,
      safe and established in melanoma as associated with maximal efficacy response. A fixed dose
      regimen simplifies the dosing regimen so as to be more convenient for physicians and to
      reduce the potential for dosing errors.

      The combination of pembrolizumab with a vaccine therapy is currently being tested in several
      trials for different tumors, such as melanoma, bladder, colorectal and prostate cancer
      (NCT02574533, NCT02054520, NCT02432963, NCT02499835, NCT02515227). Here the investigators
      postulate that Pembrolizumab may improve the immunogenicity of the IMA950 vaccine and the
      function of vaccine-induced glioma-specific T cells, and that the multipeptide vaccine may
      help to focus the immune response against antigens overexpressed by glioma, leading together
      to an optimization of the antitumor immune effect whilst reducing the risk of collateral
      damage to the brain.

      The study aims to answer questions regarding safety (for the future clinical development of
      this strategy), immunogenicity (synergy between multipeptide vaccine and pembrolizumab) and
      clinical outcome. Ancillary translational research should help to identify possible
      correlation between neo-epitopes, methylation status, immune response and clinical outcome.
    
  