
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the progression free survival (PFS) of platinum (cisplatin or carboplatin) and
      etoposide versus the PFS of temozolomide and capecitabine in patients with advanced G3
      non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine carcinomas.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the response rate (RR) of platinum (cisplatin or carboplatin) and etoposide
      versus the RR of temozolomide and capecitabine in patients with advanced G3 non-small cell
      gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine carcinomas.

      II. To assess the overall survival (OS) of platinum (cisplatin or carboplatin) and etoposide
      versus the OS of temozolomide and capecitabine in patients with advanced G3 non-small cell
      gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine carcinomas.

      III. To evaluate the toxicities associated with the combination of temozolomide and
      capecitabine and the combination of platinum (cisplatin or carboplatin) and etoposide,
      respectively, in patients with advanced G3 non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic
      neuroendocrine carcinomas.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the impact of each treatment regimen on PFS, RR and OS based on marker of
      proliferation Ki-67 index in patients with advanced G3 non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic
      neuroendocrine carcinomas. (Laboratory) II. To assess the prognostic significance of well
      differentiated versus poorly differentiated non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic
      neuroendocrine tumors in relationship to survival and response to treatment. (Laboratory)
      III. To assess the agreement in Ki-67 status between that reported by institutional
      pathologist and that reported by central pathology review. (Laboratory)

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14 and
      temozolomide PO once daily (QD) on days 10-14. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) on days 1-3 or carboplatin IV on day 1.
      Patients also receive etoposide IV on days 1-3. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  