
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Groin hernia surgery in women is much less common than in men, still women represent a large
      patient group since groin hernia surgery is one of the most common operations in general
      surgery. In Sweden, approximately 16 000 groin hernia surgeries are being performed annually,
      of these 8 % are performed in women. Management and method of repair in women is largely
      based on subgroup analyses and register studies, there is a lack of randomised controlled
      trials focusing on women. Previous studies have shown that femoral hernias are more common in
      women than in men, that women have a higher risk of emergency operation, and a higher
      incidence of reoperation which serves as a marker of recurrence. Chronic pain is common after
      herniorraphy and an important quality marker of the performed surgery. There are indications
      that women suffer of higher rates of both short term and chronic post-herniorraphy pain. The
      introduction of mesh techniques in groin hernia surgery has considerably decreased recurrence
      rates. To further improve outcome after groin hernia surgery in women there is a need for
      more evidence of the most appropriate surgical approach in terms of chronic pain.The goal of
      this study was to evaluate chronic pain and reoperation rates due to recurrence after groin
      hernia surgery in women compared to men.

      METHODS

      This study is based on a patient reported outcome measure (PROM) questionnaire, crosslinked
      to the Swedish Hernia Registry one year after primary surgery. What the investigators would
      like to call a Register-PROM-study.

      The Swedish Hernia Registry (SHR)

      SHR is a nationwide registry which covers more than 95% of all performed groin hernia repairs
      in Sweden. Patients are included upon surgery. Registered parameters include details about
      hernia anatomy, method of repair, American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) Physical Status
      and early complications (within 30 days), among others. Using the Swedish personal identity
      number, where each inhabitant has a unique number, it is possible to follow patients
      regardless of where the participants have their primary or recurrence operation.

      Questionnaire

      To measure the postoperative pain one year after primary operation a shortened version of the
      previously validated Inguinal Pain Questionnaire (IPQ) was used. Patients were asked to grade
      the worst pain the participants had felt in the operated groin during the last week. Scores
      were:

        1. No pain.

        2. Pain present, but easily ignored.

        3. Pain present, cannot be ignored, but does not interfere with everyday activities.

        4. Pain present, cannot be ignored, and interferes with concentration on everyday
           activities.

        5. Pain present, interferes with most activities.

        6. Pain present, necessitating bed rest.

        7. Pain present, prompt medical advice sought. Scores of 1-3 were defined as no pain and
           scores of 4-7 as chronic pain.

      Data Collection

      The questionnaire is sent by regular mail to everyone included in the SHR one year after
      surgery. Answers are recorded in the SHR. The participants are able to answer the
      questionnaire by mail or a web based questionnaire. Postal addresses were obtained through
      the Swedish population register. If no response had been received within 1 month a reminder
      was sent. A previous study with a similar cohort has analyzed loss to follow up and
      reliability of the method.
    
  