
    
      Yearly, around 400 000 Canadian community-dwelling seniors sustain injuries that are not life
      threatening but limit their mobility and normal activities. Up to 65 % of these seniors seek
      care in Emergency Departments (EDs) and 2/3 are discharged from EDs with varying degrees of
      minor injuries. Since 2010 and using multicenter large Canadian cohorts (n=3000), our CIHR
      CETI* emerging team has shown that minor injuries trigger a downward spiral of mobility
      decline in 16% of seniors who are still independent at the time of injury, unmasking early
      impairments and a prefrail or frail status. As there are no ED management guidelines designed
      to prevent these prefrail (35%) and frail (13%) injured seniors from losing their mobility
      and function, they do deteriorate within 6 months post-ED discharge. This is unfortunate
      because there is compelling evidence of the effectiveness of community and home-based
      mobility interventions showing that simple, targeted interventions can prevent frailty and
      functional limitations.

      In that context, identification of seniors at risk in EDs is crucial to implement effective
      interventions. The CETI has validated a simple Clinical Decision Rule (CETI-CDR) that screens
      and orients seniors at high, moderate and low risk of functional decline to appropriate
      post-ED follow-ups. The latter include effective community-based mobility interventions
      available across all Canadian communities. An ongoing pilot study (n=120) in two EDs is
      showing the feasibility and effectiveness (functional decline prevention) of interventions
      and patient satisfaction. The investigators thus propose to implement the CEDeComS
      intervention, which involves the CETI-CDR combined with rapid linkage to community mobility
      programs directly from EDs.

      The Main Objectives of this study are to 1) evaluate the effectiveness of the CEDeComS
      compared to usual care, on improving seniors' health outcomes, 2) determine the
      cost-effectiveness of the intervention.
    
  