
    
      Measurements will be made at baseline and after each 8 weeks of physiotherapy program, the
      results will be compared.

      30 minutes of the physiotherapy session, which we will apply for 2 days and 45 minutes; in
      the prone, supine, crawling and above knee positions; They will take physiotherapy training
      based on neurodevelopmental therapy consisting of fine motor activities, standing up, weight
      transfer, stretching, strengthening and balance exercises with mat activities such as
      rotation, weight transfer, sitting.

        1. Term: After the first measurements, the participants will take 8 minutes, 2 days a week,
           the regular physiotherapy session based on 30 minutes Neurodevelopmental Therapy as
           described above, as well as 15 minutes conventional walking training, then the
           measurements will be repeated.

        2. Term: After the second measurements, the participants will take 8 weeks, 2 days a week,
           the regular physiotherapy session based on 30 minutes of Neurodevelopmental Therapy as
           described above, as well as 15 minutes of treadmill back walking training, then the
           measurements will be repeated.

        3. Term: After the third measurements, the participants will take 8 weeks, 2 days a week,
           the regular physiotherapy session based on the 30 minute Neurodevelopmental Therapy
           described above, as well as the 15-minute treadmill walking forward training, then the
           measurements will be repeated.

      Statistical method (s) to be used: In the analysis of the results to be obtained in our
      study, SPS statistics 22.0 version of SPSS statistical package will be used under the Windows
      operating system Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS). Descriptive statistical
      information will be shown as arithmetic mean ± Standard Deviation (x statistical ± Ss) or
      percentage (%) and the level of statistical significance will be considered as p≤0.05.
    
  