
    
      Depression is considered to be the most common neuropsychiatric disturbance of PD. Prevalence
      rates of depressive disorders in Parkinson's disease(PD) vary widely across studies, ranging
      from 2.7% to more than 90%. A systematic review of the 36 articles concerning PD and
      depression indicates that the weighted frequency of depressive PD was 52%.

      Investigators' previous study on non-motor symptoms in 81 Chinese PD patients demonstrated
      that prevalence of loss of interest and depression(sadness) were 48.7% and 36.7% by Non-motor
      symptoms questionnaire (NMSQuest) separately, which was similar to average global data. But
      another Chinese data published in 2008 showed that the prevalence of depression in PD
      patients was only 12%, no statistical difference with controls(2%). Thus, investigators plan
      to initiate a larger study to understand if PD depression in China is similar to it in
      western countries.

      Depression would occur at the early stage of the disease or proceed the motor symptoms,
      usually accompanied with other non-motor symptoms including apathy, sleep disorder, cognitive
      impairment, and etc. The effects of depression on quality of life might refer to a wider
      range. There is lack of solid data to reveal the harm of depression on quality of life of PD
      patients and caregivers. In clinical practice, the disease burden of PD depression is usually
      underestimated by physicians and patients.

      Although PD depression affects QoL of patients and caregivers, PD depression would be
      relieved by medication, which was clearly recommended by international and Chinese PD
      guidelines. But the PD depression treatment status in Chinese clinical practice is not
      systematically analyzed before. In this study, investigator will summarize the treatment
      profile of PD depression to see if PD depression is properly treated according to guideline.
    
  