
    
      The unified allergic airway describes patients who have both asthma and allergic rhinitis.
      Both conditions have similar underlying pathophysiology in terms of T-helper 2 (Th2) cell
      activation. Patients with unified allergic airway disease have a greater burden in terms of
      impaired quality of life, and the presence of airway hyper-responsiveness (AHR) to
      methacholine is a hallmark of their underlying asthmatic inflammatory process. Targeting the
      Th2 allergic airway with a topical antihistamine may improve airway hyperresponsiveness.

      It has previously been shown that in patients with unified allergic airway disease, using
      inhaled fluticasone alone (100 micrograms per day) produced a 1.2 doubling dilution (dd)
      shift in the provocative concentration of methacholine required to reduce forced expiratory
      volume (FEV1) by 20% (PC20). However when adding nasal fluticasone to the inhaled steroid,
      there was a 1.79 dd shift. This difference (0.58 dd, 95% CI 0.78, 1.95) was not statistically
      significant. However the combined treatment did result in significant improvement in rhinitis
      quality of life, nasal inflammation and inspiratory flow.

      The investigators will repeat this previous concept, but compare intranasal fluticasone with
      azelastine (an antihistamine) nasal spray versus placebo nasal spray, in atopic asthmatic
      patients on inhaled steroid. This will be to assess effects on methacholine PC20, the primary
      outcome, and to assess the effects on the following secondary outcomes: Exhaled nitric oxide
      (FeNO), FEV1, morning peak expiratory flow (PEF), impulse oscillometry, peak nasal
      inspiratory flow (PNIF), nasal nitric oxide (NO), blood eosinophils, eosinophilic cationic
      protein (ECP), nasal symptoms, asthma control and quality of life; and rhinitis quality of
      life.

      Twenty adults 18 and up, with allergic asthma will be enrolled. They will have a run-in on 2
      weeks of 200 micrograms beclometasone inhaler and then be randomised to add either intranasal
      fluticasone and azelastine, or placebo nasal spray to their treatment (double blind).
      Treatment period one will be 3-5 weeks followed by a washout of 2-4 weeks, and crossover to
      treatment period two for 3-5 weeks. Due to the crossover nature of this study participants
      will receive both treatments in random order. There will be an Interim analysis after 20
      participants complete the study per protocol and the exact required sample size will be
      recalculated (Pocock/adaptive design).
    
  