
    
      "Suspected sepsis" is one of the most frequently encountered diagnosis in neonatology
      because: a) a large number of newborns are evaluated for early or late sepsis based on risk
      factors and for fear of missing a correct diagnosis and a prompt treatment ; b) in neonates,
      the clinical signs of infection are not specific, late, and the differential diagnosis with
      neonatal respiratory distress syndrome, aspiration syndromes or neonatal maladaptation to
      extra-uterine life is difficult ; c) blood culture - the golden standard in neonatal sepsis
      diagnosis - provides late information, has a poor accuracy, and is not universally available;
      and d) up to date, there is no an ideal diagnostic tool for neonatal infection . Therefore,
      diagnosis of neonatal sepsis is still a challenge for neonatal medicine.

      Antibiotic therapy is often initiated based upon clinical suspicion and/or the presence of
      risk factors, leading to excessive antibiotic therapy. Very often the diagnosis criteria for
      neonatal sepsis consists in documenting an infection in a newborn with severe systemic
      disease in which all possible noninfectious explanations for the patient's altered
      physiological status are either ruled out or unlikely.

      The "gold standard", definitive test for neonatal sepsis is the isolation of the pathogen
      from blood. However, its accuracy is influenced by multiple factors a) contamination during
      sampling; b) sampling after antibiotic therapy was started; c) insufficient sampling volume;
      d) low colony count bacteremia. Accuracy of the blood culture varies between8 and 73% in
      various studies .

      Despite hundreds of published studies, there is still no consensus regarding the best
      screening test or panel of tests for rapid detection of neonatal sepsis. Recently, new acute
      phase proteins, cytokines, cell surface antigens, and bacterial genome are used to improve
      the neonatal sepsis diagnosis but data are still under evaluation and most of these tests are
      either not clinically available or they are expensive .

      Accumulating evidence indicates that the CBC is an effective predictor of prognosis and
      mortality in many disease states, including hematological disease, neoplasms, and severe
      infections. Therefore, non- specific changes in the CBC in critically ill neonates could be
      considered a key prognostic factor in the evaluation of survival prediction in these patients
      .

      Some prognostic scoring systems with performance status, clinical symptoms and biochemical
      parameters help to guide accurate prediction of the prognosis, such as the acute physiology
      and chronic health evaluation, yet are considered too complex for general clinical use.
      Therefore, the prediction of clinical events with laboratory parameters, including complete
      blood cell count (CBC), has become an increased focus of research .

      Total leukocyte count (TLC), total neutrophil count, ANC, immature neutrophil count,
      immature/total neutrophil ratio (I:T ratio), immature/mature neutrophil ratio (I:M ratio),
      neutrophil degenerative changes (vacuolization, toxic granulations, and Döhle bodies), and
      platelet count are the most used hematological parameters for Early Onset Sepsis evaluation .
      Most of the hematological screening panels for Early Onset Sepsis use a total leukocyte count
      < 5000 cells/mm3 or > 20.000 cells/mm3, an I:T ratio > 0.2, and total outside the normal
      range. TLC increases in severe neonatal infections (both mature and immature cells) possible
      secondary to growth factors and cytokine release that stimulate the bone marrow production.

      Thrombocytopenia is one of the early but non-specific indicator of neonatal sepsis with or
      without DIC. It can be caused by bacterial, viral, fungal and parasitic infections and other
      non-infectious causes. The overall prevalence of thrombocytopenia in neonatal age group
      varies from1- 5%, and is reported to be much higher in newborns admitted to intensive care
      units, i.e. ranging from 22% to 35%. Severe thrombocytopenia (50000/mm3) was found to be
      present in 2.4% patients admitted in NICU.Bleeding is a major complication of
      thrombocytopenia but is generally limited to infants with count< 30000/mm3. Studies have
      shown that approximately 50% cases of culture proven of sepsis get thrombocytopenia .Changes
      in other platelet indices, like MPV(mean platelet volume) and PDW (platelet distribution
      width) have also been examined in relationship to neonatal sepsis in some studies .

      Platelet indices (platelet counts, platelet distribution width-(PDW), mean platelet volume
      (MPV)) are one such set of parameters which can be helpful for the diagnosis and hence early
      treatment of neonatal sepsis. Advantages of platelet indices are that the sample for these
      can be drawn at the same time as that for other investigations and require no special
      sampling techniques and are easily available. Some studies had reported a low platelet
      counts, high mean platelet volume and platelet distribution width was observed in sepsis
      cases with a statistically significant difference as compared to controls .
    
  