
    
      The Johns Hopkins Adult Hydrocephalus Program evaluates approximately 250 new patients per
      year for hydrocephalus and associated disorders, resulting in the new diagnosis of
      hydrocephalus in about 100 patients annually. After treatment with either shunt surgery or
      third ventriculostomy, virtually all patients are followed on a regular basis by physicians
      in the program (Dr. Michael Williams, neurologist, and Dr. Daniele Rigamonti, neurosurgeon,
      both involved in this project).

      These patients represent an ideal cohort to study the effect of hydrocephalus on anterior
      pituitary function. In addition, as data on intracranial pressure is available for all of
      them, evaluation of pituitary function would allow us to determine whether the level of
      intracranial pressure correlates with the likelihood of pituitary failure.

      We propose to study 20 subjects of both sexes with NPH, aged 18-80 years over a period of 18
      months. They will be recruited by direct advertising among the patients cared for by the
      Adult Hydrocephalus Program. Patients with hydrocephalus will be studied twice (6-12 months
      apart) whether or not they undergo shunting.

      STUDY PROTOCOL:

        1. In addition to the comprehensive neurological history and physical examination, further
           history will be obtained, with particular attention to sexual function and libido in
           males and menstrual history in women of fertile age, will be collected.

        2. After overnight fasting, an indwelling catheter will be inserted in a peripheral vein.
           Blood for baseline hormonal evaluation (8-9 AM) including: serum free T4 (FT4), TSH,
           cortisol, GH, IGF-1, prolactin, LH, FSH, Estradiol (in females) and total testosterone
           (in males). Menstruating females will be studied during follicular phase. Serum IGF-1,
           testosterone, estradiol and gonadotropin levels will be interpreted in accordance with
           the patients' age.

        3. All subjects will undergo GH stimulation test by combination of GHRH (1 mcg/kg bolus)
           and arginine (0.5 gm/kg over 30', maximal dose 30 gm). Blood will be dawn at time 30',
           60', 90' and 120' after the GHRH bolus injection. The GHRH+arginine test is the most
           widely used test to determine GH reserve in adults, independently from their age (14).
           Normal response is a peak serum GH > 9 ng/ml. Both GHRH and arginine are FDA-approved
           for this purpose, and have no significant side effects (GHRH may cause transient itching
           and flushing).

        4. An AM cortisol below 5 mcg/dl will be considered diagnostic of adrenal insufficiency.
           Conversely, a value above 15 mcg/dl will be interpreted as indicating normal adrenal
           function. For serum cortisol values between 5 and 15 mcg/dl, subjects will be studied on
           a separate day by low-dose (1 mcg) ACTH stimulation test. Blood for serum cortisol
           measurement will be obtained at baseline and after 30' from ACTH injection. The low-dose
           ACTH stimulation test is safe, easy to perform, has high sensitivity for partial
           secondary adrenal insufficiency, and has been recently used in patient with TBI. Normal
           response is a serum cortisol at 30' > 18.0 mcg/dl.

      Subjects who have shunt surgery will undergo a second study of pituitary function not earlier
      than 6 months and no later than 1 year from the procedure. We will identify the degree of
      clinical improvement by documenting change in gait with the Tinetti Gait Assessment Tool, and
      change in dementia with the Mini-Mental-Status exam. If there is sufficient sample size in
      the clinically improved and unimproved patients, we will compare between-group results.

      Patients who have been on systemic glucocorticoids (GC) for longer than 3 weeks during the
      previous 12 months will be excluded, as GC may cause suppression of hypothalamic-adrenal
      axis. In subjects who are on phenytoin, unbound T4 will be measured by equilibrium dialysis,
      as phenytoin may interfere with direct unbound T4 measurement. Subjects already on
      L-thyroxine replacement will be excluded.
    
  