
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) remains a major health problem. Worldwide it has
      been ranked as the sixth leading cause of death for both genders. In 2020 COPD is projected
      to rank fifth worldwide in burden of disease. It is also projected to be the fourth leading
      cause of death worldwide by 2030 due to an increase in smoking rates and demographic changes
      in many countries. The national survey conducted in Poland in 2007 indicated that 34% of men
      smoked daily, 2% were occasional smokers, 19% were former smokers and 45% never smoked. In
      women, these percentages were, respectively, 23%, 3%, 10% and 64%. Although COPD has received
      increasing attention from the medical community in some countries in recent years, it is
      still relatively unknown or ignored by the public as well as many healthcare providers and
      government officials.

      Epidemiological studies of COPD on a representative sample have not been performed in Poland,
      but estimates from smaller suggested a relatively high prevalence. Studies which covered a
      selected geographical population found that signs and symptoms of COPD are seen in about 10%
      of patients over 40 years old. Studies in big cities in Poland showed a 9,8% prevalence of
      COPD in populations between 41 and 72 years old. These data are similar to European data,
      describing prevalence rates of 4-11% of COPD in adults in Europe. The absolute number of
      people suffering from COPD in Poland is estimated on about 2 million. This places COPD as the
      third most frequent - concerning frequency - chronic illness, and it is the fourth most
      common cause of death in Poland.

      In Poland, many guidelines on COPD are used, some of which are national and some are
      international. There is no guideline in Poland which is designed for primary care.

      Implementation of interventions directed on health professionals knowledge programme can
      change the professionals behavior. In this study the support strategy is applied to improve
      implementation process.
    
  