
    
      The recruitment process of the participants was carried out by telephone, by the medical
      staff of the arrhythmia's section, who informed the patients the characteristics and
      objectives of the study.

      The sample size was estimated considering an alpha risk of 0.05 and a beta risk of 0.2, in a
      bilateral contrast, to detect a difference equal to or greater than 10 units in the Quality
      of life variable. A standard deviation of 20 points and a 20% loss rate were assumed. The
      estimated n was 237 patients, to distribute in three branches of 79 patients each.

      Before beginning the intervention, participants were informed about the research, and were
      offered the opportunity to ask questions in order to clarify any doubts about it. Next, they
      were given a Participant Data Collection Notebook. The Notebook included the information on
      the investigation and the Informed Consent, to be completed and signed; the request for
      demographic data (age, gender, educational level, etc.); and, the four questionnaires used to
      assess the psychological variables of study: SF-36 (quality of life), HADS (anxiety and
      depression), STAXI (hostility) and FFMQ (Mindfulness) For the descriptive analysis, the
      number of subjects and the corresponding percentage was used in the qualitative variables. In
      the quantitative variables the mean and standard deviation were used when the variables
      adjusted to the normal distribution; otherwise, the median and interquartile range (first and
      third quartile) were used. The normality test used was the Shapiro-Wilk.

      In the hypothesis contrast of the pre-post values, of the variables with distribution
      adjusted to normal, the Student´s t statistic was used for paired data; For the variables
      whose distribution did not conform to normal, the Wilcoxon Test was chosen.

      For the contrast of inter-group hypothesis (independent samples with distribution not
      adjusted to normal), the Mann Whitney test was used.

      For the statistical analysis of data, the SPSS program, version 20, was used.
    
  