
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the roll
      of dice) to join 1 of 4 groups. You will have an equal chance of being in any group.

        -  Group 1 will take armodafinil and a placebo.

        -  Group 2 will take minocycline and a placebo.

        -  Group 3 will take armodafinil and minocycline.

        -  Group 4 will take 2 placebos.

      Neither you nor the study staff you will see in the clinic will know if you are receiving the
      study drug(s) and/or the placebo(s). However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will
      be able to find out which study drug you are receiving.

      If needed, you will be given standard drugs to help decrease the risk of side effects. You
      may ask the study staff for information about how the drugs are given and their risks.

      Study Drug/Placebo Administration:

      You will take the study drug/placebo 2 times a day for 6 weeks. You should take the capsules
      with a full glass of water. If you get an upset stomach, take them with food.

      You will be given pamphlets with more information about how to take the study capsules.

      You should bring your study capsules to every study visit.

      Completing the Symptom Questionnaire:

      Throughout the study, you will be asked to complete a questionnaire about your symptoms. This
      questionnaire will ask about symptoms from therapy you may be having and how they may be
      interfering with your daily activities. The study staff will either meet you during your
      regular clinic visit or call you at your home at a time that is convenient for you. In the
      clinic, you will complete the questionnaire by paper and pen, or by entering your answers
      into an electronic tablet computer. On the phone, a study staff member will ask you the
      questions and record your answers. You will complete the symptom questionnaire before you
      begin chemoradiation and then 1 time a week for the rest of the study. The symptom
      questionnaire will take up to 5 minutes to complete.

      Study Visits:

      Before you begin chemoradiation:

        -  You will complete questionnaires about pain and other symptoms, your mood, and your
           quality of life. Completing all 5 questionnaires will take about 15 minutes.

        -  If you can become pregnant and you did not have a pregnancy test during screening, you
           will have a urine pregnancy test. The study staff will give you the urine pregnancy test
           kit at your scheduled visit, and will review the results before you pick up the study
           capsules from the pharmacy.

      About Week 3 or 4, you will be asked to complete a questionnaire that asks you about your
      satisfaction with the study capsules. This will take a few minutes.

      During the last week of chemoradiation (about Week 5 or 6):

        -  You will complete 3 questionnaires about your symptoms, mood, and quality of life. These
           questionnaires will take about 10 minutes total to complete.

        -  You will also be asked to complete a questionnaire that asks about your satisfaction
           with the study capsules. This will take a few minutes.

      After about Week 5 or 6, the study staff will call you 1 time a week to check on you until
      the study ends. This phone call should last only a few minutes. If you have had several side
      effects from chemoradiation, this phone call may take longer.

      At your first routine clinical follow-up visit (about Week 10 to 14):

        -  You will complete the 3 questionnaires about your symptoms, mood, and quality of life.

        -  You will also be asked to complete another questionnaire that asks about your
           satisfaction with the study capsules.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for about 10-14 weeks. You will take the study drug(s) for 6 weeks and
      complete the symptom survey until the end of the study. You will be taken off study early if
      you have intolerable side effects.

      This is an investigational study. Armodafinil is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of sleepiness. Minocycline is FDA approved and commercially available for the
      treatment of bacterial infections. The use of these drugs to help reduce chemoradiation
      symptoms is investigational.

      Up to 80 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  