
    
      The proposed study has three phases, each associated with an Aim. First, a small, one-arm,
      open-label trial will establish feasibility of Collaborative Decision Skills Training (CDST)
      for Veterans receiving care in Psychosocial Rehabilitation and Recovery Centers (PRRCs),
      identify and complete adaptations, and pilot the assessment strategy. Stakeholder feedback
      will be collected via the Dynamic Adaptation Process in order to identify whether aspects of
      CDST or service delivery need to be adapted before conducting the RCT. Second, an RCT will
      compare CDST with an active control (AC) among 72 Veterans with serious mental illness (SMI).
      These two phases will address two key aspects of evaluating promising interventions: 1)
      whether CDST could feasibly be integrated into usual care practices in the VA San Diego
      Healthcare System (VASHDS) PRRC and other PRRCs nationwide, and 2) whether CDST leads to
      significant improvements in important domains for the target population. Third, findings from
      the first two phases will inform the design of a subsequent merit study and the completion of
      two primary products a CDST Clinician Manual and CDST Service Delivery Manual.

      Aim 1: Conduct a small, one-arm, open-label trial to identify and complete any adaptations
      needed to successfully integrate CDST into PRRC settings. The Dynamic Adaptation Process will
      be used to produce a CDST Clinician Manual and a CDST Service Delivery Manual. The existing
      CDST Clinical Manual from the pilot study will be modified as needed during Aim 1 based on
      findings from this project. A new CDST Service Delivery Manual will be developed during Aim 1
      and honed during Aim 1 and Aim 2 study activities.

      An Adaptation Resource Team (ART) will be formed including 2 Veterans with SMI currently
      receiving services in the VASDHS PRRC, 2 clinicians who provide treatment in the VASDHS PRRC,
      and 2 administrators whose duties include administration of the VASDHS PRRC Veterans will be
      enrolled via: 1) referrals from clinicians, and 2) print advertisements in the PRRC waiting
      room. Clinicians and administrators will be solicited directly. Written informed consent will
      be obtained from each participant.

      Each ART member will receive a copy of the Clinician Manual and a description of the purpose
      of the Service Delivery Manual. They will be asked to review these materials and make notes
      of their perceptions, including components that are not relevant, may not resonate with the
      Veteran population or would not be feasible within the PRRC context. Approximately 2 weeks
      later, each participant will complete an individual interview, accompanied by the research
      assistant, using a semi-structured interview approach. These interviews will systematically
      work through the CDST content and service delivery aspects of the intervention. These
      interviews will be analyzed, compiled, and presented back to the ART for discussion. The ART
      will come to consensus about adaptations with supervision from the CDST developers to ensure
      fidelity to CDST's active ingredients.

      The open trial will occur following initial adaptation. Twelve Veterans will participate.
      There will not be a comparison group for the open trial.

      During the open trial and RCT, there will be three assessment time points: baseline,
      post-intervention, and follow-up at 3 months postintervention completion. One measure will
      also be completed at the midpoint but this will be done by recovery coaches and does not
      require Veteran time. Veterans will receive compensation for assessment completion but not
      for intervention attendance to minimize the potential impact of compensation on treatment
      engagement.

      Veteran, clinician, and administrator ART participants will all be encouraged to continue in
      the ART during RCT. RCT Veterans will be enrolled on a cohort bases in tandem with the trial.
      Specifically, after each RCT cohort has completed data collection, two Veterans who were
      assigned to the CDST group will be recruited to join the adaptation process. Therefore this
      will equal 10 Veterans total (2 non-trial + 2 open trial + 2from RCT cohort 1 + 2 from RCT
      cohort 2 + 2 from RCT cohort 3). If more than 2 Veterans from a given cohort wish to join,
      all Veterans will be admitted (4 Veterans per cohort have been budgeted for to account for
      this). If Aim 1 ART members choose not to continue, efforts will be made to replace them by a
      person with a similar role (e.g., another provider, another non-trial Veteran). The ART will
      meet twice before each new RCT cohort to review and approve additions and changes to the
      Service Delivery Manual, and will meet once following completion of data collection for each
      cohort to discuss lessons learned from that cohort to inform the Service Delivery Manual.
      Following the end of all RCT data collection in Year 5, ART clinicians and administrators
      will complete one semi-structured interview to assess implementation and sustainability
      feasibility of CDST for the VASDHS PRRC.

      In order to have a final sample of 58 Veterans combined across conditions in the RCT, the
      investigators will recruit 72 Veterans (estimating 20% attrition). There will be three
      cohorts, with 24 Veteran per cohort. In years 2-4, there will be one cohort recruited
      annually. Veterans will be randomized by cohort with 12 Veterans randomized to CDST and 12
      randomized to AC. There will be two CDST groups per cohort and two AC groups per cohort, and
      therefore, there will be six total groups of each type.

      Veterans will be randomly assigned to either the CDST condition or to AC after completing
      baseline assessments. To maximize power for between-group comparisons, randomization will be
      1:1 resulting in 36 participants per group. Participants will be randomly assigned by cohort,
      so that for each cohort, there are 12 participants each in CDST and AC. Randomization
      procedure may be adjusted if necessary to fix uneven group sizes or demographics (e.g., due
      to attrition), for example by introducing a stratification variable. The research assistant
      who completes the assessments will be blind to condition, and will not attend any clinical
      team meetings or otherwise participate in any non-study related PRRC activities to maintain
      blindness.

      The final aim of this study is to 1) design a follow-up study based on the conclusions of the
      proposed study, and 2) develop a CDST Service Delivery Manual that will facilitate delivery
      of CDST in VA PRRCs. The specific study design and aims will be determined based on the
      outcomes of the proposed study, and will be responsive to possible changes in the VASDHS
      PRRC, PRRCs nationwide, and the broader VA context. There are three general possibilities for
      this follow-up study based on three potential outcomes. First, if this study supports CDST's
      effectiveness among Veterans with SMI and implementation viability for the VASDHS PRRC the
      follow-up study is likely to be a larger, multisite clinical trial that will allow for
      confirmation of CDST's effectiveness and work towards broad application of CDST in PRRCs
      throughout the VA system. In this case, the investigators plan to collaborate with other
      Desert Pacific PRRCs to conduct a larger trial. This trial may also include maintenance of
      effects after a 6- or 12- month follow-up period, and ability to personalize CDST service
      delivery for individual PRRCs. Second, if this study supports CDST's effectiveness among
      Veterans with SMI but not its implementation viability for VASDHS PRRCs or vice versa, the
      follow-up study will use data from this study to inform potential ways to resolve this issue
      so that CDST can become an effective and viable intervention. For example, if effectiveness
      was supported but viability was not, and results indicated that CDST was too many sessions,
      then a follow-up study could develop a shorter version of CDST and test it in the VASDHS
      PRRC. Third, if this study does not support CDST's effectiveness among Veterans with SMI nor
      its implementation viability in PRRCs, then the follow-up study will pursue other mechanisms
      to increase collaborative decision-making among Veterans with SMI.

      The Service Delivery Manual will be developed and refined throughout Aims 1 and 2. This
      manual is intended to be an accompaniment to the Clinician Manual to help clinicians deliver
      CDST in their own service contexts. The Service Delivery Manual will include discussion of
      approved adaptations to the manual that will not dilute or remove CDST's active ingredients.
      The manual will also include tips from CDST providers and participants that could assist
      future providers in effective delivery. These approved adaptations and tips could include
      recommendations for managing dynamics in the group, deciding upon role plays to suit Veteran
      priorities, and approved service approach variations that will not impact fidelity (e.g.,
      number of meetings per week). In the event that data from this study refutes CDST's viability
      for Veterans with SMI, a CDST-specific service delivery manual is unlikely to be a useful
      product. In that case, a more general service delivery product will be developed; for
      example, a set of collaborative decision-making guidelines for PRRC administrators and
      providers based on data collected. Products from this study will be disseminated in the VA
      and outside the VA.
    
  