
    
      Idiopathic CD4 lymphopenia (ICL) is characterized by persistent low CD4 counts, frequently in
      combination with CD8, natural killer, or B cell lymphopenia. It is considered a heterogeneous
      disorder with manifestations that can include autoimmunity, invasive fungal infections or
      infections with human papillomavirus, and malignancies typically related to infections. The
      exact etiology of ICL remains unclear and there is no specific treatment.

      Recent data from our group revealed a high prevalence of antilymphocyte antibodies in many of
      the ICL patients evaluated. The targets of these antibodies remain unknown and are being
      investigated. On some occasions, these antibodies have the ability to cause
      antibody-dependent cytotoxicity or complement activation, both mechanisms that can cause cell
      death. Although it is unclear if these antibodies are the cause (or perhaps more likely the
      effect) of lymphopenia, it is plausible they play a significant pathogenic role and at a
      minimum may be hampering lymphocyte compensatory mechanisms for expansion and improved
      survival.

      The immune deficiency and the unclear role of autoantibodies preclude aggressive
      immunosuppressive treatment (eg, corticosteroids) for ICL. Therefore, a rational approach to
      treatment is belimumab, a monoclonal antibody that targets Blys (also call BAFF for B-cell
      activating factor), expressed on activated B cells and plasma cells. Belimumab is approved by
      the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for patients with systemic lupus
      erythematosus (SLE) who have evidence of autoantibodies and has shown efficacy in both
      reducing symptoms and leading to a modest decrease in autoantibodies.

      In this open-label prospective single-arm study, ICL patients with laboratory evidence of
      antilymphocyte antibodies will be recruited. Belimumab will be administered by intravenous
      infusion for 6 months with an extended follow-up of an additional 6 months. Administration of
      the study drug will follow the SLE scheme of 10 mg/kg at study entry, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and
      monthly thereafter (8 doses total). Three additional visits approximately every 2 months will
      complete the 52-week study. Clinical safety evaluations with immunologic and serologic
      testing will be performed at all study visits.

      This protocol will assess the safety of belimumab in ICL and also help in better
      understanding the role of autoantibodies in ICL pathogenesis. This knowledge could
      substantially improve rationale and design of novel therapeutic interventions in ICL.
    
  