
    
      According to UNICEF, respiratory and diarrheal diseases are the first and second leading
      causes of deaths among children under-five years of age worldwide. Handwashing has the
      potential to reduce diarrhoeal disease by almost half and respiratory infections by a
      quarter. Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) are especially vulnerable to diarrheal and
      respiratory diseases, mainly due to overcrowding of settlements and camps and lack of access
      to WASH facilities. Hygiene programmes delivered in humanitarian crises primarily involve
      distributing hygiene kits and teaching people about disease transmission. These things are
      important but are commonly insufficient to lead to behaviour change.

      Research in non-emergency settings has shown that the presence of a convenient and desirable
      handwashing facility may be the factor most likely to determine whether or not people wash
      their hands. This is particularly relevant to handwashing promotion in IDP camps where it is
      typically the responsibility of governments or organisations to provide water, sanitation and
      hygiene (WASH) facilities. Research in non-emergency settings has also shown that using
      stories and emotional motivators can be a powerful way of changing behaviour, but to date
      such approaches have not been tried in emergency settings, where they could potentially have
      a more substantial impact on disease transmission.

      Study Aim: To develop and test innovative behaviour change approaches to improve handwashing
      behaviour among IDPs in Ethiopia.

      Study objectives:

        1. To conduct a cluster randomised pilot study to assess whether the provision of liquid
           soap makes handwashing more desirable and more likely to be practiced.

        2. To conduct a cluster randomised pilot study to assess whether installing mirrors above
           the handwashing facility makes handwashing more desirable and more likely to be
           practiced.

        3. To conduct a pilot study of the effect of motivational stories on handwashing behaviour.

        4. To conduct a pilot study of the effect of educational activities on handwashing
           behaviour.

      Methodology: The study will be conducted in IDP settlements in Oromia Region. Zones of the
      camp will be randomised to either receive one of the interventions or to act as a control. If
      the intervention is successful, the control arm will receive the intervention also.
      Households will be informed about the research and provide voluntary consent if they wish to
      participate. Handwashing behaviour will be assessed through structured observation and
      socio-demographic information will be collected through a survey. Focus groups will be
      conducted to understand people's perceptions about the interventions.
    
  