
    
      The porphyrias are a group of rare metabolic diseases that may present in childhood or adult
      life and are due to deficiencies of enzymes in the heme biosynthetic pathway. The most common
      manifestations are related to accumulation of intermediates in the pathway and usually occur
      as acute neurological attacks, or cutaneous photosensitivity. Multiple mutations have been
      identified in each of the porphyrias. The risk of disability or death from these disorders is
      significant, in part because diagnosis is often delayed due to lack of adoption of diagnostic
      testing in clinical practice. Moreover, the natural history of these disorders is not well
      described and it is not known what determines differences in outcomes. New therapies are
      needed. For existing therapies, high-quality evidence on short and long term efficacy and
      safety is generally lacking. Therefore, the purpose of this long-term follow-up study of a
      large group of patients with the various porphyrias is to provide a better understanding of
      the natural history of these disorders, as affected by available therapies, and to aid in
      developing new forms of treatment.

      The Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) established a
      Rare Diseases Clinical Research Network (RDCRN) in collaboration with other NIH Institutes
      and currently has funded several rare diseases clinical research consortia and one Data
      Management and Coordinating Center. The Porphyrias Consortium was created as part of the
      RDCRN, to study the human porphyrias. The Porphyrias Consortium is a consortium of the
      academic institutions listed in the participating institutions table. All Centers in the
      Porphyrias Consortium are participating in the Longitudinal Study of the Porphyrias.
      Additional centers may be added if funding is available.

      The initial objective of this protocol is to assemble a well-documented group of patients
      with confirmed diagnoses of specific porphyrias for clinical, biochemical, and genetic
      studies. The long-term objective is to conduct a longitudinal investigation of the natural
      history, complications, and therapeutic outcomes in people with acute and cutaneous
      porphyria.
    
  