
    
      NUTRAFOL® Women's Balance supplement is a novel nutraceutical supplement, scientifically
      formulated to specifically target the multiple underlying causes of hair loss and thinning in
      women. NUTRAFOL® Women's Balance capsules are comprised of primary and secondary ingredients,
      designed to restore hair health from the inside out. In addition to the necessary vitamins,
      minerals, proteins to support the nutritional needs of hair, it also contains
      nutraceutical-grade botanical bioactives that are standardized and clinically tested. The
      formulation leverages the multidimensional properties of power plants, which possess a full
      spectrum of phytochemicals with innate capacities to work in synergy with each other to
      fulfill their specific therapeutic roles. Using the latest biotechnology, these ingredients
      are bio-optimized and standardized, extracted with patented methods that preserve their
      bioactive integrity and made more bio-available and bio-absorbable via specific patented
      technologies.

      NUTRAFOL's Synergen Complex Plus® is a formulation based on a patent-pending Synergen
      Complex®, a combination of botanicals with potent anti-inflammatory, anti-stress adaptogenic,
      antioxidant, DHT-inhibiting and hormone-rebalancing properties - combined to synergistically
      combat the multiple underlying factors that compromise hair growth and health. Some key
      ingredients include Sensoril Ashwagandha, BCM-95 BioCurcumin, Saw Palmetto, EVNolMax 20%
      Tocotrienol/Tocopherol complex, gelatinized Maca, Astaxanthin, Bioperine (piperine), and
      Capsimax (capsaicin), all of which are bio-optimized and clinically tested.

      Ingestion of NUTRAFOL® Women's Balance supplement over a six (6) month period will strengthen
      and promote the growth of hairs in perimenopausal, menopausal, and post-menopausal female
      subjects with self-perceived thinning hair when compared to baseline and those using the
      placebo tablet, with further improvement during the subsequent six (6) month open-label
      extension period. The primary endpoints will be favorable analysis using the Canon Power Shot
      G16 with 3GEN Dermlite FOTO Pro for macrophotography hair count analysis of terminal, vellus
      and total hairs at three (3) and six (6) months. The secondary endpoints will include
      favorable analysis using the Canon Power Shot G16 with 3GEN Dermlite FOTO Pro for
      macrophotography hair count analysis of terminal, vellus and total hairs at nine (9) and
      twelve (12) month visits. Other secondary endpoints will be favorable improvement in terminal
      hair diameter measured by the Dino-Lite Digital Microscopic, favorable improvement in the
      Blinded Physician Global Hair Assessments for hair growth and hair quality, decrease in hair
      shed counts with Hair Washing Procedure, statistically significant positive feedback on the
      Women's Hair Loss Quality of Life, Self-Assessment, Subject Treatment Satisfaction and Ease
      of Use, Subject Hair Satisfaction and Menopause Rating Scale Questionnaires at the three (3),
      six (6), nine (9) and twelve (12) month visits. The exploratory endpoint would be favorable
      improvement in the Hair Check device hair bundle measurement for Hair Mass Index (HMI) at the
      three (3), six (6), nine (9) and twelve (12) month visits. See Table of Study Procedures.

      A minimum of seventy (70) female subjects will be enrolled in this clinical study; Forty (40)
      subjects will receive active and Thirty (30) subjects will receive placebo.
    
  