
    
      You will undergo some screening tests or procedures to find out if you can be in this
      research study. Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer
      care and may be done even if it turns out that you do not take part in the research study. If
      you have had some of these tests or procedures recently, they may or may not have to be
      repeated. Possible tests include a medical history, physical exam, laboratory tests,
      pulmonary function tests, cardiac ejection fraction and a pregnancy test. If these tests show
      that you are eligible to participate in the research study, you will begin the study
      treatment. If you do not meet the eligibility criteria, you will not be able to participate
      in the research study.

      Because no one knows which of the study options is best, you will be "randomized" into one of
      the study groups (described below). Randomization means that you are put into a group by
      chance. It is like flipping a coin. You will have an equal chance of being placed in any of
      the groups.

      Before your transplant you will receiving conditioning therapy. The conditioning therapy for
      this study involves fludarabine and busulfex. These drugs will be given five, four, three and
      two days before your transplant (Days -5 through -2). Both these chemotherapy drugs are
      commonly used in allogeneic stem cell transplantation. On Day 0, you will receive selected
      blood cells taken from your sibling or unrelated donor.

      You will receive 1 of 3 GVHD prophylaxis plans depending on which one you are randomized to:

        -  Arm A will receive tacrolimus + methotrexate

        -  Arm B will receive bortezomib + tacrolimus + methotrexate

        -  Arm C will receive bortezomib + sirolimus + tacrolimus

      Tacrolimus (Arm A, B and C) will be started three days before your transplant (Day -3). You
      will be given tacrolimus initially intravenously (through a needle in a vein in your arm or
      through a "central line", a catheter or tube placed in the large vein under your collarbone
      or your neck) and later by mouth. You will continue to take tacrolimus for 3 to 6 months
      after your transplant. Your physician will discuss your tacrolimus dose with you.

      Methotrexate (Arms A and B) will be given intravenously one, three, six and eleven days after
      your transplant (Days 1,3,6 and 11).

      Bortezomib (Arms B and C) will be given intravenously one, four and seven days after your
      transplant (Days 1,4 and 7).

      Sirolimus (Arm C only) will start three days before your transplant (Day -3). You will be
      given sirolimus initially intravenously and then later by mouth. You will need to continue to
      take your sirolimus for 3 to 6 months after your transplant. Your physician will discuss your
      sirolimus dose with you.

      To help with engraftment, you will be given the drug G-CSF (Neupogen) starting the day after
      your transplant, until your white blood cells recover. You will receive other medications as
      part of standard of care to help prevent you from getting infections. You will also receive
      medications to help prevent seizures during your conditioning therapy.

      Each week for the first four weeks and 2,3,6 and 12 months following your transplant, you
      will have a physical exam and you will be asked questions about your general health and
      specific questions about any problems that you might be having and any medications you may be
      taking. If you are taking bortezomib, you will have an exam and may be asked to fill out an
      additional questionnaire about potential symptoms of numbness, tingling, weakness or pain on
      days 1,4 and 7 after your transplant.

      Each week for the first four weeks and 12 months following your transplant, you will have
      blood drawn (approximately 6 teaspoons) to monitor your progress and health following
      transplant. If you receive methotrexate and/or bortezomib, you will have an additional blood
      draw on those days.

      Approximately 12 months following your transplant, a needle will be inserted into your hip
      bone and a small amount of bone marrow cells and a sample of bone are removed.
    
  