
    
      The primary goal of this Phase I oncology clinical trial will be to evaluate the safety and
      use of 4-demethyl-4-cholesteryloxycarbonylpenclomedine (DM-CHOC-PEN) plus radiation, as
      anticancer therapy for adults with advanced cancer involving the central nervous system (CNS)
      involvement.

      DM-CHOC-PEN is a polychlorinated pyridine cholesteryloxycarbonate that crosses the blood
      brain barrier (BBB), accumulates in CNS tumor tissue in humans and has produced objective
      responses, with acceptable/reversible hepatic toxicities (in patients with prior liver
      disease) and no evidence of hematological, renal, neuro-toxicities with improved quality of
      life and overall survival in adult Phase I/II clinical trials - IND - 68,876.

      The drug recently received Orphan Drug designation for NSCLC involving the brain.

      The FDA supports the proposed Phase I clinical trial designed to identify safety, toxicities
      and an acceptable MTD of the drug in combination with radiation in adult cancers subjects
      with CNS involvement.

      Almost 700,000 people in the US are living with tumors involving the CNS or spinal nervous
      system (SNS) tumors. Trends in CNS tumors have sharply increased since 1989 for individuals
      with a history of cancer, who appeared to have 'beaten the odds', only to have a reoccurrence
      from cancer involving the CNS after years of remission; the most common types of cancer in
      AYA individuals are - from lung, breast, melanoma, and sarcoma malignancies. This group of
      individuals deserves special attention.

      A critical component in designing an agent that will cross the protective blood brain barrier
      (BBB) is that the agent must be readily transported intracerebrally, does not produce local
      irritation/neurotoxicity and is not recycled back into the general circulation. After IV
      administration DM-CHOC-PEN readily penetrates the BBB, is not a substrate for the transporter
      protein P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and has shown anticancer activity in CNS tumors. The effective
      transport of DM-CHOC-PEN into CNS tumors in adults without neurotoxic behavioral alterations
      and associated events supports the drug's use in combination with radiation in the treatment
      of CNS tumors. The observed responses noted in adults with metastatic cancers involving the
      CNS and cerebellum treated with DM-CHOC-PEN is encouraging. Thus, the drug's unique
      properties and lack of toxicities noted in the adult studies merits the Phase I trial
      proposed here in combination with radiation.

      The specific objectives of this Phase I study will be to:

        1. Conduct a Phase I clinical trial with DM-CHOC-PEN plus radiation in adults with advanced
           cancers involving the central nervous system to document toxicities, define an
           acceptable maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and identify anticancer activity for the binary
           treatment DM-CHOC-PEN plus radiation. All data will be communicated through an e-RAP
           program. This will be accomplished through IND - 68.876.

        2. Studying the pharmacokinetic/dynamic profiles of DM-CHOC-PEN and metabolites in adults
           after being treated with DM-CHOC-PEN and radiation.

        3. Analyze data and prepare a Phase II clinical trial or a Designation Orphan Drug
           application for FDA review.
    
  