
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the ability of ibrutinib to improve 24-month progression free survival (PFS)
      compared to placebo in patients with non-germinal center B-cell-like (GCB) diffuse large
      B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) as determined by immunohistochemistry (IHC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the ability of ibrutinib to improve overall survival (OS) compared to placebo.

      II. To evaluate the ability of ibrutinib to improve progression free survival (PFS) compared
      to placebo.

      III. To evaluate the ability of ibrutinib to improve post-transplant response rates compared
      to placebo.

      IV. To evaluate time to hematopoietic recovery in the two arms. V. To evaluate the safety and
      tolerability of ibrutinib compared to placebo. VI. To evaluate the incidence of secondary
      malignancies in the two arms. VII. To evaluate immune reconstitution in the two arms.

      CORRELATIVE SCIENCE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether pre-autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (AutoHCT)
      positive fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) is associated with
      inferior 24-month PFS as well as PFS and OS.

      II. To assess whether pre-AutoHCT FDG-PET results are differentially associated with 24-month
      PFS, PFS and OS in the ibrutinib versus placebo arms.

      III. To evaluate the application of the Lugano criteria and change in quantitative
      measurements between pre-AutoHCT and post AutoHCT (e.g. delta standard uptake variable [SUV],
      %SUV decline and %metabolic tumor volume [MTV] decline, and other available applicable
      quantitative measurements) to assess the association between changes in these variables and
      outcomes, such as PFS and OS.

      IV. To assess whether the GSTT1 null polymorphism is correlated with pulmonary toxicity after
      BCNU (carmustine)-containing conditioning regimens as part of autologous stem cell
      transplantation.

      V. To assess whether other polymorphisms in the BCNU metabolism pathway or BCNU damage repair
      pathway(s) are associated with pulmonary toxicity after BCNU-containing conditioning regimens
      as part of autologous stem cell transplantation.

      VI. To evaluate whether any of the proposed deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymorphisms are
      associated with other toxicities.

      VII. To assess whether DLBCL subtype based on the lymphoma subtyping test (LST) is associated
      with 24-month PFS, PFS, and OS with ibrutinib compared to placebo in patients treated on this
      protocol.

      VIII. To assess whether activating mutations in the BCR pathway are associated with response
      to ibrutinib and with clinical outcomes in patients treated on this protocol.

      IX. To assess whether there are any phenotypic associations with IHC markers (particularly
      MYC protein expression level) and presence of these mutations.

      X. To assess whether BCL2, MYC, and Ki67 expression by IHC affect clinical outcomes in
      patients treated on this protocol.

      XI. To assess whether translocations in MYC with or without BCL2 and BC6 have poor outcomes
      in patients treated on this protocol and whether ibrutinib modifies the prognosis.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      CONDITIONING REGIMEN:

      ARM I: Investigators may choose to use either the BEAMi (carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine,
      melphalan, ibrutinib) or CBVi (cyclophosphamide, carmustine, etoposide, ibrutinib) regimen.

      BEAMi: Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) on days -6 to -1, carmustine intravenously (IV)
      over 2 hours on day -6, etoposide IV twice daily (BID) over 1-2 hours and cytarabine IV BID
      over 1-2 hours on days -5 to -2, and melphalan IV over 20-30 minutes on day -1. Optionally,
      if a day of rest is planned, patients may receive BEAMi on days -7 to -2.

      CBVi: Patients receive ibrutinib PO on days -6 to -1, carmustine IV over 2 hours on day -6,
      etoposide IV over 4 hours on day -4, and cyclophosphamide IV on day -2. Optionally, if a day
      of rest is planned, patients may receive CBVi on days -7 to -2.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO on days -6 to -1 and receive 1 of the 2 conditioning
      regimens as in Arm I.

      TRANSPLANT: In both arms, patients undergo autologous hematopoietic progenitor cell or bone
      marrow transplant on day 0.

      CONTINUATION REGIMEN:

      ARM I: Beginning 30-60 days after transplant, patients receive ibrutinib PO on days 1-28.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Beginning 30-60 days after transplant, patients receive placebo PO on days 1-28.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients experiencing disease progression may crossover Arm I.

      After completion of treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 60 months
      from registration.
    
  