
    
      SURGICAL PROCEDURE:

      I. After patient selection and obtaining informed consent, a total of 10 bilateral facial,
      Miller's Class I or II gingival recession defects were consecutively treated. Test and
      Control site were randomly assigned by flip coin technique.

      II. The Test sites were treated using CAF+PRF+DFDBA and the Control sites were treated using
      CAF+PRF.

      III. Under local anesthesia, an intrasulcular incision was given using a surgical bade on the
      buccal aspect of the involved tooth. The incision was extended horizontally to dissect the
      buccal aspect of the adjacent papillae, both mesially and distally, leaving the gingival
      margin of the adjacent teeth untouched. Two oblique releasing incisions were made from the
      mesial and distal extremities of the horizontal incision beyond the mucogingival junction.

      IV. Partial-full-partial thickness flap was raised and extended beyond the mucogingival
      junction. The exposed root surface was thoroughly debrided and prepared to reduce the root
      convexities, if any.

      V. A mesio-distal and apical dissection parallel to the vestibular lining mucosa was
      performed to release the residual muscle tension and facilitate the passive coronal
      displacement of the flap. The papillae adjacent to the involved tooth was de-epithelialized.

      Preparation of PRF:

      Preoperatively, a 10 ml of blood sample of the patient without anticoagulant was collected in
      a test tube and centrifuged immediately at 3000 rpm for 10 minutes. The platelet-rich fibrin
      clot was separated from the other two layers (acellular plasma and red blood cells) and
      prepared in the form of a membrane by squeezing out fluids from the fibrin clot.

      . For Test site: i. Following pre-suturing, DFDBA (Rocky Mountain Particulate Allograft) was
      placed over the exposed root and adjacent bone surface and subsequently covered by PRF
      membrane.

      ii. Flap was coronally displaced without tension and sutured using 4-0 mersilk non-resorbable
      suture.

      iii. Additional lateral sutures were placed to close the releasing incisions.

      . For Control site: i. Following pre-suturing, exposed root and adjacent bone surfaces were
      covered by PRF membrane.

      ii. Flap was coronally displaced without tension and sutured using 4-0 mersilk non-resorbable
      suture.

      iii. Additional lateral sutures were placed to close the releasing incisions.

      Post-surgical protocols:

      Postoperative instructions were given along with a recommendation to refrain from mechanical
      cleaning on the surgical areas. Periodontal dressing was placed at both Test and Control
      sites. Patients were instructed to apply 0.12% chlorhexidine solution (1:1 dilution) with a
      cotton swab twice daily for 14 days. Analgesics and antibiotics were prescribed and suture
      removal was performed 14 days post-surgery.
    
  