
    
      Research question: Patients receiving thrombolytic therapy (tissue plasminogen activator
      [tPA]) for acute ischaemic stroke (AIS), have been monitored with a high intensity schedule
      of vital signs and neurologic assessments, which often requires 1:1 nursing and/or admission
      in an intensive care unit (ICU) or similar ward for at least 24 hours after receiving tPA.
      Studies indicate that patients with mild degrees of AIS after tPA do not require such
      intensive monitoring, yet most stroke services continue to follow a practice recommended in
      guidelines based on the initial cautious evaluation of tPA in AIS over 20 years ago.

      Design: Stepped-wedge cluster randomised design. With 3 groups and 4 phases. All groups
      starting with standard care and in each subsequent phase, groups I through III will switch to
      the intervention (low-intensity monitoring).

      Study centers: This is a global study. Approximately 157 hospitals ('sites') in Australasia,
      Europe, South American, and North American regions, who are willing to accept the randomized
      intervention change and adhere to the protocol, collect a required minimum data set on
      patients over 7 days in hospital (or discharge or death, if sooner), and record any serious
      adverse event (SAE) during and at clinical outcome assessed at 90 days of follow-up of
      patients.

      Consent/randomization: Hospitals will be eligible if they are using the proposed
      low-intensity nursing monitoring strategy. A stepped-wedge cluster randomized design has been
      chosen to avoid contamination, facilitate hospital-wide implementation, and maximize
      adherence, as the intervention under investigation is to become usual standard of care. The
      process of one direction (from control to intervention) is to facilitate the low intensity
      monitoring protocol being applied in clinical practice. The stepped-wedge design means that
      all hospitals will be randomly allocated to 3 groups: in phase 1, all hospitals will be
      observed under standard care 'control' conditions according to guideline recommended
      monitoring; in phase 2, the first cluster of hospitals (Group I) will start receiving the
      intervention (low-intensity), and then sequentially, Groups II and III will start receiving
      the interventional package in phase 3 and 4, respectively, so that by phase 4, all hospitals
      will have the intervention. Those hospitals in Group I are exposed to the intervention for
      longest time, and those in Group III, the shortest time.

      In each phase, hospitals are to maintain a register of all thrombolyzed AIS patients, and to
      identify all those eligible for, or excluded from participating in the study. Hospitals are
      required to manage at minimum target of at least 10 consecutive thrombolyzed AIS patients who
      fulfill the eligibility criteria (presumed 50% of all thrombolyzed AIS patients) over each 4
      month period. The recruitment number will vary from 10 to 30 patients, according to seasonal
      fluctuation and overall numbers of thrombolyzed AIS patients across hospitals. The target
      number and time limits for each phase will be pre-determined and agreed to with each
      hospital, to ensure an orderly completion of the study.

      On average, for Group I, the time for initiation of the low-intensive intervention is 4
      months after activation into phase 1 of the study; for Groups II and III, the time periods
      for initiation of the low-intensive intervention are 6 and 9 months, after activation,
      respectively. Data collection will occur at baseline, the first 24 hours, Day 7 (or death or
      time of hospital discharge, if earlier), and at 90 days (end of follow-up). Patients will be
      asked to consent to being contacted at some future date to examine long-term outcomes,
      according to available resources.

      A senior executive officer at each center will act as a 'guardian', to provide consent at an
      institutional level for the intervention to be applied as a 'low risk' intervention to
      clusters of patients as part of routine care; and written informed consent is to be
      subsequently obtained from participants, or their approved surrogates, for collection of
      medical data and participation in the follow-up assessments Randomized allocation of
      intervention will be assigned by a statistician not otherwise involved in the study according
      to a statistical program stratified by the country of the site.

      Sample size: The sample size required to detect a plausible treatment effect on a clinical
      outcome in a stepped-wedge trial (3 groups, 4 phases) is 157 hospitals, each recruiting an
      average of 80 patients (20 per phase), for a total of 12,394 AIS patients. The basis of this
      calculation is that the study is designed with 90% power (one-sided α = 0.025) to detect
      non-inferiority (non-inferiority OR margin is 1.25, presumed actual OR is 1.0; the proportion
      of a bad outcome [mRS 2-6] is 50%) of low-intensity monitoring on the primary outcome.
      Assuming a stepped-wedge trial of 3 groups and 4 phases, 157 hospitals are required to be
      randomized into 3 groups of 53 hospitals, each recruiting an average of 16 patients per
      phase, for a total of 9340 subjects. Assuming 10% with missing primary endpoint data and 5%
      with nonadherence to randomized treatment, the overall sample size increases to an average of
      20 subjects per hospital per phase (i.e. total sample size of 12,394 AIS patients). Allowance
      will be made to include some very large hospitals (10%, 7) to recruit 50 patients per phase,
      and smaller hospitals (10%, 7) to recruit 8 patients per phase, in order to allow a broad
      range of hospitals with variable experience and systems of care for the management of AIS.
    
  