
    
      This is an open-label, randomized pilot trial to determine whether MMF given over 22 months
      meaningfully decreases the size of the HIV reservoir.

      At the University of Washington in Seattle, investigators will enroll 5 study participants
      who have been on ≥2 years of suppressive ART. Study participants will be followed closely for
      at least 22 months with safety labs and serial measurements of the HIV reservoir
      (specifically, cell-associated HIV DNA and mRNA (ca-DNA & ca-RNA), quantitative viral
      outgrowth assay (QVOA), and single copy plasma viral load (scVL)). A "go/no-go" decision will
      occur after 12 months based on pre-defined thresholds of reduction in the HIV reservoir
      measured with ca-DNA.

      All participants will be offered enrollment in a sub-study in which an anoscopy with rectum
      biopsies is performed on 3 occasions to assess the reservoir in the gastrointestinal
      lymphatic tissue (GALT).

      Investigators will vaccinate study participants with the annual influenza vaccine and analyze
      their humoral response to this vaccine approximately one month later with a routine blood
      draw done in conjunction with a safety labs blood draw.

      Investigators hypothesize that low doses of MMF will be well tolerated among healthy
      HIV-infected study participants who have fully ART-suppressed HIV. Investigators hypothesize
      that the incidence of opportunistic infections will not exceed that of comparable larger
      cohorts of HIV-treated patients. Of note, certain opportunistic infections such as herpes
      zoster or HSV-2 recurrence continue to occur despite suppressive ART, while pneumocystis
      pneumonia, CMV end organ disease, cryptococcus and many other opportunistic infections are
      much less common in this context. Therefore, in the event of an infection, Investigators will
      confer with the data safety management (DSM) panel to discuss whether this event is directly
      attributable to MMF. Finally, investigators hypothesize that peripheral blood CD4+ and CD8+ T
      cell counts will remain unchanged throughout MMF therapy, and that HIV replication will
      remain controlled on ART with addition of MMF.

      Investigators hypothesize at least a 0.25-log reduction in cell-associated HIV DNA at
      one-year intervals in study participants who have a demonstrated anti-proliferative response
      to MMF treatment. Investigators hypothesize that cell-associated HIV DNA will undergo a shift
      from predominant residence in TCM and TEM to predominant residence in TN and TSCM. In regards
      to our sub-study, investigators predict that reservoir depletion will occur with equivalent
      rates in blood and GALT.
    
  