
    
      Target pneumonia treatment should be initiated within a few hours, which is why early and
      accurate diagnosis is extremely important. Uncertain or delayed diagnosis will often lead to
      an overconsumption of broad-spectrum antibiotics, which contributes to increased development
      of resistant bacteria and thus threaten the treatment options of the future. Pneumonia
      diagnosis is primarily made today on the basis of clinical symptoms and findings in the form
      of cough, vomiting, chest pain, fever, shortness of breath, supplemented with X-ray of the
      lungs, relevant blood tests and analysis of expectoration. However, X-ray is an imprecise
      diagnostic tool. The diagnosis of CAP is challenged by nonspecific symptoms, uncertain
      diagnostic methods and waiting time for test results up to several days.

      Therefore, numerous studies have investigated biomarkers that can possibly support the
      diagnosis of CAP. C-reactive protein (CRP) and serum procalcitonin (PCT) are biomarkers that
      may distinguish CAP from other causes of acute respiratory infections. The CRP biomarker has
      been endorsed as a guide for antibiotic treatment by the National Institute for Health and
      Care Excellence (NICE) and PCT was suggested by the American Infectious Diseases Society of
      America. Soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR) has emerged as a
      potentially novel biomarker for inflammatory diseases including pneumonia. Several studies
      have highlighted suPAR as a significant prognostic mortality marker and strongly related to
      disease severity and worse outcome in a variety of conditions. It is also a promising
      biological marker in the diagnosis of CAP.

      The diagnostic value of the optimal biomarkers for the diagnosis of CAP remains
      controversial. The investigators hypothesize that serum CRP, PTC and suPAR have an impact on
      diagnosing, prognosis, and treatment of patients with a verified
      community-acquired-pneumonia. The objectives of the study are:

        -  To identify the diagnostic accuracy of CRP, PCT and suPAR in community-acquired
           pneumonia

        -  To identify the prognostic value of CRP, PCT and suPAR in relation to adverse events
    
  