
    
      Background:

        -  Ependymomas are rare primary brain tumors arising from radial glial stem cells. They
           comprise 5.2% of all pediatric primary brain tumors and 1.9% of all adult primary brain
           tumors.

        -  The standard therapy for newly diagnosed ependymoma is gross total resection followed by
           radiation therapy. For anaplastic ependymoma, recurrence rate is high with a median
           progression free survival (PFS) of 2.3 years.

        -  There are limited chemotherapy options for recurrent ependymomas, which have already
           been irradiated. Therefore, there is an unmet need to target novel pathways for
           treatment of ependymomas.

        -  About 70% of supratentorial ependymomas have a characteristic signature C11orf95-RELA
           fusion which drives tumorigenesis in ependymomas by activating the NF-KB transcription
           pathway.

        -  Marizomib is a second-generation irreversible proteasome inhibitor which penetrates
           across the blood-brain-barrier (BBB). It inhibits the activity of 20S proteasome in
           glioma cells, activates caspases, builds up reactive oxygen species and thus induces
           apoptosis. Marizomib blocks the NF-pathway by proteasome inhibition. Thus, it may have
           an additional targeted therapeutic effect in the RELA-fusion molecular subgroup of
           ependymomas.

      Objective:

      -To evaluate the efficacy of treatment with marizomib in RELA-fusion recurrent ependymoma and
      non RELA-fusion recurrent ependymoma as measured by progression-free survival at 6 months
      (PFS6).

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically proven intra-cranial or spinal ependymoma.

        -  Radiographic evidence of tumor progression

        -  Patients must be greater than or equal to 18 years old.

      Patients must have had prior radiotherapy.

      Design:

        -  This is a phase II study to determine the efficacy of marizomib in recurrent ependymoma.

        -  A novel 2-stage sequential design will be employed to conduct the trial for recurrent
           ependymoma.

        -  In the first stage, we will enroll 18 patients with RELA-fusion ependymoma and if 4 or
           more patients in Cohort 1 are progression free at 6 months, we will proceed to stage 2;
           otherwise we will terminate the trial and conclude that marizomib is not effective.

        -  In the second stage, we will enroll 32 patients with non RELA-fusion ependymoma.

        -  Patients will be treated with marizomib in cycles consistent of 28 days until disease
           progression or a maximum of 24 cycles.
    
  