
    
      The investigators will analyse data from all individuals born in Denmark between 1900-2015
      and who resided there between 2000-2016; giving a study size of over 5.5 million people. The
      National Patient Register, Cause of Death Register and National Prescription Registry of
      Denmark will all be used as sources of information about the mental disorders and general
      medical conditions (GMC) of interest. These are considered to be of high quality and
      validity.

      The rate of diagnosis with a specific GMC group between those exposed and unexposed to each
      of ten mental disorders will be examined using hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence
      intervals (CI), using Cox proportional hazards models with age as the underlying time scale.
      The following models will be run to provide all persons and sex-specific estimates,
      considering exposure to each mental disorder and whether the association differs depending on
      the time since onset of the mental disorder (lagged HRs):

      Model A: adjusted for sex and birth date which, in combination with underlying age in the
      models, adjusts also for calendar time

      Model B: additionally adjust for mental disorder comorbidity with onset before, but not
      after, the mental disorder of interest

      Finally, cumulative incidence proportions of diagnosis with a GMC after being diagnosed with
      a mental disorder will be estimated. This will provide absolute risks of developing a GMC
      after a specific time, given a previous diagnosis of a mental disorder. To compare cumulative
      incidence proportions among people diagnosed with a mental disorder to those among people
      without a diagnosis, a matched reference group will be generated for each mental disorder.
      For every index person with the mental disorder, up to five age- and sex-matched individuals
      (who had not received a diagnosis of the relevant mental disorder by the age the index person
      was diagnosed) will be randomly selected. Cumulative incidence proportions will be generated
      for each reference group. All analyses will be performed on the secured platform of
      Statistics Denmark STATA/MP version 15.1 (Stata Corporation, College Station, Texas, USA).

      An interactive webpage will be developed to visualize all results from this study. The Danish
      Data Protection Agency and the Danish Health Data Authority approved this study.
    
  