
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the event-free survival at 12 months of pediatric patients' eyes with group D
      intraocular retinoblastoma treated with systemic chemotherapy comprising vincristine,
      carboplatin, and etoposide, subtenon carboplatin, and local ophthalmic therapy. (Event
      defined for each eye individually as needed for nonprotocol therapy including nonprotocol
      chemotherapy, enucleation or any external-beam radiation)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the event-free survival at 12 months of pediatric patients' eyes with group C
      retinoblastoma treated with systemic chemotherapy comprising carboplatin, etoposide,
      vincristine, subtenon carboplatin, and local ophthalmic therapy.

      II. Determine the acute and long-term toxic effects of these regimens in these patients,
      including visual outcome and incidence of secondary malignancies.

      III. Determine the patterns of failure in patients treated with these regimens, in terms of
      vitreous vs retinal vs both as sites of recurrence.

      IV. Determine predictors of failure including findings at the on study examination under
      anesthesia and response status after six courses of chemotherapy.

      V. Determine the percentage of group C and D eyes separately that can be preserved without
      enucleation after failing protocol therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive vincristine IV over 1 minute on day 1 and carboplatin IV over 1 hour and
      etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF)
      subcutaneously daily beginning on day 3 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients
      receive subtenon carboplatin to each group C or D eye on day 0 or 1 prior of courses 2-4
      only. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in the absence of occurrence of
      extraocular retinoblastoma or a second malignancy. Beginning with course 3 of systemic
      chemotherapy, patients undergo local ophthalmic therapy comprising local laser and/or
      cryotherapy on day 1.

      Patients are followed with ophthalmology exams every 4-12 weeks until 3 years of age, every 6
      months until 5 years of age, and then annually for up to 10 years.
    
  