
    
      The search for prognostic and predictive factors that could influence the survival of
      patients treated for metastatic breast cancer has already been the subject of several
      studies. It seems that 2 components in the natural outcome of tumors must be considered. The
      first category is related to the primary characteristics such as initial histological grade,
      hormonal receptor status. The second category is linked to the metastatic characteristics:
      proliferation index reflected by the length of disease-free interval, type and number of
      metastatic sites involved. On the other hand, some prognostic factors are linked to the
      treatments undertaken, stressing their impact on the natural outcome of the disease: type of
      hormonotherapy, type of chemotherapy, type of response achieved by treatment.

      The impact of some factors remains debatable, such the duration of treatment. The optimal
      duration of chemotherapy in patients who respond or have stable disease is not identified.

      Definitively, the major limit to the use of prolonged regimens of chemotherapy is related to
      their toxicity, all the more so as they are cumulative (cardiac toxicity of anthracyclins,
      neurologic toxicity of taxanes, haematological cumulative toxicities with any chemotherapy…).
      The proposition to give hormonal treatment to prolong therapy in hormonal-positive tumors is
      another possible option. In the literature, data focused on this strategy are rare.

      One can object that the choice of patient/tumor characteristics for who would or would not
      receive the maintenance hormonal therapy was not random, or controlled in any way. This may
      have led to a selection of better prognosis patients. Investigators cannot know whether they
      are observing natural history or impacting it in such a trial. Nevertheless the major impact
      obtained by maintenance hormonal treatment after the first line chemotherapy might indicate
      that this strategy should be recommended in patients with an ER or PgR positive tumor. Based
      on the amplitude of the benefit observed, it may be ethically debatable to conduct a
      prospective randomized study. Moreover, randomized trials which assess the benefit of a new
      chemotherapy regimen should allow the possibility to give maintenance hormonal treatment.
    
  