
    
      Persons with serious mental illness experience disproportionate rates of physical health
      morbidity and mortality (WHO, 2005). One reason is a metabolic syndrome marked by significant
      obesity which seems even worse for African Americans. Although research suggests behavioral
      weight loss interventions (BWLIs) may promote healthy lifestyle behaviors (diet and exercise)
      that leads to weight loss, these programs are hindered by several social determinants of
      health found in low-income communities with food and activity deserts that undermine program
      goals. Preliminary evidence finds that peer navigators (service providers in recovery from
      serious mental illness) can help people to better avail existing healthcare programs, thereby
      improving health. Based on this evidence, our community-based participatory research (CBPR)
      project develops and tests two existing interventions to address the weight concerns of
      African Americans with serious mental illness:

        1. A BWLI developed for persons with serious mental illness (Goldberg et al., 2013) that
           will be evaluated for its responsiveness to the needs of African Americans with serious
           mental illness

        2. A peer navigator program (PNP) (Corrigan et al., 2017) that assists people with serious
           mental illness in meeting their health needs in the community; the PNP will be adapted
           so peer navigators can augment the impact of BWLI in food and activity deserts.

      As compared with men, African American women with serious mental illness are at an even
      higher risk for lifetime prevalence of obesity (Baskaran et al., 2014; Galletly et al.,
      2012). Through an administrative supplement, investigators have augmented the approach of our
      study to understand the role of gender on the attainment of weight goals, with a specific
      focus on trauma, an experience of particular importance to women's health.

      Two-hundred and seventy (270) African Americans with serious mental illness who are
      overweight or obese will be randomized to one of three conditions after baseline assessments:
      integrated physical and mental health care, integrated physical and mental health care plus
      BWLI, or integrated physical and mental health care plus BWLI and peer navigator (PN).

      The BWLI has a 8-month intervention phase followed by a 4-month maintenance phase. The
      intervention includes group weight management classes, physical activity, individual visits
      to address barriers to meeting goals and to develop skills, and weigh-ins. PNs will partner
      with participants on BWLI assignments, meet with participants and BWLI facilitators, or
      accompany participants to health care appointments and follow-up. In addition, PNs and
      participants will team up to assess community diet and activity resources, and based on this
      review, will develop strategies to address their diet and physical activity needs.

      Investigators seek 70 participants per condition (N=210) to reach statistical power goals.
      Investigators will recruit 270 participants to account for expected loss-to-followup.
      Investigators will enroll participants in discrete cohorts every nine months.

      Investigators will analyze fidelity, process, outcome and impact data, including the effect
      of BWLI and BWLI and PN on weight, waist circumference, blood pressure, health behavior,
      physical and mental health, recovery and quality of life. Measures will be repeated at 4, 8,
      and 12 months. To understand the impact of gender, investigators will stratify the sample on
      gender at recruitment and analyze all program outcome measures by gender. To better
      understand the impact of trauma, investigators will determine if trauma exposure moderates
      the effect of the study intervention. Investigators will also conduct post-hoc analyses to
      determine if gender matching between PNs and participants (e.g., female-female and male-male)
      led to better effects.

      Investigators' main hypothesis is that the BWLI and PN condition will lead to greater weight
      loss and enhanced health behaviors compared with the two other conditions. Findings will
      advance knowledge and services to reduce racial disparities in obesity and comorbid health
      conditions for African Americans with serious mental illnesses.
    
  