
    
      The focus of the study is;

        1. To generate an evidence-based checklist of signs and symptoms of recurrence of
           endometrial cancer.

        2. To assess the sensitivity and specificity of a telephone follow-up compared to the
           current clinic-based follow-up in the detection of recurrence of endometrial cancer.

        3. To determine patients' satisfaction with the clinic and telephone follow-up.

        4. To assess patients' self reported well being (physical activity, smoking, diet, anxiety,
           depression and quality of life).

      The proposed project will involve generation of an evidence-based checklist of signs and
      symptoms of recurrence. The generated symptom checklist will be used to follow study
      participants over a period of 12 months.

      During the follow-up period, patients' routine clinic follow-up schedules will not be
      altered, however; the study participants will be interviewed via telephone 2 to 5 days prior
      to their scheduled clinic visits dates. The checklist of signs and symptoms generated by this
      study will form the basis for this interview.

      In addition, we will also enquire about the participant's wellbeing and provide resources on
      physical activity, diet and other life style behaviours and supportive care when needed.

      The data analysis will include determining:

      i. Sensitivity- Proportion of those with the condition who have a positive test.

      ii. Specificity-Proportion of those without the condition who have a negative test.

      iii. Positive predictive value (PV+) - Proportion of those with a positive test who have the
      condition.

      iv. Negative predictive value (PV-) - Proportion of those with a negative test who do not
      have the condition.

      Overall accuracy of the symptom checklist compared to the clinic-based follow-up program will
      also be calculated.
    
  