
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Develop an electronic medical record (EMR)-based strategy, the Computerized EMR-Assisted
           Smoking Cessation Effort (CEASCE), for assisting physicians in treating tobacco use in
           adults who are currently smokers.

        -  Assess the reach and effectiveness of CEASCE by conducting a randomized controlled trial
           in the Brigham and Women's Primary Care Practice-Based Research Network to determine its
           effectiveness in increasing the proportion of smokers who receive treatment.

        -  Assess the adoption, implementation, and short-term maintenance of CEASCE by measuring
           the proportion and characteristics of providers who use CEASCE, the consistency with
           which providers use the components of CEASCE, and changes in the use of CEASCE over
           time.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, multicenter study. Clinics are stratified
      according to socioeconomic mix of patients and clinic type (community health center vs
      hospital based vs community-based). Clinics are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (intervention): Primary care providers utilize the Computerized Electronic Medical
           Record (EMR)-Assisted Smoking Cessation Effort (CEASCE) decision support system
           comprising a 5-step algorithm (i.e., the "5 A's"). CEASCE provides reminders to primary
           care providers to document smoking status using the "5 A's" (Ask, Advise, Assess,
           Assist, and Arrange). Primary care providers input information into the CEASCE,
           including asking the patient about their smoking status (Ask), the date they advised the
           patient to quit (Advise), an assessment of the patient's readiness to quit (Assess), and
           the action that was taken by the physician (Assist). When the primary care provider
           inputs information, CEASCE automatically presents actions that are tailored to the
           smoker's readiness to quit. Actions offered include setting a quit date, prescribing
           medications, referral to a smoking-cessation counselor, discussing barriers to quitting,
           counseling about the health risks of smoking, and an offer to help the smoker when she
           is ready to quit. CEASCE automatically prints educational materials and sends an e-mail
           to a smoking cessation counselor for patients who are agreeable to having a smoking
           cessation counselor contact them. The smoking cessation counselor makes 4 attempts to
           contact the patient by telephone within 30 days. If the patient is ready, the counselor
           facilitates enrollment into a smoking cessation program and documents the outcome of the
           referral. The referring primary care provider then receives an e-mail message regarding
           the outcome.

      Primary care providers complete surveys after ≥ 6 months of experience with the intervention.
      Some patients participate in an exit interview immediately after their primary care visit.

        -  Arm II (control): Patients receive current standard of care, including documentation of
           smoking status and contact from a smoking-cessation counselor only after receiving a
           referral.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 4,314 participants (primary care providers and patients) will
      be accrued for this study.
    
  