
    
      Background:

      Latinos are the largest and fastest growing minority population in the US; by 2050, 2 in 5
      children will be Latino. Latino children are disproportionately affected by poverty and other
      factors associated with increased risk of psychiatric disorder. However, Latino children with
      mental health needs are half as likely to use services as children in white non-Latino
      families. Latino families are more likely to report problems getting services, lack of a
      usual source of care and a medical home, and dissatisfaction with the care they receive.
      Unmet mental health needs, in turn, are associated with poor outcomes over the lifespan, both
      economic and social. Assessing the comparative effectiveness of interventions to overcome
      these disparities is a major national health priority central to PCORI's mission and mandate.

      Activation is a promising focus of research to eliminate disparities because it reflects a
      set of attitudes and skills that people can use to reduce disparities. Our work provides
      evidence that activation in Latino adults is associated with better quality health care and
      outcomes; and in African American parents with greater child mental health service use. There
      is need for further research on parent-focused interventions founded on culturally meaningful
      concepts to address these needs and disparities.

      Objectives:

      The long-term goal of this research is to improve the mental health care and outcomes of
      Latino children with mental health needs. The proposed study will examine the comparative
      effectiveness of an activation intervention for Latino families raising children with mental
      health needs by means of three aims:

      Aim 1. To identify parent-reported facilitators of Latino child mental health service use
      amenable to change through parental activation Aim 2. To test the comparative effectiveness
      of an adapted psycho-educational intervention to teach activation skills adapted for Latino
      mothers of children with mental health needs compared to a parent support group control Aim
      3. To enhance the intervention, based on parent input and lessons learned from the first
      trial, and test its comparative effectiveness with a parent support group control

      Methods:

      Qualitative and quantitative data from Latino mothers who have a child with mental health
      needs (n=294) will be used in a difference-in-difference mixed effects approach to address
      these aims.

      Projected Patient Outcomes:

      The proposed study will provide evidence of the comparative effectiveness of an enhanced,
      culturally sensitive, advocacy skills intervention to build activation among Latino families
      and improve service use of their children with mental health needs compared to a preliminary
      adaptation of an existing intervention and to a usual care discussion group. Activation
      skills are a promising strategy to improve child mental health service use and to bridge
      cultural differences and disparities with wide-ranging impacts consistent with PCORI's
      research agenda.
    
  