
    
      Physical activity levels decline dramatically during adolescence, particularly among females,
      with the decline most apparent among African Americans. The health benefits of regular
      physical activity are well-known; individuals who are active have lower rates of obesity and
      less incidence of cardiovascular disease. Because physical activity behaviors often develop
      during childhood, it is important to develop programs specifically for adolescents to
      encourage them to adopt and maintain a physically active lifestyle. Unfortunately, few
      programs have been developed that specifically focus on adolescents, and the long-term
      effectiveness of these programs is unknown. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of a
      life-skills oriented Comprehensive Physical Activity Program (CAP) at increasing activity
      levels in adolescents. Participants in the CAP program will develop new behavioral skills,
      which will assist them to continue a physically active lifestyle once the program ends. The
      purpose of this study is to compare CAP versus a standard physical education (PE) class at
      increasing physical activity levels and decreasing cardiovascular risk factors in adolescent
      African American and Caucasian females.

      This study will enroll 9th grade female students who attend a high school in Baltimore,
      Maryland. They will be randomly assigned to participate in either a standard PE class or CAP.
      Participants in the CAP program will also receive support from a family member to ensure that
      they receive encouragement for engaging in exercise. Baseline assessments will include
      physical activity level; cardiorespiratory fitness; cardiovascular risk factors, including
      blood pressure, lipoproteins, and body mass index (BMI); and psychosocial factors.
      Participants will attend follow-up visits at the end of each school year in the 9th, 10th,
      and 11th grades.
    
  