
    
      Improvement in the assessment techniques, to enable better pain management in children with
      intellectual and developmental disabilities who are unable to describe the intensity of the
      postsurgical pain, is a cornerstone of our research program. This research project will
      elucidate the regulation of specific markers of global surgical insult (nociception,
      inflammation, stress responses) associated to specific physiological mechanisms related to
      pain in children with and without verbal skills undergoing major orthopaedic surgery. This
      project creates a unique opportunity to directly characterize and compare MSK and surgical
      pain subjectively in the two different patient samples (verbal and non-verbal). As molecular
      events of pathophysiological processes are quantifiable, the investigators will test for
      associations between the expression of front-running pain biomarkers in physiological fluids
      (blood and saliva) and the experience of pain in two patient samples (verbal and non-verbal)
      undergoing major orthopaedic surgery. The identification of biomarkers will provide a deeper
      understanding of a patient's pain perception alongside self-report or observers' report
      subjective measurements. Even with standardization of best practice perioperative anesthetic
      pain management, children undergoing similar surgical procedures experience pain at different
      intensity. Based on preliminary findings, treatment modalities appear to be ineffective in
      one out of five patients. Pain experience variability may originate in the lack of rigor in
      the clinical pain assessment tools. Tools such as numerical rating scales used in the
      perioperative period are not based on objective patient specific pain thresholds. A
      personalized mechanism-based approach may be the key to better identify a patient's
      postsurgical pain outcome and how this assessment could lead to personalized perioperative
      pain management. The ultimate goal is to use this information to offer the highest quality of
      pain control in children with MSK conditions, and more specifically in children with limited
      communication skills unable to communicate their distress associated with the surgical
      procedures.
    
  