
    
      Objectives:

      Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA), or Kennedy s disease, is a slowly progressive
      hereditary motor neuron disease for which there is currently no effective treatment. Whether
      the liver is affected in SBMA is unclear. Preliminary analysis in SBMA patients has shown
      changes including increased hepatic fat, which requires additional investigation. Female
      carriers and patients with motor neuron disease will also participate in the study to
      evaluate for liver fat and function via imaging and laboratory tests.

      Study Population:

      We plan to enroll 15 men with genetically confirmed SBMA, 15 age-matched healthy control men,
      15 SBMA carrier women, 15 age-matched healthy control women and 15 males with other motor
      neuron disease patients as disease controls. As of September 2017, recruitment is complete
      for men with genetically confirmed SBMA (n=15 recruited), age-matched healthy control men
      (n=15 recruited), SBMA carrier women (n=14 recruited), and 15 age-matched healthy control
      women (n=14 recruited). Recruitment of motor neuron disease subjects as disease controls for
      the study began in April 2018 and is ongoing. Our goal is to recruit 12 more disease control
      subjects.

      Design:

      Subjects will complete liver evaluations at the NIH that may include blood work, liver MRI
      imaging with spectroscopy (MRS), ultrasound, and biopsy. Liver biopsy will be performed on a
      subset of subjects with SBMA only, who have a clinical indication for biopsy analysis. Liver
      tissue will be analyzed by the NIH Clinical Center Pathology Department, and additional
      studies will be done in the research laboratory at NIH. Patients may undergo repeated
      non-invasive testing to determine if the liver findings are changing over time. An evaluation
      of muscle fat by MRI spectroscopy will be done with a subset of up to 10 subjects receiving
      the liver studies.

      Outcome measures:

      Subjects will be assessed using several different types of measurements including blood work
      for fatty metabolism, muscle function, and hepatic function. Liver biopsies will be used to
      determine the pattern and degree of fatty infiltration in SBMA patients. Liver and muscle
      imaging will be used to detect fat. Ultrasound elastography will be used to assess the extent
      of fibrosis and loss of elasticity in the liver.
    
  