
    
      This is an open-label, safety study designed to assess the multiple-dose pharmacokinetics and
      potential for adrenal suppression following topical treatment with halobetasol propionate
      0.05% spray applied twice-daily in adult patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis.
      At least 40 eligible patients with plaque psoriasis that satisfy all eligibility criteria
      will be enrolled into the study. Patients must be overall in good health and should have a
      current diagnosis of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis with Investigator Global Assessment
      (IGA) score of at least 3 or 4. Patients will be stratified by age with:

      Cohort 1: At least 20 patients 18 years of age and older with ≥ 20% body surface area (BSA)
      affected Cohort 2: At least 20 patients 12-16 years and 11 months of age with ≥ 10% BSA
      affected Cohort 2 will initiate enrollment once all enrolled patients in Cohort 1 have
      completed the study and a safety analysis has been reviewed by the Medical Monitor and
      approved by the Novum Independent Institutional Review Board (NIIRB). Sites will not begin
      enrollment of patients in Cohort 2 until the site is notified by email that the safety
      analysis for Cohort 1 has been reviewed and approved. Confirmation of email receipt will be
      required from each Investigator before enrollment of Cohort 2 can begin. Each cohort will be
      enrolled based on the availability of patients. Each cohort will be reviewed for the
      potential of HPA axis suppression. The Medical Monitor or NIIRB may discontinue the study at
      any time if safety concerns are found. If 6 or more patients in Cohort 1 experience HPA axis
      suppression, then enrollment for Cohort 1 will be stopped. Cohort 2 will not be initiated if
      6 or more patients enrolled in Cohort 1 experience HPA axis suppression or 30% or more of the
      final enrolled number of patients in Cohort 1 experience HPA axis suppression. If 6 or more
      patients in Cohort 2 experience HPA axis suppression, then enrollment for Cohort 2 will be
      stopped. If the study is stopped at any time, patients currently enrolled will be contacted
      via phone and instructed to discontinue study product immediately. Patients will be
      instructed to return for their next scheduled visit for cortisol response testing. Sites will
      follow up with patients and monitor for HPA axis suppression. All patients will be followed
      until cortisol levels are normal.

      Patients will be instructed to apply topical spray twice daily onto the affected skin areas
      for 28 days. Patients will be instructed not to rub over the affected area after application
      of spray Patients will apply the morning dose of the study product in the clinic at each
      clinic visit and at home during non-clinic visits. A phone call will be made approximately 14
      days after the patient has completed dosing to follow-up on any new adverse events that may
      have occurred
    
  