
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall and progression-free survival of patients with stage IB2, IIA, or
           IIB cervical cancer treated with neoadjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy followed by
           radical hysterectomy vs standard therapy comprising concurrent radiotherapy and
           cisplatin-based chemotherapy.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center, FIGO stage, age (18 to 50 vs 51 to 75), and histological subtype
      (adenomatous vs non-adenomatous component). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive neoadjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy on day 1. Treatment
           repeats every 21 days. Within 6 weeks after the last chemotherapy course, patients
           undergo a type III-V Piver-Rutledge radical hysterectomy. Patients with positive lymph
           nodes or tumor invasion into the parametria or less than 5 mm from the resection borders
           after surgery receive standard adjuvant external beam radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a
           week, for 5-5.6 weeks (25-28 treatment days) followed by external boost radiotherapy or
           brachytherapy for 1 or 2 days.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive standard therapy comprising radiotherapy as in arm I
           concurrently with cisplatin-based chemotherapy once weekly for 6 weeks. Adjuvant
           hysterectomy is allowed, but not recommended, in case of histologically proven residual
           tumor.

      Treatment in both arms continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. For patients in both arms, cisplatin may be combined with other chemotherapeutics
      as long as the minimum platinum dose is given.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 4 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 686 patients (343 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 3.8 years.
    
  