
    
      -  A primary care sample of records at a local radiology center will be retrospectively
           reviewed and those of Egyptian adults who underwent DXA scanning will be included.

        -  Those with prior diagnoses that can affect bone mineral density (BMD) (i.e. prior
           osteoporosis, Paget's disease, osteomalacia, hyperparathyroidism, or hypogonadism) or
           history of using certain medications (i.e. bone-protective or anticonvulsant drugs)
           prior to undergoing the DXA scan will be excluded.

        -  Scores will be calculated as indicated in their respective studies after collecting the
           data pertaining to them (Crandall, 2015); (Cass & Shepherd, 2013); (Reginster, et al.,
           2004); (Adler, et al., 2003); (Cadarette, et al., 2000); (Weinstein & Ulery, 2000);
           (Black, et al., 1998); (Lydick, et al., 1998).

        -  Data will be treated as dichotomous for both DXA T-scores and screening scores (i.e.
           Osteoporosis (Yes or NO) versus positive/negative score). A 2 x 2 contingency table will
           be constructed and the different diagnostic test statistics (i.e. Sensitivities,
           specificities, Receiver operating characteristic curve) will be calculated using
           different Cut-off points to carry out sensitivity analyses (Moreover, different DXA
           sites and cut-offs will be included in the analyses). SPSS version 25 software (IBM
           Corp., USA) will be used for the statistical operations.

        -  Using an expected proportion of false negatives of 10% for sensitivity (i.e. based on
           the previous reported sensitivities for most tools being >90% (Crandall, 2015) and the
           performance of OST in Egypt of 83% (El-Masry, et al., 2015)) and a 95% confidence
           interval's width of 10% the needed sample size was estimated to be 138 (Browner, et al.,
           2013, p. 81 Table 6E). Power analysis will be calculated for any deviation from this
           estimation. Failure to meet sample size at the outset will be dealt with by
           prospectively screening new records for a period of 3 months.

      Depending on the result, further recommendations and plans will be provided for possible
      applications and future research. All Deviations from the protocol will be justified.
    
  