
    
      The global population is growing older over the next several decades. An essential component
      to keep people healthy, even with aging, is to prevent chronic disease progression and reduce
      associated complications. About 80% of older adults have one chronic condition, and 50% have
      at least two chronic disorders. Efforts to identify strategies to prevent or reduce the risk
      of chronic diseases and injuries and to widely apply effective interventions must be pursued.
      Because the liver is the largest solid organ in the human body with multiple functions,
      including nutrition, metabolism, proteins and biochemicals synthesis, and detoxification, its
      function is vital for the homeostasis of our body. The impairment of liver function may cause
      dysfunction or even shut down other systems in our body. Therefore, a better understanding of
      the pathogenesis of the liver disorder is not only a key issue in medical science, but it may
      also affect the general health and diseases of other body systems in a variety of ways.
      Finally, causing significant public health and economic losses globally. However, the impact
      and interactions of liver disorders on the progression, treatments, and prognosis of other
      systemic disorders, or vice versa, remain largely unknown. Recent studies have demonstrated
      the interactions between diabetes mellitus and liver diseases, and implying a possible
      deteriorating effect of diabetes on liver disease progression, treatment outcomes, and
      hepatic carcinogenesis. These lines of evidence not only verify the need for a better
      understanding of the interactions between liver and other disorders, but also justify a more
      extensive exploration of the interactions between liver diseases and other systemic
      disorders.

      In this study, the investigators aim to examine the association of chronic liver diseases
      (including hepatitis B, hepatitis C, alcoholic liver disease, fatty liver, liver cirrhosis
      and hepatocellular carcinoma) with other systemic diseases by retrospectively analyzing the
      data from the Hospital Database of Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical Foundation. The investigators
      will examine the impacts of different systemic diseases on the disease progression and
      prognosis of Taiwanese patients with liver diseases and vice versa. Moreover, the
      investigators will also examine the different therapeutic strategies (including western,
      traditional Chinese medical, surgical or varied treatments) used for the treatments of liver
      diseases or systemic diseases, and their effects on the disease progression, long-term
      outcomes and prognosis of patients with chronic liver diseases or other systemic diseases in
      Taiwan.
    
  