
    
      Setting: Gastroenterology division of the Ecuadorian Institute of Digestive Diseases (IECED),
      OmniHospital Academic Tertiary Center. The study protocol and consent form has been approved
      by the Institutional Review Board and will be conducted according to the declaration of
      Helsinki. Patients will sign an informed consent.

      Population selection:

      Stage 1: 63 patients enrolled with bile duct tissular lesion detected by POCS.
      Cholangioscopic lesions images (315) were photographically recorded in order to correlate to,
      histopathology after targeted or surgical biopsies, and 6 months follow up with POCS. Using
      the histopathology results, the lesions were classified into benign or malignant. An
      experienced endoscopist with more than 140 POCS analyzed the images based on the
      morphological and vascular pattern and performed a POCS macroscopic classification of
      tissular bile duct lesions as follow: Benign lesions: Type 1 "Villous pattern" (micronodular
      or villous pattern without vascularity), Type 2 "Polypoid pattern" (adenoma or granuloma
      pattern without vascularity) and Type 3 "Inflammatory pattern" (regular or irregular fibrous
      and congestive pattern with regular vascularity). Malignant lesions: Type 1 "Flat pattern"
      (flat and smooth or irregular surface with irregular or spider vascularity); Type 2 "Polypoid
      pattern" (polypoid or mass shape with fibrosis and irregular or spider vascularity), Type 3
      "Ulcerated pattern" (irregular ulcerated and infiltrative pattern with or without fibrosis
      and with irregular or spider vascularity) and type 4 "honey-comb pattern" (fibrous honey-comb
      pattern with or without irregular or spider vascularity).

      Stage 2: estimated enrollment of 100 patients with bile duct tissular lesion detected by
      POCS. Patients included will be analyzed by two groups of endoscopists. One group
      (classification group) will use the previous classification to select the images as benign or
      malignant with the different subtypes; and the second group (no classification group or
      control group) will do it without using the classification.

      Endoscopic technique:

      Stage 1: patients included were evaluated using a standard duodenoscope (Pentax ED 3670TK,
      Hoya Co.), the Pentax Video Processor EPK-i5010 and both SpyGlass速 cholangioscopes: First
      generation, SpyGlass速 Direct Visualization System and Second generation, Digital SpyGlass速 DS
      System (Boston Scientific, Marlborough, Massachusetts, USA) in a mother-baby manner.
      Procedures were performed by one experienced endoscopists with more than 300 ERCP/year
      (C.R.M), in the supine position and under general anesthesia. All patients received
      antibiotic prophylaxis. Biopsies were taken in order to correlate to histopathology.

      Stage 2: patients will be evaluated using a standard duodenoscope (Pentax ED 3670TK, Hoya
      Co.), the Pentax Video Processor EPK-i7010 and second generation, Digital SpyGlass速 DS System
      (Boston Scientific, Marlborough, Massachusetts, USA) in a mother-baby manner. Procedures will
      be performed by two experienced endoscopists with more than 300 ERCP/year (C.R.M and M.S.A),
      in the supine position and under general anesthesia. Half of patients will receive antibiotic
      prophylaxis because an ongoing cholangioscopic antibiotic prophylaxis protocol. Biopsies will
      be taken in order to correlate to histopathology.

      Inter and intra-observer agreement Stage 1: A data set containing 40 random photographs of
      the bile duct lesions were presented to 1 expert and 2 non-experts in POCS, whom analyzed the
      images blindly. Intra and inter-observer reproducibility was measure based on comparison of
      images between endoscopists.

      Stage 2: Intra and inter-observer agreement will be performed in the same manner as stage1.

      Statistical analysis: Baseline characteristics will be compared between groups using
      Chi-square o Fisher Test for categorical variable and Mann-Whitney Test for continuing
      variables. Accuracy, sensitive, specificity, positive and negative predicts value will be
      calculated. To examine inter and intra observer agreement, kappa values will be calculated. A
      P value of less than 0.05 is considered to be statistically significant. All the statistical
      analysis will be performed using SPSS software suite v.22.

      Limitations: the protocol will be performed in only one center.
    
  