
    
      1.1 Overview This study will assess the effectiveness of a breastfeeding support intervention
      for infants admitted to the hospital with jaundice. It will evaluate the effect of this
      intervention on duration of breastfeeding and health care utilization.

      1.2 Study Objectives: Primary: To determine the effect of a breastfeeding support
      intervention on breastfeeding duration in breastfeeding infants admitted to the hospital with
      jaundice.

      Secondary:

        -  To determine the rate of breastfeeding failure, defined as breastfeeding cessation
           before the infant turns 6 months, in mothers of jaundiced infants randomized to the
           control group, as compared to the rate of breastfeeding failure in the general
           population.

        -  To compare subsequent healthcare utilization between groups during their first six
           months of life, as determined by the number of re-hospitalizations for jaundice,
           hospitalizations for non-jaundice related causes, as well as physician encounters.

        -  To determine the number of mothers seeking breastfeeding help once discharged from the
           hospital and compare it between both groups.

        -  To determine the kind and perceived effectiveness of breastfeeding support and advice
           given by the infant's primary physician throughout the child's first six months of life.

      2.1 Summary: Breastfeeding confers many advantages to infants, mothers, families, and society
      in general. There is strong evidence that human milk feeding decreases the incidence of many
      infectious diseases and enhances the immunologic status of the newborn. It has been
      associated with enhanced performance on neurocognitive development tests, and has also been
      shown to provide important health benefits to the mother, including a decrease in risk of
      breast and ovarian cancers. It should be strongly encouraged for the first six months of
      life, and then continued for up to 2 years and beyond, as recommended in the World Health
      Organization's Innocent Declaration.

      Neonatal jaundice is the most common problem in full-term infants during the immediate
      post-natal period. There is controversy as to whether breastfeeding increases the incidence
      of jaundice in the first days of life. In a study conducted in Italy, neonatal jaundice was
      not associated with breastfeeding per se, but rather with increased weight loss after birth
      subsequent to fasting, which can be seen with inadequate lactation.

      When an infant is hospitalized, previously established patterns of breastfeeding are
      difficult to maintain. There is evidence to suggest that mothers of young infants admitted to
      hospital with hyperbilirubinemia commonly experience guilt as they feel breastfeeding caused
      the jaundice. Many of these women struggle with feelings of failure or inadequacy. A study
      recently conducted by the principal investigator of this current study (CP) suggested that
      infants admitted to the hospital with hyperbilirubinemia may have a higher rate of
      breastfeeding discontinuation than babies in the general population.

      Previous studies have shown that breastfeeding support offered to various groups of
      mother-infant pairs significantly increased rates of breastfeeding at 2 to 6 months of age.

      Given the clear health, social and economic advantages that breastfeeding confers to mothers,
      infants, and society in general, there is a need to assess the effectiveness of a
      breastfeeding support intervention for infants admitted to the hospital with jaundice.

      2.2 Benefits of breastfeeding Breastfeeding is preferred for all infants, and exclusive
      breastfeeding of infants is recommended for the first 6 months after birth. Research has
      shown that human milk feeding decreases the incidence of multiple illnesses including
      bacterial meningitis, bacteremia, diarrhea, respiratory tract infection, otitis media, and
      urinary tract infections. A recent study conducted in Spain showed that exclusive
      breastfeeding lowered the risk of hospitalization as a result of infectious diseases during
      the first year of life. In that study, each additional month of exclusive breastfeeding would
      have avoided 30% of hospital admissions. A meta-analysis of 33 studies examining healthy
      infants in developed nations showed similar results, with formula-fed infants experiencing a
      tripling in severe respiratory illnesses compared with those who were exclusively breastfed
      for 4 months. Based on these results, breastfeeding promotion can lead to important
      economical gains from a societal perspective.

      According to the most recent Ottawa Public Health Survey, breastfeeding rates in the general
      population are as follows: 91% of women initiate breastfeeding, with 56% practicing exclusive
      breastfeeding (no fluids other than breast milk). At 3 months, 71% of women continue to
      breastfeed, with 50% doing exclusive breastfeeding. This number drops to 60% for any
      breastfeeding at 6 months, with 39% of women exclusively breastfeeding.

      2.3 Breastfeeding in hospitalized children Published reports have shown that previously
      established patterns of breastfeeding are hard to maintain once an infant is hospitalized.
      Moreover, as mentioned, evidence suggests that mothers of infants admitted to the hospital
      with jaundice experience guilt, as well feelings of failure and inadequacy as they often feel
      responsible for the child's admission to hospital. Maternal confidence has been shown to be a
      strong predictor of breastfeeding duration, with lack of confidence in breastfeeding skills
      leading to a higher likelihood of weaning in the first six weeks post-partum. There is only
      one study in the literature examining the rates of breastfeeding in the jaundiced population,
      which was done by the PI of this current study. Surveys were sent to all mothers of eligible
      infants admitted with jaundice to the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO) over a
      2.5 year period. One hundred and twenty-eight (64%) out of the 200 eligible mothers returned
      a completed survey. Of those, 92% had a post-secondary education. Information was collected,
      retrospectively, on length of breastfeeding after discharge from the hospital. Length of
      breastfeeding for hospitalized infants was compared to that of the Ottawa population, as
      reported by the City of Ottawa Public Health survey in 2005. Although numbers were the same
      between the jaundiced group and the City of Ottawa group, it is likely that the high
      education level of the study participants falsely elevated the rate of breastfeeding in the
      jaundiced infants. As mentioned, 92% of study participants had completed a post-secondary
      education, as compared to 53% of women involved in the population-based survey. Given that
      previous reports have shown that women with lower levels of education are more likely to
      discontinue breastfeeding early, it is reasonable to postulate that for comparable levels of
      education, mothers of infants admitted to the hospital with jaundice discontinue
      breastfeeding earlier than women in the general population.

      2.4 Breastfeeding support interventions There are very few studies quantifying the effects of
      breastfeeding promotion interventions. A recent Cochrane review found that both professional
      and lay support were effective in prolonging breastfeeding. More specifically, this review
      found that professional support had more of an impact than lay support on both partial and
      exclusive breastfeeding and lay support affected exclusive breastfeeding. A review of four
      randomized controlled trials combining breastfeeding support with educational programs in
      developed countries found that combined education and support strategies increased short-term
      breastfeeding rates by 36%. Short-term breastfeeding in these studies was described as
      anywhere between 2 to 6 months. The education interventions were primarily conducted by
      lactation specialists or nurses as antepartum sessions, while the support interventions
      varied between telephone or in-person conversations, hospital or home visits by lactation
      consultants, nurses or peer counselors, and combined prearranged appointments and unscheduled
      visits or telephone calls for problems. Breastfeeding education and support had the biggest
      effect on initiation and maintenance of breastfeeding. Many of the studies however lacked
      scientific rigor. Most studies did not make a difference between exclusive and partial
      breastfeeding. Details regarding description and length of interventions as well as training
      of the individual delivering the educational session were often lacking.

      A recent randomized controlled trial evaluating the effectiveness of a breastfeeding
      promotion intervention in the Republic of Belarus19 found an absolute increase of almost 37%
      in the prevalence of exclusive breastfeeding at 3 months in the intervention group. The chief
      obstetrician from each intervention maternity hospital, and the chief pediatrician from each
      intervention polyclinic, received the same 18-hour courses emphasizing methods to maintain
      lactation, promote exclusive and prolonged breastfeeding, and resolve common problems. All
      midwives, nurses and physicians providing care to study mothers and infants, as well as all
      pediatricians and nurses working in the polyclinics were trained over a period of 12 to 16
      months. Such a program offered the advantage of providing reliable and consistent support,
      with the goal of being widely available. This study was published after the Cochrane review
      and thus is not included in the review.

      Although no study published to date has determined which aspect of a breastfeeding support
      intervention yields positive results, it is likely to result from a combination of factors.
      Breastfeeding support results in increased confidence, and maternal confidence is known to be
      a strong predictor of breastfeeding outcome, with lack of confidence in breastfeeding skills
      leading to a higher likelihood of weaning in the first six weeks post-partum.

      2.5 Availability of breastfeeding support In the recent CHEO study, 57% of the participating
      mothers needed to seek breastfeeding support after discharge from the hospital, suggesting
      they did not receive adequate help while hospitalized. Half of these women received help from
      private lactation consultants. These lactation consultants have variable training and may or
      may not hold recognized certifications or credentials. Their fees also vary from 10$ to 90$
      an hour, and therefore may not be a suitable alternative for families with financial
      difficulties. This indicates the need for a standardized breastfeeding support intervention
      that will be accessible to all.

      2.6 Breastfeeding and health care professionals Many studies have shown that physicians and
      physicians in training lack the necessary skills to offer proper guidance to lactating
      mothers. Freed et al surveyed pediatric residents and practitioners about breastfeeding
      knowledge and found that both groups had considerable knowledge deficits, and were
      ill-prepared for counseling mothers with lactation difficulties. Many residents surveyed in a
      study performed by Hillenbrand et al believed that early supplementation was not a cause of
      breast-feeding failure, although previous studies have clearly demonstrated this
      relationship. In the Ottawa study, only 3.9% of women reported receiving breastfeeding help
      from the treating physician while admitted to the hospital, suggesting the possibility that
      physicians do not have adequate knowledge to assess proper breastfeeding methods and counsel
      appropriately.

      In summary, there is a need for this comprehensive study examining the impact of a
      breastfeeding support intervention for mothers of infants admitted to the hospital with
      jaundice. This study will clarify the rates of early breastfeeding discontinuation in the
      jaundiced population and help determine whether physicians in the Ottawa population have
      knowledge deficits when it comes to breastfeeding, as there may be a role for incorporating
      teaching of breastfeeding skills to physicians and physicians in training.
    
  