
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE To determine whether preoperative telemedicine appointments are
      non-inferior to in-office visits based on patient preoperative preparedness in women
      undergoing pelvic surgery as measured by a preoperative preparedness survey.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

        1. Evaluate patient satisfaction using the S-CAHPS survey

        2. Calculate the duration of visit for patient (minutes)

        3. Calculate the duration of visit for provider (minutes)

        4. Estimate round trip travel distance from patient home to clinic (miles)

        5. Evaluate the number of office contacts from date of preoperative counseling to 6 weeks
           postoperatively.

             1. Patient initiated calls

             2. Nurse initiated calls

             3. Scheduled office visits

             4. Add on office visits

        6. Evaluate canceled, no-show, and late visits

        7. Calculate value proposition metrics for Atrium Health System

      PREOPERATIVE PERIOD All consecutive patients planning to undergo pelvic surgery who require a
      preoperative visit will be identified, screened, and approached for participation in the
      study. Participants who do not meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be considered
      screen failures. Screen failures will be captured and the cause for screen failure will be
      documented.

      Verbal consent will be obtained and accurate email address will be confirmed. Eligible
      subjects will be randomized using a computer-generated randomization scheme with patients
      assigned in a 1:1 ratio to either:

      Study Group: Telemedicine preoperative counseling with a Female Pelvic Medicine and
      Reconstructive Surgery (FPMRS) fellow

      Control Group: Standard in-office preoperative counseling with a FPMRS fellow

      The allocation sequence will be in numerical, sealed, opaque envelopes. An envelope will be
      retrieved at the time of consent. The surgical scheduler will then schedule the patient for
      their allocated preoperative visit.

      Prior to their preoperative visit, participants in both groups will be emailed copies of the
      office Enhanced Recovery After Surgery informational booklet and International Urogynecology
      Association (IUGA) patient information handouts pertinent to their surgery. The preoperative
      visit at Women's Center for Pelvic Health (WCPH) is a counseling visit to review informed
      consent. Preoperative medical evaluation is accomplished through the Carolinas Hospitalist
      Group preoperative clinic or with the patient's primary care provider. Patients who require
      preoperative medical clearance will be scheduled for a preoperative visit with the Carolinas
      Hospitalist Group or their primary care provider in addition to their preoperative visit with
      the WCPH. These visits will be documented in the total office visit data collection.

      Women in the Telemedicine group will check in for their preoperative visit via an Atrium
      Information Systems (IS) approved virtual communication platform at the scheduled date and
      time. They will undergo preoperative counseling following a standardized checklist format.
      After telemedicine counseling has concluded, participants will be emailed a REDCap survey
      link to complete a survey regarding their preparation for surgery. If a participant has not
      completed the survey by the next business day, an email reminder will be sent to their email
      address on file. If they have not completed the survey within 2 business days, they will be
      contacted by phone for reminder. If a participant in the Telemedicine group ultimately elects
      to have an in-office preoperative visit, they will be scheduled for in-office visit and
      analyzed as intention-to-treat.

      Women in the In-office group will present to WCPH for preoperative in-person counseling
      following a standardized checklist format. After in-office counseling has concluded,
      participants will be asked to complete a survey regarding preparation for surgery via a
      REDCap survey link on an Atrium IS approved iPad prior to leaving the office.

      PERIOPERATIVE PERIOD Participants will present to Mercy Hospital or One Day Surgery Center
      for their scheduled surgery. All participants will receive routine care according to the
      gynecologic enhanced recovery perioperative protocol. The gynecologic enhanced recovery
      perioperative protocol is a multimodal perioperative care pathway designed to achieve early
      recovery after surgery by maintaining preoperative organ function and reducing the physical
      stress of surgery on the body. This protocol includes many components including allowing
      patients to drink clear liquids up to 2 hours prior to their surgery, maintaining euvolemia
      intraoperatively, and early return to normal diet and activity after surgery. All patients
      undergoing pelvic reconstructive surgery are scheduled for the enhanced recovery protocol,
      except for women having only minor procedures such as mid-urethral sling placement or
      cystoscopy.

      POSTOPERATIVE PERIOD All participants will undergo routine postoperative care. They will be
      scheduled for an in-office postoperative visit, on average 1-2 weeks after surgery and then
      again at 6 weeks after surgery per our office standard practice. Following their 2-week
      postoperative visit, women will be asked to complete the preoperative subsection of the
      Surgical-CAHPS survey to evaluate patient satisfaction. This will be given to all patients
      prior to leaving the office. If a patient does not present to their 2-week postoperative
      appointment, they will be mailed a paper copy of the preoperative subsection of the S-CAHPS
      and asked to return this via prepaid postage.

      Following the 6 week postoperative visit, secondary data will then be extracted from the
      electronic medical record (EMR) via manual chart view.
    
  