
    
      This study completed an extensive formative phase to adapt the Women's CoOp intervention to
      specifically address the needs of young out-of-school adolescent African-American females
      with regard to knowledge about sexually transmitted infections (STIs), HIV and sexuality,
      health consequences of substance abuse, relationships with males, condom communication and
      social support, and HIV risk-reduction and violence prevention methods. During this phase,
      in-depth interviews, focus groups, pretesting and pilot testing were conducted to adapt and
      refine the intervention for the clinical trial.

      The aim of this trial is to:

      • Evaluate the efficacy of the cultural-, age-, and gender-focused intervention (Young
      Women's CoOp) relative to an equal attention control nutrition intervention in terms of
      changes in behaviors (e.g., condom use, substance use, violence prevention).

      At study enrollment/baseline, participants completed a questionnaire and baseline drug and
      pregnancy testing, and were randomized into one of two programs: Young Women's CoOp or
      Staying Healthy and Eating Well (Nutrition)-both which included 3 individual intervention
      sessions and 1 group activity. Follow-ups were conducted 3-months post-intervention and
      6-months post-intervention and included a questionnaire and drug testing.

      The study has since been completed and analysis and manuscript preparation is underway. Two
      abstracts have been accepted to American Public Health Association conferences in 2012 and
      2013. The five papers in progress or published include:

        1. Efficacy of the Young Women's Coop - analysis complete, manuscript being drafted

        2. Summary of qualitative findings from interviews and focus groups - published September
           2013

        3. Homelessness and abuse- in final preparation

        4. Correlates of gang affiliation - manuscript complete, CDC clearance obtained, under
           review.

        5. Post intervention social determinants - re-analyses and re-write
    
  