
    
      Our long-term objective is to reduce the incidence of HIV for people with serious and
      persistent mental illness (SMI) by developing an effective primary and secondary HIV risk
      reduction intervention for this population which can be easily delivered in the "real world"
      settings in which patients routinely receive care. Research findings document that the
      incidence of HIV infection, sexually transmitted diseases, and sexual and drug use behaviors
      are high among people with serious mental illness, as evidenced by rates of HIV infection and
      other sexually-transmitted diseases (STDs). A variety of factors underlie risky behaviors for
      the SMI, including cognitive impairment, poor judgment, affective instability and
      impulsiveness.

      Skills-building (SB) HIV risk reduction interventions, typically delivered in a small group
      formats, have had modest success in increasing HIV-related knowledge and improving risk
      reduction skills for people with SMI, although these effects are transient. As
      skills-building interventions are currently the standard of care in most research and
      clinical settings for HIV prevention, it is important to identify new ways to augment these
      interventions.

      A relatively new and promising addition to the armamentarium of individualized interventions
      is Motivational Interviewing (MI). MI is an approach designed to reduce ambivalence and
      enhance intrinsic motivation to change problematic behaviors. Previous researchers have noted
      effects for both SB and MI interventions independently, however, these effects tend to be
      fairly modest. Integrating these approaches in a systematized way allows us to test the
      degree to which this combination is useful, given that both motivation and skills are clearly
      important in effecting health behavior change.

      Our specific primary aims are the following:

        1. To adapt SB and MI interventions for HIV risk reduction for men and women with serious
           and persistent mental illness (SMI).

           Interventions for HIV risk reduction for people with SMI are typically offered in a
           group format and focus primarily on skills-building. We have developed and refined a
           brief, individually-tailored skills-building intervention (SB Intervention), based on
           these existing manuals. We have also adapted and refined a brief individually-tailored
           Motivational Interviewing intervention to target HIV risk behaviors, incorporating
           skills-building techniques analogous to those in the SB intervention, resulting in a
           Motivational-Interviewing & Skills-Building Intervention (SB-MI Intervention).
           Adaptation and refinement of the SB and SB-MI interventions was informed by consulting
           with experts in MI, SMI, and HIV risk reduction, eliciting feedback from advisory boards
           of providers and consumers, and conducting feedback interviews with participants who
           have completed participation in the study.

        2. To pilot test and obtain preliminary data with regard to the feasibility of our
           interventions and the differences in outcome associated with our SB and SB-MI
           interventions for reduction of HIV-related risk behaviors in a cohort of SMI adults.

           Comparison of SB and SB-MI interventions in the proposed pilot study will allow us to
           assess the degree to which incorporation of motivational techniques are helpful in
           augmenting skills-building interventions for HIV risk reduction for people with SMI.
           These preliminary analyses will inform our need to refine the adapted interventions (SB
           and SB-MI).

        3. To offer HIV counseling and testing for at-risk individuals with SMI, with an emphasis
           on connecting participants to appropriate medical and mental health services.

           To date, increasing rates of HIV counseling and testing for the SMI has not been a
           primary focus of clinical research, which we believe to be a significant public health
           deficit. As part of both of our interventions we are providing information about HIV
           counseling and testing services to those participants not identified as HIV-seropositive
           and encouraging them to access these services. We are then tracking the degree to which
           participants follow up on these referrals as part of our follow-up evaluations. This
           will allow us to test the degree to which our interventions are helpful in increasing
           rates of HIV testing.

        4. To begin to explore the relationships between participant characteristics, HIV risk
           behaviors, and response to our interventions.

      One of the unique features of our intervention is that it assumes an individually-tailored
      approach, which can address unique patient characteristics inherent in a heterogeneous
      sample. Indeed, using a heterogeneous sample greatly facilitates our primary long-term
      objective, which is to develop useable interventions that can be adapted in real-world
      settings. This project will allow us to begin to identify those characteristics that are
      likely to be associated with more positive outcomes (i.e. greater risk reduction, increased
      rates of HIV testing).
    
  