
    
      Pre-surgical patients are identified by their breast surgeon. The entire study is conducted
      remotely with no in-person contact with study staff. Study staff call patients and invite
      them to enroll in the study; informed consent is obtained online.

      All participants are asked to provide baseline demographic information, as well as
      self-reported measures assessing mood, pain, cognitive and emotional responses to pain,
      catastrophizing, self-efficacy, and medications. All measures are administered via a secure,
      HIPAA compliant, online system (REDCap).

      Participants are then randomized to either the Internet-based pain psychology intervention
      (My Surgical Success) or to brief online health education (HE Control). Prior to surgery,
      participants who have been randomized to the HE control group will receive patient handouts
      online about health and nutrition and are oriented that the information is relevant for
      improving recovery from surgery. The Internet-based pain psychology intervention emphasizes
      treatment content that targets pain catastrophizing. My Surgical Success includes a
      psychoeducational video, a downloadable audio file, and a downloadable PDF Personalized Plan
      for Success. After viewing the online treatment video, participants randomized to My Surgical
      Success complete questions regarding participant satisfaction with the video, perceived
      usefulness of information, and likelihood to use the skills learned. Pain catastrophizing
      scores are collected from all study participants prior to surgery. All participants are
      tracked daily post-surgically to assess pain, opioid use, distress, and use of skills learned
      from treatment; data are captured daily for 30 days, then weekly for 2 weeks, then every 2
      weeks for 4 weeks to pain and opioid cessation (or the end of 12 weeks). Psychosocial data
      are collected post-surgically at weeks 2, 4, 8, and 12.

      Post-treatment questions:

      Participants in the My Surgical Success group complete the following questions at the end of
      the video: how understandable the video was, its relevance, usefulness, their satisfaction,
      how likely they are to use the information, and what they learned from the video.

      Participants in HE Control are asked how understandable the health information packet was,
      its relevance, usefulness, their satisfaction, how likely they are to use the information,
      and what they learned from the packet.

      The pain catastrophizing scale (PCS) is administered following treatment and before surgery
      to all participants.

      Following surgery, all participants fill out online daily measures to assess pain and
      medication use. Daily measures continue until the participant reports 3 consecutive reports
      of zero average pain and zero opiate use and has indicated they have recovered from surgery.
      Until reaching this endpoint, daily measures are collected for 30 days, then bi-weekly for an
      additional 2 weeks, and then weekly for a period of between 2-6 additional weeks.
    
  