
    
      The investigators performed a randomized 2-arm trial at University Hospital "Dr. José
      Eleuterio González", a third level hospital in Monterrey, Mexico. The study population were
      patients with spina bifida treated in University Hospital. Participants and parents were
      offered optional entrance to the study.

      Sample size was calculated considering a total of 165 active patients with spina bifida
      treated in University Hospital, using a power of 80%, an expected difference of 50% between
      arms, and alpha level set at 0.05. The sample size calculated was 83 subjects, using methods
      for correlated binary data and repeated measures.

      Subjects were randomized into 2 groups: Group 1 was assigned to use a single-use PVC
      catheter. Group 2 was assigned to use the standard practice modality, a reused PVC catheter.
      Both groups were instructed to use sterile water-soluble lubricant in each catheterization.
      In the reused catheter group, after catheterization, PVC catheter was washed with water and
      soap, and stored in a container with 0.5% benzalkonium chloride. Each catheter was programmed
      to last a week. Patients and parents were instructed to use clean technique by hand washing
      with water and soup, and penis/vulva cleansing with antiseptic wipes. Researchers reinforced
      the intermittent bladder catheterization technique before the trial. All participants were
      provided with written informed consent.

      Both groups had a follow-up of 8 weeks. Urine cultures were programmed at days 0, 7, 14, 28,
      42 and 56. Researchers collected all urine samples from a fresh midstream catheter specimen
      using sterile technique. At each appointment urine culture results were evaluated, and if
      symptoms of UTI were present (temperature greater than 38.3 ° C, turbidity or odorous),
      antibiotic therapy according to antimicrobial susceptibility. Side effects related to bladder
      catheterization (hematuria, urethral stenosis, false way) were also evaluated. Patients with
      UTI were treated with antibiotics adjusted to the urine culture and were instructed to
      continue catheterization.

      A clinical record format was used in all programmed appointments recording urine culture
      results, demographics, pharmacologic therapy, urological comorbidities, and urodynamic
      characteristics. Personal information related to participants identity was not recorded.

      Subjects were randomized into block sizes of 6 using a computer generated list. Blinding
      process was impossible due to the nature of intervention therapy.
    
  