
    
      Pancreatic cancer was the third cause of death by cancer worldwide in 2016, surpassing breast
      cancer. It is estimated that in 2030, pancreatic cancer will become the second cause of death
      by cancer after lung cancer.

      Its prognosis is very poor, with an overall survival (OS) at 5 years, all stages included, of
      5.5%. According to the French cancer registry network (FRANCIM), its incidence has more than
      doubled in men and women between 1990 and 2018. The world standardized incidence rates for
      men and women were 5.2% and 2.7% in 1990 and 11% and 7% in 2018, respectively. This means a
      yearly annual increase of 2.7 for men and of 3.8 for women. The often late diagnosis, in 50%
      of cases at stage 4, and the limited treatment options explain the very low survival rate at
      5 years.

      Currently, only surgery associated with adjuvant chemotherapy for 6 months allows doubling
      this survival rate. However, this situation concerns only 20% of cases. Indeed, 50% of
      pancreatic cancers are discovered at stage 4, and in 30% of patients cancer is detected when
      not resectable and non-metastatic (i.e. borderline resectable or locally advanced). To make
      an unresectable cancer resectable is one of the therapeutic strategies under development.
      However, treatment of locally advanced pancreatic cancer (LAPC) is not standardized.
      Chemotherapy is a used strategy, but 30% of cases will progress to metastatic disease.
      Therefore, the need in LAPC to control not only the local disease but also micro-metastases
      has led to the development of combined strategies with chemotherapy and optimal radiotherapy.

      For LAPC, chemotherapy is based on two drug combinations that are classically used for the
      first-line treatment of metastatic disease: FOLFIRINOX (FFX) (association of 5FU, Oxaliplatin
      and Irinotecan) and GEMBRAX (GA) (association of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel). Their
      association has been validated by phase 3 studies showing that compared with gemcitabine
      alone, they allow increasing the response rate by three times (30%), and almost doubling the
      median survival and progression-free survival, but with higher grade 3 hematologic and
      neurological toxicities.

      FFX and GA have been assessed also in LAPC. Retrospective studies confirmed the high response
      rate, 30 to 80% according to the study, and a median survival of 9 to 30 months. Recently,
      two phase 2 studies, evaluated GA alone and GA followed by FFX, respectively, for LAPC, and
      confirmed the efficacy, with a response rate of 30% and a secondary resection rate of 15% and
      30.6%, respectively. Moreover, in patients who underwent tumour resection after treatment,
      survival was longer than in those not operated (27.4 vs 14.2 months; Hazard Ratio (HZ) =
      0.45; p = 0.0035). Overall Survival (OS) (n= 165 patients) was 17.2 months.

      GABRINOX is a sequential treatment with GA and then FFX with the aim of limiting
      chemoresistance, decreasing toxicities and improving dose intensity.

      The feasibility and tolerance of this approach as first-line treatment of metastatic disease
      were validated in a phase 1 study, and its efficacy in a phase 2 study in which the primary
      objective was reached: objective response rate of 64.9%, disease control rate of 84.2%,
      progression-free survival (PFS) of 10.5 months, and Overall Survival (OS) of 15.1 months. Its
      tolerance profile is favorable with lower percentages of patients with neutropenia (34.5%),
      febrile neutropenia (3.5%), and neurotoxicity (5.2%).

      The role of chemo-radiotherapy for LAPC remains controversial. Many old studies showed the
      interest of this technique for the local and global control in patients with pancreatic
      cancer.

      However, a phase 3 study compared the efficacy of chemo-radiotherapy versus chemotherapy
      alone in patients without disease progression after chemotherapy with a regimen that is
      currently considered not optimal (i.e. gemcitabine with/without erlotinib). Although OS (the
      main endpoint) did not improve in the chemo-radiotherapy arm compared with the chemotherapy
      arm, PFS was significantly increased in the chemo-radiotherapy arm with a longer period
      without treatment (6.1 vs 3.7 months, P = 0.02) and a lower percentage of patients with
      locoregional progression (32% vs 46%, P =0.03). This confirms that radiotherapy is an
      effective treatment in pancreatic adenocarcinoma, but that the current delivery modalities do
      not allow significantly improving the patient prognosis. Indeed, the study used 3D conformal
      radiotherapy with conventional doses and classical fractioning. Retrospective and phase 1 and
      2 studies that used more optimized techniques and higher doses reported better local disease
      control, but without an important impact on survival. Moreover, some studies suggest
      significant toxicity, particularly in gastrointestinal organs. Intensity-modulated
      radiotherapy and integrated boost radiotherapy showed promising local control and survival
      results. This suggests an avenue for technological improvement and dose augmentation to
      improve patient prognosis.

      Stereotactic magnetic resonance-guided adaptive radiotherapy is a new modality for dose
      delivery that exploits Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)-guided linear accelerators to better
      target the treatment volume, while optimizing the protection of organs at risk. The tumour
      localization in the pancreas seems to be particularly suitable for the utilization of
      MRI-guided linear accelerators because the radiotherapy doses are limited in function of the
      gastrointestinal organ tolerance: duodenum, stomach, small intestine, colon. Recently, the
      results of a retrospective, multicentre study on irradiation of patients with LAPC using
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRIdian® Linac™; Viewray. The study shows that survival was
      improved in patients who received an augmented irradiation dose. Specifically, the 2-year OS
      rate was 49% for patients who received a dose higher than 70 Gy and 30% for patients who
      received a lower equivalent dose. The study did not report significant toxicity in patients
      who received high-dose radiotherapy according to the optimized modalities with daily
      dosimetric adjustment and target monitoring at each radiotherapy session. These data suggest
      that dose intensification and the stereotactic magnetic resonance-guided adaptive
      radiotherapy technique improve radiotherapy results; however, prospective studies are needed
      to confirm these data.

      Therefore, the phase 2 study GABRINOX-ART in which an intensified chemotherapy regimen
      (GABRINOX i.e GA followed by FFX) is followed by optimized adjusted radiotherapy
      (stereotactic magnetic resonance-guided adaptive radiotherapy) seems to be an interesting
      strategy to evaluate in locally advanced pancreatic cancer.
    
  