
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The availability of effective treatment for hypercholesterolemia raised the hope that
      millions of Americans could avoid or postpone the development of heart disease. Because the
      interventions were potentially effective but were also costly, the cost-effectiveness of
      alternative approaches to detecting and treating hypercholesterolemia had become a critical
      issue for health policy.

      The study was part of a three-grant initiative, Cost-Effective Strategies of
      Cholesterol-Lowering, which was recommended by the Arteriosclerosis, Hypertension, and Lipid
      Metabolism Advisory Committee in January, 1988 and given concept clearance at the September,
      1988 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council. The Request for Applications was
      released in March, 1990 and awards made in April, 1991.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Assessments were made of: effects of treatment on health outcomes (symptomatic coronary heart
      disease, death from coronary heart disease, and mortality from all causes); costs and
      effectiveness of specific dietary and pharmacological interventions; effects of delays in
      instituting treatment; effects of changing the interval between blood cholesterol tests on
      the probability and duration of treatment delay; cost and health consequences of modifying
      screening and treatment recommendations for other risk factors, age, and gender; population
      implications of screening and treatment strategies. Data from the Framingham Heart Study were
      used to estimate the time pattern of cholesterol levels, which was fundamental to the
      evaluation of changing the interval between cholesterol tests. Framingham data were also used
      to estimate the relation of event rates to blood cholesterol levels. Several components of
      the analysis were validated by testing model predictions against data from the Multiple Risk
      Factor Intervention Trial. The cost estimates were based on several additional sources.
      Individual-level cost-effectiveness estimates for several different interventions were
      presented along with population-level projections of the consequences of alternative
      strategies. The significance of altering assumptions about uncertain values, such as the
      long-term risks and benefits of specific medications, was tested in sensitivity analyses.
    
  