
    
      The incidence of mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) of HIV has decreased in recent years in
      the United States, Europe, and other resource-advantaged countries. Several factors have
      contributed to this decrease, including the administration of HAART during pregnancy,
      caesarean section delivery methods, and the use of formula instead of breastfeeding to feed
      infants. However, in resource-limited countries, the incidence of pediatric HIV infection
      remains high. Many pregnant women in these countries do not receive an adequate course of
      HAART, and the majority breastfeed their children.

      This study was divided into three components (Antepartum, Postpartum, and Maternal Health
      Components). The following is a description of each of the three open label sequential
      randomization components, each designed to address one of the following three main
      objectives:

        1. Antepartum Component: This PROMISE component compared the safety and efficacy of
           different HAART regimens for preventing the transmission of HIV during pregnancy, labor,
           and delivery.

             -  Participants were randomly assigned to one of the following three arms:

             -  Maternal Regimens:

                  -  Arm A : 1) Zidovudine (ZDV) from study entry through delivery, 2) single dose
                     nevirapine (sdNVP) and emtricitabine-tenofovir disoproxil (TRV ) intrapartum,
                     and 3) TRV postpartum for up to 14 days post-partum. Arm A is also labeled as
                     ZDV+sdNVP+TRV tail.

                  -  Arm B: Lamivudine (3TC)-zidovudine (ZDV) + lopinavir (LPV)-ritonavir (RTV)
                     from study entry up to 14 days postpartum. Arm B is also labeled as
                     3TC-ZDV/LPV-RTV.

                  -  Arm C: TRV/LPV-RTV from study entry up to 14 days postpartum. Arm C is also
                     labeled as FTC-TDF/LPV-RTV.

             -  All infants born to women enrolled in this study were to receive NVP once a day as
                soon as possible after birth through 42 days of age or until the Week 6 study
                visit, whichever was later. Women switched or initiated HAART if it was needed for
                their own health.

             -  During pregnancy, participants attended study visits at study entry, 2 and 4 weeks
                after entry, and then every 4 weeks until labor and delivery. Women and infants
                were monitored during labor and delivery and attended a study visit 6 to 14 days
                after delivery. After delivery, eligibility criteria were assessed for subsequent
                randomizations (either Postpartum or Maternal Health). If they failed the entry
                criteria for the subsequent randomization, the mothers remained in follow-up for
                safety assessments and the infants were followed until the 104 week visit;
                otherwise they were followed under the subsequent component.

             -  All three antepartum arms were not available to all women throughout the PROMISE
                study. When the trial began, there were limited safety data on tenofovir in
                pregnancy, and randomization to tenofovir-based ART was limited to women coinfected
                with HIV and HBV, because benefit was felt to outweigh risk in that group. During
                period 1 (PROMISE protocol version 2.0 - April 2011 through September 2012), women
                without HBV coinfection were randomized to either Arm A or Arm B; and Hepatitis B
                (HBV) co-infected women were randomized to either Arm A, Arm B, or Arm C. However,
                in October 2012, with increased data on tenofovir in pregnancy, the protocol was
                modified to allow women regardless of HBV status to be assigned to any of the three
                regimens during period 2 (PROMISE protocol version 3.0 - October 2012 through the
                end of antepartum enrollment on October 1, 2014). By arm comparisons were
                restricted to times in which there were contemporaneous randomizations.

             -  Late Presenters: In addition the Antepartum Component, participants could enter
                PROMISE through the Late Presenters Registration (LP). Late presenters were
                identified in early or active labor or in the immediate postpartum period (up to 5
                days postpartum). The Late Presenters Registration facilitated a structure to
                screen women and infants for randomization in the Postpartum Component. Women and
                infants not randomized in the Postpartum Component of PROMISE were followed through
                the Week 6 visit.

             -  There were 3543 mothers and 3407 live born infants enrolled in the Antepartum
                Component. There were 204 mothers and 204 live born infants in the Late Presenters
                Registration.

        2. Postpartum Component: This PROMISE component compared the safety and efficacy of
           maternal triple ARV prophylaxis versus daily infant NVP prophylaxis for the prevention
           of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) through breastfeeding. The Postpartum Component
           consisted of mothers and infants from the Antepartum Component and the Late Presenters
           Registration who passed the Postpartum Component entry criteria.

             -  Participants were randomly assigned to one of two arms:

                  -  Arm A: Women received LPV-RTV plus TRV from the Week 1 postpartum visit
                     through the end of maternal follow-up (2 to 5 years). Infants received NVP
                     once a day through 42 days of age or until the Week 6 study visit, whichever
                     was later.

                  -  Arm B: Infants received NVP once a day from the Week 1 postpartum visit until
                     the end of risk for MTCT or until 18 months postpartum (104 weeks). Women did
                     not receive antiretroviral drugs for MTCT prophylaxis.

             -  The maternal study visits were at entry, at postpartum weeks 6, 14, 26, and every
                12 weeks thereafter. Infant study visits were at entry, every 4 weeks between
                postpartum weeks 6-26, every 12 weeks between postpartum week 38-98, and at
                postpartum week 104. At the end of risk for MTCT or 18 months postpartum, the
                mothers' eligibility criteria were assessed for a subsequent randomization in the
                Maternal Health Component. If they did not meet entry criteria for the Maternal
                Health randomization, they remained in follow-up for safety assessments; otherwise
                they were followed under the Maternal Health Component. Infants were followed until
                the 104 week visit.

             -  Women switched or initiated HAART if it was needed for their own health. If a woman
                in Arm B initiated HAART then her infant discontinued NVP after 12 weeks of HAART
                or after her viral load was suppressed, whichever came first.

             -  There were 2431 mothers and 2444 infants randomized as part of the Postpartum
                Component.

        3. Maternal Health Component: This PROMISE component randomized women to continue or
           discontinue HAART after the end of risk for MTCT, either after delivery or after
           breastfeeding. Participants included women who were receiving the triple ARV regimen in
           the Postpartum Component; or receiving the triple ARV regimen in the Antepartum
           Component and were ineligible for the Postpartum Component.

             -  Participants were randomly assigned to one of two study arms:

                  -  Arm A: Participants continued to receive the triple ARV regimen (preferred
                     regimen was LPV-RTV plus TRV).

                  -  Arm B: Participants discontinued the triple ARV regimen.

             -  Study visits occurred at Weeks 4 and 12 and then every 3 months thereafter. Study
                visits included a medical history review, questionnaires, physical exam, and blood
                collection. Women switched or initiated a triple ARV regimen if it was needed for
                their own health.

             -  There were 875 mothers randomized as part of the Maternal Health Component.

             -  The analyses for the Maternal Health Component we not solely based on the Maternal
                Health Randomization. Instead there were four prespecified comparison groups for
                the Maternal Health Component. The four comparison groups used the three
                randomizations as appropriate to answer the following questions:

                  -  Question 1: What is the effect on women of using a maternal triple ARV regimen
                     to prevent MTCT during pregnancy, relative to using ZDV + sdNVP + TRV tail to
                     prevent MTCT during pregnancy?

                  -  Question 2: What is the effect on women of using a maternal triple ARV regimen
                     to prevent MTCT during breastfeeding, relative to using infant NVP to prevent
                     MTCT during breastfeeding?

                  -  Question 3: What is the effect on women of extending versus discontinuing the
                     antepartum/intrapartum maternal triple ARV regimen at the time of birth?

                  -  Question 4: What is the effect on women of extending versus discontinuing the
                     postpartum maternal triple ARV regimen after the cessation of risk for MTCT
                     during breastfeeding?

             -  There were 1602 mothers included in the analyses for Question 2.

      PROMISE mothers were followed for 2 to 5 years, depending on when they enrolled. Infants were
      followed up to 104 weeks of age. Infant and maternal follow-up ended in September 2016.
      PROMISE randomizations were halted in the summer of 2014 due to slow accrual to the Later
      Presenters Registration and the Formula Feeding protocol. Due to the results of an external
      study, on July 7th 2015 the PROMISE interventions were halted and ART was offered to all
      participants. Per recommendation from the Data and Safety and Monitoring Board on November
      4th 2014, the primary analyses for the Antepartum Component include follow-up through
      September 10th, 2014. Per recommendation from the Data and Safety and Monitoring Board on
      November 12th 2015, the primary analyses for the Postpartum Component include follow-up
      through July 7th, 2015. The Adverse Events in the Reported Adverse Event section include all
      study follow-up.
    
  