
    
      Cancer patients continue to represent a challenging disease population, which faces rather
      poor prognosis with current treatment planning and delivery practices. Venues for a potential
      dose escalation and/or increased healthy tissue sparing, through innovative therapeutic
      approaches for those patients, are clearly needed. Current state of the art radiotherapy
      treatment planning relies on the dose-volume-histogram (DVH) paradigm, where doses to
      fractional (most often) or absolute volumes of anatomical structures are employed in both
      optimization and plan evaluation process. It has been argued however, that the effects of
      delivered dose seem to be more closely related to healthy tissue toxicity (and thereby to
      clinical outcomes) when dose-mass-histograms (DMHs) are considered in treatment plan
      evaluation.

      The investigators propose the incorporation of mass and density information explicitly into
      the cost functions of the inverse optimization process, thereby shifting from DVH to DMH
      treatment planning paradigm. This novel DMH-based intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT)
      optimization aims in minimization of radiation doses to a certain mass, rather than a volume,
      of healthy tissue. The investigators' working hypothesis is that DMH- optimization will
      reduce doses to healthy tissue substantially. In certain cases, with extensive, difficult to
      treat disease, lower doses to healthy tissue can be used for isotoxic dose escalation, which
      may result in an increase in estimated loco-regional tumor control probability.

      To test the study hypothesis, the investigators will pursue the following specific aims:

        -  (1) Develop the theoretical and computational framework of the DMH-based IMRT
           optimization. This framework will incorporate 3D and 4D IMRT as well as 3D volumetric
           modulated arc (VMAT) planning for different anatomical sites.

        -  (2) Investigate different parametric forms for DMH-optimization functions. The ultimate
           goal would be the simultaneous minimization of healthy tissue doses and/or escalation of
           therapeutic doses, without violating the established dosimetric tolerances for healthy
           anatomical structures.

        -  (3) Practical implementation and application of this novel optimization paradigm, where
           virtual clinical trials for cohorts of lung, head-and-neck, and prostate cancer cases
           will be performed.

      Statistical significance of the DMH-optimization dosimetric improvements over standard of
      care DVH-optimization will be quantified. Prospective 3D and 4D CT data collection will be
      used to study the interactions between tumor time-trending changes and DMH-based optimization
      results. 4D CT data will also be used to investigate and quantify the correlation between
      DMH-based end points and the loss of pulmonary function during and after radiotherapy
      treatment. The deliverability (with the existing radiotherapy treatment equipment) of the
      investigators' 3D VMAT and 3D/4D IMRT plans will be experimentally verified, thereby paving
      the road for initiation of clinical trials.
    
  