
    
      Intravascular devices are an integral component of modern-day medical practice. They are used
      to administer intravenous fluids, medications, blood products and parenteral nutrition. In
      addition, they serve as a valuable monitor of the hemodynamic status of critically ill
      patients.

      Infection is one of the leading complications of intravascular catheters and is associated
      with an increased mortality, prolonged hospitalization and increased medical costs. Central
      venous catheters(CVCs) account for an estimated 90% of all catheter-related bloodstream
      infections(CRBSI). A host of risk factors for CVC-related infections have been documented.
      This includes, most importantly, the duration of catheterization. The duration of use of CVCs
      remains controversial and the length of time such devices can safely be left in situ has not
      been fully and objectively addressed in the critically ill patient. As a consequence,
      scheduled replacement remains widely practiced in many Intensive Care Units(ICUs),the mean
      time in a recent study in mainland Britain, being 6.5 days.Over the past few years,
      antimicrobial impregnated catheters have been introduced in an attempt to limit
      catheter-related infection(CRI) and increase the time that CVCs can safely be left in
      place.Recent meta-analyses concluded that antimicrobial-impregnated CVCs appear to be
      effective in reducing CRI.The topic remains extremely controversial with differing viewpoints
      appearing in the literature.

      This was a prospective randomized double-blind study performed in the multidisciplinary ICU
      at Johannesburg Hospital, Johannesburg, South Africa over a four year period. The study
      included 118 critically ill patients and entailed comparison of a 14-day placement of a
      standard triple-lumen central venous catheter (ARROW Standard Triple Lumen Catheter, Arrow
      International Inc., Reading, PA, US) versus an antimicrobial impregnated catheter
      (chlorhexidine-silver sulfadiazine)(ARROWgard Triple Lumen Catheter, Arrow International
      Inc.,Reading, PA, US) on the rate of CRI.

      The aim was to:

        1. Determine whether the duration of catheter insertion time could safely be increased from
           our standard practice of seven days to fourteen days

        2. To assess the influence of the antimicrobial impregnated catheter on the incidence of
           CRI

        3. To evaluate other previously recorded risk factors for CRI, as well as to

        4. Elucidate the epidemiology of CRI.

      The randomization protocol involved equal numbers of the two types of non-distinguishable
      catheters being mixed in consignments and then selected in a consecutive fashion for
      placement in study candidates.

      Consent was obtained prior to enrollment in the study. Standard infection control measures
      were practiced with catheter insertion.

      Skin swabs were taken for culture prior to cleansing with a chlorhexidine containing solution
      and subsequent catheter insertion. Catheters were inspected and dressed daily, and studied
      for colonization and CRBSI at removal. The origin of each CRBSI was sought by culturing all
      potential sources (skin, catheter segments, hubs and infusates). A semiquantitative culture
      of the catheters using the roll-plate technique was performed and DNA-molecular typing
      employed to assist in microbiological analyses. All relevant clinical data was collected and
      evaluated.

      CRI was defined according to the criteria proposed by the Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention in the USA.

      The study was approved by the Committee for Research on Human Subjects of the University of
      the Witwatersrand.
    
  