
    
      Many severely injured patients survive their initial resuscitation only to suffer the late
      sequelae of nosocomial infection and multiple organ failure. The depth of hemorrhagic shock
      and the severity of anatomic injury are clearly associated with these adverse outcomes,
      however there is clear evidence to suggest that events during the resuscitation phase also
      play an important role in the pathogenesis of these sequelae. Specifically, there is now
      substantial clinical and experimental evidence implicating blood transfusion and the
      transfusion of allogeneic passenger leukocytes in the immune dysregulation characteristic of
      the post-injury state. This immune dysregulation manifests on two fronts: an uncontrolled
      inflammatory response leading to organ dysfunction and a state of immunoparalysis, leading to
      the development of nosocomial infection. Allogeneic passenger leukocytes have been implicated
      in the alterations in non-specific and specific immunity that underlie this state of altered
      immunoresponsiveness. The importance of allogeneic leukocytes in these phenomena suggests
      that strategies designed to limit the exposure of patients to these cells may reduce the
      incidence of post-injury sequelae. Pre-storage leukoreduction, whereby donated blood is
      passed through a leukocyte filter prior to storage and ultimate transfusion is one such
      strategy. This strategy remains at the center of a national debate on a policy of universal
      leukoreduction in which its efficacy is unproven and its cost undisputed.

      Study Objectives:

        -  To evaluate whether there are clinically relevant differences in the rates of infection
           and in the severity of multiple organ failure in critically injured trauma patients
           receiving leukoreduced blood products compared to those receiving standard allogeneic
           blood products.

        -  To assess T-cell responsiveness and the dominant CD4 lymphocyte subset as measured by
           T-lymphocyte IL-2 receptor expression and cytokine profile, respectively, in critically
           injured subjects transfused with leukoreduced blood products compared to subjects
           receiving standard allogeneic blood products.

        -  To assess the activational state of the peripheral blood monocyte and the neutrophil in
           critically injured trauma patients receiving leukoreduced blood products compared to
           subjects receiving standard allogeneic blood products.

        -  To evaluate whether there are clinically relevant differences in rates of acute lung
           injury (ALI) and circulating markers of ALI in patients receiving leukoreduced versus
           standard allogeneic blood products.

        -  To evaluate rates of microchimerism in those receiving leukoreduced versus standard
           allogeneic transfusion
    
  