
    
      Cardiovascular implantable electronic device (CIED) infection is a complication of increasing
      incidence. The prevalence of CIED infection is estimated at 2%, with differences between
      authors ranging from 0.13% to 19.9%.

      According to European Heart Rhythm Association survey conducted in high volume centers
      prevalence of CIED infections was below 2%. The majority of centers were able to isolate the
      infectious agent in ≤50% of blood cultures which underscore the difficulty in finding the
      agent of CIEDs infection in many cases.

      Cardiovascular implantable device infections can be categorized into 3 groups: superficial
      skin infection, generator pocket infection and intravascular infection with intact generator
      pocket. Although local pocket infection is the most common clinical infection occurring early
      after implantation, positive blood cultures may be the only sign of late onset intravascular
      infection Mortality in cardiovascular implantable electronic device related infective
      endocarditis treated with antibiotics only reaches 66%, whereas with combined therapy
      (antibiotics and complete device removal) it is 3-fold lower.

      Prolonged targeted antibiotic therapy (4 to 6 weeks) with complete device removal and
      revision of indications for re-implantation is recommended in most cases (class I with
      confirmed diagnosis and IIa with probable diagnosis).

      In complicated and uncertain cases additional diagnostic tools are needed, especially if we
      take into account the load of the patient associated with device removal, prolonged
      hospitalization and re-implantation.

      Apart from morbidity and mortality, infections are also associated with significant financial
      cost for patients and third-party payers. Polish data on this issue are not available yet but
      in US the estimated average cost of combined medical and surgical treatment of CIED-related
      infection ranges from USD 25,000 for permanent pacemakers to USD 50,000 for implantable
      cardioverter-defibrillators.

      Positron emission tomography combined with computed tomography (PET CT) can play an important
      role in difficult cases of CIED-related infections but published studies focused on the
      outcomes and safety of this procedure only briefly considering the economical aspect of this
      diagnostic test.

      Recent studies show that PET CT scan is effective and precise tool that can facilitate
      diagnostic process and decision making regarding therapy especially in difficult patients
      with CIED-related infections. PET CT scan can protect patients from unnecessary device
      removal or from too late removal. PET CT may also help in diagnosing other sources of
      infection, embolic complications, neoplasms, autoimmune diseases and connective tissue
      diseases.

      However there are some issues concerning low sensitivity connected with elevated marker
      uptake in myocardium and in case of small vegetations, especially lead-related In most
      studies assessing PET CT in diagnostic process of CIED related infections standard oncologic
      protocols were used. Those protocols may not be optimal to assess FDG uptake by inflammatory
      cells.

      The aim of this single-center randomized controlled trial is to assess clinical usefulness of
      positron emission tomography combined with computed tomography (PET CT) in the diagnostic
      process of suspected cardiovascular implantable electronic device (CIED) infection (lead
      dependent infective endocarditis, generator pocket infection, fever of unknown origin).

      All patients participating in the study will undergo standard diagnostic process.
      Conventional/standard diagnostic and therapeutic process will consist of: medical interview,
      physical examination, laboratory tests, blood cultures (3 sets, 1 hour apart, repeated after
      24 hours and -if applicable - with fever peak above 38°C); imaging studies (echocardiography:
      transthoracic, and if there are no contraindications transesophageal, in case of negative or
      equivocal result repeated after 7-10 days, or in series if necessary, computed tomography
      scan for pulmonary embolism if indicated); if there are abnormalities in other systems,
      decisions concerning further diagnostics will be made by the physician in charge.

      Apart from standard diagnostic procedures patients will undergo whole body PET CT scan to
      localize infection or inflammation.

      Then the investigators team will make a decision concerning further treatment (antibiotics
      and complete device removal vs conservative treatment).
    
  