
    
      Pregnancy is considered an acquired hypercoagulable state due to increased concentration of
      coagulation factors, decreased levels of anticoagulants and decreased fibrinolytic capacity.
      Adverse pregnancy outcomes affect up to 15% of gestations and are the major cause of maternal
      and fetal morbidity and mortality. A poor perinatal outcome is expected in pregnancies with
      high vascular resistance in uterine circulation, but the pregnancies in which the resistance
      values are normalized in the later trimesters have a significantly better outcome.

      For the prevention of fetal growth restriction, a recent large-study level meta-analysis and
      individual patient data meta-analysis confirm that aspirin modestly reduces
      small-for-gestational-age pregnancy in women at high risk (relative risk, 0.90, 95%
      confidence interval, 0.81-1.00) and that a dose of ≥100 mg should be recommended and to start
      at or before 16 weeks of gestation. Moreover, in vitro and in vivo studies suggest that
      low-molecular-weight heparin may prevent fetal growth restriction; however, evidence from
      randomized control trials is inconsistent.

      In a normal pregnancy, the trophoblast produces nitric oxide (NO) which plays an important
      role in vasodilatation in the fetoplacental circulation to improve oxygen and nutritional
      supply to the fetus (9,10). Nitric oxide relaxes arterial and venous smooth muscle potently
      and might inhibit platelet aggregation and adhesion. Moreover, increased circulating
      phosphodiesterase (PDE) activity is suspected in women with preeclampsia. In pregnancies with
      fetal growth restriction and without preeclampsia, a reversible increased myometrial arterial
      tone by phosphodiesterase inhibition has been reported in vitro.

      Phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors that potentiate nitric oxide availability such as
      sildenafil citrate have been extensively researched both in preclinical and clinical studies;
      Sildenafil citrate is a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-specific
      phosphodiesterase (PDE)-5 leading to cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) accumulation and
      enhances the relaxation elicited by exogenous and neural-released nitric oxide in corpus
      cavernous. Sildenafil citrate increases uterine blood flow and potentiates estrogen-induced
      vasodilatation. Intravaginal administration of Sildenafil in the success of in vitro
      fertilization describes no deleterious effects on mother and fetus. The Natural Killer Cells
      activity and endometrial thickness were significantly changed after vaginal Sildenafil
      therapy so it might be an interesting therapeutic option before conception in women with
      recurrent reproductive failure.

      Reduced flow / increased resistance in uterine and umbilical arteries, indicative of reduced
      uteroplacental flow in pregnancies with fetal growth restriction, has been documented by
      non-invasive Doppler ultrasound velocimetry.
    
  