
    
      This ia a double blind randomized clinical trial on patients diagnosed with DM type 2 with
      dry skin to assess the effect of Centella asiatica (CA) on dry skin in corellation with AGEs
      CML, inflammation marker IL-1α, and oxidative stress SOD in stratum corneum after four weeks
      of treatment. Subjects are divided into three groups of treatment. The first group treated
      with oral CA and topical CA, second group treated with oral placebo and topical CA, and the
      last group treated with oral and topical placebo. The total subjects in each treatment groups
      are 53 subjects. The recruited subjects will be randomized to receive three different
      treatments, consist of 1. First group (A) will receive combination of oral CA at 2x1100 mg
      dose and 1% topical CA ointment. 2. Second group (B) will receive oral placebo and topical CA
      1% ointment 3. Third group (C) will receive oral placebo and petroleum jelly as topical
      placebo The recruited subjects will still receive the prescribed treatment for DM type 2. The
      treatment for dry skin will be administered for 28 days. Randomization done by our supervisor
      using computer program (RandlistR) by assigning code number for each subjects. The procedures
      of treatment administration are explained below: 1. Every subject will receive 56 capsules
      and 10 gram of ointment to be used in 2 weeks period. Subjects will also receive explanation
      on how to take the drugs 2. Oral drug are taken 2 capsules (@ 550 mg) b.i.d over 12 hours. 3.
      The ointment is applied two times a day 15 minutes after bath time. 4. The application have
      to be distributed evenly on a specific 7 x 20 cms area on lower leg. All patients will be
      given plastic cover to determine the area. 5. The estimation of ointment applied on every leg
      is as much as ½ FTU or about 0,25 gram. 6. After 2 week period ended, subject will be given
      the same treatment at follow-up visit.
    
  