
    
      Prostate cancer (PC) afflicts millions of men worldwide. In Taiwan, around 5,000 men are
      diagnosed as PC while 1,200 men die of the disease each year. However, thousands of Taiwanese
      men may have been over-treated for their insignificant PCs. The above situations signify the
      unmet clinical need where effective measures of stratifying risk of PC are lacking. The study
      is to identify new markers/targets with which to better screen and prevent significant (sPC)
      or lethal PC (lePC).

      This is a prospective, observational and investigational study investigating the role of
      urine metabolites via metabolomics analysis in subjects who will undergo prostate biopsy
      and/or subsequent MCS supplementation. MCS (or Botreso) is a new patented botanic agent,
      composed of primarily multi-carotenoids, including lycopene, phytoene, phytofluene, etc. The
      expected subject number to be enrolled is 620 men and 20 women from NTUH. There will be 3
      cohorts: Cohort A (N=200), Cohort B (N=400) and Cohort C (N=40). Cohort A will be recruited
      in the first 9 months of the study period to generate the first batch of urine metabolite
      profiles. Cohort B will be recruited in the next 18 months of the study period to validate
      the first batch of newly developed urine metabolite profile. Cohort C is the control cohort,
      including 20 women and 20 men without any signs of cancers.

      By risk stratification after biopsy pathology results are available, there will be 5 groups
      of subjects, including patients with Group 1. mPC: Metastatic prostate cancer Group 2. sPC:
      Non-metastatic significant prostate cancer (sPC) Group 3. isPC: Non-metastatic insignificant
      PC (isPC) Group 4. Pre-cancerous lesions: atypical small acinar proliferation (ASAP) or
      prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) Group 5. Non-cancer benign pathology

      In the current study, sPC is defined as any of the followings: Gleason score >= 4+3=7, stage
      > =T3a (capsule invasion), or presence of metastasis.

      Biopsy pathology report and clinicopathological parameters will be recorded. In addition,
      transcriptomics study will be performed. Group specific urine metabolite profiles will be
      constructed by comparing the outstanding metabolites between groups. These metabolite
      profiles are constructed so as to efficiently separate groups of graded risk stratification,
      especially to predict subjects with mPC (Group 1) or sPC (Group 2). The newly constructed
      metabolite profiles from Cohort A will be validated against Cohort B of subjects who will
      undergo biopsy to determine the predictive efficiency of the constructed profiles.

      In Cohort A, sPC (Group 2), isPC (Group 3), ASAP/PIN (Group 4) and benign pathology patients
      (Group 5) will further be invited to take MCS supplementation for 8 weeks after the pathology
      confirmation. The expected enrollment number is 30 for each of the 4 groups (in total 120).
      Urine samples will be collected before and after 8 weeks of MCS supplementation for
      metabolomics analysis. The effect of MCS supplementation in modifying urine metabolites will
      be investigated to determine the potential use of MCS in prostate cancer chemoprevention.

      Through a better understanding of the biology of significant (lethal) PC, we hope to develop
      new markers/targets for more effective screening and prevention of sPC. In the meantime, with
      these new markers we may substantially reduce overtreatment of insignificant PC.
    
  