
    
      This study wants to identify significant improvement in speech recognition in noise in
      elderly patients (>= 65 years) that use HA for the first time and the correlations between
      the use of the HA and quality of life and cognitive status in elderly patients.

      This is a repeated measure, single-subject, prospective observational study. No additional
      intervention is applied to population of HA recipients. Study subjects who use for the first
      time unilateral or bilateral hearing aids will be included. Eligible participants are
      consecutively identified on the HA registry of the Local Unit of the National Health System
      (NHS). Italian NHS is a welfare system which funds totally or partially the HA costs in
      selected patients.

      An approximate number of 100 individuals will be included. The study design is monocentric
      and it is conducted at the outpatient service of the ENT Department of the "Saliceto"
      Hospital.

      The test includes language-appropriate materials relative to the participating HA recipient.

      The evaluation protocol is designed to coincide with routine clinical visits. Each subject is
      assessed with the full test-battery and questionnaires that are repeated at each of the two
      visits: one before the HA fitting (Pre) and one after one year of HA use (Post).

      Subjects are enrolled in the clinical investigation only after signing the Patient Informed
      Consent Form prior to the first assessment (baseline, t0).

      During the first assessment (Pre) are carried out this procedures: otoscopy and cleaning of
      the external auditory canal,- unaided pure tone audiometry, unaided speech audiometry in
      quiet, Italian version of Oldenburg Satztest (OLSA test) and Montreal Cognitive Assessment
      (MOCA), Hearing Handicap Inventory in the Elderly Screening test (HHIE-S) and Assessment of
      Quality of Life (AQoL) questionnaires.

      During the second assessment (Post) are carried out: otoscopy and cleaning of the external
      auditory canal, test of the HA functioning, unaided pure tone audiometry, aided speech
      audiometry in quiet, Italian version of OLSA test and MOCA, HHIE-S, AQoL and International
      Outcome Inventory for Hearing Aids (IOI-HA) questionnaires.

      The maximum administration time for completion of all measures is estimated to be
      approximately one hour of which 30 minutes are dedicated to standard self-report forms
      completed by the HA recipient.

      In addition to general healthcare and patient-profile data, a selection of observational
      clinical assessment tools has been chosen for repeated evaluations to reflect changes in the
      hearing aid benefit and the overall health status of the elderly individual at post-HA use.
      These tools are commonly used in audiology and/or geriatric practices and are administered in
      the appropriate language. All questionnaires are validated for the Italian language.
    
  