
    
      Classic Myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are a heterogeneous group of diseases including
      Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), polycythemia vera (PV), essential thrombocythemia (ET), and
      primary myelofibrosis (PMF) (Levine et al., 2007).

      According to WHO 2016 classification which also included chronic neutrophilic leukemia (CNL),
      chronic eosinophilic leukemia (CEL), and MPN, unclassifiable, Out of the four classic types
      of MPNs, CML is positive for BCR-ABL1gene , while PV, ET, and PMF are negative for BCR-ABL1
      gene (Thapa and Rogers, 2019).

      CML is characterized by a balanced genetic translocation, t(9;22)(q34;q11.2), involving a
      fusion of the Abelson gene (ABL1) from chromosome 9q34 with the breakpoint cluster region
      (BCR) gene on chromosome 22q11.2. This rearrangement is known as the Philadelphia chromosome,
      The molecular consequence of this translocation is the generation of a BCR-ABL1 fusion
      oncogene, which in turn translates into a BCR-ABL oncoprotein (Jabbour and Kantarjian, 2016).

      The frontline therapy for patients with CML in chronic phase is tyrosine kinase inhibitors
      (TKIs) which directed against tyrosine kinase protein of BCR-ABL1 gene. It showed remarkable
      efficacy and high rates of cytogenetic response in the treatment of chronic phase CML
      (Yurttaş and Eşkazan, 2020).

      However, drug resistance towards tyrosine kinase inhibitors soon emerged and hence limited
      the complete eradication of CML in patients receiving TKIs. This is primarily due to the
      mutations within the ABL kinase domain, and to a lesser degree, due to residual disease after
      treatment (Patel et al., 2018).

      Dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPPIV/CD26) is a transmembrane glycoprotein which has been proposed
      as an important tumor biomarker in different types of cancer, like melanoma, lung cancer,
      prostate cancer, gastric and colorectal cancer (Liang et al., 2017) .

      CD26 expression in hematological malignancies has been widely studied. It was described as a
      marker of aggressiveness in T cell malignancies, such as T-acute lymphoblastic leukemias
      (T-ALL),and associated with poor prognosis and survival ,also found variable expression of
      CD26 in B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) (Enz et al., 2019).

      Identification and characterization of leukemic stem cells (LSCs) in CML are one of the
      recently used investigations. These cells reside within the CD34 positive /CD38 negative and
      score positive for CD26 which is a marker, expressed in both bone marrow (BM) and peripheral
      blood (PB) samples, that discriminates CML cells from normal hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs)
      or from LSCs of other myeloid neoplasms (Raspadori et al., 2017).

      the percentage of CD26 LSCs is significantly reduced to low or undetectable levels in CML
      patients who respond to TKI therapy; however, the percentage of CD26 LSCs remains at high
      levels in TKI-non responder patients and in patients who have relapsed after TKI therapy,
      indicating that CD26 could be a useful predictive biomarker for monitoring TKI treatment in
      CML patients (Raspadori et al., 2019).
    
  