
    
      Objective: The objective of the present study is to evaluate the role of proinflammatory
      signaling in alcohol craving. The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor y (PPARy)
      agonist pioglitazone, which modulates glial activity, will be used as an experimental
      treatment. Guided imagery auditory scripts will be used as an established set of stimuli to
      induce craving. Low dose lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration which activates
      proinflammatory signaling will be used as a novel challenge, and evaluated for its ability to
      provoke alcohol craving. If LPS in fact induces alcohol craving, the present design will
      allow evaluation of whether pioglitazone can inhibit this response.

      Study population: Up to 60 subjects will be recruited for a target accrual of 50 completers.
      Subjects will be aged 21-65 years, with alcohol dependence as their primary complaint, and
      without other serious medical or psychiatric conditions. They will be admitted to the NIAAA
      research inpatient unit at the NIH Clinical Research Center (CRC) through one of the
      screening protocols (05-AA-0121 Assessment and Treatment of People with Alcohol Drinking
      Problems ) or 14-AA-0181 "Unit and Clinic Evaluations, Screening, Assessment, and
      Management") which provides basic assessments and standard withdrawal treatment if needed.

      Design: Following inclusion, subjects will undergo interviews for construction of guided
      imagery scripts, and these scripts will subsequently be used as stress-, alcohol- or neutral
      condition associated stimuli. Subjects will be randomized to pioglitazone (n=25; final dose:
      45mg/daily) or identically looking placebo (n=25). Following at least two weeks of treatment,
      subjects will undergo three sessions of guided imagery, on separate days and in a
      counter-balanced order, exposing them to the personalized stress-, alcohol- or neutral
      condition associated auditory scripts, respectively. During the final week, subjects will
      undergo two challenge sessions, a minimum of five days apart, with lipopolysaccharide (LPS)
      or placebo, in counterbalanced order.

      Outcome measures: Subjective ratings of mood, anxiety and craving will be obtained twice
      weekly throughout the study. During the challenge sessions that utilize psychological stimuli
      or LPS, subjective ratings of craving for alcohol, as well as ratings of negative emotions
      will be obtained. Lumbar puncture will be performed and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained to
      determine the effect of pioglitazone on levels of proinflammatory cytokines. Neuroendocrine,
      psychological and physiological measures will be collected for exploratory purposes. An fMRI
      scan will be obtained to evaluate the effect of pioglitazone on BOLD signal in response to
      emotionally salient visual cues.
    
  