
    
      Anterior cervical spine surgery (ACSS) is one of the most common spine surgery performed by
      neurosurgeons. One of the challenging aspects during ACSS is to achieve a correct
      visualization and identification of the lower levels specifically below the fifth and sixth
      cervical vertebras due to the difficulty of penetrating X-ray beams through the shoulders.
      Several methods such as taping the shoulders throughout the entire case or tying straps
      around the wrists and pulling them caudally temporally while shooting X-rays have been used
      trying to improve visualization during surgery. Both of these methods may cause problems such
      as brachial plexus injury, shoulder dislocations and peripheral nerve injuries.

      The feet compression maneuver will be tested in terms of it's efficacy and security, as well
      as compared with four previous described maneuvers, using intra-operative neurophysiology
      monitoring (IONM).

      50 consecutive patients programmed for elective ACSS that could meet inclusion criteria will
      be monitored with IONM using transcranial electric motor evoked potentials (tceMEPs),
      somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs) and spontaneous electromyography (EMG) after total
      endovenous anesthesia. On the operating table, a basal lateral x-ray picture and a first
      determination of IONM will be performed and used for comparison. Five maneuvers will be
      sequentially performed: 1) Feet compression, 2) Arm traction, 3) Arm traction plus feet
      compression combined, 4) Shoulder taping and 5) Shoulder taping plus feet compression.

      All five maneuvers will be maintained for 1 min, time during IONM will test for changes in
      voltage amplitude and duration that potentially could be risky (risky is defined as a change
      in determinations more than 50% compared to basal determinations). Lateral x-rays will be
      performed during each maneuver to measure changes in segments visualization and levels
      exposed.

      After all maneuvers are completed, we will proceed as the surgery was scheduled.
    
  