
    
      Literature review and project rationale:

      Preeclampsia is a common complication of pregnancy, affecting 6-8% of all pregnancies and
      constitutes a leading cause of maternal morbidity and mortality. Preeclampsia is liable to
      endanger the lives of both the gravida and the fetus, particularly if treatment is initiated
      inappropriately or in an untimely fashion.

      The diagnosis of preeclampsia is based on findings of raised blood pressure (over 140/90mmHg)
      and the presence of proteinuria. The accepted means of measuring proteinuria is by 24-hour
      urine collection, with a pathological value defined as 300mg or greater in the 24 hour
      period. When the proteinuria is greater than 5000mg in 24 hours, the pr-eclampsia is
      classified as severe and is further endangers the lives of the expectant mother and fetus and
      often results in early delivery.

      Diagnosis and assessment of severity of preeclampsia require a timely situation assessment.
      Urine collection spanning 24 hours sometimes constitutes a "bottleneck", extending the time
      to diagnosis of preeclampsia. Additionally, the collection of urine for 24 hours entails a
      degree of discomfort, requiring that the woman be in proximity to for collection vessel, and
      increases the length of her hospital admission.

      The use of an abbreviated test may permit diagnosis and treatment in a more timely fashion.
      Similarly, the ability to exclude the diagnosis more rapidly could reduce length of hospital
      stay and consumption of the health system's limited resources. Further, a shorter test may
      reduce the discomfort associated with the 24-hour test and thus increase compliance.

      Previous research has shown that 8-hour urine collection does indeed produce results
      paralleling the 24-hour collection, and recent research also demonstrates concordance between
      12-hour and 24-hour urine collections. That said, both these studies were based on small
      sample populations, fewer than 100 women. Another study of women with preeclampsia showed
      good correlation between the results of urinary protein in samples collected over 12 hours at
      night and those collected over 12 hours during daytime.

      Research Assumptions:

        1. urine collection for a period of time less than 24 hours will reflect the degree of
           urinary protein excretion.

        2. urine collection for a period of time less than 24 hours will constitute an alternative
           test for 24-hour urine collection, the accepted diagnostic test today.

      Research Objective:

      To validate a brief and rapid test for the diagnosis of urinary protein excretion.

      To assess whether, in women with suspected preeclampsia, a difference exists between protein
      excretion during the daytime and at night.

      Methods:

      Urine collection is to be performed on every pregnant admitted for investigation of suspected
      preeclampsia. After 6, 12 and 24 hours samples of the collected urine will be taken for
      protein concentration assessment. Quantitative urinary protein will be established according
      to urinary protein concentration and collected urine volume. Results of the tests after 6 and
      12 hours will be compared to the final results after 24 hours, that being the test of choice
      for diagnosis of proteinuria in preeclampsia and thus the test that will determine management
      (according to department protocol).

      Women for whom preeclampsia has been ruled out (viz, those who underwent investigation
      following raised BP but without a finding of proteinuria) will serve to assess the ability of
      a short urine collection to rule out proteinuria and, as such, preeclampsia.

      So as to assess whether there is a difference between results of daytime urinary protein
      excretion and those at night, the urine collection will be performed in two vessels as
      follows:

        1. 8:00am - beginning of urine collection

        2. 2:00pm, vessel 1 - recording of collected urine volume, removal of a 10mL sample of
           urine for protein concentration testing.

        3. 8:00pm, vessel 1 - recording of total collected urine volume, removal of a 10mL sample
           of urine for protein concentration testing.

           at this point urine collection will be continued in the second vessel

        4. 8:00am the following morning, vessel 2 - recording of collected urine volume as of
           8:00pm (the previous 12 hours), removal of a 10mL sample of urine for protein
           concentration testing.

        5. contents of the two vessels are mixed, 24 hour urine volume recorded and a 10mL sample
           taken, this being the sample that will establish the result of the 24 hour urine
           collection.

      Additionally a urine sample for protein/creatinine ratio will be examined and correlated with
      results of the different collection periods.
    
  