
    
      A prospective examiner-masked, cross-over competitive multicenter clinical trial of 90
      consecutive patients derived from three centers in Mexico will be carried out. All eligible
      eyes should have a diagnosis of either ocular hypertension or mild to moderate POAG with at
      least 21 mm Hg at baseline (Eligibility Visit), under treatment with either Ganforti® QD or
      Krytantek® BID. Patients identified to have the selection criteria at the Screening Visit
      will be scheduled for an Eligibility Visit prior to be prescribed with either of the two
      study medications (Ganforti® QD for patients under Krytantek®, and Krytantek® BID for
      patients under Ganforti®). Enrolled patients will be visiting their clinical site at month 2
      and month 3, after starting the study medication; at the end of the third month of treatment,
      a cross-over maneuver will be indicated; all patients will undergo a follow-up scheme similar
      to the first period of the study (at month 5 and month 6). A battery of tests will be applied
      in a pre-established regime (table 1). Visual acuity, refraction, biomicroscopy, gonioscopy,
      dilated fundus examination, Humphrey 24-2 visual field (SITA-Standard), ocular surface
      fluorescein staining, tear breakup time, OSDI© (Ocular Surface Index) and central ultrasound
      pachymetry will be administered at baseline and month 6 (at the conclusion of the study). IOP
      from applanation Goldmann tonometry (8:00 AM ± 1 hour and 10:00 AM ± 1 hour), blood pressure,
      pulse and a comprehensive ophthalmological examination will be performed at each visit.

      Candidate patients will have an initial screening visit where entry criteria must be met (see
      section 1.7.). Study medication will remain masked to the examiner during the entire trial.
      For patients assigned to the Ganforti's group, instructions for applying one drop QD (8:00 PM
      ± 30 minutes); for patients assigned to the Krytantek's group, application schedule will be
      BID (8:00 AM ± 30 minutes and 8:00 PM ± 30 minutes). Bottles will be given to the patient in
      a closed labeled box (with the randomization number on it), dispensed by the office
      assistant, and have to be returned in the same box to the assigned office personnel but never
      to the principal investigator or sub-investigator, in order to preserve the single-masked
      nature of the study. New study medication bottles will be dispensed at baseline visit, and
      monthly after such visit.

      Patients will receive verbal instructions, written reminders and periodic phone calls in
      order to adhere to medication application, as well to scheduled visits (table 1). Outcome
      variables will also include adverse events (serious, and non-serious, according to the
      principal investigator's clinical opinion) derived from all examination items. Patient´s and
      treating ophthalmologist´s subjective satisfaction to the study medication performance will
      also will be assessed through the closed-end questions (CRF form).
    
  