
    
      Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS) has emerged as a critical component in the imaging, staging, and
      diagnosis of pancreatic cancer. Not only can EUS delineate a mass utilizing sonography
      through the wall of the stomach or duodenum, but it also can obtain diagnostic fine needle
      aspiration of suspicious lesions. Especially in patients with incomplete visualization of a
      mass on cross-sectional imaging, EUS can provide valuable anatomic information prior to
      surgical exploration. While several studies have demonstrated that EUS has high sensitivity
      and specificity in diagnosing pancreatic masses, head-to-head comparisons with established
      modalities like CT have been often methodologically flawed. In a meta-analysis, it was found
      that of 4 studies that assessed resectability, 2 showed no difference and 1 favored each
      modality. As such, estimates of accuracy for assessing preoperative resectability have also
      ranged in several studies from 63-93%. As such it has been recognized as an accepted modality
      for the evaluation of potential pancreatic malignany.

      While screening in the general population is not feasible given the low incidence of PDAC,
      screening in high risk cohorts may allow for early detection of resectable, and potentially
      curable tumors. Clinical outcome of patients with smaller, non-metastasized tumors have a
      significantly improved 5-year survival. Generally the current recommendation is that patients
      who are first degree relatives of patients with PDAC from a familial PDAC kindred with at
      least 2 affected first-degree relatives, patients with Peutz-Jegher's syndrome, and patients
      with CDKN2A/BRCA1/BRCA2/ATM/PALB2/Lynch mutations with a first or second degree relative with
      pancreatic cancer would qualify for screening in the context of the CAPS5 trial. However,
      very recent evidence in a large Canadian study of pancreatic cancer patients demonstrated
      germline carrier status for BRCA1/2, and ATM in their cohort was associated with first degree
      relatives with breast and colorectal cancer but not pancreatic cancer, suggesting that we may
      have to re-evaluate criteria for pancreatic cancer screening in this population. Thus, the
      risk of pancreatic cancer development in this cohort of patients would not be addressed by
      the CAPS5 protocol, but would uniquely be addressed in our proposed study. In terms of
      modality, interval, and age to start/stop, there remains debate but generally annual EUS/MRI
      has been utilized. Therefore, amongst patients with increased risk of pancreatic cancer, like
      those with BRCA1/2, ATM, or PALB2 mutations, the successful identification of early
      neoplastic/preneoplastic lesions of the pancreas would allow for timely intervention and
      improved survival in this cohort and thus would be of high clinical relevance.

      Thus we propose to utilize the unique cohort of increased risk patients followed at the
      University of Pennsylvania, to identify patients with BRCA1, BRCA2, ATM, or PALB2 mutations,
      regardless of family history of pancreatic cancer, and enroll them on an annual prospective
      pancreatic screening program. The hypothesis is that through early screening interventions,
      morbidity and mortality from this under-recognized malignancy in this high-risk patient
      population will be reduced.
    
  