
    
      Coronary blood vessel disease is a disease of vessels supplying the muscles of the heart.
      Heart attack is generally acute condition and mainly produced by an obstruction, that stop
      the blood supply to the heart. Coronary artery diseases can be progressive or
      non-progressive. Physical activity or exercise is necessary for all the healthy individuals
      to prevent the risk of diseases and maintained health status. Physical exercise often varies
      from physical activity by animation more measured in relations of intensity and period, while
      physical activity studies tend to integrate an enormous diversity of unspecified activities.
      Physical activity or exercise is used as conservative treatment of coronary artery diseases
      as a cardiac rehabilitation. Cardiac rehabilitation gives positive effect on patient's
      conditions by the exercise training program. Exercise may improve the maximal oxygen
      consumption (VO2 max) and repetitive capacity or capability to maintain physical activity for
      long periods of time. Exercise have multiple benefits on improving endothelial function,
      myocardial stream replacement decreasing smoking, body mass, plasma fats and blood pressure.
      Guided work out or exercise may decrease the development of coronary atherosclerosis.
      Different types of Aerobic exercises are the part of cardiac rehabilitation, start at very
      early in patients with coronary artery bypass grafting. Aerobic exercises may improve the
      maintenance of functional capacity and muscular strength but it shows no impact on pulmonary
      function and respiratory muscle strength. Aerobic exercises are perform in different ways
      some of them are in the form of intervals and some are continues. Studies shows that Four
      weeks of intense training increased VO2 peak significantly after both aerobic interval
      training and moderate continues training, but After 6 months only aerobic interval training
      gives high peak oxygen uptake (VO2 peak). It shows that both training have similarly effects
      in the tiny tenure and in extensive tenure only effect aerobic interval training.

      The most common aerobic exercises are perform at Treadmill and bicycle in cardiac
      rehabilitation program. Studies shows that Treadmill aerobic working out progresses both
      functional mobility and circulatory appropriateness in patients with chronic (CABG) and is
      more operational than reference rehabilitation reciprocated to conventional care. Now a day
      Tai chi is used in all over the world for health and defense or protection. Tai chi is a
      fighting art it is used in defense and health related fitness it is appropriate conditioning
      exercise for elder people. In health related benefits Yang Tai chi are most commonly
      practiced worldwide. Tai chi exercises are also practiced in rehabilitation department to
      gain the balance, coordination, endurance and physical activity in patients with stroke and
      coronary artery bypass grafting most commonly.

      Consistent aerobic workout and lifestyle modification are imperative for preventing and
      treating high blood pressure. For individuals with hypertension

      ,The American College of Sports Medicine recommends the following exercise guidelines like
      frequency: aerobic exercise most preferably all days of a week; resistance exercise 2-3 days
      per week. Intensity of exercise must be moderate intensity aerobic and resistance exercise.
      Time of exercise must be 30-60 minutes for every day of aerobic implementation while
      resistance working out at least one set of 8-12 reiterations for each of the main muscle
      groups. Studies shows that Tai Chi gives positive effects on blood pressure. Tai Chi training
      may reduce the systolic and diastolic blood pressure in patients with HTN. Tai chi also
      reduce the systolic as well as diastolic in normal healthy individuals.

      Young DR, conducted a study with the title of "The properties of aerobic workout and Tai Chi
      on blood pressure in older individuals" and they concluded that the programs of low and
      modest concentration workout have the same effects on blood pressure in elderly patients.

      Stroke is a common root of expiry in ageing population it is due to atherosclerosis are
      hemorrhagic in the minor or intermediate vessels of the brain. In such kind of patient
      significant reduction in quality of life, neurological discrepancies and deficiency of
      intellectual function.It reported that stroke patients increasing peak oxygen acceptance and
      walking distance by workout. Cerebrovascular accident patients frequently have compromised
      equilibrium and motor function, thus Tai Chi training program can be used in rehabilitation
      of stroke. A study in elderly subjects on Tai chi, balancing exercise and workout instruction
      groups. After four months of physical activity the follow up evaluation illustrate that only
      Tai Chi subjects informed that their daily activities and their whole life had been
      exaggerated. The result demonstrates that in women emotional as well as physical control is
      supposed to be improved in sense of enhancement in overall well-being and inspiration to
      continue physical training also rises.

      Effectiveness of Tai Chi, brisk hiking, meditation and reading in reducing psychological and
      emotional stress in 1992 and calculated that Tai Chi activities are used to decrease mental
      stress or disorder it is advantageous to quit smoking, drinking and other life threatening
      obsessions also. For the reason that Tai Chi is also used as to enlarge psychological well
      being and mental sickness.

      Another study concluded that Tai Chi trainings are an aerobic movements it is very supportive
      for different age and gender, it also increase functional capability of the participants.

      There was a research gap in previous study Tai chi training was done after phase II cardiac
      rehabilitation and duration of training was 6 months to 1 year. In current study we analyze
      Effect of Tai chi exercise on physical activity, pulmonary function and the rate of perceived
      exertion after exercise in patients with cardiovascular bypass surgeries in phase II cardiac
      rehabilitation.
    
  