
    
      The purpose of this Phase 1 clinical trial is to evaluate the safety, reactogenicity and
      immunogenicity of two malaria transmission-blocking vaccines, PpPfs25 and ScPvs25, in healthy
      adult volunteers. Of the four species of malaria that infect humans, Plasmodium falciparum is
      responsible for the majority of these deaths. However, outside of Africa, most of the malaria
      is caused by Plasmodium vivax; although these cases result in few deaths, they represent a
      major cause of morbidity and lead to a significant impact on the quality of life. The
      development of a safe and effective vaccine that prevents the transmission of P. falciparum
      or P. vivax would be an important addition to the current methods for controlling the spread
      of malaria parasites. A vaccine designed to prevent oocyst development in the mosquito by
      eliciting transmission-blocking antibodies in the vertebrate host would protect other
      individuals in the vicinity from becoming infected from the immunized person. Thus, despite
      no immediate role in personal protection, transmission-blocking vaccines are a potentially
      powerful component of a multifaceted public health approach to controlling or eliminating
      malaria. This study will be conducted at the Johns Hopkins University - Bloomberg School of
      Public Health, Center for Immunization Research. Seventy-two healthy male and non-pregnant
      female volunteers ages 18-50 will be enrolled. This study will be single blinded (to
      volunteers) and placebo-controlled. The study will evaluate three dose levels of both the
      PpPfs25 and ScPvs25 malaria vaccines (5 microg, 20 microg, 80 microg) emulsified with
      Montanide ISA51 as compared to Montanide ISA51 given alone. Seventy-two volunteers (60
      vaccine and 12 placebo) will be enrolled and assigned to one of six cohorts. In each cohort,
      10 volunteers will receive vaccine and 2 will receive placebo. Volunteers will be vaccinated
      by intramuscular injection on days 0 and 120. The groups will be staggered such that adequate
      safety evaluation can be performed prior to dose escalation. The duration of the study is 18
      months per volunteer. The primary objectives of this trial are to assess and compare, in a
      dose-escalating study, the safety and reactogenicity of the PpPfs25 and ScPvs25 transmission
      blocking vaccines as compared to adjuvant alone; and to assess and compare, in
      dose-escalating study, the duration of the antibody response over an 18 month period in each
      volunteer as well as the effect of boosting with a second vaccination at 4 months.
    
  