
    
      In the past the studies on the prediction and prognosis of sepsis were focused on the levels
      of protein and gene, and few researches have been done in the field of metabolomics. Actually
      the changes in the functioning of biological systems can be reflected not only by the
      specifically expressed protein but also by the metabolism. The metabolic characteristic of
      biological fluids will be significantly changed when body suffers from pathological or
      physiological stimulation, and these changes can reveal the disease state or severity while
      the organ function remains normal due to the compensatory action. Therefore it is possible to
      predict the occurrence, development and prognosis of sepsis in the early stage through the
      detection of the concentrations or ratios of these metabolites. The traditional methods are
      difficult to adapt to the detection of such complicated changes in metabolic profiles when
      sepsis occurs, thus there is a huge demand of novel means for the metabolic profiling in the
      inflammatory reaction. By now there have been several researches involved in the metabolic
      profiling in severe wound, but few have been done in the field of critical care medicine. The
      metabolic profiles in sepsis patients have remained unclear so far. Therefore it is of great
      significance to develop a metabolic profiling approach for the measurement and interpretation
      of the metabolites from the biological samples of sepsis patients and to establish a mode for
      the metabolomics-based early prediction of sepsis.

      Several qualitative and quantitative detection methods will be employed to achieve the goal
      of metabolic profiling in patients with or without sepsis. Principal Components Analysis
      (PCA) and Partial Least Squares Discrimination Analysis (PLS-DA) methodology will be applied
      to understand the metabolic profile. The data will be analyzed by Mestrec and MestReNova
      software package and the Human Metabolome Database (HMDB) searching to identify the
      biomarkers for the prediction of sepsis. The biomarkers that changed the most will be
      verified by Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS).
    
  