
    
      Admissions to the traumatic brain injury service of Shirley Ryan AbilityLab will be reviewed
      on a weekly basis, and eligible patients will be approached to attain assent/consent.
      Patients will be randomized as to which condition they participate in first. Subjects will be
      instructed not to eat or drink caffeine within 1 hour of participating in a condition. A
      trained researcher will apply three sensors to the chest. The sensors to monitor heart rate
      variability (HRV) via electrocardiogram (EKG) are from the BioStampRC Discovery Kit MC10,
      Inc., and are research-grade, non-invasive, wireless, wearable sensors. For each sensor
      location, the skin will be prepped and cleaned using alcohol wipes. Sensors are placed on the
      skin using adhesive stickers that minimize irritation. Medical dressing (Tegaderm, 3M) may
      also be used to ensure adhesion and proper contact with the skin. Sensors will be cleaned
      with soap and water before and after use. Vital signs will be measured. The self-reported
      outcome measures will be administered by a blinded clinician.

      The subject will participate in the assigned condition for that day as determined by
      randomization, and HRV will be monitored throughout the condition. Immediately following the
      1-hour condition, the sensors will be removed by a trained researcher and the self-reported
      outcomes will again be administered under the supervision of a blinded clinician. Subjects
      will complete forms as able, but if they require physical assistance to fill out or verbal
      assistance in reading the questions, such assistance will be provided. Sleep quality will be
      captured by an activity monitor. Research staff will don and doff the activity monitors.

      All sessions will be supervised by a physical therapist. Research staff will be responsible
      for all sensor recording practices, such as instrumenting the sensors and marking therapy
      activities on a computer tablet using the BioStampRC software. Research staff will also keep
      a written log of activities as they are undertaken during the assessments, including notable
      events, amount and type of assistance, or use of external devices. Logs will be consulted
      during analysis to compare with the timestamped sensor data.

      Audio/video recording may be utilized in order to allow a registered yoga therapist to
      validate the yoga-based program led by the researcher-clinician physical therapist. The
      recordings would only be viewed by the physical therapist and registered yoga therapist, and
      destroyed after publication of the research. The videos would be stored in a
      password-protected device; the yoga therapist and physical therapist would be the only
      individuals with access.
    
  