
    
      Advanced stage of Parkinson disease (PD) is a difficult condition to treat, especially after
      several years of dopaminergic drugs. Recent development of neurosurgical techniques using
      deep brain stimulation leads has shown good behavioral results in these advanced PD patients.
      However, the placement of a stimulation lead in the subthalamic nucleus is a complex,
      invasive, and long surgical procedure. Such intervention requires a sophisticated technical
      environment, including a stereotactic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) exam, associated with
      per-operative electrophysiological exploration of deep brain structures. This surgical
      treatment can therefore be indicated only for a few selected patients, and cannot be offered
      to a large proportion of patients among the potential candidates (estimation of 5000 patients
      in France). Thus, there is a need to develop therapeutic alternatives that would be
      technically and practically more convenient, less invasive, and that could be offered to a
      larger number of patients. Several clinical studies, including one led by our group, have
      already demonstrated that transcranial magnetic cortical stimulation could improve
      bradykinesia and shorten motor reaction time in patients with Parkinson disease. The clinical
      benefit was however moderate, and transient, probably because the stimulating sessions were
      too short in duration.

      A prolonged effect could be obtained with continuous cortical stimulation. Such cortical
      stimulation has already been developed with good clinical tolerance in our hospital since
      1991 for chronic neuropathic pain syndromes. In a non-human primate model of late stage
      Parkinson disease, we have recently demonstrated that prolonged primary motor cortex
      stimulation significantly improved both akinesia and bradykinesia.

      The primary objective of this pilot study will be to evaluate the tolerance and efficacy of
      chronic stimulation of the primary motor cortex in 10 patients suffering from advanced stage
      Parkinson disease, despite the optimisation of dopaminergic treatment. The expected benefit
      for the patient will be gait improvement, increased movement velocities, and finally a better
      quality of life associated with reduction in dopaminergic medication and low per-operative
      morbidity risk.
    
  