
    
      A randomized controlled multiple centers study. The study is designed as a superiority trial.
      The sample size for this trial of 120 subjects in both groups, based upon the primary
      endpoint of the number of oocytes retrieved.

      IVF patients who have failed to conceive and had poor ovarian response (oocytes retrieved ≤
      3) in the last stimulated cycle though using the maximal dose, which is ≥ 300 IU
      Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) or human menopausal gonadotropin (hMG).

      Patients will be randomized to use DHEA or testosterone gel as pretreatment. Randomization
      will be performed using sealed envelopes developed via a computer generated list with blocks
      of four. Doctors will be blinded to the randomization, but not patients and nurses.

        -  Study group 1 use 10 mg transdermal testosterone gel per day.

        -  Study group 2 use 75mg DHEA per day.

      Serum testosterone are measured before treatment. Duration of androgen supplement is 6-8
      weeks. After completing the pretreatment, patients are asked to come back when they have
      menses to begin IVF treatment. Serum testosterone is measured again after the pretreatment in
      both groups. Patients will be interviewed for side effects and compliance of treatment.

      After treatment, patients in both group undergo IVF treatment. IVF treatment will then be
      performed for all patients, according to the current hospital treatment protocols.

      Patients will be followed up until 7th week of gestation, if they have positive pregnancy
      test after embryo transfer.

      Data Analysis and Statistics:

      The investigators use Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) software 20th
      version to analyze data. The primary end-point mean of number of retrieved oocytes will be
      compared between two groups using the Student's t test. The secondary end-points will also be
      compared between the 2 groups using either the Student's t test or chi-square test.
    
  