
    
      Knee pain is a great problem in the society. Besides obvious and known causes, for which
      there are increasing understanding and ways to treat, there is still a rather large group of
      patients in which the symptoms are not easily understood and harder to treat.

      This group is often characterized by having symptoms ranging from months to years, having
      seen several physicians, gone through several x-rays/mri´s, and various treatment with no
      help.

      The investigators find ever more suspicion towards specific mechanisms in the hip region as a
      source of knee pain. It is well known in pediatric medicine that children with serious
      disease in the hip often debut with knee pain. This relationship is not so well established
      in adults.

      Pain in the lower extremity can arise from inflammation or strain of the retro trochanteric
      muscles, and/or more indirectly if these processes impact the sciatic nerve. The later
      explanation is commonly known as the piriformis syndrome.

      Professor Oddmund Johansen has studied this type of pain extensively. In the later years he
      has found interest in patients with knee pain.

      These patients will often have pain with deep palpation to the posterior hip region, when
      tightening the hip rotators with flexion and adduction, and they will often respond with pain
      relief, within minutes, when local anesthesia is placed on the distal attachment of the hip
      rotators on the posterior margin of the greater trochanter. Afterwards, lasting pain relief
      can be seen with a specified stretching regiment for these muscles.

      The investigators will recruit suiting patients from a knee referral list. Inclusion will be
      based on clinical examination and whether they respond to the injection. After inclusion they
      will be scored with pain and quality of life forms, randomised in two groups, one with a
      stretching regime and one with conservative and symptomatic treatment.

      There is interest in defining and quantifying this sub group of knee patients. They will be
      followed up after 3 months, with a new examination and scoring to evaluate the effect of the
      intervention.

      The study will examine how the patients react and comply with the proposed diagnosis and
      treatment. A cost analysis will also be considered.
    
  