
    
      This is an open-label single dose pilot study in which 3 subjects with inflammation on their
      6-month surveillance biopsy following renal transplantation will receive a single infusion of
      a target of 320 million cells ex vivo selected and expanded autologous polyclonal Tregs.

      AAt the time of Treg infusion (day 0), the immnosuppression will remain unchanged and
      consists of tacrolimus and mycophenolate acid with or without steroids. On the follow up
      biopsy, 2 weeks after the Treg infusion, the inflammatory load will be assessed by computer
      assisted image analysis looking at thenumber of infiltrating cells per square mm as well as
      the percentage of renal cortex infiltrated with lymphocytes. If the inflammatory load has
      decreased by ≥50% and infused Tregs are observed in the allograft, everolimus will be started
      at 1.5 mg bid and the dose of tacrolimus will be decreased by 50%. After 2 weeks, tacrolimus
      will be discontinued. These patients will remain on everolimus and mycophenolic acid with or
      without prednisone through the end of the study and the follow up period. If on the 2-week
      follow-up biopsy, there is no decrease in the inflammatory load or there is a decrease <50%,
      no change will be made to the maintenance immunosuppressive regimen consisting of tacrolimus,
      mycophenolic acid with or without prednisone. immunosuppression. All prescribing physicians
      are enrolled in and will participate in the FDA Mycophenolate Risk Evaluation and Mitigation
      Strategy.

      Subjects will be enrolled at 4-6 week intervals. The first subject will receive an infusion
      and will be observed for 3 weeks prior to treatment of the remaining subjects. The study team
      (IND sponsor, protocol chair, and medical monitor) and the members of the DSMB will review
      the safety data of the first subject prior to proceeding.

      If no grade 3 or higher related adverse event is observed, subsequent subjects may be
      treated. Otherwise treatment will be suspended pending review.
    
  