
    
      Potential participants will be approached by clinical or research team members and asked
      whether they would be interested in joining this study. Participant Information Sheet will be
      handled and discusses with individuals, highlighting their involvement, risk and benefit of
      this research. In particular, participation in the study will not alter any current therapies
      of the volunteers. Having left sufficient time to decide, potential participants will be
      asked to sign a Consent Form.

      After obtaining informed consent, volunteers will be asked to donate blood, urine, sputum
      (saliva) or other body fluids, like bronchoalveolar lavage, for our study, at the same time
      other analyses are carried out as part of individuals' usual medical care. If some
      participants are already scheduled to receive a novel drug therapy in an existing trial, we
      may ask them to contribute with small amount of blood, saliva, urine or other body fluids,
      twice, before and after the programmed treatment. Samples will be collected at the same time
      as participants' routine medical examinations are carried out.

      Biological specimens will be collected and stored according to sample type and test
      specifications; then separation of cellular components and soluble factors from liquid part
      will be performed by research team members. Isolation techniques will vary based on the
      sample source.

      Depending on the specific assay to be developed, protein content will be analysed by flow
      cytometry, enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) or other immunoassays, including the beads-based
      Luminex® technology. In all these laboratory techniques, the unique interaction between a
      specific antibody and antigen enables identification of single or multiple target proteins
      inside a complex protein mixture.

      Flow cytometry uses fluorescence properties of some dyes to evaluate the presence of specific
      markers on the surface or inside healthy or cancerous cells. This will help establish
      frequency of specific cell populations or intensity of specific markers on the cells.
      Likewise, ELISA allows qualitative and quantitative characterisation of soluble substances;
      multiple target proteins in suspension can be evaluated with Luminex® procedure within the
      same sample. Other biochemical techniques, such as immunoblotting can be used to determine
      presence/ absence of proteins located either on the cell surface of or intracellularly.

      In addition to proteins, nucleic acid content can be assessed, including DNA, RNA or microRNA
      by biomolecular techniques.

      Research data will be generated by these laboratory methods as software-specific files, such
      as flow cytometry standard (FCS) files for results by flow cytometry, images and data tables.
      Parameters like sensitivity, limit of detection and assay variability will also be evaluated
      and reported in numeric tables. During assay development, data from both healthy donors and
      cancer patients will be compared with standard statistical packages, in order to establish
      robust tests that can discriminate between the two groups.
    
  