
    
      Hypertension affects the great majority of renal transplant recipients (RTR) and its
      persistence may negatively influence the outcome of the graft. Unfortunately, its diagnosis
      is not univocal since office measurement of blood pressure (BP) may reveal a "white coat
      hypertension" in normotensive subjects, or might not detect hypertension if pills are taken
      immediately before BP control. Therefore for a correct diagnosis the use of ambulatory BP
      monitoring (ABPM) is strongly advised. Recent studies employing this methodology have shown
      that the prevalence of nocturnal hypertension (i.e. blood pressure values >120/70 or 10%
      higher than diurnal values) affects a great number of renal transplant recipients (RTR), even
      despite the use of antihypertensive drugs ("non-dipper" patients). It is well known that
      nocturnal hypertension enhances the development of cardiovascular diseases, but it is not
      clear whether (and to what extent) it also affects the quality of sleep of these patients.
      Sleep disturbances like insomnia, restless legs syndrome and sleep apnoea, in fact, are
      particularly common in RTR, despite these patients report significantly better quality of
      life compared to patients with chronic renal failure under conservative or dialysis
      treatment. The working hypothesis of the present study is to evaluate whether any
      relationship exists between nocturnal hypertension and sleep quality, since also sleep
      disorders may favour the onet and the progression of cardiovascular diseases, the first cause
      of death in RTR with functioning graft.

      The study will be carried out on all the available RTR in regular follow-up at the DH of
      Nephrology and Renal Transplantation of the University Federico II of Naples (Italy).
      Inclusion criteria are: age >18 years, renal transplant vintage >1 year, stable renal
      function in the last 6 month, no change in immunosuppressive nor antihypertensive treatment
      in the last 3 months, no intercurrent infection in the last 3 months. Twenty-four hour ABPM
      will be performed during the regular follow-up of patients in the investigator's Unit.
      Hypertension will be diagnosed when the patient takes antihypertensive drugs or when his . BP
      is >130/80 mmHg (24-hour average value), or >135/85 (average values of daily BP) or >120/70
      (average values of nocturnal BP). The patient will be considered "non-dipper" when the ratio
      Systolic nocturnal BP/Systolic diurnal BP is >0.9.

      Sleep quality will be evaluated through a validated version of the Pittsburgh Sleep
      Questionnaire a self-rated questionnaire, consisting of 19 questions which assess a wide
      variety of factors relating to sleep quality, including estimates of sleep duration and
      latency and of frequency and severity of specific sleep-related problems. These 19 items are
      grouped into seven-component scores, each weighted equally on a 0-3 scale. The seven
      components are then summed to yield a global index (PSQI) ranging between 0 and 21; higher
      scores indicate a worse sleep quality (>5, poor sleepers; <5, good sleepers). The seven
      components of the PSQI are subjective sleep quality, sleep latency, sleep duration, habitual
      sleep efficiency, sleep disturbances, use of sleeping medications, and daytime dysfunction.
      The relationship between nocturnal hypertension and sleep quality will be evaluated either by
      bivariate analysis and by multiple linear regression analyses. In the multivariate model, all
      the variables associated to an elevated night/day systolic pressure ratio will be considered
      if the P value is 0.10 or less at bivariate analysis. The relationship between increased
      night/day SBP ratio and increased PSQI will be also investigated by multivariate logistic
      regression model.
    
  