
    
      Lynch Syndrome:

      In women with hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer syndrome (HNPCC), also called Lynch
      syndrome, the lifetime risk for endometrial cancer increases to 40-60%, and the risk for
      ovarian cancer increases to 12%.

      Study Procedures:

      If you agree to take part in this study, basic medical and family information will be
      collected. You will be asked to fill out a baseline (starting) questionnaire, which will ask
      personal information such as age, ethnic background, medical and family history, and health
      habits. All information will be kept confidential. Some information may be gathered from your
      medical record. It should take about 30 minutes to complete this questionnaire.

      Once a year for 20 years, you will be asked to complete a follow-up questionnaire. The
      follow-up questionnaire provides researchers with an opportunity to study possible health
      issues and/or changes that may have occurred since your last visit. This questionnaire should
      only take about 15 -20 minutes to complete.

      If you have a history of endometrial or ovarian cancer, or develop endometrial or ovarian
      cancer while on study, researchers will collect copies of the diagnostic and surgery reports
      from your medical record and will ask you to fill out an additional questionnaire about
      symptoms of endometrial cancer. This should only take about 15 minutes to complete.

      Researchers will also collect several leftover tissue samples from your surgery if you have
      had surgery. These samples will be stored and used to perform molecular studies to
      characterize Lynch syndrome tumors. The samples will be kept securely in a lab at MD
      Anderson.

      Before your leftover tissue samples can be used for research, the people doing the research
      must get specific approval from the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of MD Anderson. The IRB
      is a committee made up of doctors, researchers, and members of the community. The IRB is
      responsible for protecting the participants involved in research studies and making sure all
      research is done in a safe and ethical manner. All research done at MD Anderson, including
      research involving your leftover tissue samples must first be approved by the IRB.

      Length of Study:

      At the end of the study, you may be invited to participate in a follow-up study. During your
      participation in this registry study, researchers will inform you about related studies for
      which you might be eligible. You will have the option to take part or not to take part in
      them. Your active participation in this study will continue for up to 20 years total.
    
  