
    
      Gallstone is the most common digestive tract disease in general surgical wards. The incidence
      of gallstones in Chinese is about 5-10%, and the patients often seek hospital treatment due
      to abdominal pain. At present, most gallstones are treated with laparoscopic cholecystectomy,
      and postoperative pain is one of the most troublesome problems for surgical patients.
      However, up to 90% of patients undergoing abdominal surgery still experience moderate to
      severe pain, which not only affects the patient's physical recovery, but also causes
      psychological anxiety. Therefore, it is important to provide good postoperative pain
      management. Guided image meditation has been shown to alter the functional circuits of the
      brain to alleviate pain by mediating breathing and thoughts. Therefore, the purpose of this
      study is to investigate whether the intervention with guided image meditation after
      laparoscopic cholecystectomy can effectively alleviate postoperative pain, reduce anxiety,
      promote sleep quality, and increase pain control satisfaction for the patients with
      gallstones.

      This study used 2×2 pre-test and post-test randomized control tests with randomized,
      single-blind, experimental study design. The research subjects were recruited from the
      general surgical ward of the North District Teaching Hospital. The study questionnaire
      included the assessment of pain levels using the 11-point Numeric Rating Scale (NRS-11) and
      the 11-face Face Pain Scale (FPS-11), the degree of anxiety using the Chinese version of Beck
      Anxiety Inventory (BAI), pain control satisfaction using Visual Analogue Scales (VAS), and
      sleep quality using the Chinese Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (CPSQI). The number of samples
      in this study was calculated by G-Power 3.1.2 statistical software. At least 68 samples were
      collected and grouped by random allocation, with 34 each for the control group (conventional
      scheme) and the experimental group (guided image meditation intervention). After the
      pre-test, the two groups were post-tested on the first postoperative day. The data obtained
      in this study were statistically analyzed by statistical software SPSS 22.0 for descriptive
      statistics including number of assignments, percentage, mean, standard deviation, Maximum and
      Minimum. Inferential statistical analysis by analysis of variance (ANOVA), Chi-square test,
      independent sample t-test, logistic regression, Pearson's correlation, repeated measures
      ANOVA and Generalized Estimating Equation (GEE) tested the pre-test and post-test results of
      the experimental group and the control group to compare the difference between the two groups
      in pain index, anxiety level, sleep quality and pain control satisfaction.

      This study intended to use the characteristics of the guided image meditation being easy to
      learn and easy to operate and the evidence-based measures to alleviate postoperative pain,
      reduce anxiety, promote sleep quality and improve post-surgical pain control satisfaction to
      prove the empirical effect of guided image meditation in clinical care. It is hoped to
      provide an empirically based interventional effect to improve the problems associated with
      patients after laparoscopic surgery and improve the quality of life of patients after
      surgery. The results of this paper are expected to be published in domestic and foreign
      journals, so as to add to empirical academic literature and to be shared by medical staff for
      increasing new knowledge.
    
  