
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the one- and two-year survival of patients with hematologic malignancies
           treated with a nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen comprising fludarabine,
           cyclophosphamide, and total-body irradiation followed by umbilical cord blood
           transplantation and post-transplant immunosuppression comprising sirolimus and
           mycophenolate mofetil.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the six-month nonrelapse mortality of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the presence of chimerism in patients treated with this regimen at days 21,
           60, 100, 180, and 365.

        -  Determine the incidence of neutrophil engraftment by day 42 in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of platelet engraftment by six months in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of grade II-IV and grade III-IV acute graft-versus-host disease
           (GVHD) at day 100 in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of chronic GVHD at one year in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the probability of overall survival within one or two years in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the probability of progression-free survival within one or two years in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of relapse or disease progression within one or two years in
           patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized study. Patients are stratified into five disease groups: 1.
      acute myeloid leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes, chronic myelogenous leukemia [CML] in
      first chronic phase and second chronic phase [CP2] after myeloid blast crisis; 2. acute
      lymphoblastic leukemia, Burkitt's lymphoma, CML CP2 post lymphoid blast crisis, 3. large-cell
      B and T-cell lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma; 4. chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small
      lymphocytic lymphoma, prolymphocytic leukemia, marginal zone B-cell lymphoma, follicular
      lymphoma; 5. Hodgkin's lymphoma and multiple myeloma.

        -  Nonmyeloablative conditioning: Patients receive fludarabine intravenously on days -6 to
           -2 and cyclophosphamide IV on day -6. Patients who did not undergo prior autologous
           transplant or who received ≤ 1 course of prior multiagent chemotherapy or no severely
           immunosuppressive therapy in the past 3 months also receive anti-thymocyte globulin IV
           on days -6 to -4. All patients also undergo total-body irradiation on day -1.

        -  Umbilical cord blood transplant: Patients undergo umbilical cord blood transplantation
           on day 0.

        -  Post-transplant immunosuppression: Sirolimus will be administered starting at day -3
           with 8mg-12mg mg oral loading dose followed by single dose 4 mg/day with a target serum
           concentration of 3 to 12 mg/mL. Levels are to be monitored 3 times/week in the first 2
           weeks, weekly until day +60, and as clinically indicated until day +100
           post-transplantation. In the absence of acute GVHD sirolimus may be tapered starting at
           day +100 and eliminated by day +180 post-transplantation. Patients also receive
           mycophenolate mofetil IV on days -3 to 5 and then orally on days 6-30.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 320 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  