
    
      Fractures due to osteoporosis are a major public health problem. Bone density is one of the
      major predictors of these osteoporotic fractures and is the result of the amount of bone
      gained in early life (i.e peak bone mass) and subsequent bone loss. Cigarette smoking,
      physical inactivity and inadequate calcium intake are widely regarded as risk factors for
      osteoporosis (as well as for other common diseases for the former two). Despite this
      information being widely available and actively promoted, the prevalence of these risk
      factors in the population remains unacceptably high. In women (mean age 33) taking part in a
      study of the determinants of bone mass in children, we recently reported substantial change
      in these behaviours at 12 months follow-up when women received an information leaflet and
      individualised bone density feedback. These women were highly selected and it is unclear if
      this response is representative of all women. With this study, we aim to test whether
      individualised bone density feedback, combined with either an information leaflet or small
      group education will change women's osteporosis preventive behaviors and/or bone density.

      Specifically, we aimed to test the following hypotheses:

        1. Women are more likely to change calcium intake and physical activity if their BMD is
           low.

        2. Group education (in the form of the Osteoporosis Prevention and Self Management course)
           will be more efficacious at changing these lifestyle behaviours than an information
           leaflet alone.

        3. Bone density feedback and educational intervention have independent effects on behavior
           and BMD change.

        4. Women who improve their physical activity or dietary calcium intake will have a change
           in bone mass over 2 years that is 0.34-0.54% per annum better (depending on site and
           lifestyle factor) than those who do not alter their behaviour.
    
  