
    
      The purpose of this pilot research study is to determine if a balance training (BT) class
      based on the FallProof(TM) approach achieves better balance and mobility outcomes than the
      current practice. The FallProof's approach focuses on multiple components of balance
      impairment including multisensory, postural strategy and centre of gravity control training.
      Current practice is a task-oriented circuit training balance class.

      ABI survivors may have muscle weakness, decreased coordination and sensory loss, which
      contribute to reduced balance, difficulty with functional mobility and activities of daily
      living. Balance control provides the foundation for a person's ability to stand, walk and
      function independently. Previous studies indicate that balance training (BT) improves
      balance, reduces falls, increases walking speed and balance self-efficacy for ABI patients
      .The Ottawa Panel Evidence-Based Clinical Practice Guidelines for ABI Rehabilitation
      supported the use of BT based on the research evidence. Interventions such as task-oriented
      training, multisensory training, trunk control training and perceptual exercises demonstrate
      positive effect on balance and mobility outcomes. To our knowledge, there are few studies
      that have examined a multidimensional approach to BT.

      A systematic review concluded that exercises performed for 20-60 minutes, 3-4 times a week
      for 6-12 weeks can improve balance in ABI patients. However, Treacy et al demonstrated that
      inpatient BT for just 2 weeks can improve balance compared to a control group who received
      traditional exercise interventions.

      At GF Strong Rehabilitation Center (GFS), the usual care provided to the ambulatory ABI
      patients consists of individualized one to one physiotherapy treatment, as well as a high
      level BT class. Currently, this BT class is a circuit training class that focuses on
      task-oriented gait exercises. FallProof balance training is a group- based approach that
      includes multisensory, postural strategy, centre of gravity control and gait pattern
      training. It was originally developed for older adults with impaired balance; but there is no
      research on the effectiveness of this approach for ABI patients. The FallProof approach has
      been introduced to the low level and intermediate level BT class at GFS, for ABI patients
      with sever and moderate balance impairments. These classes received positive feedback from
      patients and therapists. Patients reported improved functional mobility and confidence after
      attending the class. However, there was no functional outcome measurements collected to
      compare the effectiveness of the previous class and the new FallProof class. We plan to
      modify the current circuit training high level balance class with the FallProof approach in
      the spring of 2017. Before introducing the FallProof class, we would like to collect outcome
      measures with the current BT class for three months, and then collect collect data with the
      new class for comparison. We would like to determine if a multidimensional group based BT
      treatment approach is more effective at improving functional outcomes compared to the current
      practice.
    
  