
    
      The purpose of this prospective pragmatic study is to determine if an infusion of carbetocin
      over 10 minutes will reduce hemodynamic compromise in comparison to a rapid intravenous bolus
      (less than 2 seconds) during elective cesarean delivery under spinal anesthesia.

      In this prospective, randomized and controlled study, each parturient will enter the
      operating room on the day scheduled for there surgery. All the classic monitors will be
      installed, along with the Edwards (Clear sight system).

      Each patient will receive an antacid prophylaxis of 30 ml of sodium citrate per mouth 30 min
      before surgery. Baseline measures of BP (blood pressure), HR (Heart Rate), O2 Arterial
      Saturation will be taken before entering in the operating room, in a calm environment.

      The anesthetic technique will be standardized. Spinal anesthesia will be performed in the
      sitting position by the anesthesiologist in charge of the patient, with the local anesthetic
      injected between L2 to L5 spinal level. The anesthetic solution will consist of hyperbaric
      bupivacaine 0.75% 10.5 mg, fentanyl 15 μg, and morphine 150 μg with a Whitacre needle 25G ou
      27G. Then, the patient will be immediately placed in the supine position, with a cushion
      under their right hip or a left lateral tilt. Antibiotic prophylaxis will be administered to
      each patient before incision.

      Each patient included in the study will have a phenylephrine infusion of 0.5 mcg/kg/min (lean
      body weight) started immediately after the injection of local anesthetic. A bolus of
      phenylephrine 1.5 mcg/kg (lean body weight) will be administered in case of a hypotensive
      episode. A hypotensive episode will be defined as 2 consecutive Systolic BP (SBP)
      measurements less than 20% below the baseline value. The treatment of hypotension consists of
      Phenylephrine 1.5 mcg/kg intravenous bolus will be administered if HR > 55 bpm or Ephedrine 5
      mg intravenous bolus if HR is < 55 bpm. If only the HR is < 55 bpm, but SBP is normal,
      Glycopyrrolate 0.2 mg intravenous bolus will be administered and the patient will be
      excluded. In the case of a hypertensive episode, where systolic BP is > 120% Baseline value,
      treatment will consist of a decrease in the phenylephrine infusion rate by 0.2 mcg/kg/min.

      In addition, each patient included in the study will receive an intravenous volume co-load of
      1000 ml of Lactate Ringer administered under pressure in 5 to 10 minutes immediately after
      installing the intravenous catheter, and before and during the spinal anesthesia. Then, an
      infusion of Lactate Ringer at 300 mL/h will begin.

      Surgery will begin after the confirmation of a sensory block to cold stimulus at the T4
      level.

      Data collection will be realized with the Edwards monitor, and HR (Heart Rate), BP (Blood
      Pressure), SV (Stroke Volume), SVV (Stroke Volume Variation), CO (Cardiac Output), SVR will
      be taken continuously every 20 seconds. HR, BP, and pulse oxymetry values will also be
      measured every 2.5 minutes with the applied standard monitoring, from the intrathecal
      injection of the local anesthetic until the neonate is born. After the injection of the study
      drug, those values will be measured every minute for 20 minutes (All these data are
      electronically recorded every 5 seconds). Hemodynamic values recorded at skin incision will
      be used as baseline values for comparison with hemodynamic measurements recorded over the 20
      minutes following the beginning of study drug infusion.

      All subjects will receive Metoclopramide 10mg intravenously at the induction of anesthesia
      for anti-emesis prophylaxis and Ondansetron 4 mg IV for intraoperative treatment of nausea
      and/or vomiting.

      Prevention of post-partum hemorrhage will be with the study drug carbetocin 100 mcg given
      intravenously, either as a bolus or an infusion over 10 min, depending on the randomization.
      Two syringes per subject will be prepared by the research nurse :

        1. one 3 ml syringe containing 1 ml of either carbetocin 100 mcg or normal saline same
           volume (according to the patient's study group);

        2. one 10 ml syringe containing carbetocin 100 mcg (1 ml) diluted with 9 ml of normal
           saline for a total volume of 10 ml, or 10 ml of normal saline (according to the
           patient's study group).

      The volume in the 3 ml syringe will be injected as an IV push bolus after cord clamping and
      the volume in the 10 ml syringe will be infused over 10 minutes at cord clamping. The study
      subject, the attending anesthesiologist and the anesthesiologist collecting intraoperative
      data will be blinded to patient group allocation. The research nurse will not be blinded to
      patient group allocation.

      The uterine repair will be done in situ and not by exteriorization. In the eventuality that
      the attending obstetrician proceeded to exteriorization of the uterus for safety reasons, the
      patient would then be excluded from the study.

      Uterine tone will be assessed by the attending obstetrician as adequate or inadequate at the
      end of the 10 minutes study drug infusion. If uterine tone is judged inadequate, patient care
      will be carried on by the attending anesthesiologist and obstetrician according to best
      clinical practice guidelines. These patients will be excluded from the study.

      The data collection will be achieved by the ClearSight (Edwards) system. It will start before
      the uterine incision and will continue until 20 minutes after the beginning of the carbetocin
      (or normal saline) 10 minutes infusion.
    
  