
    
      Coronary artery disease is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in our society. It is
      initiated by the dysfunction of the lining of coronary arteries. Such endothelial dysfunction
      permits vascular wall inflammation, smooth muscle cell proliferation, and thrombosis, which
      progresses to coronary artery stenosis and occlusion, and manifests as myocardial ischemia
      and infarction. Endothelial injury can be due to the damaging effects of various
      cardiovascular risk factors and it can also be induced by balloon injury associated with
      coronary angioplasty. Damaged endothelium can be repaired via endogenous mechanisms, such as
      by the migration and proliferation of neighboring uninjured mature endothelial cells, or by
      the mobilization and homing of bone-marrow-derived circulating endothelial progenitor cells
      (EPCs).

      There are several repair mechanisms that are now thought to involve circulating endothelial
      progenitor cells that are mobilized from the bone marrow and home to sites of endothelial
      injury. The researchers of this study hypothesize that aging is associated with reduced
      vascular injury induced endothelial progenitor cell activity, resulting in impaired vascular
      repair and increased coronary heart disease events. Patients with stable coronary artery
      disease will be enrolled in this study. They will undergo either angiography alone or
      angiography and angioplasty. Venous blood will be collected immediately prior to the
      procedure and 20-24 hours after the procedure. The number of endothelial progenitor cells
      will be assessed based on their ability to form colonies and also to migrate under the
      influence of certain growth factors. These values will be compared between both samples.
      Study participants will also be contacted at 6 months, and 2 and 5 years after their
      participation in the study. The clinical outcomes of the participant's coronary artery
      disease will be correlated with the number of endothelial progenitor cells.
    
  