
    
      Neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) is a growth factor that crucially regulates cell resistance to oxidative
      stress, cell survival and proliferation. In preliminary studies, investigators have found a
      novel role of NRG-1 in the regulation of pro-inflammatory activation of human mononuclear
      myeloid cells (monocytes and macrophages). These cells represent the major contributors to
      tissue perpetuation of inflammation. The investigators hypothesize that NRG-1 plays a role in
      the prevention of additional brain damage mediated by the post-cardiac arrest cell-mediated
      inflammatory response. To test the hypothesis, investigators will determine NRG-1 protein
      levels and NRG activity at different time points in peripheral blood of patients after
      resuscitation from cardiac arrest. Using flow cytometry, investigators will also investigate
      expression of ERBB (neuregulin) receptors on monocytes. The investigators will evaluate the
      relationships between circulating NRG-1, ERBB receptor expression, other markers of
      inflammation, duration of ischemic time, and biomarkers of the severity of neurological and
      cardiac injuries after cardiac arrest.

      Characterization of the immune response after cardiac arrest is a second aim of this project,
      with a focus on understanding the heterogeneity of cellular and humoral immune responses and
      how they relate to different phenotypes of post-resuscitation syndrome.

      A third focus is on inflammatory pathways related to lipid metabolism. An "obesity paradox"
      exists in cardiac arrest as in myocardial infarction and other diseases, in which mild or
      moderate obesity seems to be protective against mortality despite a higher incidence of
      adverse events during therapy. To characterize the role of lipids in the post-resuscitation
      inflammatory milieu, investigators will prospectively determine serial serum lipid profiles,
      and measure lipid peroxidation and pro-inflammatory lipid precursors in lean and obese post
      cardiac arrest patients. This will allow researchers to investigate the independent
      associations of body mass index (BMI), lipid profiles, lipid peroxidation, and
      pro-inflammatory lipid precursors with the post-resuscitation inflammatory state, and with
      functional outcomes.

      Participants will undergo a series of blood draws over 7 days, and standard 6 month follow up
      to assess functional outcomes. Investigators will be recording standard elements of
      postresuscitation care including demographics, clinical characteristics, laboratory values
      including biomarkers of neurological injury, and radiographic findings.
    
  