
    
      ROCQ is a patient health-management programme and prospective cohort study. Within the ROCQ
      programme, educational interventions to improve osteoporosis management will be evaluated
      using a randomized-control design. The programme is composed of a promotional campaign, three
      main phases and a 20-year follow-up.

      At phase 1, 0 to 16 weeks after the fracture, participants with fragility and traumatic
      fractures will be recruited and will be asked information regarding their fracture.

      At phase 2, 6 to 8 months after the fracture, all participants will complete questionnaires
      to evaluate demographic and clinical features, risk factors for osteoporosis, co-morbidities,
      status of diagnosis and treatment, and the EQ-5D. The current medical management of
      osteoporosis (or the care gap in diagnosis and treatment) will be measured using this
      questionnaire at phase 2. Once the phase 2 questionnaire has been completed, Only
      participants with fragility fractures will be randomized to one of the three following
      educational intervention groups: 1) the Educational Video Group, 2) the Documentation Group,
      or 3) the Control Group.

      At phase 3, 12 to 14 months after randomization, the effectiveness of the interventions will
      be assessed by re-administering the questionnaires to participants who experienced a
      fragility fracture at baseline. The questionnaires evaluate the status of diagnosis and
      treatment of osteoporosis, modifiable risk factors and the health-related quality of life
      (EQ-5D). The impact of the interventions on the participants will be assessed by comparing
      diagnosis and treatments rates in each intervention arm.

      If the long-term viability of the programme is secured, participants with fragility and
      traumatic fractures will be followed for a maximum period of 20 years using specific encoded
      personal data contained in the RAMQ and Quebec's drug plan databases.
    
  