
    
      Can Do MS Programs offer evidence-based, comprehensive, and personalized educational and
      experiential opportunities aimed at empowering and enabling a person with MS to live a
      healthy life beyond their MS. The signature program of Can Do MS is the four-day CAN DO®
      Program (CAN DO). Preliminary outcomes suggest that participation in CAN DO leads to
      significant improvements in self-efficacy and various aspects of health status.1 The majority
      of 129 participants who participated in one of the three CAN DO Programs showed improvements
      in self-efficacy at one month (n=98), 3 months (n=84), and 6 months after the program (n=82;
      all p<0.001). Participants also showed significant improvements to varying degrees in
      subscales of the SF-36, including Physical Functioning (p=0.01), Role Physical, General
      Health, Vitality and Mental Health. These improvements were maintained to varying extents at
      one and 3 months post-program.

      These important outcomes have not yet been compared to those in people with MS who receive
      traditional care but do not participate in this comprehensive educational opportunity.
      Furthermore, the impact on physical activity, participation, and quality of life has not been
      measured or compared to those who do not participate in CAN DO. Finally, recognizing the
      tremendous burden that can be placed on the support partner living and supporting a person
      with MS, education for support partners is another critical element of CAN DO. However, the
      impact on the support partner of empowering an individual with MS to adopt healthy behaviors
      also has not been assessed.

      This project will allow Shepherd Center and Can Do MS to gather long-term health, wellness,
      and quality of life outcomes in people with MS and their support partners, as well as pilot
      data evaluating this study design for future larger scale clinical trials. Demonstrating the
      efficacy of this program will provide evidence that will impact the lives of people with MS
      and their families, specifically, their ability to live healthy lives independent of their
      MS.
    
  