
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Functional MR is a common complication of ischemic heart disease. Two large studies have
      confirmed an adverse effect of functional MR on survival after a heart attack. However,
      studies in heart failure (HF) are small and mainly limited to patients with non-ischemic
      cardiomyopathy. Recent animal studies have challenged the traditional concept that functional
      MR is a consequence of mitral annular dilation, instead suggesting that functional MR is due
      to leaflet tethering by outward expansion of the left ventricular wall (LV remodeling). This
      has critical implications regarding the correct surgical approach to correcting functional
      MR. To date, no large prospective study has examined the mechanism(s) of functional MR in
      ischemic cardiomyopathy, nor has the interaction between mechanism and prognosis been
      explored. This is a crucial knowledge gap because: 1) 70% of HF cases are caused by ischemic
      heart disease; and 2) functional MR occurs in around 60% of patients with ischemic
      cardiomyopathy. This study aims to fill these gaps by defining the mechanism(s) of functional
      MR by TEE in a large clinical trial of patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy participating in
      the STICH study. The STICH study will address the following two key hypotheses of therapeutic
      strategy in the management of patients with symptomatic HF, LV dysfunction, and coronary
      artery disease (CAD) amenable to CABG: 1) surgical coronary revascularization, in addition to
      aggressive medical HF management, will have long-term mortality, morbidity, quality of life,
      or cost benefits beyond aggressive medical management alone; and 2) early surgical
      ventricular shape restoration (SVR) in combination with CABG will improve outcome compared to
      coronary revascularization alone and medical therapy alone. The study will also address the
      role of LV size and function, including myocardial viability as a predictor of subsequent
      events over 3 years.

      The STICH study affords a unique opportunity to specifically evaluate the mechanism and
      prognosis of functional MR in a large group of patients with HF due to ischemic
      cardiomyopathy. The study design of STICH allows exploring the interactions between the
      mechanism of functional MR, therapy, and prognosis. For example, it is not known whether all
      patients with functional MR have an adverse prognosis or whether their prognosis is related
      to specific mechanisms or severity. In patients undergoing CABG, it is not known which
      patients with functional MR will require valve repair or which ones will do well without it.
      It is also not known whether SVR reduces MR severity more than medical therapy and by what
      mechanism. It is possible that improvement in functional MR is a consequence of reversed LV
      remodeling, which is known to be related to myocardial viability, independent of specific
      therapy. These important questions are addressed by the TEE STICH study, an ancillary study
      to the STICH study.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The following four specific aims will be tested.

      Specific Aim 1: This study will define the mechanism of functional MR in ischemic
      cardiomyopathy. Null Hypothesis: There is no difference in measurements of the mitral valve
      apparatus known to be associated with functional MR in ischemic cardiomyopathy among patients
      with different degrees of functional MR. To test this hypothesis, this study will compare
      measurements of annulus size and leaflet tethering in three groups of patients, those without
      MR, those with mild MR (effective regurgitant orifice area [EROA] less than 0.2 cm²), and
      those with at least moderate MR (EROA less than 0.2 cm²). The six specific measurements of MR
      mechanism include the following: 1) diastolic mitral annulus area; 2) percent of systolic
      annular contraction; 3) leaflet tenting area; 4) papillary muscle tethering distance; 5)
      papillary muscle separation distance; and 6) the primary chordal separation angle.

      Specific Aim 2: This study will define the effect of therapy on mechanism and severity of
      functional MR. Null Hypothesis: There will be no difference in measurements of the mechanism
      and severity of moderate functional MR before and after treatment in the three treatment
      groups (medicine, CABG, and CABG plus SVR). To test this hypothesis, this study will compare
      the change in measurements of MR mechanism (see above list) and severity (EROA and volume of
      the chest wall [VCW]) before and at a 2-year follow-up in the three treatment groups. The
      primary endpoint for this analysis will be long-term survival.

      Specific Aim 3: This study will evaluate the effect of functional MR on prognosis. Null
      Hypothesis: The presence and severity of functional MR does not predict the following: 1)
      long-term survival; and 2) the combined endpoint of death, cardiac transplantation, automatic
      implantable cardioverter defibrillator (AICD) countershock, hospitalization due to heart
      failure, or subsequent mitral valve repair or replacement.

      Specific Aim 4: This study will evaluate the effect of myocardial viability on mechanism of
      functional MR. Null Hypothesis: The mechanism of moderate MR will be no different in patients
      with or without myocardial viability by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)
      imaging. All patients who have undergone SPECT imaging done as part of the parent study will
      be studied. The grouping variables will be the presence or absence of myocardial viability as
      determined by the SPECT core lab.
    
  