
    
      This study will treat children and adults who have documented deficiencies of mitochondrial
      fatty acid oxidation including disorders of the following enzymes: Carnitine-Acylcarnitine
      Translocase (CATR), Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase I and II (CPT I, CPT II), Very-Long Chain
      Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD), L-3-Hydroxy-Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase (LCHAD), Acyl-CoA
      Dehydrogenase type 9 (ACAD9) and Mitochondrial Trifunctional Protein (TFP) with triheptanoin
      oil. This study is also open to patients with any type of glycogen storage disease, pyruvate
      carboxylase deficiency, or Barth Syndrome.

      Symptoms often persist with standard diet including supplementation with medium chain
      triglyceride oil. Preliminary data shows triheptanoin to reverse many of the clinical
      symptoms not well controlled by standard diet.

      On study entry, clinical and laboratory assessments will be carried out with the subject on
      their usual home diet. A complete history and physical exam will be performed. An
      echocardiogram must be obtained within the past year or it will be performed on the day of
      study entry. Following analysis of their diet and a negative pregnancy test, subjects will
      receive a modified diet containing triheptanoin (up to 2 grams/kg/24 hours for most subjects;
      subjects who experience cardiomyopathy may receive doses up to 4 grams/kg/24 hours), or
      continued on their previously established triheptanoin dose; not to exceed RDA for fat,
      substituted for their MCT oil and/or natural fat. This will be given by g-tube or orally
      divided into 2 or more doses. The dose will be adjusted on the basis of safety laboratory
      monitoring at specific time points and for adverse symptoms. The remainder of their diet will
      be modified to maintain appropriate caloric intake and balance. Total calories appropriate
      for RDA will be prescribed.

      Study subjects will continue the triheptanoin-supplemented diet for a period of 12 months and
      then be able to continue into an indefinite extension phase in this compassionate use study.
      Laboratory evaluations will take place at two, six, and twelve months, as well as every 12
      months in the extension phase. Laboratory tests may be completed at a local lab and the
      results forwarded to the PI for review between visits in Pittsburgh. Patients will monitor
      their weight at home on a monthly basis. Interim metabolic evaluations will be arranged as
      needed on a clinical basis with the study PI or the subject's home metabolic physician.
      Following the initial 12 months of the protocol, subjects will be placed on a continuing
      schedule for maintenance of triheptanoin therapy with a yearly follow up visit for an
      undeterminable period of time. Echocardiograms must be completed on an annual basis and sent
      to the study PI to review.

      Travel to Pittsburgh, PA at the start of the study and annually is the responsibility of the
      subjects. Additionally, there may be study costs that insurance will not cover and subjects
      will be responsible for covering them. Examples of out-of-pocket study costs subjects may
      incur in addition to travel expenses including the following: necessary laboratory testing
      and echocardiograms. The study medication will be provided free of charge.
    
  