
    
      The study sample will comprise of 220 adults with proven Crohn's disease, either with active
      disease or in remission phase. A detailed medical and nutritional assessment will be
      implemented at baseline. Data regarding the hospitalizations, disease relapse, duration of
      remission and complications of all the patients will be collected one year after the baseline
      assessment.

      More specifically regarding the detailed assessment, firstly, gastroenterologists of the
      research team will complete a full medical record regarding the localization of the disease,
      activity of disease (active or remission), complications, comorbidities and medication. The
      activity of Crohn's disease will be assessed using the Harvey-Bradshaw Index (HBI). Blood
      will be collected for all patients with Crohn's Disease.

      Furthermore, in the Laboratory of Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics at Harokopio University,
      patients will participate in the following procedures:

        -  Indirect calorimetry: Resting Energy Expenditure (REE) measurement will be performed
           (Ultima Series, Cosmed).

        -  Anthropometry: Weight, height, waist and mid-arm circumference, and triceps skinfold
           will be measured. Body mass index, mid-arm muscle circumference and area will be
           estimated using standard equations.

        -  Body composition analysis and bone density measurement: Total body Dual-energy X-Ray
           Absorptiometry (DXA) and Spine (Lunar DPX-MD, Madison, WI, USA) will be performed.

        -  Muscle strength and performance status: Handgrip strength measurement based on certain
           protocol and the "Short Physical Performance Battery" (SPPB) tool will be implemented.

        -  Dietary intake evaluation: A Food-Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) and two non-consecutive
           24h recalls (one weekday and one weekend day) will be recorded. Data will be analyzed to
           estimate energy, macro- and micronutrients intake (Nutritionist Pro software, 2.2
           version). Food group intake and meal patterns will also be evaluated.

        -  Physical activity assessment: Patients' physical activity levels will be assessed using
           the "Harokopio Physical Activity Questionnaire".

        -  Fatigue and Quality of Life Assessment: Assessment of fatigue will be performed with
           "Fatigue Severity Scale" (FSS), when assessment of quality of life with be performed
           with "Food Related Quality of Life" (FR-QoL) and "Short Inflammatory Bowel Disease
           Questionnaire" (SIBDQ).

      In addition, patients' nutritional risk or nutritional status will be assessed through
      several previously validated tools like the Subjective Global Assessment, the Nutrition Risk
      Score 2002, the Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool, the efficacy of which will be tested
      in the present study. Patients will be also categorized according to ESPEN's (European
      Society of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition) recent malnutrition diagnostic criteria.

      The full assessment will be repeated only for patients who will change medications.

      Three months, six months, nine months and twelve months after the baseline assessment of the
      study samples, data will be collected regarding the hospitalizations, disease relapse,
      duration of remission and complications of all the patients.
    
  