
    
      Background: Premature newborns are physiologically and structurally different from mature
      newborns, and these differences also bring along many health problems. Healthy growth and
      neurodevelopmental needs of premature infants are evolutionarily met by providing breast
      milk, which is a unique and natural food with excellent content. The importance of breast
      milk in the nutritional management of premature and risky newborns has been well documented
      by the American Academy of Pediatrics (American Academy of Pediatrics. 2012), and colostrum
      with rich content especially in breast milk is the perfect first immunostimulant in infants.
      In the literature, it is emphasized that oral minimal colostrum administration in very low
      birth weight infants supports the development of immunity, contributes to the development of
      oral microbiota and reduces the length of hospital stay (Manzoni 2011; Pammi 2011; Zhang
      2017; Moreno-Fernandez 2018; Rodriguez et al. 2009; Rodriguez et al. 2010).

      In the intrauterine period, while the development of the sense of smell is completed at
      gestational weeks 26-28, the development of the sense of taste is completed at week 18. The
      fact that premature newborn is physically and neurologically insufficient after birth, and
      the failure of environmental factors to meet the sensory needs (smell, taste, touch, sight,
      hearing) in the intensive care environment outside the safe intrauterine environment during
      the critical period negatively affect the newborn. The sense of smell is related to the sense
      of taste and is a rapidly developing "chemical" sense. In the literature, it is reported that
      familiar and pleasant tastes and smells facilitate the psychophysiological adaptation of
      premature newborns to the first environment and contribute to mother-infant attachment
      (Lipchock et al. 2011; Henderson 2011). The fats secreted from montgomery bodies (small
      mounds on the areola) in the newborn's mother's breast have the same chemical structure and
      smell of the amniotic fluid. This special similarity supports the sensory development of the
      newborn and also helps the newborn to find and grasp the mother's breast (Henderson 2011;
      Mennella and Ventura 2011). In the studies, it is reported that the taste and smell of breast
      milk have effects on increased sucking movements of the newborn, early transition to oral
      feeding and soothing (Aoyama et al. 2010; Bingham, Abassi and Sivieri 2003). It is considered
      that there are many factors that affect the breastfeeding experience, and that one of the
      most important of these experiences is the newborn's gaining sensory experience for the
      senses of smell and taste until the first breastfeeding experience. Based on the studies
      indicating that premature infants distinguish their mother's milk smell and taste (Lecanuet
      and Schoal, 1996; Aoyama et al. 2010), it is considered that the newborns will positively
      affect the breastfeeding with the oral colostrum administration. The aim of this study was to
      analyze the effect of oral (oropharyngeal) colostrum administration in very low birth weight
      premature infants (between 1000-1500 gr) who cannot be fed orally on the success of
      breastfeeding.

      Method: This is a randomized controlled experimental study. All very low birth weight infants
      born to primiparous mothers hospitalized in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of Sakarya
      University Training and Research Hospital, Ministry of Health between February and November
      2020 will constitute the population of the study. The sample of the study was calculated in
      accordance with the intervention group selection criteria and by performing power analysis.
      Power analysis was performed using G*Power (v3.1.7) program in order to determine sample
      size. The effect range value was taken as 0.70 as the method used in cases where it is
      unknown how many units difference is significant between the groups. In cases where Type 1
      error probability (α) was 0.05 (at a confidence level of 95%), at a power level of 80% and
      the effect range was 0.70, the study was planned with a total of 68 mothers, including 34
      mothers women for each group. In the study, randomization will be determined by the urn
      method. The urn method is used as a method equivalent to full randomization. In this method,
      two parameters such as α and β are mentioned. These parameters refer to balls in two
      different colors, red and white. α can be white or red, and β will be the exact opposite of
      them. One of the balls is randomly selected and if the selected ball is white, the individual
      is allocated into group α, and if it is red, then the individual is allocated into group β.
      This process is repeated in each allocation (Kanık et al. 2011). In the study, the red
      colored ball constituted the study group and the white colored ball constituted the control
      group. In the case of an infant who meets the sampling criteria, these balls prepared by the
      researcher will be placed in a black pouch and a nurse currently working in the unit will be
      asked to make a choice with her eyes closed. The infant will be allocated into the study or
      control group according to the color of the selected ball. Thus, the infants will be randomly
      allocated into both groups.. The sample of the study will be randomly allocated into two
      groups: the intervention group will be administered with oral colostrum, and the other group,
      which was the control group, will be followed up by oral care with sterile physiological
      saline in routine care of the service. Single-blind (researchers are not blind) randomization
      will be provided since the mothers will be provided with education on the importance of oral
      colostrum administration and milking techniques by the researchers. The statistician was also
      blinded for the data analysis purpose. Data collection will be conducted in five stages. In
      the first stage of data collection, the information in the "Mother-Preterm Introductory
      Information Form" including socio-demographic characteristics in the study and control groups
      before colostrum administration, and the information in "Preterm Follow-up Form" including
      questions related to physiological parameters, body measurements and nutrition will be
      obtained. In the second stage, oral colostrum, which was initiated when the neonatologist
      determined that the newborn in the study group was stable, will be administered once every 3
      hours and for at least 5 days until the newborn begins oral feeding. In accordance with the
      oral colostrum protocol, a total of 0.2ml colostrum will be administered in approximately 1
      minute for infants weighing between 1001-1500 g. The infants in the control group will be
      followed up in routine service care. In the third stage, the information in the "Preterm
      Follow-up Form" will be obtained after oral colostrum administration in the study group. The
      same data will be obtained from the control group simultaneously with the study group. In the
      fourth stage, the effectiveness of the first breastfeeding will be evaluated by the observers
      in both groups using the Bristol Breastfeeding Assessment Tool. In the last stage, one week
      after the first breastfeeding sucking / breastfeeding experience will be evaluated again. In
      the evaluation of data, statistical analyses will be performed using the SPSS package
      program. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov (K-S) test will be used for normality. In order to determine
      whether there is a difference in the dependent variables compared to independent variables,
      the independent group t-test will be used if the distribution is normal in independent
      variables with two options, and Mann Whitney-U test will be used if distribution is not
      normal. The results will be evaluated at a confidence level of 95% and at a level of
      significance of p<0.05.
    
  