
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the accuracy of post-neoadjuvant systemic therapy (NST) image-directed tumor bed
      biopsy for pathologic complete response (pCR), defined as resolution of both invasive disease
      and ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), in cases of clinical and radiologic complete response
      with trimodality imaging.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect axillary pathology results, surgical staging methods (sentinel lymph node
      biopsy and/or axillary lymph node dissection), and management (surgery and/or radiation) in
      order to determine axillary nodal response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy and its relationship
      to breast pCR.

      II. To correlate imaging results with pathologic nodal status following neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy for future planning of axillary management in the next study.

      III. To retrospectively assess the negative predictive value (NPV) of a trimodality imaging
      algorithm in combination with the tumor bed biopsy for predicting pCR.

      IV. To collect all trimodality imaging data to determine which combination of the trimodality
      imaging best identifies the group achieving pCR.

      V. To correlate the number of needle cores and tumor bed clip retrieval with the NPV of the
      tumor site biopsy.

      VI. To determine the clinical, imaging, pathologic, and molecular tumor factors associated
      with the highest NPVs of post-NST tumor bed biopsies.

      VII. To improve identification and selection of patients with breast and possible axillary
      pCR for future trial planning, routine biomarkers (estrogen receptor [ER], progesterone
      receptor [PR], HER2 neu, and Ki67) will be collected to allow comparison to image/clinical
      complete response (CR), and tumor bed biopsies.

      OUTLINE:

      After completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients undergo stereotactic biopsy of breast tumor
      any time prior to breast conserving surgery. Patients then undergo breast conserving surgery
      as per standard of care. Patients may also undergo postoperative radiation therapy per
      standard of care or adjuvant therapy at the investigator's discretion.
    
  