
    
      Coronavirus-2019 (COVID-19) is a global epidemic that has serious consequences and affects
      the world with its rapid spread and high mortality rate. The number of people infected with
      Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV2) is rapidly increasing. COVID-19
      patients may have pneumonia, severe symptoms of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS)
      and multiple organ failure, as well as cases with no symptoms.

      Although social distance, quarantine and isolation are effective in reducing the spread of
      SARS-CoV-2 in the short term during the pandemic, there is no effective treatment method yet.
      It is known that especially healthcare workers, the elderly and individuals with underlying
      health problems are at high risk. However, gender differences in COVID-19 clinical outcomes
      are thought to exist, and there is growing evidence that the disease is more severe in men
      than in women and mortality rates are higher.

      The highly contagious nature of SARS-CoV-2 has led to millions of cases worldwide,
      strengthening the global need for an effective vaccine to halt the spread of the disease and
      reduce the number of deaths. With the global consensus that the most effective approach to
      control the COVID-19 pandemic is a vaccination that is effective in COVID-19, many different
      vaccines have been tested with the acceleration of vaccination studies. According to the data
      of the World Health Organization, there are 236 vaccines in total, with clinical (63) and
      pre-clinical (173) studies developed using 10 different methods. Types of vaccines for
      COVID-19 include conventionally live attenuated viruses, inactivated virus protein or
      polysaccharide conjugated subunit vaccines, virus-like particles (VLPs), nucleic acid (DNA
      and RNA), viral vectors (replicating and non-replicating), and and other vaccines consisting
      of recombinant proteins.

      Although the production of virus-based vaccines takes longer than other vaccines, the immune
      response is expected to be at a good level. Measles, mumps, Hepatitis A and chickenpox
      vaccines are examples of vaccines developed with the virus-based method. CoronaVac vaccine
      (inactivated + aluminum adjuvant vaccine) is a vaccine developed by the inactive method
      (produced and inactivated by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the laboratory), which is the classic
      vaccine production method. China-based vaccine development Sinovac Biotech Ltd. Made by the
      biopharmaceutical company named. After the completion of Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies of the
      vaccine, Phase 3 studies were initiated to investigate the effectiveness of the vaccine in 4
      different countries, including our country. Emergency use approval has been given for the
      CoronaVac vaccine by Turkish Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency.

      The clinical picture of COVID-19 can be heterogeneous, ranging from asymptomatic to severe
      disease, which can be associated with a cytokine storm. The pathogenesis of COVID-19 is not
      fully understood, but is likely multifactorial and, in severe cases, with a systemic
      hyperinflammatory response and associated thromboembolic complications.

      Some vitamins and nutrients may be beneficial for patients infected with COVID-19 due to
      their anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. Vitamins such as A, B, C, D, E and
      folate, and trace elements such as iron, zinc, magnesium, selenium and copper play important
      roles in supporting both innate and adaptive immune systems.

      Free radicals are continuously formed at the active site of enzymes as intermediates in
      enzymatic reactions occurring during cell metabolism. Reactive oxygen species and reactive
      nitrogen, known as intermediates, sometimes leak from the active site of enzymes and
      accidentally interact with molecular oxygen and form free oxygen radicals. Lipids, proteins,
      enzymes, carbohydrates, and DNA can be damaged due to oxidative stress, random breaks and
      bonds in DNA chains may occur as a result of damage to membranes, damage to enzymes and
      structural proteins may result in cell death, and these phenomena may result in cancer,
      neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and It constitutes the molecular
      basis in the development of autoimmune disorders.

      With the quarantine measures applied, not going out and staying at home causes the person to
      stay away from his daily routine life, the increase in the time spent at home, the pandemic
      news that is constantly being listened to and watched cause increasing anxiety, causing both
      changes in mood and a more sedentary life . Studies have also reported that negative
      psychological effects such as post-traumatic stress symptoms, confusion and anger as a result
      of quarantine have been reported. In addition, it has been said that restriction often causes
      boredom, disappointment and a feeling of isolation. These consequences, brought about by the
      COVID-19 pandemic, negatively affect the quality of life of individuals. During the COVID-19
      pandemic, it has been reported that the depression and anxiety levels of healthcare workers
      increased and their quality of life decreased.

      The objective of this study is to compare and determined and the changes of oxidative stress
      parameters, trace element and quality of life levels in healthy men just before the first
      dose of COVID-19 vaccine and on the 7th day after the second dose of COVID19 vaccine.
    
  