
    
      Twelve rheumatology practices around the U.S. will be recruited to participate in a Learning
      Collaborative (LC). Eligible practices will have at least 50 rheumatoid arthritis patients,
      at least 2 rheumatologists, and an electronic medical record or typed notes. Each practice
      will be randomized to receive the intervention in either phase 1 (first 9 months) or phase 2
      (second 9 months).

      The collaborative will consist of a series of 9 Learning Sessions (1 conducted face-to-face,
      the remaining conducted via webinar) as well as regular coaching sessions and collaborative
      sessions. The structure of the collaborative will be such that each learning session will
      focus on resources, expertise, and best practices that address common barriers to
      Treat-to-Target (TTT) adoption. The follow-up coaching and collaborative sessions will give
      providers the opportunity to reflect on what they have learned from their own practices and
      from each other.

      The first Learning Session was a one-day face-to-face meeting that consisted of orienting the
      teams to the Model for Improvement, describing the Change Package and its content, conducting
      team building activities focused on developing ideas for plan-do-study-act (PDSA) cycles, and
      cross-team learning activities. (The PDSA cycles refer to tests of change, using four stages,
      that are performed as part of a quality improvement process.) The day primarily consisted of
      discussion sessions, and several lectures on TTT, disease activity measures, and shared
      decision making helped orient teams to the Change Package contents. There was ample time for
      teams to get feedback from expert faculty on their proposed tests of change and results to
      date. Subsequent Learning Sessions were conducted via webinar.

      We developed a web-based collaborative tool for the Learning Collaborative. It helped manage
      contents being shared across teams (i.e., key resources, PDSAs), displayed monthly
      improvement metrics, and provided a discussion board with conversation "threads." The tool
      was used in all Learning Sessions.

      Specific patient data will never be identified in the sessions of the Collaborative, and no
      specific patient data will be shared between the participating providers. Providers will be
      able to interact with each other to share general practice patterns and behaviors, but
      sensitive patient information will not be shared.

      The intervention will be conducted in 2 phases. In phase 1, a group of 5practices [Cohort 1]
      will initiate the collaborative, which will last 9 months. After 9 months, phase 2 will begin
      with the remaining practices [Cohort 2] initiating the second collaborative of the same
      content as cohort 1, and the second collaborative will also take 9 months to complete. The
      cohort 1 and cohort 2 collaborative groups will not have any interaction with each other, but
      cohort 2 will serve as a concurrent control to cohort 1 in the first 9 months of the
      intervention.

      De-identified data will be collected from participating sites to compare TTT practices prior
      to and following the Learning Collaborative intervention using a chart review abstraction
      tool. The tool has four items: 1) documentation of a treatment target; 2) documentation of
      shared decision making; 3) documentation of a disease activity measure; and 4) evidence that
      this information guided treatment decisions. This tool will be used to grade the visit in the
      two months immediately prior to the start of Phase 1 and the visit in the two months
      immediately prior to the end of Phase 1; a change score between baseline to follow-up will be
      calculated. The range of change in implementation of TTT can vary from -4 (worsening from 4
      at baseline to 0 at follow-up) to +4 (improvement from 0 at baseline to 4 at follow-up).
      Thus, the range of change scores will be from -4 to +4, a 9-point ordinal scale. The baseline
      visit will be considered the patient visit within two months before the start of Phase 1
      (January 2015). If there are multiple visits in this time-frame, then the note for the visit
      most proximal to January 2015 (start of the study) will be assessed. The end of Phase 1 visit
      will be considered the visit within two months before November 1, 2015. Again, if there are
      multiple visits in this time-frame, then the note for the visit most proximal to October 1,
      2015 will be assessed. When assessing the performance at each site, we will randomly sample
      the medical records of patients with RA who have visits documented within these two
      time-frames.

      Surveys will also be collected from patients and providers to assess satisfaction with the
      patient-provider interaction and shared decision-making. RA patients were randomly selected
      at each site to complete a questionnaire rating their satisfaction with the shared
      decision-making process using the three item collaboRATE scale. This was carried out at the
      start of Phase I and will be re-assessed at the end of Phase 1. Similarly, we asked providers
      involved in the Learning Collaborative from all sites in both groups to complete a modified
      version of this questionnaire; this will also be re-assessed at the end of Phase 1. During
      Phase 2, the only outcomes we plan to assess are the primary outcome of TTT implementation as
      well as the patient collaboRATE scale.

      The primary analysis will compare the primary outcome among the Learning Collaborative sites
      with the control sites. The mean change in implementation of TTT for the Learning
      Collaborative arm will be compared with implementation of TTT for the control arm after
      accounting for intra-cluster correlation using linear mixed models. Although the normality
      assumption may be violated when the outcome variable is ordinal, linear mixed models should
      still be valid for the proposed sample size. Treatment arm will be the exposure of interest.
      Covariates included in the model will include provider-level characteristics (such as age,
      gender, training), patient-level characteristics (age, gender, baseline disease activity,
      baseline RA drugs), and other covariates found to be unbalanced at baseline. While these
      characteristics should be balanced given the random assignment to treatment arm, the small
      number of centers in each arm opens the possibility of baseline differences and thus the
      rationale for adjustment. Similarly, for the secondary outcomes (dichotomous variables), we
      will use generalized linear mixed models for binary outcomes.

      The trial has been powered based on the primary outcome - the estimated difference in change
      in TTT implementation between the Learning Collaborative intervention and the control sites.
      Several other assumptions underpin the sample size estimation. First, the control group would
      have no or only small change (0-5%) change in implementation of TTT compared with a change in
      the intervention group of 20-40%, an improvement level observed in a similar prior trial
      using a Learning Collaborative. Second, we will include 5 sites in the intervention group,
      and 6 in the control group. We assume that average number of providers in each practice is 5,
      and expect there would be substantial intra-cluster correlation (ICC) among patients within a
      given provider. We conservatively assume a range of ICC is 0.1-0.3 based on prior work.
      Third, the significant level (alpha) would be two-sided 0.05, and the goal power would be
      80%.

      Based on these assumptions, we estimated sample sizes for the proposed trial. The required
      number of patients per provider needed to detected meaningful differences was calculated for
      each set of assumptions. Based on these estimates, we will review a random 6 patients per
      provider with eligible visits to ensure an adequate sample size to achieve 80% power.
    
  