
    
      Background: Morbidly adherent placenta is a spectrum of conditions characterized by an
      abnormal adherence of the placenta to the implantation site. Three major variants of adherent
      placentation can be recognized according to the degree of trophoblastic invasion through the
      myometrium and the uterine serosa: placenta accreta, placenta increta and placenta percreta.
      All varieties of invasive placentation are associated with a significant increase in maternal
      morbidity.Placenta previa and previous uterine surgery represent the major risk factors for
      invasive placentation. Prenatal diagnosis of invasive placentation is associated with a
      reduced risk of maternal complications such as peripartum blood loss, need for transfusions
      and rate of hysterectomy, as it allows a preplanned treatment of the condition, however the
      performance of antenatal ultrasound and of different sonographic signs is not consistent
      across published studies because of limited sample size, retrospective design, variability of
      inclusion criteria and definition of invasive placentation.

      Objectives: The aim of this study is to systematically assess the performance of ultrasound
      in the prenatal diagnosis of placenta accreta and its variants and to evaluate the role of
      the different specific ultrasound signs in predicting disorders of invasive placentation. The
      sonographic signs assessed in this study were: (1) vascular lacunae within the placenta, (2)
      loss of normal hypoechoic retroplacental zone, (3) interruption of the bladder line and/or
      focal exophytic masses extending into the bladder space, considered together and labeled as
      'abnormalities of the uterus - bladder interface.

      Design:prospective, multicenter, observational study of pregnant women with placenta previa.

      Methods: The investigators hypothesized that ultrasound has a sensitivity of at least 80% and
      a specificity of at least 97%, with 10% confidence intervals, for antenatal diagnosis of
      invasive placentation.The investigators would require 2048 women with placenta previa, of
      whom approximately 61 (3%) will have morbidly adherent placenta, to test the null hypothesis
      with a 0.05 risk of type I error (alpha). Supposing a 10% of women with incomplete follow up
      the investigators aim to enroll 2254 women in this study.

      Diagnostic criteria that suggested placenta accreta, increta, or percreta included one or
      more of the following situations: (1) obliteration of the clear space, defined as the
      obliteration of any part of the echolucent area located between the uterus and placenta; (2)
      visualization of placental lacunae, defined as multiple linear, irregular vascular spaces
      within the placenta; and (3) interruption of the posterior bladder wall-uterine interface
      such that the usual continuous echolucent line appears instead as a series of dashes.

      The degree of placental invasion was defined as follows: (i) placenta accreta was assumed
      when placental 'cones' disrupted the decidual zone with mildly increased vascularization
      around these cones ; (ii) placenta increta was diagnosed when placental invasion into the
      myometrium was sonographically suspected as a result of the presence of irregular and diffuse
      demarcation of the placental - uterine wall interface and thinning of the myometrium that was
      overlying the placental - myometrial tissue. Placenta increta was also characterized by
      increased vascularization and irregularly shaped intraplacental vascular lacunae, resembling
      the characteristic 'moth damage' appearance ; and (iii) the sonographic finding of placenta
      percreta was defined by a complete absence of the myometrium, with the placenta extending to
      the serosa, or beyond, including vascular breakthrough.In addition, placenta percreta was
      also characterized by massive subplacental hypervascularization, with vessels extending
      irregularly into the placental - myometrial tissue and with numerous large intraplacental
      lacunae.

      Clinical and histopathological assessment of placental invasion:

      Sonographic findings were compared with the clinical outcome during and after delivery and
      the histomorphological examination of the placenta, performed by pathologists experienced in
      obstetric histopathology, who were blinded to the sonographic findings.

      .............................................................................................
      .............

      Main Outcomes measure:

      Primary Outcome: sensitivity (SN), specificity(SP), positive likelihood ratio (LR+), negative
      likelihood ratio (LR - ) and diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) of antenatal ultrasound and
      different sonographic signs for in prediction of morbidly adherent placenta.

      Secondary Outcome: to evaluate whether the maximum degree of placental invasion (placenta
      accreta, increta or percreta) can be predicted with antenatal ultrasound.
    
  