
    
      Mitochondria are the primary source of energy within the cell, in the form of adenosine
      triphosphate (ATP). Mitochondrial ATP production is tightly regulated according to the energy
      requirements of the cell, but little is known about the underlying control mechanisms. This
      is important for the understanding of the biology of cell energetics and also relevant for
      patients with rare mitochondrial diseases where it has been proposed that inducing
      mitochondrial proliferation (biogenesis) might be an effective treatment. However, before
      embarking on therapeutic studies, it is essential to develop our understanding of the
      homeostatic mechanisms. Patients with mitochondrial diseases show an enhanced capacity for
      mitochondrial proliferation, and therefore provide an ideal platform to study mitochondrial
      homeostasis in vivo in man. The aim of this study, therefore, is to investigate the
      homeostatic mechanisms in this group of individuals because we are most likely to see an
      effect in this context.

      Nicotinamide riboside (NR), a NAD+ natural precursor, boosts the PGC1α-dependent
      mitochondrial biogenesis pathway, leading to increased transcription of genes of the
      oxidative phosphorylation and improved motor performance of myopathic mice. This study is an
      open-label experimental medicine study using NR with the primary aim of determining whether
      there is mechanistic link between mitochondrial biogenesis and physiological function in
      humans with a similar mitochondrial disease.

      This project consists of two studies, carried out in series. Both will investigate patients
      with a clinical and genetic diagnosis of:

      i. Progressive external ophthalmoplegia (PEO) plus exercise intolerance/fatigue, caused by a
      single deletion of mitochondrial DNA

      or

      ii. Mitochondrial disease caused by the m.3243A>G mutation in mitochondrial DNA

      Study 1: a 24 hour study before the experimental intervention, to confirm bioavailability of
      NR at a dosage within the range of a published study.

      Patients (n=5) will be invited to the CRF for an overnight stay. If applicable, a urinary
      pregnancy test will be carried out before any study procedures commence. A baseline blood
      sample will be taken before administration of the supplement. Oral NR will be administered at
      a dosage of 10mg/kg -, and blood samples will be drawn at 30 mins,1, 2, 6, 12 and 24 hours
      post administration. These samples will be used for measurement of NR/NAD+ levels in blood at
      the relevant time points and ensure these are at expected levels before proceeding to
      experimental intervention.

      Study 2: a 4-week study to determine whether NR induces mitochondrial biogenesis and affects
      mitochondrial function in patients with mitochondrial disease.

      Patients (n=10) will undergo measurements of mitochondrial biogenesis and physiological
      activities. Oral NR will be administered at a dosage of 10mg/kg b.i.d, (taken twice daily,
      after food) and patients will be asked to return weekly for standard observations and to
      provide a blood sample. After 4 weeks of NR administration, patients will return for a repeat
      measure of the mitochondrial biogenesis parameters and physiological activities
    
  