
    
      First-grade students who meet study entry criteria are identified near the start of the
      school year using a 3-stage screening process. Students who enter the study complete the
      pretest battery.

      Then, students are randomly assigned at the individual level to coordinated intervention,
      reading intervention, math intervention, or a business-as-usual control group (the schools'
      typical classroom instruction with supplemental intervention schools choose to provide).
      Research staff deliver intervention in the coordinated intervention condition, in the reading
      intervention condition, and in the math intervention condition 1:1 for 15 weeks (three 30-min
      sessions per week, scheduled in line with teacher input to avoid students missing important
      content). Adherence to the researcher-delivered interventions is monitored via audio
      recordings and live observations.

      The content of each researcher-delivered intervention is aligned with the school district's
      1st-grade foundational reading & math learning standards; relies on explicit instruction; and
      incorporates fluency-building activities word reading and/or arithmetic problems;
      incorporates procedures designed to build engagement and perseverance. Reading intervention
      is designed to build skill in letter-sound associations, decoding, sight words, and
      contextualized reading. Math intervention provides is designed to build number knowledge,
      counting strategies, and arithmetic skill. Coordinated intervention addresses the same
      instructional objectives as reading intervention & math intervention.

      When researcher-delivered intervention ends, students in all four conditions complete the
      posttest assessment battery. Testers are blind to students' study conditions. Adherence to
      testing protocols is monitored via audio recordings. The primary endpoints are posttest
      word-reading fluency and arithmetic fluency.
    
  