
    
      Background:

      -Base excision repair (BER) of DNA repair pathway has been implicated in resistance to

      both alkylating and antimetabolite chemotherapy.

      -TRC102 (methoxyamine HCl) acts through a novel mechanism to inhibit BER and has

      demonstrated the ability to potentiate the activity of the alkylating agent temozolomide

      (TMZ), in vitro and in vivo. We hypothesize that TRC102 can be safely co-administered

      with TMZ and would potentiate DNA damage caused by TMZ, resulting in antitumor

      responses.

      -Based on responses measured during the Phase I portion of the trial, we will further

      explore the efficacy of this combination in patients with metastatic colon carcinoma,
      nonsmall

      cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and granulosa cell ovarian cancer

      Primary Objective:

      -To establish the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of oral TRC102

      in combination with oral TMZ in patients with refractory solid tumors

      -Evaluate the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of oral TRC102 when administered in

      combination with TMZ.

      -To explore the response rate of this combination in patients with colon cancer, NSCLC,

      and granulosa cell ovarian cancer

      Secondary Objective:

        -  To explore the progression free survival rate of this combination in patients with colon

      cancer, NSCLC, and granulosa cell ovarian cancer

      Exploratory Objectives:

        -  Investigate tumor genomic and transcriptomic alterations potentially associated with
           sensitivity and/or the development of resistance to TRC102 and temozolomide.

        -  Determine the effects of the study treatment on the level of histone gamma-H2AX in
           circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and tumor and correlate the gamma-H2AX response in tumor
           and CTCs

        -  Determine the effects of the study treatment on the levels of cleaved caspase 3,
           epithelial- mesenchymal transition, and APE in tumor and CTCs

        -  Determine and characterize the effects of study treatment on erythrocytes

        -  Characterize the clinical presentation of hemolysis observed in earlier study subjects
           and explore the possible mechanisms

      Eligibility:

      -Phase I: histologically confirmed solid tumors that have progressed on standard therapy

      known to prolong survival or for which no standard treatment options exist

      -Phase II: histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the colon post at least two lines of

      therapy, NSCLC post at least two lines of therapy, or granulosa cell ovarian cancer post at

      least one line of therapy

        -  No major surgery, radiation, or chemotherapy within 4 weeks prior to entering the study

        -  Adequate organ function

        -  Healthy adult volunteers greater than or equal to 18 years of age will be consented to
           donate research blood

      Please note: healthy adult volunteers will no longer be recruited to provide blood for this
      study as we will no longer perform the hemolysis analysis.

      Study Design: Phase I

        -  This is an open-label Phase I trial; traditional 3+3 design.

        -  Oral TRC102 and oral TMZ will be administered daily, days 1-5 in 28-day cycles

        -  Once the MTD is established, up to 15 additional patients will be enrolled at the MTD to

      further evaluate that dose for PK and PD endpoints for evidence of DNA damage and

      apoptosis.

      -During the escalation phase, tumor biopsies will be optional. During the expansion phase,

      (once MTD is reached), mandatory paired tumor biopsies will be pursued in the 15

      additional patients enrolled to further evaluate PD endpoints.

      Phase II

      -This is a 3-arm Simon 2-stage design trial evaluating independently the response rate of

      patients with colon, NSCLC, and granulosa cell ovarian cancer.

        -  Patients with a body surface area (BSA) of greater than or equal to 1.6 m(2) will
           receive 125 mg of TRC 102 and 150 mg/m2 of TMZ PO qday x 5 every 28 days (DL6). Patients
           with a BSA of <1.6 m(2) will receive 100 mg of TRC 102 and 150 mg/m2 of TMZ PO qday x 5
           every 28 days (DL5).. Each cycle will be 28 days.

        -  The accrual ceiling for the Phase II portion is 75 patients.

        -  Mandatory paired tumor biopsies will be pursued to further evaluate PD endpoints.
    
  