
    
      Background: Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a prevalent problem among military
      troops. Recovery from combat-related PTSD is often complicated by problems with anger.
      Veterans with difficulties managing PTSD-related anger may be particularly likely to live in
      remote geographical regions where access to specialized mental health care is often limited.
      Telemental health (TMH) has been touted as a potential means of increasing access to care in
      rural or remote areas. Objectives: This study compared the effectiveness of group Anger
      Management Therapy (AMT) delivered via videoteleconferencing (VTC) and in-person delivery in
      a sample of rural combat veterans with PTSD. The long-range objective of this project was to
      develop an empirically sound TMH protocol that will facilitate the extension of manual guided
      clinical services to remote sites via VTC. We hypothesized that providing a manualized group
      therapy intervention via VTC would result in similar reductions in anger symptoms as obtained
      from traditional in-person care. Further, we hypothesized that key process indicators (i.e.,
      attrition, adherence, satisfaction, and therapeutic alliance) would not be significantly
      different between the VTC and in-person conditions. The specific objectives of this project
      were to: a) determine if group AMT delivered via VTC is as effective as the same intervention
      delivered in-person on clinical outcomes measuring reductions in anger symptoms and b)
      determine if group AMT delivered via VTC is as effective as the same intervention delivered
      in-person on group process outcomes. Methods: A randomized controlled non-inferiority trial
      of 125 male veterans with PTSD and anger difficulties was conducted at three Department of
      Veterans Affairs' outpatient clinics. Participants were randomly assigned to receive AMT
      delivered in a group setting with the therapist either in-person (N= 64) or via VTC (N= 61).
      Participants were assessed at baseline, mid-treatment, post-treatment, and 3 and 6-months
      post-treatment. The primary clinical outcome was reduction of anger difficulties, as measured
      by the Anger Expression and Trait Anger subscales of the State-Trait Anger Expression
      Inventory (STAXI-2) and the Novaco Anger Total Scale (NAS). Process variables were measured
      to assess the feasibility of AMT delivered via VTC. SAS MEANS procedure was used to calculate
      means and standard deviations for change from baseline at subsequent assessment points for
      both intent-to-treat and per-protocol analysis.
    
  