
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the response (partial and complete response) in patients with relapsed or
           refractory multiple myeloma receiving bortezomib, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and
           dexamethasone (PAD) after prior treatment with a maximum of 6 courses of vincristine,
           doxorubicin, and dexamethasone (VAD) or VAD-like regimen.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the safety and toxicity of PAD therapy in these patients.

        -  To determine the progression-free survival and overall survival of these patients.

        -  To compare the original response to VAD with the response obtained with PAD as assessed
           by percent fall in paraprotein or Bence Jones Protein, lowest level of abnormal protein
           achieved, and duration of response in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      STUDY DESIGN & METHODOLOGY:

      This is a non-randomised, open labelled phase II trial in patients with relapsed or
      refractory multiple myeloma. Patients will be treated with: Bortezomib 1.3mg/m^2 bolus IV
      injection days 1, 4, 8 & 11 + Dexamethasone 40mg po on days 1, 2, 3, 4 + Doxorubicin
      9mg/m^2/day IV continuous infusion over days 1 - 4. In addition, for the first cycle only,
      Dexamethasone will also be given at 40mg po on days 8 - 11 and 15 - 18.

      Each treatment regimen will continue for a minimum of four - and up to six - cycles of 21
      days (maximum response and 1 cycle).

      This study planned to recruit a total of 69 patients in up to 8 centres in Ireland and the
      UK.

      Patients will be enrolled in three groups of 23 patients:

        -  Relapsed patients, previously treated with VAD or VAD like regimen (VAMP, C-VAMP and
           Z-Dex are examples of VAD like therapy) and who have had autologous transplants at least
           1 year previously. Patients may proceed directly to PAD therapy or have had a maximum of
           one other line of therapy before PAD.

        -  Relapsed patients, previously treated with VAD or VAD-like regimen who have not had
           autologous transplantation and achieved at least PR (Appendix A). Patients may proceed
           directly to PAD therapy or have had a maximum of two other lines of therapy before PAD.

        -  Patients refractory (MR, NC or PD) to VAD or VAD-like therapy. Patients should proceed
           directly to PAD therapy. Patients with NC or PD may proceed to PAD after a minimum of
           two cycles of VAD or VAD-like therapy or a minimum of 4 cycles, if MR.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year.
    
  