
    
      Background:

        -  Leukapheresis is a necessary step to developing a "CAR therapy" or other adoptive
           cellular therapy products. There are numerous clinical trials underway in the NCI
           utilizing CAR therapy.

        -  The purpose of this protocol is to develop a streamlined process whereby patients
           undergo apheresis for development of a CAR cell or other adoptive cell therapy product
           on a subsequent therapeutic clinical trial, which can be administered when the patient
           needs investigational therapies.

        -  Emerging data suggests the critical importance of elements of the apheresis product in
           outcomes following adoptive cell therapy. Evaluation of methodologies to optimize timing
           and composition of the apheresis collection are imperative to the feasibility of
           manufacturing and remains an active area of investigations. Patient specific elements
           (e.g., presence of NK-cells/circulating leukemic blasts and/or inhibitory myeloid
           derived suppressor cells) along with other parameters of the apheresis product itself
           appear to influence efficacy and toxicity profiles of adoptive cell therapy.

        -  Allowing for collection of the leukapheresis product in a protocol separate from the
           therapeutic protocol would allow for the best optimization of:

             -  Patient care and disease burden

             -  Timing and coordination of cell infusion

             -  Collection in patients with high-risk disease who have no current detectable
                disease but have a very high likelihood of relapse.

             -  Comprehensive evaluation of apheresis products will facilitate enhanced
                understanding of critical elements of the apheresis product in patients with cancer
                and how this may impact outcomes of adoptive cell therapy.

      Objective:

      To obtain via the leukapheresis process by which cells will be collected and stored for use
      in CCR CAR or other adoptive cell therapy clinical trials.

      Eligibility:

      Patients 3-39 years of age, at least 15 kg, with relapsed/refractory cancer that has recurred
      after or not responded to one or more standard regimens and/or deemed incurable by standard
      therapy and who meet all eligibility criteria are eligible to participate.

      Design:

        -  Once a patient is determined to be a potential candidate for one of the NCI CAR or other
           adoptive cell therapy clinical trials, they will undergo leukapheresis, as estimated by
           recipient weight and target cell harvest dose in the Department of Transfusion Medicine
           (DTM).

        -  No treatments, investigational or standard therapy will be administered on this
           protocol.

        -  Up to 24 patients per year may be enrolled on this study. In planning for future CAR and
           adoptive cell therapy trials, we expect this study to remain open for up to 5 years for
           a total of 120 patients to be enrolled.
    
  