
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS/OBJECTIVES To determine whether the patients with chronic respiratory
      sufficiency can benefit from the AIRVO warm humidifier by decreasing the number of
      exacerbations. Furthermore, to determine the efficacy of warm humidification oxygen therapy
      compared to dry oxygen therapy, in short-term and long-term treatment of patients with stage
      II-IV COPD.

      Primary Objective:

      To observer and compare the exacerbation frequency between the warm humidification oxygen
      therapy group and dry oxygen therapy group.

      Secondary Objective:

      Compare the number of exacerbation days, median time to first exacerbation, hospital
      readmissions, and antibiotic use pertaining to respiratory infections with the baseline
      values. Evaluate and compare the quality of life to the baseline measurements.

      STUDY OVERVIEW

      Methods:

      The study will be conducted as an open label, non-randomized trial. Patients will be assigned
      to AIRVO humidification if they meet all of the inclusion/exclusion criteria of the study.
      All of the study participants will have the AIRVO warm humidifier installed at their home as
      a stand alone unit or in addition to their current LTOT therapy. For the patients that are
      already on LTOT, the oxygen flow setting will be increased to 20-25 l/min, to the optimum
      flow by taking in consideration the patient's preference.

      Data:

      Data to be collected includes exacerbation frequency, number of exacerbation days, and time
      to first exacerbation, pulmonary functions test, antibiotic usage and Quality of Life
      assessment.

      Description of AIRVO:

      The AIRVO is for the treatment of spontaneously breathing patients who would benefit from
      receiving high flow warmed and humidified respiratory gases. The AIRVO humidifier has
      adjustable flow setting for delivery of fully saturated breathing gases at 37°C, 100%
      humidity.

      Flow rates on the humidifier are adjustable between 10 and 60 L/min for this specific
      population (general is 2 -60 L/min). AIRVO humidifier is intended to be used in combination
      with medical oxygen supply. When coupled to a medical oxygen supply, the regulation of oxygen
      concentration is ensured, allowing for treatment of COPD patients with greater oxygen flow
      without risking an increased accumulation of carbon dioxide. The mixed gases, atmospheric air
      and with medical oxygen, pass through a humidification chamber with sterile water for
      humidification and heating. Breathing tubes are equipped with spiral wire, this aids with
      heating and ensures the uniform temperature and humidity is maintained. The air is supplied
      to the patients at 37°C, 100% humidity. [16]

      Treatment groups:

      ARIVO:

      All of the patients that will be Selected to participate in the study will be given an AIRVO
      humidifier by the study sponsor. Patients will be connected to and instructed in the use of
      the AIRVO. The total flow will be set at 20-25 L/min, exact flow rate will be dependent on
      the patient's preference. Optiflow oxygen catheter will be used to ensure against unpleasant
      sensation due to high flow and to avoid push back in the system.

      When acceptable flow rate has been established, it is recorded in the patient's folder. The
      patients is then instructed to use the AIRVO for a minimum eight (8) hour period, preferably
      at night. Using the humidifier for a longer period of time is allowed. The total number of
      hours the humidifier was operational will be recorded at the end of the study.
    
  