
    
      IntroductionCoronary artery bifurcation lesions comprise one of the more complex lesion
      subsetsroutinely faced in interventional cardiology, accounting for up to 20% of all
      coronarydiseases treated by percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) The technical
      difficulties inherent in the treatment of bifurcation lesions, associatedwith their lower
      success and higher complication rates compared with non-bifurcationlesions, have always been
      the object of intense research activity, with publication ofcontemporary studies in the past
      few years contributing significantly to the decisionmaking process.Bifurcation lesions are
      challenging to categorize, since they are variable not only intheir anatomy (location of
      plaque, plaque burden, angle between branches, site ofbifurcation, and size of branches), but
      also in the dynamic anatomic changes duringtreatment caused by dissections and carina shift.
      Despite these challenges complicatingclassification of bifurcation lesions, many definitions
      have been proposed in an effort tounify this common clinical situation. A coronary
      bifurcation lesion is defined as (coronary artery narrowing occurringadjacent to, and/or
      involving, the origin of a significant side branch). A significant sidebranch (SB) is a
      branch that, if lost, can impact the prognosis of the patient. General different
      classifications of coronary bifurcation lesions have been proposed, dueto the variety of
      possible bifurcation lesions, with different technical implications,treatment options, and
      prognosis. The most used, for its simplicity and reproducibility,is the Medina
      classification. This classification is based on the presence or absence ofnarrowing >50% on
      each of the three components of the bifurcation: the main branchproximal (MBP), the main
      branch distal, and the SB. A value of 0 or 1 is assigned toeach of the three segments in the
      following order: MBP, main branch distal, and SB. Forexample, a bifurcation lesion involving
      the MBP and the SB would be defined as 1, 0,1. Seven morphologies are therefore possible.
      Despite being the most usedclassification, the Medina has several limitations, since it does
      not consider the plaqueburden, branch diameter, lesion length, bifurcation angles, the
      presence of ostialdisease, or calcification.

      The goal of percutaneous coronary intervention in bifurcation lesions is tomaximize flow in
      the main branch (MB), maintain flow in the SB, prevent its occlusion,and maximize long-term
      patency. Data about bifurcational lesions percentage and short term outcome of
      differenttechniques used in intervention in our cath lab is still unknown.Aim of the study
    
  