
    
      AIMS OF STUDY:

      This project seeks to evaluate the efficacy of fibrin glue (Tisseel) as an alternative to
      conventional sutures in ocular surface reconstruction, including pterygium excision with
      conjunctival autografting and other forms of conjunctival and amniotic membrane surgery.

      It aims to evaluate the safety and efficacy of fibrin glue in pterygium and other forms of
      ocular surface conjunctival and amniotic membrane surgery, as an alternative to conventional
      suturing. We will perform conjunctival autografting in 30 patients with primary or recurrent
      pterygium, and in addition, up to 20 patients undergoing either conjunctival or amniotic
      membrane ocular surface reconstruction for a variety of diverse ocular surface disorders
      including persistent epithelial defects, Stevens Johnson syndrome, chemical and thermal burns
      and other fornix shortening/symblepharon conditions. Efficacy endpoints will be the ability
      of fibrin glue to form stable adherence of the conjunctival/AM graft postoperatively, and in
      cases of pterygium, the percentage of pterygium recurrence at 6 months following surgery, and
      subjective indications of postoperative comfort/discomfort. Safety data will include the
      close monitoring of any potential side-effects including graft loss, infection,
      pain/discomfort, excessive ocular surface inflammation, epithelial breakdown, and any
      complications resulting in visual loss. Patients will not be charged for the fibrin glue.

      If successful, the use of fibrin glue will be a useful adjunct in ocular surface
      reconstruction, reducing time of surgery and suture-related complications and discomfort. The
      cost-benefit ratio will need to be examined, but full-paying patients who can afford it may
      be offered fibrin glue in pterygium surgery as a surgical option.

      Study Plan

      This will be a non-randomized prospective series of surgical cases of pterygium surgery or
      ocular surface reconstruction in which the viability and efficacy of fibrin glue in replacing
      or augmenting sutures will be evaluated.

      Patient Numbers and Selection

        1. Pterygium cases: Patients will be referred by SNEC doctors to the Corneal Clinic for
           study counseling and enrolment. Up to 30 cases of either primary or recurrent pterygium
           requiring pterygium excision with conjunctival autografting will be counseled for study
           inclusion. The potential benefits and risks of using fibrin glue as opposed to
           conventional sutures will be explained with full informed consent. All surgery will be
           performed by the PI.

        2. Other ocular surface reconstructions: Up to 20 cases of ocular surface reconstruction
           from the SNEC Corneal Clinic requiring suturing of conjunctival grafts or AM will be
           counseled for study inclusion. Significant variations in diagnosis and indications exist
           for ocular surface transplantation and are too numerous to elucidate, but cases will
           generally include ocular surface and fornix reconstructions following symblepharon and
           cicatrizing disorders, chemical and thermal burns, etc. The potential benefits and risks
           of using fibrin glue as opposed to conventional sutures will be explained with full
           informed consent. All surgery will be performed by the PI.

      All patients will be followed up at 1 day post-operatively, 1 week, 1 month, 3 months and 6
      months. Regular slit-lamp anterior segment photography and detailed recording of the status
      of the grafts will be performed.

      Procedures and Data Collection

      The patients will be fully informed of the aim and procedures of the study.

      The following data will be captured:

        1. Visual acuity on standard Snellen chart

        2. Pterygium Grading (T1-3)

        3. Documentation of pterygium location, primary or recurrent status

        4. Slit-lamp photography, pre- and post-surgery

        5. subjective assessment of postoperative discomfort

        6. Practical benefits anticipated from successfully completed project (1/2 page)

      If successful, the use of fibrin glue will be a useful adjunct in ocular surface
      reconstruction, significantly reducing surgical time, and obviating suture-related
      complications and discomfort. The cost-benefit ratio will need to be examined, but
      full-paying patients who can afford it may be offered fibrin glue in pterygium surgery as a
      surgical option. Up to 3 consecutive cases can be performed with one Tisseel unit.
    
  