
    
      Aims and Hypotheses to be Tested:

      This study compares the effects of a nurse-led support programme - an app support programme
      (ASP) - with telephone support (TS) for patients discharged from the ED who are at risk of
      developing CHD. We hypothesize that:

      Within 3 months, when compared with the TS group clients, clients who participate in the ASP
      will have:

      Primary outcome: Better self-efficacy and self-management behaviour

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  Less ED attendance and hospitalization frequency;

        -  A better physiological health profile (e.g., blood pressure, body mass index, blood
           cholesterol level, blood triglyceride level, and blood glucose level) and better
           cardiovascular functional endurance;

        -  An increase in the total amount of exercise;

        -  A lower perceived stress level; and

        -  Better health literacy regarding cardiac care.

      Plan of Investigation:

      (i)Methods: A prospective multi-center, parallel, randomized controlled trial with two arms -
      an app support programme (ASP) group vs a telephone support (TS) group - will be adopted. 1.
      Settings: Data will be collected from an EDs at a regional Hong Kong hospital, namely Tuen
      Mun Hospital. The demographic profile of the residents and the setting and care protocol will
      be similar, to minimize the cluster effect. Each ED includes a short stay unit and an
      emergency medical unit (EMW) with about 26 beds. Patients with cardiac disorders account for
      approximately 25% of all EMW admissions (n=1900 per year) and generally have hypertension or
      hyperlipidemia and angina 4.

      2. Recruitment of subjects: The admission records of all eligible clients with a medical
      diagnosis of at-risk CHD in the study ED will be screened. Identified patients will be
      approached by the research assistant (RA1) for further screening and those deemed to be
      eligible will be invited to join the study. Appendix 2 presents the CONSORT flow diagram of
      the study.

      About 80 potential patients will be approached. Eligible patients who consent to participate
      in the study and then who submit to the collection of their baseline data will be randomly
      allocated to either the ASP group or the TS group according to the pre-set randomization
      sequence. Participants will attend an appointment with a research nurse (A) who has
      experience in cardiac nursing and specific training in the intervention. Follow-ups will be
      conducted at 1 month, and 3 months by another RA (2), who will be blinded to the intervention
      allocation.

      Regarding patient recruitment, we estimate that 75% of eligible CHD patients (n=5-7 per week)
      will agree to join the study at an ED and that at least 8-10 patients will be recruited from
      both EDs per week. These estimations are based on local departmental statistics and on a
      previous study that we conducted in a regional ED. 4 We further estimate that 10 weeks will
      be required to recruit all of the patients required for the study (60 patients). Ethical
      approval has been obtained from the university and the study venues.

      3. Follow-up data collection: During the 1-, and 3-month follow-ups, the trained RA (2) and
      student research assistants (who are master's nursing students), who will be blinded to group
      allocation, will collect data and perform physical assessments of the participants at the
      university's research laboratory office. This office has sufficient space and equipment to
      perform health assessments and laboratory tests. "Item e" shows the facilities in detail. All
      participants will be asked to complete the questionnaires, place them in an envelope, and
      hand the envelope to the research assistants.

      To ensure the quality of patient recruitment, intervention, and data collection processes,
      the research team will ensure that the RAs and research nurses are capable of carrying out
      the proper procedures. All of the research nurses are qualified and experienced in cardiac
      nursing. They will be provided with specific training workshops by the PI and Co-Is prior to
      the commencement of the study. One research nurse (A) who is skilled in cardiac nursing and
      counseling will deliver all of the educational interventions to ensure consistency. Audit
      procedures will be conducted to ensure the quality and uniformity of the educational
      intervention. Another research nurse (B) will provide the telephone advice intervention to
      the TSG. The team will visit the EDs at least once per week during the initial recruitment
      period. Weekly meetings with research nurses and research assistants will be held to ensure
      good quality in data collection and to solve any logistical problems.

      Data processing and analysis To minimize subject contamination, the different groups will be
      assigned different follow-up dates. The research assistants who are responsible for
      collecting data will be blinded to the group allocations. They will receive a briefing and
      training session on collecting data, taking blood using the finger-stick method, and using
      the auto blood analyzers. All questionnaires will be distributed to the individual
      participants, who will be asked to place their own completed questionnaire in a locked box.

      Data will be analyzed using SPSS. The intention-to-treat principle will be applied. The
      baseline characteristics of the groups will be compared using a Chi-square or Fisher's exact
      test for categorical variables, and a t-test or Mann-Whitney test for continuous variables,
      to examine the comparability of the groups by randomization. Confounding variables will be
      accounted for in subsequent analyses. The effectiveness of an e-health programme using the
      app vs telephone support will be evaluated by comparing the study outcomes using Generalized
      Estimating Equations (GEE) models. For the primary outcomes of self-efficacy and
      self-management behavior, two GEE models with an identity link function will be performed.
      For the two secondary outcome variables that are measured in counts (i.e., ED attendance and
      the number of hospitalizations), GEE models with a log link function and a Poisson
      distribution will be performed. For the other secondary outcomes, which are continuous, GEE
      models with an identity link will be fitted. Significant time by group interactions in the
      GEE models will support our hypotheses on the effects of the e-health intervention using app
      support. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the level of satisfaction with the
      use of the app at T1 to T3 in the intervention group, and a GEE model will be used to assess
      changes in satisfaction over time. All of the tests will be two-sided and a p-value of <0.05
      will be considered statistically significant.

      This pilot study will examine the feasibility of the main RCT study by using the app,identify
      any recruitment, implementation of the intervention and logistic issues arising from the
      recruitment, intervention, and follow-ups. It can also provide the preliminary finding for
      sample size calculation for the main RCT later on.
    
  