
    
      Part I: This is a multicenter study on the effect of educational intervention on heart
      failure patients and their caregivers with respect to patients' prognosis, social support and
      quality of life. Subsequent patients with heart failure (based on the inclusion criteria)
      coming to selected, ambulatory physician, were randomized to either a control or intervention
      group. Both groups underwent questionnaire evaluation regarding clinical assessment and
      evaluation of familiarity with aspects of heart failure along with social support and quality
      of life. Clinical assessment included information on demography, social status, medical
      history, pharmacotherapy, diagnostic procedures, and utilization of health system resources.
      After recruitment, patients from intervention group and their caregivers underwent one
      educational training, during which they received materials on the management of heart
      failure. Before the meeting, data on familiarity with heart failure were acquired from
      patients' relatives. During further follow up all participants stayed under regular care from
      their ambulatory physicians. After 6 months patients underwent short term evaluation based on
      designated questionnaires, with special attention paid to hospitalization and ambulatory
      visits due to heart failure. Also data on heart failure knowledge, social support and quality
      of life was collected. Without any further intervention, follow up was continued. Next long
      term assessment was undertaken after approximately 3 years from the recruitment. As
      previously patients fulfilled questionnaires regarding information on their familiarity with
      heart failure management and social support as well as quality of life. Primary end points of
      the study were: death, hospitalization (including cardiovascular hospitalizations) and
      ambulatory visits. Secondary end points included social support and quality of life.

      Sub-study: genetic polymorphism - blood specimens collected during one of the visits and
      stored for further evaluation in future. Study population - all main study participants who
      gave their informed consent to this part of protocol. Aims: to describe the potential of
      selected genes candidates polymorphism on the heart failure prognosis and survival in
      patients NYHA class II-IV.
    
  