
    
      Uveitis, an inflammation that affects the uvea (iris, ciliary body and choroid), is an
      important cause of visual loss. There are 30,000 new cases of legal blindness each year due
      to uveitis in the U.S. Sight-threatening complications associated with uveitis include
      macular edema, which may persist even when inflammation is controlled. The only current
      treatment for cystoid macular edema (CME) in uveitis patients is oral or regional steroid
      injections. For patients who don't respond to steroids or who are unable to tolerate steroid
      therapy, there are no other medical treatments.

      The aim of the proposed research is to determine if ranibizumab is an effective treatment for
      those patients with uveitis-induced CME who are unable to be treated with or non-responsive
      to steroids. Ranibizumab is a recombinant, humanized monoclonal antibody antigen-binding
      fragment (Fab) that neutralizes all active forms of vascular endothelial growth factor
      (VEGF). VEGF is suspected to play a role in the loss of vascular integrity in the eye, which
      is thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of macular edema in the eyes of patients with
      uveitis. Ranibizumab was approved by the FDA for the treatment of neovascular age-related
      macular degeneration on June 30, 2006, and a number of published papers have shown efficacy
      for other causes of macular edema, including that due to diabetes mellitus.

      The F. I. Proctor Foundation at UCSF will be enrolling 10 subjects 18 years of age or older
      with uveitis-induced CME to clinically evaluate the safety and effectiveness of ranibizumab
      administered monthly for three months followed by PRN monthly dosing (up to 12 months). The
      study will measure visual acuity, changes in foveal thickness on optical coherence
      tomography, and changes in cystoid macular edema by fluorescein angiography to determine the
      efficacy of ranibizumab treatment.
    
  