
    
      Actually there are no published European data on the incidence of acute lung injury by
      transfusion (TRALI) in critically ill patients, in Europe, estimates of TRALI incidence are
      limited to passive reports of national blood banks. This multicenter study of Spanish ICUs
      will investigate the incidence and TRALI predisposing factors (associated with the patient,
      the transfused blood product and the presence or absence of mechanical ventilation).

      Design:

      Prospective multicenter observational study.

      Patients:

      All patients transfused in eleven spanish intensive care units (UCI) from October 1, until
      November 30, 2010. Patients with less of 18 years old, or transfused six hours before be
      included in this study or seriousness patients with a length of stay <24 hrs will be
      excluded.

      Variables:

        -  Patient data collection: Demografic data (age, gender), Clinical data (comorbid
           conditions), Admission diagnostic , Complications during the stay and severity of
           illness scores: Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE II) score,
           Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score, Euroscore.

        -  Transfusion factors: Type of blood product, time of infusion and volumen transfused,
           storage age and donor sex.

        -  Respiratory factors: Main ventilation and oxigenation parameters and type of respiratory
           support before and after transfusion.

      For each transfusion episode was completed two data tables (see last page of the booklet of
      data collection):

        -  Before the transfusion (baseline) are listed the values of the patient's respiratory
           function, the analytical value that is transfused (Hb, INR, APTT, PT, platelets) and the
           number of the bag that is transfused (to apply blood bank storage time and sex of the
           donor).

        -  After the transfusion are recorded the volume and time infusion and 6 hours after
           transfusion are collected again the parameters of the patient's respiratory function and
           radiographic changes.

      According to official criteria shall be noted if the patient has exhibited a classic TRALI,
      possible TRALI, or a worsening of their respiratory function after transfusion.
    
  