
    
      A prospective, interventional, longitudinal and randomized study has been proposed in a
      population of the EP who will undergo elective urology and coloproctology surgeries in two
      university hospitals: Red de Salud UC-Christus and Hospital Clinico La Florida. Both based on
      Santiago de Chile.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate how the implementation of a timely pre-surgical
      conditioning (APO) protocol for frail elderly people reduces the days of hospital stay.

      PM will be screened according to: co-morbidities, degree of frailty and dependence. This
      procedure will be carried out by a trained register nurse (RN) from the team at each center,
      who through a random system will enter 50% of the patients to the APO protocol (intervention)
      and the other 50% to the standard protocol of each institution. After that the RN will
      measure nutritional and cognitive status, drugs and alcohol consume and will take the
      protocol blood samples in the first evaluation two to three days after receiving an order for
      surgery for the physician.

      The APO considers the evaluations for a geriatric team, physical therapist team and
      nutritionist team in order to find out the most relevant aspects of physical, cardiovascular
      geriatric syndromes, cognitive status, nutritional and metabolic status.

      physical therapist team and nutritionist team they will prepare to the EP to surgery with
      physical, cardiovascular and dietary protocols adjusted to the patient, for the time of 4 to
      5 weeks before surgery.

      Upon admission of hospitalization for surgery, the RN in each of the two hospitals will
      evaluate the state of frail and dependence, nutritional and cognitive status, drugs and
      alcohol consume and delirium status in which the patients of both groups arrive.

      The analgesia and anesthesia of all patients in both groups, control and intervention, will
      be standardized to reduce confounding associated with intra- and postoperative anesthesia and
      analgesia.

      The registered nurse will follow the patient throughout the in-hospital process and via
      telemedicine or face-to-face will interview patients one month, second month and third month
      after discharge in search of possible problems associated with the peri-operative process.
    
  