
    
      As the population ages, the number of individual living with cancer will continue to rise,
      and the number of Emergency Department (ED) visits for this population will continue to
      increase. Cancer patients visit EDs because symptoms, such as pain or vomiting, can't be
      controlled at home, in an assisted living facility, or in their provider's office. The ED is
      often the only place that can provide the necessary treatments as well as immediate access to
      technologically advanced testing for those with cancer. However, palliative care (PC)
      services, such as relief of burdensome symptoms), attention to spiritual or social concerns,
      and establishing goals of care, is not standard care in the ED outside of a few medical
      centers. Most patients do not have well-defined goals of care, and are often subjected to
      painful and marginally effective tests and procedures, not because they are consistent with
      their goals but because it is less time-consuming than discussing other options and has less
      perceived legal risk. Until recently little emphasis has been placed on education, research,
      or guidelines for the delivery of PC services in this important setting. While emergency
      providers could provide some of these services themselves, knowledge and skills regarding PC
      as well as staffing are currently inadequate to provide comprehensive services. In addition
      to further decreasing days spent in the hospital and health care costs, consultation by a PC
      team for ED cancer patients might also reduce pain and other symptoms, aid in complex medical
      decision-making regarding testing and treatments, and facilitate transfer to hospice or home
      with visiting nurse services. To enable PC consultation for ED cancer patients, the
      investigators will first determine who could benefit from emergent consultation, what
      services they need, and what characteristics of emergency providers and hospitals are
      preventing them from being offered. To determine what affect PC consultation for patients
      with advanced cancer has on symptoms, discussions with patients and families about goals of
      care, and how long patients spend in the ED, the investigators will then randomly assign 200
      ED cancer patients to targeted PC consultation versus usual or standard care.
    
  