
    
      Infective endocarditis is usually suspected in a patient with fever and a new or changing
      cardiac murmur and is diagnosed based on the presence of a vegetation on echocardiography and
      positive blood cultures. Diagnosis of endocarditis is usually easy in febrile patients with a
      continuous bacteremia and the presence of vegetation on echocardiography Infective
      endocarditis includes bacterial endocarditis ( streptococcus viridans, enterococci and
      staphylococcus aureus are the main causes), as well as non bacterial endocarditis as those
      caused by viruses, fungi, chlamydia and rickettsia. It is usually superimposed on underlying
      congenital or rheumatic cardiac lesions, it also could occur in patients who had central
      vwnous catheter without underlying cardiac abnormality.

      Infective endocarditis has been clinically divided into acute and subacute presentation.
      Acute bacterial endocarditis is a fulminant illness over days to weeks (<2 weeks), and is
      more likely due to Staphylococcus aureus which has much greater virulence. Subacute bacterial
      endocarditis is often due to Streptococci of low virulence and mild to moderate illness which
      progresses slowly over weeks and months (>2 weeks).

      Bacterial endocarditis is a disease in which complete eradication of the organism is
      required. Bacteria involved in endocarditis are relatively protected from phagocytic activity
      by the vegetation, which contains high concentrations of bacteria with relatively low
      metabolic rates. Prolonged parenteral therapy is the only way to achieve bactericidal serum
      levels for the time needed to kill all the bacteria present in a vegetation of endocarditis.
      Treatment generally ranges from 4-8 weeks.

      Patient with native valve endocarditis caused by S.Pneumoniae may be given penicillin with or
      without aminoglycosides.

      combining an antistaphylococcal penicillin with an aminoglycoside covers against
      S.viridan,S.aureus and grame_negative organisms.

      vancomycin can be substituted for a semisynthetic penicillin if methecillin_resistant
      staphylococcus aureus infection or penicillin allergy is suspected vancomycin plus gentamycin
      for 4 weeks is recommended for those who are unable to tolerate B-lactam antibiotic
      agents,and is associated with faster clearing of bactereamia Investigation; positive blood
      culture leucocytosis elevated acute phase reactants like CRP, ESR anemia in long standing
      cases echocardiography Treatment hospitalization and bed rest treatment of heart failure
      using of anti coagulant therapy. antimicrobial agents:

        -  several general principles provide a basis for the treatment

        -  the choice of antimicrobial therapy depends on the organism and its sensetivity pattern

        -  parenteral therapy specially in infants and childern

        -  prolonged course usually 4-6weeks

        -  bactericidal agents

        -  synergetic combination: the usual initial regimens an antistaphlococcal semisynthetic
           penicillin and an aminoglycoside(Gentamycin),if a methicillin resistant S.aureus is
           suspected ,vancomycin should be substituted for the semisynthetic penicillin.

      vancomycin should be used in place of penicillin or semisynthetic penicillin in penicillin
      allergic patients vancomycin should be used in cases with echocardiographic signs of
      infective endocarditis in addition to gentamycin Surgical intervention; surgical debridment
      of infected material and replacement of the valve with a mechanical or bioprosthetic
      artificial heart valve is necessary in certain situations.

        -  patients with significant valve stenosis or regurgitation causing heart failure.

        -  recurrent septic emboli despite appropriate antibiotic treatment

        -  large vegetation (> 10 mm)

        -  abscess formation

        -  early closure of mitral valve
    
  