
    
      Over a 3-year period, we anticipate enrollment and collection of clinical data from as many
      as 600 children with various forms of childhood vasculitis, with approximately one third
      (200) of those children also contributing biological samples for study.

      For children with vasculitis who are enrolled in the study, clinical information will be
      obtained from the medical chart from the time of diagnosis, post-induction (3-6 months post
      diagnosis) visit, 12-month clinic visit, and their most recent clinic visit or last clinic
      visit before discharge to adult care (ie. final outcome visit). Information that will be
      collected includes laboratory test results, biopsy and imaging results, disease activity,
      clinical history, and medications. Blood, urine, and saliva samples will also be collected at
      each clinic visit. If the subject experiences a disease flare, clinical data and biological
      samples will be collected at the time of the flare and at a later date when the disease
      remits.

      The PedVas study is linked to an adult vasculitis initiative called DCVAS: Diagnosis and
      Classification Criteria in Vasculitis. Our DCVAS co-investigators and collaborators will
      recruit up to 250 adults at or near the time of diagnosis of the following forms of
      vasculitis: GPA, MPA, EGPA, TA, and UCV. Clinical data will be collected as part of the DCVAS
      study; this includes information such as laboratory test results, disease activity, and
      clinical history. Blood will also be collected and analyzed in parallel with samples
      collected from children with vasculitis. Finally, a DNA-biobank will be created and will
      house samples from approximately 700 adults and representing all forms of vasculitis.
      Recruitment will proceed according to DCVAS approved protocols and it will be conducted at
      participating DCVAS centres after the patient has formally consented to participation in the
      DCVAS study.

      Healthy volunteers from the community will be recruited to participate in this study by word
      of mouth and recruitment posters. Participation for children involves a one-time donation of
      blood and a urine sample, while adults may donate blood and urine up to 4 times over the
      course of 18 months.

      All biological samples will be processed and analyzed in Vancouver at the Child and Family
      Research Institute and at the University of British Columbia. Detailed data will be collected
      in electronic format and include demographic variables, socioeconomic status, detailed
      clinical history & physical findings, anthropometric measures, and measures of disease
      activity. All data for systemic vasculitis patients will be directly entered at each site
      into a secure, online, web-based data entry system called REDCap which is managed through the
      data management centre at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver. All CNS vasculitis
      data will be entered into the Brainworks database which is managed by the data management
      team at the Hospital for Sick Kids in Toronto.
    
  