
    
      Methadone substitution therapy has been the treatment of first choice for opiate dependence,
      but patient on Methadone substitution therapy report a wide side effects, and relapse rate is
      up to two third of methadone treatment patients between one to two years. Therefore, adjuvant
      therapeutic interventions for heroin addiction patients are needed. Since 1996, the World
      Health Organization (WHO) has classified acupuncture treatment indications, including drug
      abuse. The purpose of this study is to compare the difference of efficacy between ear
      acupressure alone and ear acupressure plus electrical acupuncture therapy both combined with
      standard methadone maintenance therapy to the heroin addicts.

      Patients who receive methadone were randomly assigned to sequence A and B. Sequence A(n=20)
      receive ear Acupressure combined with electroacupuncture for four weeks, followed by one week
      wash-out period. Then ear acupressure alone for another four weeks.

      Sequence B(n=20) receive EAR acupressure alone for four weeks first, and followed by one week
      wash-out period, then ear acupressure combined with electroacupuncture for another four
      weeks. Measures of methadone dosage and using the craving visual analog scale (VAS) to assess
      the craving severity for 8 weeks. Using the Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) and the
      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) to assess improvement of life quality and sleep
      quality. Using Beck anxiety and Depression inventory to evaluate emotional problems. Urine
      opiate screenings are provided after 4 weeks , 8 weeks treatment and 1 month after end of
      treatment, to screen opiate reuse.

      The study hypothesis was acupuncture had more clinical efficacy than ear acupressure upon
      craving severity, life quality, mood stability ,reduced methadone dosage and sleep quality
      when provided as an adjunct to a standard methadone maintenance treatment.
    
  