
    
      The purpose of this research observational cohort study is to investigate the applicability
      of using biomechanical assessment in predicting the ulceration incidence in patients with
      diabetic neuropathic feet. The proposed study will lead to the development of further
      stratification of high-risk patients into subcategories indicating the vulnerability of
      tissue to mechanical trauma, which deemed to be the leading cause of ulceration in people
      with diabetic neuropathy.

      As it stands, the current systems used to evaluate the risk of diabetic foot rely on global
      parameters such as duration of diabetes and glycated hemoglobin to predict the likelihood and
      risk of diabetic foot ulceration. As ulceration happens as a result of repeat mechanical
      trauma to the foot that doesn't heal quickly enough due to other complications of diabetes,
      it is important to include mechanical measurements in predicting the ulceration incident in
      diabetic neuropathic patients. Despite this, the currently used risk stratification systems
      do not include biomechanics so by introducing biomechanics it will potentially be possible to
      predict the ulceration risk by using more local measurements.

      The primary objective is to employ the measures of neuropathy, micro/macro-perfusion, and
      biomechanics of the foot mainly tissue stiffness and plantar pressure to determine the
      vulnerability of foot to mechanical trauma and ulceration. From the data collected it is
      proposed that a prognostic risk stratification system will be developed based on the range of
      parameters collected to identify those that are at highest risk of ulceration incident. Those
      that are classed as high risk are to be sub-stratified to increase the accuracy of the system
      in predicting ulceration. This will allow a patient-specific approach to be taken in the
      prevention of ulcers by providing adequate information to predict ulceration incident. This
      then can be used to determine the likelihood of an ulcer forming. Furthermore, the
      possibility of identifying the ulceration site will be investigated.
    
  