
    
      More than 25% of people in the UK are obese. People with obesity have a shorter life
      expectancy, and have a higher risk of having heart attacks, strokes, high blood pressure,
      diabetes, and certain cancers.

      At the moment, there is no treatment for obesity that is both effective and safe. Advising
      people to change their diet and to exercise more is frequently ineffective, and any loss in
      weight seen is usually temporary. There is only one medications licensed for the purpose of
      losing weight, but they are limited by side-effects. Finally, gastric bypass and similar
      surgeries are effective at reducing weight permanently, but can be risky and restricted only
      to very motivated people.

      "Gut hormones" are natural chemicals made by the bowels when you eat. They work to reduce
      appetite and hunger when you eat, so that you will eat enough for your needs. We think that
      one of the reasons why gastric bypass surgery is so effective is because the surgery causes
      an increase in gut hormone secretion into the bloodstream, which suppresses appetite. One of
      these hormones is pancreatic polypeptide (PP), which is released into the bloodstream by
      cells in the pancreas after eating. When human PP is given to healthy volunteers as an
      injection, we see that they have a reduced appetite and food intake with no side-effects such
      as feeling sick or vomiting.

      Human PP does not last long in the blood stream. In order to make it into a new, safe and
      effective drug for obesity, we have developed a new form of PP, which is very similar but not
      identical to human PP, that we expect will last longer in the blood. We call this PP 1420.

      In testing, PP 1420 reduced food intake in animals, and was safe in them at much higher doses
      than those we plan to give in the current study.

      PP1420 has previously been give to healthy volunteers in single doses up to 8mg without any
      serious problems. All doses were well tolerated.

      This study will examine the safety and tolerability of PP 1420 when given at single doses of
      higher doses, up to 64 mg, and the safety, tolerability and efficacy of PP 1420 when given in
      multiple doses for up to 28 days.
    
  