
    
      About one hundred patients who were test positive for SARS-CoV2 and were improved and
      discharged from Sohag isolation hospitals and isolation department for COVID19 in Sohag
      University hospitals during the period from 15th May, 2020 to 25th July, 2020 will be
      included in our study. Patient improvement and discharge criteria include 10 day from
      symptoms onset in addition to 3 day free of fever and respiratory symptoms.

      Patients with severe complex illness, pregnant or lactating females and patient who refuse to
      participate or give complete detailed history will be excluded from the study.

      The study protocol will be approved by the scientific Research Ethical committee, Faculty of
      Medicine, Sohag University A control group of healthy volunteer who were age and sex matched
      to our patient were included

      After taken informed consent according to Sohag University Ethical Committee, the baseline
      data will be collected from Sohag isolation hospital of COVID19, then the researchers will
      perform interviews with all participants through mobile phone. The interview will include:

        -  Name (Optional)

        -  Age

        -  Sex

        -  Occupation

        -  Presence of DM, HTN or any chronic illness

        -  Asking about Smoking

        -  The date of catching COVID19 infection

        -  Asking about symptoms of COVID19 infection and duration of each symptom.

        -  Asking about any residual symptoms as: Fatigue, Myalgia, Arthralgia, Chest pain,
           Dyspnea, Dry cough, Productive cough, Sore Throat, Anosmia, Loss of taste sensation,
           Nausea, Anorexia, Diarrhea, Redness of the eye, Headache, Confusion and Depression

      Statistical analysis:

      Data will be analyzed using STATA version 14.2 (Statistical Software: Release 14.2 College
      Station, TX: Stata Corp LP). Quantitative data will be represented as mean, standard
      deviation, median and range. normally distributed. Qualitative data will be presented as
      numbers and percentages. Chi square test will be used for comparison of percentages in
      different groups. P value will be considered significant if it was less than 0.05.
    
  