
    
      Peri-implantitis are defined as inflammatory diseases caused by bacterial biofilm around
      implant surface characterized by bleeding on probing, probing depth and eventually bone loss;
      if not successfully treated they may lead to implant loss. Based on the available parameters
      that have been reported in literature non surgical therapy doesn't seem to be effective on
      peri-implantitis. Therefore it is recommended to consider advanced therapies such as surgical
      interventions when non surgical peri-implant therapy fails to achieve significant
      improvements in clinical parameters.

      Numerous approaches have been used for implant surface decontamination during per-implant
      surgery, including mechanical, chemical and laser treatments.

      Conventional mechanical means don't seem to be effective on peri-implant diseases. In
      addition, the rough implant surface is a retentive factor for bacterial colonization and
      therefore makes implant surface difficult to debride.

      A treatment protocol that may offer an advantage over traditional mechanical treatment
      includes the use of laser therapy and air-powder devices. Data have shown that treatments
      with Er.Yag laser have a bactericidal effect and are safe and effective on implant surfaces.
      Slightly better clinical results in terms of debridement, probing depth, bleeding on probing
      and clinical attachment level have been reported by Er:Yag laser treatment compared with
      traditional non surgical mechanical debridement with titanium curettes and pellet with saline
      in the surgical treatment of peri-implantitis.

      The air abrasive method for debridement has also been used on implant surfaces demonstrating
      no relevant adverse effect. Until now, powders based on sodium bicarbonate and glycine have
      been used with pressured air/water. Nowadays a less abrasive method involves the use of
      erythritol powder.

      The aim of the present randomized controlled clinical trial is to assess the efficacy in
      improving clinical parameters of two further methods of implant decontamination (er:Yag laser
      or air-abrasive device) after chemical treatment and chemical cleaning during surgical
      treatment of peri-implantitis in addition to chlorhexidine in vertical defects with
      keratinised tissue around implant surfaces. Furthermore the bone defect will be filled with
      bio-material.
    
  