
    
      This study is a prospective, cross-over manikin study which is based on an ambulance
      simulation. Written inform consent was obtained from all doctors who agreed to participate to
      the study. Inexperienced doctors who attended in Kocaeli between February 2018 and March 2018
      will be included to the survey. Novice doctors participated to this research. The research
      will be carried out in the department of emergency medicine of Derince training and research
      hospital. In order to prevent bias, the eight-hour training module for the participants ,
      theoretical and practical airway training will be provided by an emergency medical specialist
      who has no knowledge about the research.

      The participants will be informed about the study after the training. Doctors who participate
      to the study will be included after the written inform consent is obtained. The participants
      will be informed about the research, but they will be blind to the specific purposes of the
      study. The participants will practice for 5 minutes on the manikin by themselves and with the
      emergency medicine specialist if they ask for. Life / form® Deluxe Crisis ™ Manikin Torso
      with Advanced Airway Management will be used as the research manikin. The participants will
      perform airway interventions in the sitting position and the height of the stretcher will be
      set at the same height with the ambulance stretcher. Practitioner's seat will be set on the
      same height with the ambulance seat. 8.0 (mm ID) endotracheal tube will be used for the
      procedure. Endotracheal tube and manikin airway will be lubricated with pump spray lubricant
      provided with the simulator. Airway manikin will be in supine position. Lund University
      Cardiac Arrest System-version 2 (LUCAS 2TM) automatic chest compression device will be used
      to provide 5 cm compression depth and 100 chest compressions per minute in order to provide
      standardization in chest compression and prevent bias created by practitioners. The airway
      devices will be next to the model's head.

      The study was planned as a randomized, crossover clinical trial to reduce the influence of
      the learning. Equal numbers 1 and 2 will be written on the same sized papers to provide
      randomization. All papers will be folded in the same way and placed inside brown and
      invisible envelopes. All of the envelopes will be placed in the same box. After the training,
      every doctor will be asked to choose one of the envelopes. After separating the participants
      into two groups, doctors that drawed envelop number 1 will be asked to intubate by using only
      No. 3 Macintosh blade. The doctors that drawed envelop number 2 will be asked to intubate
      with the adult size endotracheal tube introducer with using No. 3 Macintosh laryngoscopy.

      After the groups completed their interventions, those who drawed envelope number 1 will be
      asked to intubate with Macintosh laryngoscopy using endotracheal tube introducer and those
      who drawed envelope number 2 will be asked to intubate with Macintosh laryngoscopy. Each
      doctor will be given 1 minute for each successful intervention. Each practitioner will make
      maximum 2 trial attempts for each method. The initiation time is considered to be taking the
      laryngoscopy on hand. After ventilation, the manikin's chest wall movement is considered as a
      successful intervention. All transactions will be recorded with a camera that is placed in
      the room and the participants will have the information about the presence of the camera. The
      first intervention success , intubation time, the number of interventions of the participants
      will be recorded. After the interventions are over, the participants will be asked to rate
      the difficulty of the ventilation methods according to the Likert scale as 1-very easy,
      2-easy, 3-medium, 4-difficult 5- very difficult. In addition, they will be asked whether they
      have any experiences with Macintosh laryngoscopy or endotracheal tube introducer and their
      responses will be recorded.
    
  