
    
      Background

      Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a progressive interstitial lung disease, which ultimately
      leads to respiratory failure and death. The median survival is 2-3 years and thus comparable
      to the survival of a malignant disease. Today, there is no cure available. Improvement of
      quality of life (QoL) is thus a major goal in IPF patients. Cough is a common distressing and
      debilitating symptom in IPF. Increased cough in IPF patients may be linked to functional
      upregulation of lung sensory neurones. In addition, cough independently predicts disease
      progression in IPF patients. Symptomatic treatment options for cough in IPF are limited.
      Dysregulation of the immune system has been suggested to cause IPF associated cough and
      treatment trials with immunomodulating agents have been promising. Unfortunately the recently
      studied medication thalidomide is famous for its side effects and might be apprehensively
      received by some patients.

      Immunomodulatory effects of macrolide treatment in chronic inflammatory diseases as well as
      reduced cough reflex in animal studies suggest a possible reduction in cough in IPF patients.
      In addition, in animal in vivo models azithromycin also showed anti-fibrotic properties.

      The investigators hypothesize that immunomodulatory treatment of IPF patients with AZT
      reduces cough frequency and might improve lung function.

      Objective

      The purpose of this protocol is to determine the effect of azithromycin (AZT) on subjective
      and objective cough, QoL and lung function, its effects on biomarkers as well as its safety
      in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.Specific Objectives

        1. To determine the efficiency after 12 weeks of treatment on subjective and objective
           cough reduction and increase of QoL

        2. To monitor safety by recording severe adverse events, including mortality,
           organ-specific toxicities and exacerbations requiring hospitalization

        3. To test efficiency at 12 weeks with overall response measured by changes in FEV1, FVC,
           TLC, DLCO, oxygen desaturation on exertion and 6-min walking distance

        4. To determine efficiency in clinical course

        5. To monitor overall adverse events

        6. To determine the influence on cytokines and biomarkers in IPF

        7. To determine the impact on oro-pharyngeal flora and antibiotical resistance

      Methods

      Single center, prospective, randomized, double blind, 2 treatments, 2 period crossover study
      with two 12-week treatment periods separated by a 4-week drug-free washout period and a 4
      week follow-up period performed at the University Hospital Berne. All patients will be
      treated with both AZT and placebo. Individual changes in clinical symptoms with focus on
      cough frequency, life quality, lung function and adverse events will be monitored.
    
  