
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Define and describe the toxicities of monoclonal antibody SGN-30 alone (window) and in
      combination with ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide (ICE) in pediatric patients with
      CD30-positive recurrent anaplastic large cell lymphoma.

      II. Define, preliminarily, the antitumor activity of monoclonal antibody SGN-30 alone
      (window) and in combination with ICE in these patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Characterize the pharmacokinetics of monoclonal antibody SGN-30 in these patients.

      II. Characterize the soluble CD30 concentrations at time of relapse in these patients.

      III. Characterize the development of human antichimeric antibodies in these patients.

      IV. Measure minimal residual disease in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, pilot, phase I, dose-finding study of monoclonal antibody
      SGN-30 followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive monoclonal antibody SGN-30 IV alone on day 1 in weeks 1-8. Beginning in week
      5, patients receive ICE chemotherapy comprising ifosfamide IV over 2 hours on days 1-3,
      carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1, and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3. Treatment with
      ICE repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses** in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      also receive intrathecal therapy comprising methotrexate, cytarabine, and hydrocortisone once
      on day 29 (week 5).

      NOTE: **Patients planning to undergo bone marrow transplantation (BMT) receive 2 courses of
      ICE only and then undergo BMT off study.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive a pre-determined dose of monoclonal antibody SGN-30 with
      possible dose de-escalation to 1 dose level below in the event of ≥ 2 of 6 patients
      experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). The dose at which ≤ 1 of 6 patients experience DLT
      will be used in a phase II study.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.
    
  