
    
      Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is a disease that predominantly affects children. T1D is preceded by
      islet autoimmunity, which often starts in early childhood and which has a peak incidence at
      around 1 to 2 years of age. Previous studies show that multiple islet autoantibodies indicate
      a point of limited return in the path to T1D. Every year, around 10% of multiple islet
      autoantibody positive children progress from islet autoantibody positivity to symptomatic
      T1D. Thus, therapy and intervention is needed to change the inevitable path to insulin
      dependence. Treated should be initiated early when most beta cells are still intact and when
      the autoimmune process is less advanced may be more effective.

      Administration of oral insulin in multiple islet autoantibody-positive children offers the
      potential for immunological tolerance against beta cells and thereby protect against
      progression to T1D. Previous studies in rodents had indicated that mucosal administration of
      insulin is effective in inducing regulatory immune responses that can prevent autoimmune
      diabetes. Mouse studies indicated that the dose of oral insulin is important. In human
      studies oral insulin administration shows an excellent safety profile, without adverse side
      effects at doses between 2.5 and 7.5 mg per day (1-3). The administration of oral insulin
      (7.5 mg per day) to prediabetic ICA and IAA positive first degree relatives of T1D patients
      within the DPT-1 study showed no significant beneficial effect in the intention to treat
      analysis. A sub-analysis of the data, however, showed significant benefit in those relatives
      with higher titer IAA.

      The Pre-POINT study, the first primary autoantigen vaccination dose-finding study in which
      children with high genetic risk for type 1 diabetes were administered insulin orally daily
      tested doses (2.5 mg; 7.5 mg; 22.5 mg and 67.5 mg) showed five of six children exposed to a
      dose of 67.5 mg insulin had evidence of an antibody or T cell response to insulin. The
      response differed to the typical responses seen in children who develop diabetes in that the
      antibody responses were of weak affinity and the T cell responses had a preponderance of
      cells with regulatory T cell phenotypes (37). These results are also encouraging from a
      safety viewpoint and indicate that oral exposure to insulin at doses that are approximately
      equivalent to efficacious doses in rodents may promote tolerance in children.

      A secondary prevention study using 7.5 mg oral insulin administered daily is currently
      conducted by the TrialNet Study Group, and includes the Forschergruppe Diabetes, Klinikum
      rechts der Isar der Technischen Universität München as a study site. Autoantibody,
      normoglycemic subjects aged 3 to 45 years are treated with oral insulin. In this currently
      conducted trial there have been no safety issues reported thus far.

      The active substance for oral application is human insulin, synthesized in a special
      non-disease-producing laboratory strain of Escherichia coli bacteria that has been
      genetically altered by the addition of the gene for human insulin production (Lilly
      Pharmaceuticals, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA). The physical, chemical and pharmaceutical
      properties of the human insulin have been well documented by the manufacturer. Oral Insulin
      will be applied as a capsule containing 7.5 mg of the active substance together with filling
      substance cellulose and a dose escalation to 67.5 mg of the active substance together with
      filling substance cellulose. After ingestion, most of the insulin will be degraded by gastric
      acids. Enteric delivery and systemic availability is therefore unlikely and efficacy of
      active insulin is likely to be restricted to the oral mucosa.

      The Fr1da Insulin Intervention Study intends doses for oral application at 7.5 mg and 67.5 mg
      per day. The aim of the study is to determine whether daily administration of up to 67.5 mg
      insulin to young children aged 2 years to 12 years with multiple islet autoantibodies alters
      the immune responses to insulin over an intervention period of 12 months and whether an
      altered immune response is associated with protection from developing dysglycemia or diabetes
      and whether oral insulin treatment reduces the rate of progression to dysglycemia or
      diabetes.

      The immune response to oral insulin treatment has not yet been demonstrated to indicate
      protection from disease. To address this, the Fr1da Insulin Intervention Study included
      dysglycemia as a co-primary outcome in the trial, through novel data indicating that
      dysglycemia is a valid outcome on the path to type 1 diabetes. Once such dysglycemia is
      present in multiple autoantibody positive subjects, there is an average time of 2 years to
      clinical symptomatic diabetes.
    
  