
    
      Background:

        -  Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive cancer with a poor prognosis.

        -  Although highly responsive to chemotherapy initially, SCLC relapses quickly and becomes
           refractory to treatment within a few months.

        -  Urothelial Carcinoma (UC) of the Bladder is the fourth most common malignancy in men and
           the ninth most common in women.

        -  Prostate cancer is the most common cancer among men in the United States. While prostate
           cancer is initially responsive to androgen deprivation therapy (ADT), the median
           duration of sensitivity is 24-36 months. Moreover, patients develop resistance to
           current treatment options.

        -  The use of PARP inhibitors in combination with chemotherapy builds upon pre-clinical
           data in lung cancer and other cancers supporting the notion that PARP inhibitors
           potentiate the effect of DNA damaging therapies.

        -  Despite their highly synergistic activity in preclinical models, human studies combining
           PARP inhibitors and camptothecins have not translated into clinical benefit due to
           enhanced toxicity with the combination.

        -  One approach to improve ability to combine camptothecins with agents that sensitize
           their activity like PARP inhibitors is to use alternative formulations that minimize
           toxicity to the normal tissues.

        -  EP0057 is a nanoparticle drug conjugate composed of 20 (S)-camptothecin (a potent and
           highly selective topoisomerase I inhibitor) conjugated to a linear,
           cyclodextrinpolyethylene glycol-based polymer.

        -  Olaparib is a PARP inhibitor indicated as monotherapy in patients with deleterious or
           suspected deleterious germline BRCA mutated advanced ovarian cancer who have been
           treated with three or more prior lines of chemotherapy. Olaparib has an established
           safety profile and it is under investigation in a number of different cancers.

      Objectives:

        -  Phase I: To determine the MTD/ recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of EP0057 in combination
           with olaparib in patients with refractory cancers

        -  Phase II: To determine the antitumor activity of olaparib plus EP0057 with respect to
           progression free survival at 16 weeks in SCLC patients with resistant or sensitive
           relapse

        -  Expansion Cohorts: To determine overall response rate of EP0057 plus olaparib in

      patients with mCRPC and urothelial carcinoma

      Eligibility:

      Phase I:

        -  Male or female adult patients greater than or equal to 18 years of age

        -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed, advanced solid tumor that is refractory to

      standard therapy and/or for whom no further standard therapy is available

      -ECOG Performance Status of 0, 1 or 2

      Phase II:

        -  Male or female patients greater than or equal to 18 years old

        -  Have a pathologically (histology or cytology) confirmed diagnosis of SCLC

        -  Disease progression on or after at least one platinum-based standard chemotherapy

      regimen and/or an immune-checkpoint inhibitor for either limited or extensive stage

      disease.

        -  Have measurable disease per RECIST 1.1

        -  ECOG performance status of 0, 1 or 2

      Phase II Expansion Cohorts:

      -Have a pathologically (histology or cytology) confirmed diagnosis of urothelial

      carcinoma or metastatic, progressive, castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC)

      -Disease progression on or after at least one platinum-based standard chemotherapy

      regimen and/or an immune-checkpoint inhibitor (except prostate cohort)

        -  Have measurable disease per RECIST 1.1 (except prostate cohort)

        -  Prior treatment with enzalutamide and/or abiraterone (prostate cancer cohort only)

        -  Patients must have castrate levels of testosterone (<50 ng/dl [1.74 nmol/l]) (Prostate

      cohort only)

      Design:

        -  Patients meeting eligibility criteria will receive EP0057 (IV Q 2weeks) plus olaparib
           (PO BID days 3-13 and days 17-26 administered in 28 day cycles, until disease
           progression or development of intolerable side effects. The MTD of the combination will
           be used in Phase II.

        -  Patients in Phase II will receive, the RP2D at DL4R EP005712mg/m2 and olaparib 250mg
           BID.

        -  Blood, tumor and hair samples will be collected at multiple time points for PK, PD
           analyses. Hair sample collection is optional. Tumor biopsies are optional for SCLC and
           UC patients and mandatory for mCRPC patients (only baseline biopsy is mandatory).

        -  Toxicity will be graded according to CTCAE version 4.0.

        -  Tumor assessments will be made using CT scans (chest, abdomen and pelvis) at baseline
           and after every 2 cycles (3 cycles for mCRPC) according to RECIST version 1.1.

        -  After discontinuation of study treatment, follow-up for survival will be carried out
           every 3 months.

        -  The maximum number of patients on the phase I portion of the trial is 30, the SCLC
           cohort in phase II may accrue up to 27 evaluable patients, urothelial carcinoma
           expansion cohort may accrue up to 34 patients and mCRPC may accrue up to 25 patients.
           Thus, the maximum number of evaluable patients who may enroll on this trial is 116. In
           order to allow for a small number of in-evaluable patients, the accrual ceiling will be
           set at 123.

        -  It is anticipated that approximately 1 to 2 patients per month may enroll onto this
           trial; the trial is expect to complete accrual in 6-8 years.
    
  