
    
      Rural veterans have disproportionately served in OEF and OIF and are returning to their
      communities with significant substance use disorder (SUD) and trauma-related symptoms.
      Participation in post-treatment continuing care is one of the two most significant factors in
      preventing relapse after intensive SUD treatment,1 but as a result of the reorganization of
      SUD services within the VHA, rural veterans have less access than non-rural veterans to
      continuing care. A primary component of continuing care, social support, is a protective
      factor for SUD treatment relapse2 and post-deployment traumatic stress symptoms.3 Social
      support provided by community self-help groups (e.g. 12-step programs such as Alcoholics
      Anonymous) improves outcomes1,4 and efforts to promote participation reduce continuing care
      costs.2 Post-treatment referral to self-help groups was recently described as "an effective,
      low-cost option,"3 but treatment counselors vary in their referral methods, often simply
      telling patients to find and attend meetings in their community.

      In a study of urban veterans leaving treatment, researchers increased 1-year SUD abstinence
      rates by more than 24% through a three-step intensive referral intervention.5 First,
      counselors discussed the importance of social support and meeting attendance. Second,
      counselors identified accessible self-help meetings near the SUD treatment site and arranged
      for a meeting liaison to accompany the patient to a meeting. Third, counselors followed up on
      attendance and addressed obstacles. A follow-up study found patients with comorbid SUD and
      psychiatric problems (like Post Traumatic Stress Disorder) significantly benefitted from the
      intervention.6

      Implementing intensive referral with rural veterans is problematic because their initial SUD
      treatment typically occurs in an intensive residential setting in a location which is removed
      from the veteran's home and family. During this intensive residential SUD treatment, rural
      veterans attend self-help meetings near the residential treatment program with the goals of
      1) identifying meetings they enjoy, 2) developing relationships with others who attend these
      meetings, and 3) obtaining a sponsor who will serve as a mentor to the newly sober veteran.
      However, upon discharge from residential SUD treatment, rural veterans return to their rural
      communities without these supports in place. Additionally, rural veterans attending 12- step
      meetings are likely to have challenges unique to their rural settings. In rural communities
      veterans are more likely to be recognized by others they know and rural residents rate
      self-help groups as less acceptable than urban residents do.7 Additionally, the only
      self-help groups consistently available in small communities are AA meetings which may cause
      some tension and ambivalence in those with problems other than alcohol.

      Family members are another source of social support preventing SUD relapse,8 but rural
      veterans may not receive the same family support benefits urban veterans do. In urban
      veterans' SUD treatment, family members are typically involved in their treatment. The family
      members of rural veterans, however, are less likely to attend educational, individual or
      group sessions given their distance from the residential SUD treatment site and typically
      have no support themselves as they interact with their returning veteran. Thus, rural
      veterans return home to live with families who may be less able to provide meaningful support
      to their newly sober veteran.

      Further complicating this clinical picture is the presence of trauma symptoms. Among those
      seeking SUD treatment, nearly all report lifetime trauma exposure and one-third are diagnosed
      with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).9 The prevalence among veterans is likely higher.
      Persons with dual disorders, such as PTSD and SUD, have poorer SUD treatment outcomes, and
      may be at higher risk for homelessness. Self-help groups improve the outcomes for those with
      concurrent PTSD and SUD.10 Dr. Timko's work has established that the intensive referral
      intervention, to be adapted in this project, resulted in an 18% reduction in the number of
      psychiatric symptoms and a 26% reduction in perceived need for mental health treatment.6

      The investigators propose an intensive referral adapted to the needs of rural veterans,
      modifying the existing intensive referral two ways. First, the adapted intensive referral
      will present information addressing recovery challenges specific to rural veterans: building
      support networks, overcoming distance, finding transportation, locating professional
      resources, using online support, and preparing for relapse emergencies. These modifications
      will also be provided as options for those accessing the VA's intensive referral Self-Help
      Toolkit, available online. Second, the adapted intensive referral will enlist family support
      for self-help groups, stressing the importance of meetings and encouraging family members to
      provide transportation and/or attend the meetings.

      Purpose and Objectives:

      The purpose of this project is to adapt an intensive self-help referral intervention for the
      450 rural and highly rural veterans in SUD treatment in NWI HCS, train one-half of the
      Nebraska Wwesterion Iowa Health Care System SUD treatment staff in the intervention and test
      it as a pilot project. The Specific Aims of the project are:

        1. To determine whether adapted intensive referral to community-based support groups
           increases the effectiveness of SUD treatment in rural veterans,

        2. To determine if co-occurring PTSD and family involvement are factors in responsiveness
           to the adapted intensive referral intervention.

      Methodology:

      Phase I: Intensive Referral Self-Help Toolkit Adapted to Serve Rural Veterans The
      investigators will adapt the VA's Intensive Referral Self-Help Toolkit, a practical guide to
      assist veterans' transition into community self-help groups. The adaptation will specifically
      address factors which are unique to rural veterans such as lack of "drug-related" meetings,
      concerns about anonymity, distance and transportation. Secondly, the intensive referral will
      be adapted to include the enhancement of family involvement in the referral process. Dr.
      Timko will assist us with the adaptation and feedback from veterans, family members, 12-step
      group liaisons and providers will inform modification of the Toolkit to address the specific
      needs of rural veterans, their families, and their healthcare providers. Also in Phase I the
      Project Peer Support Specialist will canvass self-help groups throughout rural Nebraska and
      western Iowa to identify 12-step meetings which are welcoming to persons with drug as well as
      alcohol addictions and individuals willing to serve as a group liaison to support and attend
      meetings with the veteran and their family member.

      Phase II: SUD Staff Trained in Intervention Dr. Grant and the Project Manager will meet with
      SUD treatment leadership and staff at the three Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care System
      (NWI-HCS) locations (Grand Island, Lincoln and Omaha) and orient them to the project.
      One-half of the Addiction Therapists at each site will be trained in the modified Intensive
      Referral Self-Help Toolkit in Year One. These Addiction Therapists will role-play this
      intervention with Project staff in individual and group settings. The remaining Addiction
      Therapists will continue to utilize Standard Referral (i.e. simply encouraging meeting
      attendance). The Program Manager will continue to monitor those trained Addiction Therapists
      to ensure that the intervention remains consistent with the Toolkit and will meet with staff
      and leadership regularly at each site to provide feedback. Veterans assigned to trained
      Addiction Therapists will receive Intensive Referral while those assigned to other Addiction
      Therapists will receive Standard Referral.

      Phase III: Comparison Between Intensive Referral Group and Standard Care Group Rural veterans
      will be contacted by telephone at 6-months post discharge from intensive SUD treatment. The
      two groups (Intensive Referral v. Standard Referral) will be compared on measures of
      substance use, addiction severity, trauma symptoms, satisfaction with referral process,
      family support, support group attendance and involvement.

      Summary of data analysis and statistical methods:

      Study participants will be contacted by telephone at 6-months post discharge from intensive
      SUD treatment. The two groups (Intensive Referral v. Standard Referral) will be compared on
      measures of substance use, addiction severity, trauma symptoms, family support, support group
      attendance and involvement and satisfaction with the referral process. The investigators also
      will determine whether veterans with a co-occurring PTSD diagnosis benefit more from the
      enhanced intensive referral compared to standard referral and the investigators will
      determine whether 6-month abstinence rates are lower for those with family support compared
      to those without family support.

      While the populations of interest for this study are rural and highly rural Veterans, rural
      and highly rural status will be defined by zip code of residence at the time the follow-up
      questionnaire is administered, six months after discharge from SUD treatment. Patients may be
      admitted from a 'rural zip code' but at discharge move to a residence in an 'urban zip code.'
      The investigators will initially compare outcomes between all participants who received the
      Intensive Referral and those who received Standard Referral. The investigators will then
      compare outcomes between the two groups (Intensive Referral v. Standard Referral) in those
      veterans who are living in rural or very rural zip codes at six months post-discharge.

      In order to compare two groups of veterans (those who received Intensive Referral and those
      who received Standard Referral), a series of independent sample t-tests will be run to see
      whether these two groups significantly differ on measures of substance use, addiction
      severity, trauma symptoms, satisfaction with referral process, and family support. Next the
      investigators will use Pearson correlation coefficients to look for significant positive or
      negative effects of referral type (i.e., intensive v. standard) with the measures listed
      above. The next step of the process will be to run ordinary least squares (OLS) regression
      models given the continuous nature of our main outcome variable, substance use. The
      investigators will first run models to examine main effects. Next, the investigators will
      test for interaction effects to determine whether the effect of PTSD on substance use
      disorder varies by type of referral. Finally, ordinary least squares regression models will
      be run to determine whether 6-month abstinence rates are lower for those without family
      support compared to those with family support.

      Innovation:

      To our knowledge, this will be the first evidence-based substance abuse intervention to be
      modified for rural veterans. If effective, this SUD intervention will be the first to:

        -  Specifically improve sobriety rates in rural veterans,

        -  Incorporate family members into the intervention,

        -  Assess rural veteran satisfaction with the intensive referral,

        -  Determine if trauma symptoms are improved in rural veterans with adapted intensive
           referral,

        -  Determine if family involvement enhances responsiveness to adapted intensive referral,
           and

        -  Significantly decrease relapse rates in rural veterans, thus decreasing their
           re-hospitalizations and subsequent health care costs.
    
  