
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the pharmacodynamic optimal dose of sirolimus, by evaluating p70^s6 kinase
           inhibition in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and normal skin, in patients
           with metastatic or unresectable solid tumors.

        -  Correlate target inhibition in tumor tissue with PBMC and normal skin target inhibition
           in patients whose tumors are amenable to sequential tumor biopsies.

      Secondary

        -  Characterize the pharmacokinetics of sirolimus in these patients

        -  Determine the pharmacodynamic effects of sirolimus on tumor, normal skin, and normal
           oral mucosa of these patients

        -  Correlate the pharmacodynamic effects of sirolimus with pharmacokinetics and clinical
           effects.

        -  Correlate the Akt signaling pathway with pharmacodynamic endpoints.

        -  Explore pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic and toxicodynamic relationships of sirolimus in
           these patients.

        -  Quantify the toxicity of sirolimus in these patients.

        -  Evaluate, preliminarily, the activity of sirolimus in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a prospective, dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive oral sirolimus once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of sirolimus until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicity. The pharmacodynamic optimal dose is
      considered the dose at which 10 patients are treated without requiring further dose
      escalation.

      Patients undergo blood collection, tumor tissue and normal skin biopsies, and oral mucosal
      smears periodically for pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic, and biomarker correlative studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  