
    
      The recommended dietary allowance (RDA) for protein, set at 0.8 grams/kg/day for adult men
      and women, has engendered debate and many experts advocate protein intakes substantially
      above the RDA to help maintain muscle anabolism in older individuals. It is not known whether
      increasing protein intake in older Americans, whose current intake is below the RDA,
      increases skeletal muscle mass, muscle performance and physical function.

      Our first aim is to determine whether administration of 1.3 g/kg/day of protein, compared to
      the RDA (0.8 g/kg/day), will result in greater improvements in lean body mass, maximal
      voluntary muscle strength and power, and self-reported and performance-based measures of
      physical function in older men. Our second aim is to determine whether the gains in lean body
      mass, maximal voluntary strength and self-reported and performance-based measures of physical
      function during testosterone administration are greater with 1.3 g protein than with the RDA
      in older men on a eucaloric diet.

      We will conduct a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial using a 2 X 2 factorial
      design. Community dwelling men, 65 years or older, who have self-reported mobility
      limitation, a daily protein intake of <0.8 g/kg/day and no contraindications for testosterone
      therapy, will be randomly assigned to one of four groups: placebo injections plus protein 0.8
      g/kg/day; placebo injections plus protein 1.3 g/kg/day; testosterone enanthate 100 mg weekly
      plus protein 0.8 g/kg/day; testosterone enanthate 100 mg weekly plus protein 1.3 g/kg/day.
      Treatment duration will be 6 months. The primary outcome is change in lean body mass from
      baseline to 6 months, measured by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry. Secondary outcomes
      include change in maximal voluntary strength in leg and chest press exercises, leg power,
      self-reported (physical function domain of SF-36) and performance-based measures of physical
      function (6-min walking distance and speed, stair climbing power, and load carrying),
      fatigue, well-being and affectivity balance. Safety measures include urinary calcium
      excretion, hematocrit, prostate specific antigen (PSA) and prostate examination.
    
  