
    
      All subjects who provide informed consent will initiate the Screening Period of at least 14
      (±3) days for the assessment of eligibility including radiographic evaluation of the lumbar
      spine. X-ray images must be collected within 4-11 hours after the subject wakes up. Those
      subjects who meet preliminary eligibility criteria will be treated with placebo in a
      subject-blind manner for 14(±3) days from Screening Visit to Day 1. Subjects with a placebo
      response exceeding 25% improvement in the average Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) score over
      the previous 7 days will be excluded. Subjects with a Lane grading of 1 or 2 on their neutral
      lateral lumbar spine film per the central radiologist are eligible to be enrolled. At
      Baseline (Day 1), eligible subjects will be randomly assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups in a
      1:1 ratio with a 1:1 ratio of active:placebo within each treatment group (i.e., 1 subject to
      active treatment and 1 subject to placebo), and stratified evenly according to Lane
      Radiographic Grading Scale summary score (1 or 2) and gender.

      Low back pain intensity as assessed by the average of the NPRS scores recorded in the eDiary
      for the 7 days prior to the visit will be used for the primary efficacy endpoint as well as
      secondary efficacy endpoints. Efficacy assessments will be conducted at Screening, and at
      visits at Day 1 (Baseline) Week 2, Week 4, Week 8, Week 12, Week 22, Week 32, Week 42, and
      Week 52 (EOT). The patient reported outcomes of Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Subject
      Global Assessment, modified Brief Pain Inventory (mBPI) Severity score, mBPI Interference
      Score, Subject's Clinical Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I), and Short Form 36-item
      Health Survey (SF-36) will be used for the secondary or exploratory efficacy endpoints.

      Safety assessments will be performed at each scheduled visit and will include assessment of
      AEs, vital signs (blood pressure, pulse rate, respiratory rate, and oral temperature),
      clinical laboratories, physical examination, skin irritation, and electrocardiograms (ECGs)
      as indicated in the schedule of events. Phone calls will be made to the subject by a
      qualified staff member at the site every 2 weeks between scheduled visits where applicable to
      collect additional information related to AEs.
    
  