
    
      For many years, gamma-irradiation in air was a common method for the terminal sterilization
      of ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) materials used for joint replacement. A
      serendipitous byproduct of sterilization with gamma-irradiation was polymer crosslinking that
      tended to improve the wear performance of the polyethylene. During the 1990s, however, the
      orthopaedic community became aware that gamma-irradiation created free radicals within
      polyethylene, rendering the material susceptible to oxidative degradation. In view of this
      potentially deleterious effect, terminal sterilization methods using chemical surface
      treatments were developed to avoid free radical formation. To induce polyethylene
      crosslinking without residual free radicals, manufacturers also developed methods to
      crosslink the polyethylene followed by heat treatments to eliminate free radicals. These
      crosslinked materials were introduce during the latter part of the 1990s and clinical outcome
      studies among hip replacement patients have demonstrated substantially reduced wear at early
      follow-up intervals based on radiographic measurements. However, the long-term performance of
      crosslinked polyethylene is unknown and some investigators have expressed concerns related to
      in vivo degradation. Additionally, some crosslinked UHMWPE components have shown high levels
      of oxidation and chain scission after removal from patients and storage in air. Among these
      implants, it is unknown whether the oxidation and chain scission occurred during implantation
      or after the polyethylene was removed from the patient.

      This study will characterize the material properties of polyethylene liners retrieved from
      hip replacement patients. The study population will include crosslinked and conventional
      UHMWPE liners that were terminally sterilized without the use of radiation. To quantify the
      potential effects of different storage methods, liners that were vacuum packed and frozen
      after retrieval and others that were stored at room temperature with access to ambient light
      and air following explantation will be included in the study population. Analysis techniques
      will include Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR), Differential Scanning
      Calorimeter (DSC) and crosslink density measurements. Crosslink density measurements will be
      evaluated as a function of distance away from the articular surface and the rim of the
      implant. Gel and hydroperoxide contents will also be evaluated. The goal of the analysis is
      to better understand the changes in polyethylene material properties that occur in vivo and
      ex vivo.
    
  