
    
      Treatment Plan GEMOX-Erlotinib consists of erlotinib 100 mg orally daily starting day 1,
      Gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 in 10 mg/m2/min (100 minutes) infusion on day 1 followed on day 2 by
      oxaliplatin 100 mg/m2 in a 2-hour infusion. Treatment will be repeated every 2 weeks. Each
      two weeks is a cycle. Tumor response evaluation will be performed every 2 months. If tumor
      progress, patient will be off study, but if the disease is stable or PR, CR obtained will
      continue treatment for total of 12 cycles. If at end of 12 cycles response continues, will
      administer Gemox and erlotinib till achieve maximum response. Then start Erlotinib
      maintenance therapy.

      Sample size: A total of 34 patients are needed assuming expected response is greater than 10%
      (about 27%) and a power = 80%. Fourteen patients will be treated in the first stage; if one
      patient achieved PR then additional twenty patients will be enrolled in the study for a total
      of 34 patients.

      Statistical Methods: Response rate with 95% CI and median time to progression of disease will
      be calculated. Success will be declared if the lower limit of the 95% CI of the response rate
      is greater than 10%. The 95% CI of the response rate will be calculated using exact methods.
      Survival curve will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier Method. Descriptive statistics will be
      used to describe patient demographics, adverse events, serious adverse events and reasons for
      termination. Two approaches to the efficacy and safety analyses will be done; the ITT
      (intent-to-treat) for the efficacy analysis and safety. The ITT analysis consists of patients
      who received at least one dose of the study drug and at least one on-treatment measurement of
      the primary efficacy endpoint (overall response). The safety analysis consists of patients
      who received at least one dose of the study drug and at least one safety measurement done. A
      detailed description of the statistical methods, table and listing shells will be provided in
      the statistical analysis (SAP) before database lock or data transfer to the study
      biostatistician.
    
  