
    
      This is a prospective, observational cohort study of two CF populations (and appropriate
      control populations):

      Infants with CF Diagnosed by Newborn Screen: The purpose of this prospective cohort study is
      to measure concentrations of biomarkers of lung injury in urine, blood and bronchial alveolar
      lavage fluid (BALF) from CF infants. We plan to characterize these concentrations during the
      first two years of life with the goal of determining if their profiles alone or in
      combination are potentially useful biomarkers of early lung disease in CF.

      Each CF infant enrolled has blood, urine and BALF samples, along with an oropharyngeal swab
      (throat culture) in conjunction with infant lung function testing at approximately 6 months
      of age and again at one year. Our CF Center performs infant Pulmonary Function Tests (PFT's),
      throat culture and a blood draw as part of routine care at 6 months and at one year of age,
      so the bronchoscopy and urine collection are obtained for research purposes only. Urine is
      collected quarterly during routine outpatient clinic visits to the CF Center (4 samples
      total/year for two years) which is also for research purposes only. During the second year of
      the study, urine, blood and throat swab sample collection plus lung function testing continue
      as per year one. In the event of a hospitalization for pulmonary exacerbation, blood and
      urine samples are obtained at three time points during hospitalization and BALF samples are
      obtained via bronchoscopy upon admission. An oropharyngeal culture is also obtained upon
      admission. Subsequent hospitalizations for pulmonary exacerbation are recorded with the same
      samples collected as described above. In the event of an outpatient exacerbation requiring
      antibiotic therapy, the patient will be asked to provide a urine sample at the onset of
      exacerbation. Normal CF treatment or care is not altered in any way by participation in this
      study.

      We collect urine only from age-matched healthy infants as a control group for comparison.

      Subjects with CF ≥ 8 Years of Age: The purpose of this prospective cohort study is to measure
      concentrations of biomarkers of lung injury in urine, blood and sputum from CF patients. This
      is an observational study that does not involve a specific treatment or intervention. We plan
      to characterize these concentrations during two years of both clinically stable time points
      as well during hospitalizations and outpatient treatments for pulmonary exacerbations. The
      study goal is determining if these profiles alone or in combination are potentially useful
      biomarkers of early lung disease in CF.

      All study participants (CF Exacerbation Group and CF Non-Exacerbation Group) are asked to
      provide urine, blood and sputum samples, as well as pulmonary function tests, during their
      regularly scheduled quarterly CF Clinic visits over the study period. Quarterly lung function
      testing is standard of care for all CF patients. For those patients in the CF Exacerbation
      group, subjects are asked to provide three urine, blood and sputum samples as well as three
      sets of pulmonary function before during and after an inpatient hospitalization for a
      pulmonary exacerbation. We incorporate PFT's, and labs done as part of their hospital
      admission whenever possible, to avoid duplicate testing. All hospitalized patients will
      receive their routine, standard-of-care therapies including airway clearance, nutritional
      support, IV antibiotics and other pulmonary medications. Treatment or care is not be altered
      in any way by participation in this study. If a patient in the CF Non-Exacerbation Group
      experiences a pulmonary exacerbation during the study period, samples will be obtained as
      described for the CF Exacerbation Group.

      For a control group comparison we collect sputum and urine only from volunteers > 8 years of
      age who do not have CF.
    
  