
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the percentage of pathological responses in patients with stage II or III
           breast cancer treated with neoadjuvant therapy comprising fluorouracil, doxorubicin
           hydrochloride, and cyclophosphamide followed by trastuzumab (Herceptin®) and paclitaxel.

        -  To compare the disease-free survival of patients treated with adjuvant therapy
           comprising trastuzumab versus observation.

      Secondary

        -  To measure the overall survival at 3 years in these patients.

        -  To measure the cardiac safety profile of these regimens in these patients.

        -  To measure the percentage of patients that become negative on the fluorescence in situ
           hybridization (FISH) test at the end of neoadjuvant therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I :

             -  Neoadjuvant therapy: Patients receive fluorouracil IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride
                IV, and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses
                in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then
                receive trastuzumab (Herceptin®) IV over 30-90 minutes and paclitaxel IV over 1
                hour once a week for 12 weeks.

      After completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients proceed to surgery.

        -  Surgery: Patients undergo definitive surgery. Some patients may also undergo
           radiotherapy*.

      NOTE: *Patients with initial tumor > 5 cm, inflammatory breast cancer, or with a skin
      condition or final pathological evaluation of metastasis to > 4 nodes or 1-3 nodes with
      capsular ruptures or extension to fatty tissues receive adjuvant radiotherapy.

        -  Adjuvant therapy: Beginning 4 weeks after surgery, patients receive trastuzumab IV over
           30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 13 courses.

             -  Arm II:

        -  Neoadjuvant therapy: Patients receive neoadjuvant therapy as in arm I.

        -  Surgery: Patients undergo definitive surgery. Some patients may also undergo
           radiotherapy if clinically indicated.

        -  Observation: Beginning 4 weeks after surgery, patients undergo observation. In both
           arms, patients with estrogen receptor- and/or progesterone receptor-positive disease
           also receive anastrozole daily for 5 years. Premenopausal patients with remaining
           ovarian function (as confirmed by follicle-stimulating hormone [FSH] and estradiol)
           after completion of anastrozole undergo chemical or surgical ovarian ablation.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every
      6 months for 3 years, and then once a year thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 160 patients (80 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  