
    
      Stenting procedures, cardiac and non-cardiac surgical procedures may carry a significant risk
      of cardiac damage ultimately leading to prolonged hospital stay and even a non-negligible
      periprocedural mortality rate. According to the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
      Association Guidelines all anesthetic techniques and drugs have known cardiac effects that
      should be considered in the perioperative plan. There appears to be no one best myocardium
      protective anesthetic technique: the choice of anesthesia is best left to the discretion of
      the anesthesia care team. To date no anesthesiological drug or techniques proved to reduce
      perioperative morbidity and mortality in cardiac surgery, only Beta-blockers and locoregional
      analgesia showed improved outcomes after non-cardiac surgery and no study on
      anesthesiological drugs has been performed in stenting procedures.

      Volatile anesthetics, which are commonly used in general anesthesia to induce and maintain
      hypnosis, analgesia, amnesia and mild muscle relaxation, have been shown to improve
      post-ischemic recovery at the cellular level, in isolated hearts, and in animals, both
      through a pharmacological preconditioning and postconditioning action. Whether the
      cardioprotective effects of volatile anesthetics are clinically applicable and associated
      with improved cardiac function, ultimately resulting in a better outcome in patients
      undergoing cardiac surgery, is still debated. No data exist on patients undergoing
      non-cardiac surgery or stenting procedures.

      A recently published meta-analysis including studies considering all volatile anesthetics
      showed no reduction in myocardial infarction and perioperative death rate. However the newer
      volatile anesthetics (desflurane and sevoflurane) seem to have more prominent
      cardioprotective properties and numerous apparently positive reports targeted to surrogate
      end-points, yet severely underpowered, have appeared in the literature. Of interest, many of
      these studies were not included in the above cited meta-analysis.

      To address the question of whether the choice of an anesthetic regimen might influence
      patients' outcome we have planned a RCT to determine the impact of sevoflurane on
      perioperative cardiac damage in patients undergoing cardiac surgery, non-cardiac surgery and
      stenting procedures.
    
  