
    
      Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is an inherited arrhythmia disorder
      with high risk of ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation, and implantable cardioverter
      defibrillator remains as therapy of choice. Antiarrhythmic therapy with different agents
      including beta-blockers, sotalol and amiodarone are usually not effective in reducing risk of
      arrhythmic events. Recent data indicated that flecainide effectively prevented the
      arrhythmias observed in the experimental ARVC animals and in small series of ARVC patients.
      These observations provide a strong rationale for conducting a pilot randomized clinical
      trial to determine whether flecainide will reduce ventricular arrhythmias in high-risk ARVC
      patients. This pilot study is designed as randomized double-blinded placebo-controlled
      crossover trial with administration of 100 mg of Flecainide or matching placebo twice a day
      for 4 weeks each with a washout period.

      Primary specific aim of this pilot trial is to determine whether Flecainide administration is
      associated with a significant reduction of number of ventricular ectopic beats (VEBs) in ARVC
      patients with implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD).

      Secondary specific aims are:

        1. to assess safety of flecainide administration with particular emphasis on proarrhythmic
           response measured by:

             1. VPBs on ECG monitoring,

             2. nonsustained and sustained VT/VF episodes documented on ICD interrogation, and

             3. effects of Flecainide on QRS morphology and duration.

        2. to assess effects of flecainide on burden of VT runs in 7-day ECG recordings.

        3. to assess effects of flecainide on burden of atrial premature beats in 7-day recordings.

        4. to demonstrate feasibility of enrollment of rare inherited arrhythmia ARVC patients in a
           randomized study in the light of planned future large clinical trial with VT/VF/death as
           endpoint.

      Study population will include 38 ARVC patients diagnosed with the 2010 ARVC Task Force
      Criteria who are at least 18 years old, have implanted ICD, and show at least 500 VPBs in a
      24-hour Holter recording. Patients on other pharmacological antiarrhythmic treatment other
      than beta-blockers and patients with prior catheter VT ablation will be excluded.
    
  