
    
      After subject inclusion into research, two groups (study (kinesio taping) group and
      control-non specific taping) of 100 patients in each will be formed by the procedure of
      concealed randomization (person not connected with study by the help of random number
      generator will make allocation of subjects to the groups).

      All subjects will receive taping (kinesio or non specific) for one month (tapes will be
      applied once a week, 4 times per person, held on skin for 6 days with one day break - without
      tape). Subjects will be allowed to use their conventional analgesic medicaments 'per os' or
      parenterally if needed. Control and Kinesio taping applications will be done by certified
      kinesio taping practitioner (CKTP) or other team member trained by CKTP (researcher 'B').
      Other research team member (researcher 'A') will do evaluations of chosen criteria (pain,
      knee function, mobility etc.), he will not be informed to which group (kinesio taping or
      placebo) subject was allocated, the same researcher (researcher 'A') will do repeated
      evaluations for the same subject after first and second months of participation in study.

      Taping applications:

      Control. For non specific taping Kinesio Tape tex Gold finger print (FP) will be used,
      however tapes will be applied without using specific application manner of kinesio taping
      method. I.e. - tapes will be applied in subject lying position with knee fully extended using
      0% of available tension 10 cm above and 10cm below superior and inferior poles of patella
      (approx 5x25cm) and on medial and lateral sides of knee joint (small pieces of tape approx.
      5x5cm)

      Kinesio taping. Kinesio Tape tex Gold FP will be used . Subjects will get two Y strips
      applied in lymphatic correction manner using paper off tension (tapes will be applied in
      fully flexed knee position); than two I strips will be applied for patella tendon and lateral
      and medial collateral ligaments using 75-100% of tension: over patella tendon - in fully
      flexed knee position, 100% of tension; over ligaments - in 20-30 degrees of knee flexion,75%
      of tension ; ends -with no tension, - seeking to increase stimulation of mechanoreceptors
      over the area, improve proprioception and reduce pain.

      All subjects, before starting the research, will be informed in written as well as in spoken
      form about the research, it's type, goals, possible inconveniences (possible skin irritation,
      hair picking etc.). Every subject will have right to stop their participation in research at
      any time.
    
  