
    
      Participant recruitment

      15 people with early AD will be recruited from the Sheffield Teaching Hospital and Sheffield
      Health and Social Care NHS Trusts memory clinics. The STH clinic is neurology led and sees
      working age (<65 years old) patients while the SHSC clinic sees an older (>65 years old)
      population. Over 1300 new assessments are conducted every year. Approximately 65-70% are
      diagnosed with dementia.

      Investigators will choose patients with typical neuropsychological profiles of AD. All
      patients will have previously been recruited to the Virtual Physiological Human: Dementia
      Research enabled by IT. VPH-DARE@IT is recruiting 30-40 participants in each of the three
      following groups (mild AD, MCI and normal controls) and thus our participants will be drawn
      from this group and all will have pre-existing high-resolution 3D structural and volumetric
      assessment plus resting-state fMRI scans. This resting-state fMRI data will be analysed to
      examine the DMN, allowing us to directly compare measures of brain-connectivity between EEG
      and fMRI and contrast the discriminatory ability of the two methodologies.

      10 healthy controls will be aged matched and recruited either from Neurology clinics or be
      spouses of study participants. The investigators will endeavour to recruit normal controls
      who have undergone fMRI as part of the academic neuroradiology departments control population
      for VPH-DARE@IT and other studies.

      People with AD and 10 healthy controls will have a repeat EEG to assess the reproducibility
      and robustness of the EEG measures.

      EEG is normally very well tolerated and as listed in the background has been used in many
      people with dementia. The Clinical Neurophysiology department is very experienced in
      undertaking EEG in all patient populations from neonates to the very elderly.

      Consent Participants will be identified by the clinicians working in the memory clinic or
      through posters in memory clinic and at other University sites to attract normal volunteers.
      A Participation Information Sheet (PIS) will be given to them either directly or via post.
      Participants will have sufficient time to read the PIS and be able to ask questions. The PIS
      will inform the participant of the benefits and potential risks involved in taking part in
      this study. They will be made aware of the possibility that incidental changes are rarely
      detected. If this is seen they would be informed and we would arrange appropriate management.
      The person will be consented when they come in for the EEG recordings. Investigators will
      explain to all participants that they will be able to leave the study at any time including
      during the EEG recording and in those that we plan to repeat the EEG can decline the 2nd
      test. The Clinical Department of Neurophysiology has experience in performing EEG in all ages
      including those with dementia and cognitive impairment. The person with dementia's care-giver
      or family member can come to the department and be in the room for the entire time the EEG
      recording takes place.

      Methodology EEG data capture

        -  Participants will attend the department of clinical neurophysiology and a member of the
           research team will take consent. Two experienced EEG technicians will place the
           electrodes and explain the procedure. We will record resting state EEG. Participants
           will be told to lie still with eyes closed. It will be explained that although their
           eyes are closed they must remain awake. Participants will be continuously monitored and
           if they become drowsy will be re-stimulated and the time of drowsiness will be recorded.
           This instruction and monitoring is the same as that used in previous EEG and fMRI
           studies looking at resting state paradigms.

        -  The 10-10 International system of electrode placement will be used for the scalp EEG
           recordings with a multichannel high sampling rate amplifier (2 KHz). This will provide
           standard 10/20 electrode positions (F3, F4, F7, F8, C3, C4, Fz, Cz, T3, T4, T5, T6, P3,
           P4, O1, O2, and Oz electrodes) which will be initially used to detect the more
           significant spatiotemporal measurements/phenomena while offering the opportunity to
           elaborate on the spatial and frequency resolution of our findings at a later stage.
           Peri-ocular EOG electrode data will also be recorded to detect eye movement related slow
           wave activity. Investigators will therefore be able to avoid spurious estimates of slow
           wave activity in the anterior EEG regions.

        -  Artefact free epochs within suitable (wakeful no task eyes closed state) will be
           selected and exported for further quantitative EEG analysis.

        -  The exported data will be stored on an external encrypted drive.

        -  All the analyses will be performed on custom made in-house software on a high tech
           computer located within secure offices locked within Dr Sarrigannis's office housed in
           the department of clinical neurophysiology.

      EEG Data analyses • The error reduction ratio-causality method will be used to calculate
      levels of synchronisation. The standard EEG 10-20 electrodes, including all possible
      contiguous electrode combinations in pairs of two (e.g. right frontocentral versus
      parietoccipital) will be used in our pilot exploration to assess the 95% confidence interval
      levels of synchronisation and determine if they allow robust separation between healthy
      volunteers and patients with Alzheimer's Disease.

      Other Data

      • Qualitative Data collection: Investigators will collect questionnaires on the tolerability
      of undergoing EEG examination (please find enclosed questionnaire).

      Ethical consideration Modern neuro-imaging using MRI is highly sensitive and can detect
      incidental findings. Our novel EEG analyses also have the potential to detect incidental
      findings. It is well known that spikes during an inter-ictal EEG have limited clinical
      significance. However they are seen more frequently in people who have a liability, or
      lowered threshold, for epilepsy. If any concern is raised about the EEG findings the
      participant will be reviewed by Dr Blackburn and if appropriate referred onto another
      neurological colleague. Any incidental findings detected by MRI will be referred to an NHS
      neurologist through the VPH-DARE@IT project researchers. The Patient Information Sheet and
      consent will make participants aware of these risks before they take part in the study.

      Statistics This pilot project will explore EEG data to investigate the frequency and time
      domain measurement that would be most appropriate for clinical use. Investigators do not know
      whether this will involve linear or non-linear interaction and thus we cannot determine which
      is the most appropriate statistical test. The analysis of similar EEG data sets using
      parametric methods has explored this in more detail.

      Power calculations As this is a proof-of-concept, pilot study to examine the robustness of a
      novel methodology, it is inappropriate to conduct a formal power calculation. Our initial
      findings will determine whether our EEG analyses detects functional connectivity correlates
      of the synchronisation of anterior and posterior networks identified by fMRI BOLD signal
      during resting state scanning. Investigators will also explore if our data is comparable to
      previously published quantitative EEG on people with AD. Investigators will explore which
      measures from our data can discriminate people with Alzheimer's disease from healthy
      controls. These initial results will give us likely effect sizes and allow us to conduct more
      accurate power calculations than are presently possible. This will be used to determine the
      sample size of a larger study of people with dementia.
    
  