
    
      In recent years, the problem of rehospitalization has come under intense focus as a major
      contributor to preventable morbidity and escalating healthcare costs. Substance use disorders
      are strongly associated with poor health outcomes and highly inefficient use of healthcare
      services, including repeat hospitalizations. Interventions that increase adherence to
      recommendations for outpatient medical care and substance abuse treatment could potentially
      help recently-hospitalized individuals with substance use disorders to avoid unnecessary
      rehospitalization, associated morbidity, and medical expenses. The current study is a
      randomized controlled trial comparing the effectiveness of Navigation Services to Avoid
      Rehospitalization (NavSTAR) vs. Treatment-as-Usual (TAU) for hospital patients with
      co-occurring medical problems and substance use disorders. Applying Andersen's theoretical
      model of health service utilization, NavSTAR will employ the promising strategies of Patient
      Navigation and motivational interventions to facilitate engagement in outpatient medical and
      substance abuse treatment, thereby lowering the likelihood of rehospitalization. Patient
      Navigators embedded within the substance abuse consultation liaison service at a large urban
      hospital will deliver patient-centered, proactive navigation and motivational services
      initiated during the hospital stay and continued for 3 months post-discharge. Participants
      randomized to TAU will receive usual care from the hospital and the substance abuse
      consultation liaison service, which includes referral to substance abuse treatment but no
      continued contact post-hospital discharge. Participants will be assessed at study entry and
      again at 3-, 6-, and 12-months follow-up on various measures of healthcare utilization,
      substance use, and functioning. The primary outcome of interest is time-to-rehospitalization
      through 12 months. In addition, a range of secondary outcomes spanning the medical and
      substance abuse service areas will be assessed. The study will include an economic evaluation
      of the cost, incremental cost-effectiveness, and cost-benefits of NavSTAR from the service
      provider perspective.
    
  