
    
      This is a prospective uncontrolled study. All patients meeting the inclusion criteria will be
      consecutively enrolled in the study. The Emergency Medical System (EMS) rescue team medical
      doctor (MD) will be asked to perform PSGB after all the actions provided in the ACLS
      algorithm and which are considered useful in the clinical situation (intubation and
      ventilation, administration of iv/io adrenaline, amiodarone or lidocaine, use of mechanical
      chest compression, etc.). The PGSB will be performed after the administration of the 4th
      shock if the 3rd shock was unsuccessful in restoring a stable perfusing rhythm, considering
      all the shocks administered both by an AED or by manual defibrillator. The evaluation of the
      effectiveness of the 3rd shock will be carried out at the end of the two-minute cycle after
      shock delivery, as recommended by the guidelines. If the MD will arrive on the scene after
      the delivery of the 3rd shock, the PSGB should be executed as soon as possible after
      performing all the actions which are considered useful in the clinical situation. The MD,
      based on his confidence, can choose to use the anatomic technique or the echo-guided
      technique. The technique will be performed in the pre-hospital setting. Those patients with
      refractory OHCA transported with ongoing ACLS who receive the fourth shock once in the
      emergency department will be also considered. On the contrary patients with prehospital ROSC
      who suffer a new cardiac arrest once in the emergency department won't be considered in the
      present study. The MD will be asked to evaluate the presence of anisocoria immediately before
      the PSGB and 1-2 minutes after the PSGB. In case of absence of anisocoria 2 minutes after
      PSGB, MD can try PSGB another time. The anaesthetic that will be used for PSGB is lidocaine
      2%, which is already available among EMS drugs. After the end of the event, the MD will be
      asked to fill in a questionnaire regarding the feasibility of the technique in the
      pre-hospital setting, the practicability of its implementation compared to the usual
      procedures performed in the pre-hospital setting and any problems encountered. The responses
      will be scored from 1 to 10 (1=perfect feasibility; 10=no feasibility). All eventual
      complications associated with PSGB will be carefully recorded.

      The effectiveness of the PSGB will be evaluated if at least one shock will be delivered after
      the execution of PSGB.

      The data will be compared to our historical cohort of patients with the same OHCA
      characteristics (first shockable rhythm and who received more than 4 shocks) enrolled in the
      Cardiac Arrest Registry of the Province of Pavia from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2017.
    
  