
    
      Introduction:

      Hypotension is common during spinal anesthesia and contributes to underperfusion and
      ischemia. It occurs due to reduction in both cardiac output and systemic vascular resistance.
      Even short duration of intraoperative MAP less than 55 mmHg has been found to be associated
      with Acute kidney injury (AKI) and myocardial injury. Severe episodes of intraoperative
      hypotension is an independent risk factor for myocardial infarction, stroke, heart failure,
      acute kidney injury, prolonged hospital stay and increased 1 year mortality rates. Predictive
      variables for spinal anesthesia induced hypotension includes peak sensory level, chronic
      alcohol consumption, emergency surgery, age more than 40 years, hypertension, combined
      spinal/general anaesthesia(GA), spinal puncture at or above lumbar 2 lumber 3 (L2L3)
      interspace. Preoperative volume status is an important factor determining patient's
      hemodynamic status. Traditional static parameters such as central venous pressure have been
      criticized for invasiveness and lack of accuracy. Newer noninvasive dynamic parameters like
      inferior venacava diameter and Collapsibility index(CI), acoustic echocardiography, stroke
      volume variation and pulse pressure variation etc are being used widely for assessing volume
      status.

      Study Objective: To evaluate the use of inferior vena cava ultrasound to guide fluid
      management for prevention of hypotension after spinal anesthesia.

      Design: A randomized prospective interventional study

      Sample size: 92

      Place: Operating theatres of Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital (TUTH), Maharajgunj
      Medical Campus (MMC), Institute of Medicine (IOM).

      Interventions: A total of 92 patients undergoing lower limb orthopedic surgery will be
      enrolled in the study. They will be randomized into USG group and Control group. In the USG
      group, IVC ultrasound will be done and collapsibility index (CI) will be calculated.
      Depending upon the value of calculated CI, fluid management will be done by infusing Ringer's
      Lactate (RL). Thereafter spinal anesthesia will be performed. In the control group, spinal
      anesthesia will be performed without IVC USG assessment. In both the groups, incidence of
      hypotension and amount of fluid and vasopressors administered will be recorded.
    
  