
    
      Outcomes for patients with multimorbidity (MM) are often poor, in part because of low
      adherence to self-management behaviors (SMB). Research has identified key determinants of SMB
      for individual diseases and shown the powerful influence that illness representations and
      medication beliefs have on these behaviors. Yet, little is known about the impact of illness
      representations in the context of MM where beliefs about one illness and its treatments may
      be at odds, or symbiotic, with those for comorbidities. Without this knowledge, ability to
      provide optimal self-management support for MM patients is limited. The Pilot will be
      focusing on three mayor components with the hopes to provide optimal self-management support
      for MM patients:

      i. Beliefs about Multi-Morbidity The Care Coach will discuss the participant's individual
      disease & self-management-related beliefs. This discussion will be guided by a
      semi-structured questionnaire covering domains from Brief Illness Perception Questionnaire
      (BIPQ) and the Beliefs about Medication Questionnaire (BMQ) for each pertinent
      multi-morbidity.

      For example, the Care Coach will ask: "How long do you believe that your COPD will continue?"
      "And how about your hypertension, how long will it continue?" The Care Coach will note the
      participants' responses to each question, and mark which beliefs seem to be potentially
      counterproductive to self-management (e.g. very concerned about taking DM medications
      long-term). These beliefs will be used to focus the intervention session section on cognitive
      restructuring. Beliefs will be addressed using a Cognitive restructuring approach.

      ii. Emotional Response Next, the Care Coach will ask the participant about the role of
      emotional responses and mental state in their disease management. This will consist of 1-2
      semi-structured questions about symptoms of anxiety and depression, as well as the emotional
      impact of each comorbidity in the participant's life.

      For example: "Does your COPD affect you emotionally? [If yes] In what ways?" The Care Coach
      will take notes on the participants' self-reported emotional response to their comorbidities,
      as well as any observed indications of distress/emotional reaction to their illnesses. This
      information, combined with the participants' data from the 15-month DISH interview
      (Diagnostic Interview and Structured Hamilton assessment tool), will be used to determine the
      focus of the emotional response portion of the intervention.

      iii. Self-Management Behaviors (SMB) Finally, the Care Coach will discuss patient's
      self-management behaviors for their comorbidities. He/she will ask the patient to explain how
      he/she manages each condition, and any challenges he/she faces in self-management.

      For example: "Can you describe to me how you manage your COPD? How about your hypertension?"
      The Care Coach will use the participant's responses, combined with self-reported and
      objective medication adherence from the observational study, to determine the focus of the
      SMB portion of 2nd session.
    
  