
    
      Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) remains the gold-standard treatment for patients with
      depressive episodes. During a typical four-week ECT series, most depressive episodes remit,
      and formerly suicidal or psychotically depressed patients will resume their premorbid levels
      of functioning. Independent of the antidepressant effect of ECT, many patients experience
      debilitating but transient cognitive effects such as attention and memory deficits. These
      unwanted side effects are particularly troubling for older patients who are more likely to
      have existing cognitive deficits. Both the stimulus delivery (electrode placement, pulse
      amplitude, and pulse width) and seizure induction appear to work in synergy, but the
      underlying mechanism of action for successful response has yet to be fully elucidated.
      Moreover, further work is needed to understand the relationship between clinical improvement
      and cognitive impairment. This investigation will examine the clinical and neurocognitive
      impact of targeted medial temporal lobe engagement as a function of pulse amplitude, one of
      several variable factors influencing the ECT charge. The ECT charge is measured in
      millicoulombs (mC) and derived from multiplying pulse train duration, pulse-pair frequency,
      pulse width, and pulse amplitude. Pulse amplitude determines the induced electric field
      strength in the brain and is presently fixed at 900 milliamperes (mA) with no clinical or
      scientific justification. The central hypothesis of this investigation is that the optimal
      pulse amplitude for an individual patient will enhance neuroplasticity (clinical response)
      while minimizing the disruption of dominant hemisphere hippocampal cognitive circuitry
      (resulting in cognitive stability). The preliminary data informs the dosage range between 600
      and 800 mA. Pulse amplitudes outside of this range compromise efficacy (500 mA) or may
      increase risk of cognitive impairment (900 mA). The first aim of this investigation will
      identify the electric field strength and neuroplasticity associated with clinical response.
      Critically, this aim will establish the neuroplasticity threshold, which is defined as the
      electric field strength necessary to induce neuroplasticity. The second aim will detect the
      neural correlates of ECT-mediated cognitive changes, which may be related to disrupted
      dominant hemisphere long-term potentiation. The third aim will use data-driven dual
      regression to predict the optimal pulse amplitude for an individual patient. This
      contribution will be significant because the electric field, when manipulated by pulse
      amplitude, can subsequently maximize hippocampal neuroplasticity (efficacy) and minimize
      disrupted connectivity (cognitive stability) thus improving clinical outcomes.
    
  