
    
      Myocardial fibrosis is a currently untreatable medical condition. A previous trial reported
      that when iMP cells, a cell type of mesodermal lineage which is separate from, but shares
      characteristics with, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), were injected into the myocardium during
      CABG surgery, there was a reduction in the degree of scarring relative to baseline observed
      on 4 month and 12 month Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) images.

      The previous trial was open label with 11 participants and no control group, only historic
      comparisons. The proposed trial will be larger and will include a control group. The trial
      endpoints have been updated to take account of the findings of the first trial and late
      gadolinium enhanced (LGE) Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans (LGE-CMR), which have higher
      resolution than SPECT scans, will be used to assess the appearance of fibrosis.

      iMP cells were developed by the sponsor as an allogeneic mesodermally derived cellular
      therapy for cardiac conditions. While iMPs are plastic adherent like MSCs, iMPs do not meet
      the International Society for Cellular Therapy's definition of MSCs, though like MSCs,
      markers indicate that iMPs are immune privileged and can therefore be employed allogeneically
      without inducing a significant immune response.

      The trial is open to participants, male and female, who require CABG surgery and have 15% or
      greater left ventricular scarring. Unless part of normal clinical care, participants will be
      required to undergo a screening LGE-MRI to assess the degree of left ventricular scarring.
      The MRI however, may reveal that the individual is not eligible to participate in the study.
      If the individual is eligible, then the LGE-MRI will be used as the baseline recording and to
      plan the injection sites.

      Each participant will be involved in the study for approximately 4.5 months. There will be
      two outpatient pre-operative hospital visits which will occur up to 6 weeks prior to surgery,
      though if a potential participant is an inpatient, the pre-operative eligibility/baseline
      tests can be performed over a shorter period of time as an inpatient. The CABG surgery will
      not differ from normal, except for the injections into the heart muscle, and participants
      will not miss out on any standard care. There will then be follow up visits at 1 week, 1
      month and 15±2 weeks post surgery. The 1 week visit may occur as an inpatient depending on
      post-operative improvement. The follow up visits will not involve overnight stays. Follow up
      visits will mainly entail an ECG, an echocardiogram, a blood test, a urine test, health
      questionnaires and a discussion about the participant's health and any adverse events.
      Specific details are available from the chief investigator, see below. The 15±2 week visit
      will also involve a follow up LGE-MRI for primary endpoint assessment. After this visit,
      participation in the study will end and participants will receive only the normal post CABG
      care.

      As this is a quadruple blind randomised controlled trial, neither participants nor care staff
      will know to which group a participant is allocated. Of the 50 participants, 30 will receive
      injections of cells and 20 will receive control injections.
    
  