
    
      Background

      Background and rationale of the study:

      Atherosclerosis is an increasing widespread systemic disease, representing a significant
      cause of morbidity and mortality for those affected by it. Age-adjusted prevalence of
      peripheral arterial disease lies at 12%, increasing to 20% in persons above the age of 70.
      Five percent of patients with intermittent claudication develop critical limb ischemia within
      five years from early symptoms, and are considered to be at risk of major amputation.

      Whilst bypass surgery remains a valid treatment option for patients with peripheral arterial
      disease and ensures good long-term anatomical patency and clinical durability, this trusted
      surgical procedure comes at a certain risk of morbidity and mortality. Furthermore, patent
      vessels of good quality, particularly veins needed for the bypass procedure, are often
      unavailable and impose limitations to the method. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA)
      has evolved in the past years as a valid treatment modality for patients with stenotic
      arterial lesions of the lower extremities due to peripheral arterial disease. However,
      re-stenosis following PTA for peripheral arterial disease is not uncommon and poses a serious
      therapeutic problem. Despite the increasing prevalence and incidence of peripheral arterial
      disease in the population, timely diagnosis or use of diagnostic and prognostic markers are
      still lacking (still lags behind the current diagnostic and treatment strategies for coronary
      artery disease and acute coronary syndromes). Indeed, currently, only few recognisable risk
      factors for the development of re-stenosis have been recognized. These include beside
      clinically advanced peripheral arterial disease and diabetes mellitus, also pro-inflammatory
      and pro-coagulatory states with high CRP and fibrinogen as well as post-interventionally
      increased levels of von Willebrand factor and plasminogen inhibitor-1. Furthermore, TGF-beta1
      levels are also significantly increased in patients with re-stenosis. The actual missing link
      between these "common" pro-inflammatory markers and the occurrence of re-stenosis is however
      not known - the answer may lie in subcellular fragments circulating in the blood.

      Indeed, these so-called cell-derived plasma microparticles (MPs) are small phospholipid
      vesicles up to 1.5 µm in size that are released from platelets, circulating leukocytes and
      endothelial cells upon activation. Originating from lipid rafts, they contain defined
      bioactive molecules that are potentially implicated in thrombogenesis and trans-cellular
      activation. Additionally, pro-inflammatory functions may be mediated by putative
      ligand-receptor interactions, classical pathway complement activation 11 and by triggering or
      modifying target cells and their functions. Furthermore, MPs represent a population of
      phosphatidylserine-exposing sub-cellular fragments, function as "carriers" of circulating
      tissue factor, and may be invaluable in maintaining normal haemostasis when platelet function
      is impaired. Microparticles transport pro-inflammatory molecules such as interleukins,
      interferon gamma and tumour necrosis factor alpha. Increasing evidence suggests that released
      MPs are more than just inert cell debris or irrelevant platelet dust. Instead, they are
      potent biological agents found in healthy individuals but also implicated in a variety of
      diseases, including vascular inflammatory states after cardiopulmonary bypass surgery, acute
      coronary syndromes, and diseases associated with the metabolic syndrome e.g. diabetes
      mellitus. Patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) due to diabetes mellitus type 2
      also present with an increased "baseline" pro-inflammatory and pro-coagulatory state. It
      appears that in diabetic patients platelet-derived microparticles may participate in the
      development or progression of atherosclerosis. Moreover, elevated numbers of microparticles,
      specifically platelet-derived, have been described in patients with peripheral arterial
      disease.

      Although microparticles have been well-documented as mediators of inflammation and
      coagulation in various cardio-vascular disease events, it is currently not known how PTA for
      peripheral arterial disease influences microparticle numbers, phenotype and distribution pre-
      and post interventionally and how they are related to or affect the incidence of early
      re-stenosis - or if indeed they may be used to predict patients at risk of early re-stenosis.

      Objective

      Hypothesis and Aims:

      Hypothesis: Plasma derived microparticles actively influence the course of disease and are
      associated with early re-stenosis/re-occlusion after angioplasty in patients (men and women)
      with peripheral arterial disease by acting as mediators between innate- and cellular immunity
      as well as the coagulation system.

      Aim 1: The first aim of the study is to characterise and quantify microparticles from
      peripheral blood samples at baseline and one day post-angioplasty Aim 2: The second aim is to
      characterise and quantify microparticles in the follow up period 2 weeks, 3 and 6 months
      post-angioplasty and to identify whether the microparticle profile can be used to define
      patients at greater risk for re-stenosis.

      Aim 3: The third aim is to address the possible gender differences in microparticle
      distribution and numbers in a sub-group analysis. This will be an important part of the
      project as currently no such data exist.

      Methods

      Study design: The study will include measurements at baseline, one day, 2 weeks, 3 and 6
      months post-angioplasty.

      Evaluation Obtain informed consent: day (d)0 Physical examination: d0, d+1, 2 weeks, 3 and 6
      months post-intervention Ankle-brachial index (ABI) measurement: d0, d+1, 2 weeks, 3 and 6
      months post-intervention Duplex sonography: 6 months post-intervention Angioplasty: d0 (begin
      of study Blood sampling routine*: d0, d+1 Blood sampling study**: d0, d+1, 2 weeks, 3 and 6
      months post-intervention

      * Fasting glucose, HBA1c, lipid profile, creatinine, haemoglobin, leukocyte profile,
      thrombocytes, C-reactive protein

      ** Microparticles, cytokines, complement (=5ml serum, 2.7ml EDTA plasma, 10ml citrate)
    
  