
    
      The goal of this phase I/II prospective, randomized, sham-controlled, double-masked clinical
      trial is to determine whether intravitreal autologous CD34+ stem cell therapy is safe,
      feasible and potentially beneficial in eyes with vision loss from central retinal vein
      occlusion (CRVO). Retinal Vein Occlusion (RVO) is a leading retinal vascular cause of vision
      loss in the elderly. CD34+ stem cells in human bone marrow are mobilized into the circulation
      in response to tissue ischemia for tissue revascularization and repair. Since local delivery
      of CD34+ stem cells benefits ischemic tissue, intravitreal delivery of CD34+ stem cells may
      benefit vision and retinal ischemia in eyes with RVO. A pilot clinical trial has shown no
      major safety or feasibility concerns using intravitreal autologous CD34+ bone marrow stem
      cells. In this proposed expanded phase I/II study, 20 participants (20 eyes) with persistent
      vision loss from CRVO will be enrolled and followed for 2 years.

      Participants will be randomized 1:1 to immediate cell therapy/deferred sham therapy or
      immediate sham therapy/deferred cell therapy. At month 6, the cell treated eye will receive
      sham treatment and the sham treated eye will get cell therapy. The cellular therapy involves
      bone marrow aspiration, isolation of CD34+ cells from the aspirate under Good Manufacturing
      Practice (GMP) conditions, and intravitreal injection of isolated CD34+ cells. The sham
      therapy involves a sham bone marrow aspiration with penetration of the skin but no
      penetration of the bone and a sham intravitreal injection without penetrating the eye. The
      participant, examining ophthalmologist, visual acuity examiner, photographers and OCT,
      perimetry, and electroretinography (ERG) technicians will remain masked to study treatment
      assignment for study duration. A comprehensive eye examination with ETDRS best-corrected
      visual acuity, optical coherence tomography (OCT) and OCT angiography (OCTA),
      autofluorescence, fundus photography, fluorescein angiography, microperimetry, and
      electroretinography will be performed at baseline and serially. A subset of participants with
      good fixation on microperimetry and clear media on exam and commercial-grade OCTA and who
      give consent will have ultra-high resolution cellular retinal imaging using research-grade
      OCT and OCTA and adaptive optics-OCT at baseline. Participants with high quality images will
      have repeat imaging at 1 month after stem cell treatment, with at least 2 of the participants
      randomized to the deferred cellular therapy arm also having imaging 1 month after sham
      therapy. For all participants in whom at least 1.5 million CD34+ cells are harvested, about
      200,000 cells will be set aside for post-release flow cytometry characterization to determine
      the composition of the CD34+ enriched final product in terms of hematopoietic versus
      angiogenic stem cells based on cell surface markers (i.e., CD133(+)/CD45(+)/CD34(+) vs
      CD31(+)/VEGFR-2(+)/CD45(-)/CD34(+)). The long-term objective is to determine whether
      intravitreal autologous CD34+ cell therapy can minimize, or reverse vision loss associated
      with retinal ischemia without compromising safety.
    
  