
    
      Epilepsy patients that are refractory to oral anti-epileptic drug (AED) treatment have
      significantly higher mortality, higher morbidity, higher economic costs and diminished
      quality of life compared to those who suffer from epilepsy that can be adequately controlled
      with medical management. Current options for refractory patients include neurosurgical brain
      resection, responsive neurostimulation, and vagal nerve stimulation. None of these options is
      satisfactory due to the low applicability of surgery for patients with poorly localized or
      multifocal seizures and the limited success of currently available alternative treatment
      options.

      In this study, patients with medically refractory focal epilepsy will be treated with
      intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of CT-010, a reformulation of valproate, using
      an implantable drug pump system. This is a randomized, double-blind Phase 2 study evaluating
      the efficacy and safety of this therapy. Clinical assessments, adverse events (AEs), seizure
      diaries, concomitant medications, blood samples and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) will be
      collected and reviewed at designated time points. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and
      electroencephalography (EEG) will also be performed. Subjects will have their surgery, dose
      changes and pharmacokinetics performed in an inpatient setting.

      Subjects will be enrolled based on Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria and undergo a 6-week baseline
      period confirming and establishing monthly seizure rate. Following the baseline period
      subjects will undergo system implant and a 1-month implant recovery period. Following
      successful implant and recovery subjects will be randomized to either active therapy or
      placebo for a 3-month blinded evaluation period. At the conclusion of the blinded evaluation
      period, subjects will enter an open-label long term follow-up period. Subjects that were
      randomized to placebo will receive active therapy during the open label period.
    
  