
    
      An incisional hernia is a common complication of abdominal surgery with an incidence of
      4-20%. Liver transplant patients represent a unique cohort of surgical patients with
      immediate immune suppression post-operatively. It is presumed that this immune suppression
      accompanied by significant co-morbidities have led to high incisional ventral hernia rates
      between 4.9%-34.3%.

      A recent 2018 retrospective review of 1044 liver transplant patients identified age >55, high
      BMI > 25, and immediate rejection were significant risk factors contributing to herniation.
      However, previously concerning considerations including gender, diagnosis, diabetes,
      Child-Pugh score, MELD score, donor type, hepato-renal syndrome, varix bleeding, ascites,
      hepatic encephalopathy, ventilator use, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP), or bile leak
      were not identified as significant risk factors. Moreover, the mortality for chronic liver
      disease patients for elective hernia repair is 3.7% at 90 days and morbidity is 27%. Emergent
      hernia repair led to 10% 90-day mortality with 60% morbidity. The high incidence of
      herniation represents a common problem with significant morbidity and mortality post liver
      transplantation thereby requiring investigating a new preventative solution.

      A recent retrospective trial in the colorectal literature identified an institutional
      incidence of incisional hernia for colorectal patients of 39.9%. They recognized two
      high-risk populations, obese, and non-obese with a combination of several secondary risk
      factors. A follow-up prospective cohort study separated all colorectal patients undergoing
      laparotomy to standardized running PDS closure versus those with BMI>29 (the median in the
      prior study) and those BMI <29 with >=2 risk factors to include standard closure with an
      on-lay Ultrapro partially absorb-able mesh covering 3 cm adjacent to the incision placed with
      double down facial staples followed by a subcutaneous drain. The reported risk factors
      included BMI, smoking, serum creatinine, hemoglobin, serum albumin, COPD diabetes, immune
      suppression with steroids or radiation/chemotherapy, and previous midline laparotomy. The
      results revealed a decrease in the incisional hernia rate from 43.9% to 10% (P=0.0001). This
      study also concluded the treatment was cost effective and safe.
    
  