
    
      The registry will be used to evaluate, describe, and document the safety of target-specific
      anticoagulant agents (and other antithrombotic agents) in patients with Atrial Fibrillation
      (AF), the clinical outcomes associated with their use, the treatment patterns and clinical
      course of patients with AF, including those who undergo cardiac procedures of interest
      (ablation, cardioversion, catheterization and surgery, for examples), and characteristics of
      patients with new onset/first-detected AF. Additionally, the registry will be used to
      summarize patterns of switching or discontinuation of antithrombotic agents in the United
      States. The registry will be a nationwide collaboration of health care providers (eg,
      cardiologists, internists, primary care physicians, electrophysiologists, quality improvement
      personnel, office/practice managers, research coordinators, and pharmacists). Target
      enrollment will be approximately 15,000 patients. It is anticipated that enrollment will
      complete in approximately 3.5 years. Consecutive patients who meet the eligibility criteria
      will be approached and educated about the registry. Patients who express interest will
      provide informed consent. Patients enrolled in the registry will be followed for up to 2
      years. New patients enrolled in the registry will be followed for up to 1 year. Patient
      follow-up by their AF care provider will continue as scheduled according to local clinical
      practice. Data collection will occur at 6 month intervals for approximately 1 year from the
      time of enrollment of the patient (baseline, 6, and 12 months). Data capture will include
      demographics, medical history, cardiovascular history, vital signs, echocardiographic and
      laboratory data, AF status and type (paroxysmal, persistent, long-standing
      persistent/permanent), pharmacotherapy, contraindications to oral anticoagulant therapy, and
      provider specialty. Clinical outcomes and safety data capture will include major adverse
      cardiac events (MACEs).
    
  