
    
      Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is characterized by a mean pulmonary arterial pressure
      of >20 mmHg, measured by right heart catheterization at rest. PAH begins in the small
      arteries of the pulmonary vasculature and is characterized by increased vasoconstriction.
      Pulmonary vasodilatation induced by perivascular nerve stimulation usually occurs with nitric
      oxide (NO). A decrease in the airway wall concentration of NO was detected in patients with
      PAH. It has been reported that patients with PAH have a mild to moderate decrease in lung
      volumes associated with disease severity. A decrease in exercise capacity and respiratory
      muscle strength has been reported in patients with PAH.

      Osteopathic Manipulative Therapy (OMT) is a well-known manual therapy approved by World
      Health Organization. A single-session of OMT was found to increase pulmonary function,
      inspiratory muscle strength, oxygen saturation, and to reduce dyspnea and fatigue in
      individuals with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. It has been observed that OMT
      increases parasympathetic activity and reduces blood pressure in patients with hypertension.

      Pranayama breathing is an important component of of yoga. It has been reported that yoga
      respiratory training increases vagal tone and reduces sympathetic activity, increases vital
      capacity, controls heart rate and blood pressure, and improves respiratory muscle strength.

      No study investigating the effects of adding yoga respiratory training to osteopathic
      manipulative treatment in patients with PAH was found in the literature. The investigators
      aimed to explore the effects of a combined intervention consisting of OMT and yoga breathing
      exercises, as well as OMT alone on exhaled NO level, pulmonary function, respiratory and
      peripheral muscle strength, and exercise capacity in patients with PAH.
    
  