
    
      A healthy diet can have a remarkable effect on a person's overall health. Research has
      consistently confirmed the association between diet and serious health problems, including
      heart disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, and gastrointestinal disorders. Most healthy
      diets aimed at disease prevention promote a low intake of fats, but the optimal diet to
      prevent CVD and related disorders is uncertain. Recent emphasis has turned to the influence
      of carbohydrate consumption on risk of CVD and diabetes. Carbohydrates comprise a wide range
      of foods, which are categorized by their absorption rate, also known as glycemic index (GI).
      There is much current debate over how the level and type of dietary carbohydrates affect
      cardiovascular health. This study will determine the effects of a higher versus lower
      carbohydrate diet, each with a high or low GI composition, on risk factors for CVD and
      diabetes.

      Potential participants will attend three screening visits that will include questionnaires,
      clinical measurements, and blood and urine tests. Participants will then undergo an 8-day
      run-in phase to become familiar with the feeding patterns of four different diets: high
      carbohydrate with high GI, high carbohydrate with low GI, low carbohydrate with high GI, or
      low carbohydrate with low GI. During the run-in, participants will be provided all of their
      food, snacks, and calorie-containing beverages. Participants will also complete a daily food
      diary, symptoms questionnaire, medical and social history, and daily weigh-in. After meeting
      with a dietician to review progress, eligible participants will be randomly assigned to one
      of eight sequences of the four diet plans.

      Participants will follow each of the four diet plans for 5 weeks, with a period of at least 2
      weeks separating each plan. During each dieting period, participants will be provided all of
      their food and snacks and most beverages. All participants will be required to eat at least
      one on-site meal per day, 5 days per week. Participants will keep a daily food diary and will
      undergo weekly blood pressure measurements for the first 3 weeks of each dieting period.
      Assessments will occur in the fifth week of each of the four dieting periods and will include
      symptoms and satiety questionnaires, blood pressure measurements, and a blood draw. One month
      following the completion of the last dieting period, participants will receive nutritional
      counseling on the prevention of CVD.
    
  