
    
      -Study design: This study will include 600 women undergoing their caesarean section. The
      study aims will be explained to all women and an informed written consent will be taken. All
      recruited women will be distributed into two groups according to a computerized randomization
      table. The researcher consecutively will open sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes
      containing cards with letters either letter (C) or letter (N), Cards with letter (C) will
      represent the group who will receive the caffeinated coffee and cards with letter (N) will
      represent the group who will receive the decaffeinated coffee

      Procedure:

        -  For all women, the anesthetic used will be Marcaine® Spinal heavy 0.5% and fentanyl and
           for post-operative pain, ketorolac will be used.

        -  Through Pfannenstiel incision, transverse lower segment uterine incision is done, with
           the duration of the surgery not exceeding 90 minutes

        -  women will not be permitted to drink or eat, except for the drink offered by the
           researcher, till passing flatus. Early ambulation will be encouraged.

        -  A stethoscope will be used to detect the first intestinal movement each hour after the
           surgery. The women will be advised to notify the researcher when they pass both flatus
           and feces.

      Intervention:

        -  The intervention plan will be performed within the first 24 hours after the surgery.

        -  Provided by the researcher within 10 minutes, patients will drink 100cc coffee with 1
           tea spoon added sugar at 3, 6 and 9 hours after the surgery, and the control group will
           drink 100cc decaffeinated coffee with 1 tea spoon added sugar at the same intervals.

        -  No other liquid will be allowed till passage of flatus and feces in the first day of
           surgery.

        -  Nescafe Gold ® coffee (5gm per 100cc water containing 170 mg of caffeine) will be used
           for all the women in the intervention group. Nescafe Gold DECAF coffee (5 gm per 100cc
           water containing 5-10 mg of caffeine) will be used for all the women in the control
           group.

        -  Statistical Package:

        -  Data analysis will be performed by Statistical Package for the Social Science (SPSS)
           16.0 using descriptive statistics tools, including mean, standard deviation and figures.
           A t-test will be used to compare mean values of the two groups. P-values, smaller than
           0.05, were considered statistically significant.
    
  