
    
      This will be an open-label prospective study design with respect to MS immunomodulatory
      therapy choice. Study group will be defined as subjects with a relapsing form of multiple
      sclerosis as defined by the McDonald criteria choosing to begin dimethyl fumarate (DMF)
      therapy. Blinding of the principal investigator and study subject to microbiota analysis
      results will be maintained until the planned end of study. Subjects who receive at least one
      dose of DMF and subsequently discontinue therapy will be invited to complete the study on
      alternative immunomodulatory therapy or no therapy. Data from subjects who have received at
      least one dose of DMF and who withdraw early from the study will be included in analysis as
      last visit carried forward. A goal has been set to enroll 25 subjects for this study.

      Gut microbiota will be characterized using a commercial service, Second Genome, utilizing
      bacterial DNA extraction from stool samples and 16S ribosomal RNA gene amplification,
      followed by high-throughput sequencing. Taxonomic profiling on the Illumina MiSeq system is
      cycled to generate paired 250-bp reads in Second Genome's protocols. These longer read
      lengths provide high-quality full length-reads of the gene to ensure the most accurate
      classification available through sequencing technologies. Next generation sequencing has
      emerged as a powerful tool for investigating microbial communities in large sample sets.

      Serial stool samples will be collected from each subject, and sent to Second Genome for
      analysis. The first stool sample will be collected prior to the initial dose of DMF, with
      subsequent collections at defined time points over the course of the study. A more intensive
      analysis will focus on the first 12 weeks of treatment, a time during which development and
      resolution of gastrointestinal side effects typically take place on therapy.
      Treatment-emergent flushing severity will be recorded during this time using a 5-point Likert
      scale flushing severity survey. Gastrointestinal (G.I.) symptoms will be assessed using the
      Gastrointestinal Symptoms Rating Scale (GSRS) questionnaire, a validated, self-administered
      questionnaire that includes 15 questions, which assess severity of G.I. symptoms using a
      7-point Likert scale in five domains: indigestion, diarrhea, constipation, abdominal pain and
      reflux. The severity of symptoms reported in the GSRS increases with increasing score. Other
      variables which potentially may alter the gastrointestinal microbiota and secondarily DMF
      tolerance will be assessed, including the identification of subjects predisposed to
      functional bowel disorders via use of the Rome III functional bowel survey, a validated
      clinical tool to identify at-risk individuals, diet composition, antibiotic exposure, steroid
      treatments for neurological relapses, use of prebiotic , probiotic, or vitamin D supplements,
      and H2 blocker or proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy, as gut pH changes impact the gut flora
      composition.Additional data on mood change over 24 weeks of DMF therapy, using the Hamilton
      Anxiety Measurement (HAM) Rating Scale and Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) Depression
      Scale, will be collected and correlated to DMF-emergent G.I. disturbances, and to changes in
      bacterial and archaeal species in the gut flora.
    
  