
    
      Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a chronic multisystem autoimmune connective tissue disease for
      which the etiology remains unknown. The prevalence for SSc is between 19-75 cases per 100,000
      and it is more frequent in women, with a peak occurrence in the 4th or 5th decade of life.
      Morbidity and Mortality in SSc are substantial and pulmonary complications are now the
      leading cause of death among patients with SSc.

      Bortezomib is an FDA approved therapy for the treatment of multiple myeloma and other
      malignancies. The investigators have data that bortezomib inhibits TGF- signaling in vitro
      and promotes normal repair and prevents against lung fibrosis in the TGF-mediated
      intratracheal bleomycin mouse model as well as in a mouse model for skin fibrosis. This is
      consistent with other data in the literature that proteasomal inhibition can prevent the
      development of fibrosis. Further there are multiple reports on the efficacy of bortezomib in
      ameliorating cGVHD in patients after allogeneic HSCT for multiple myeloma. Bortezomib was
      also well tolerated in the large clinical trials of multiple myeloma patients with neuropathy
      and thrombocytopenia the primary adverse events. No pulmonary toxicities were reported in
      these studies.

      Mycophenolate mofetil (CellCept or Myfortic) belongs to a class of medications known as
      immunosuppressives. This medication was used originally in the management of patients with
      organ transplants, but is now recommended in the treatment of some autoimmune diseases such
      as SSc.

      Mycophenolate mofetil targets an enzyme in the body called inosine monophosphate
      dehydrogenase that is important for the formation of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) in cells. By
      interfering with DNA, the medication impairs function of immune system cells that become
      overactive in autoimmune diseases. Mycophenolate mofetil is currently approved in the
      treatment of patients with SSc.

      This study is being conducted to establish the safety and tolerability of bortezomib in SSc
      patients at high risk for pulmonary disease progression. In addition, the study will examine
      the effect of bortezomib on the rate of FVC decline (a physiologic parameter closely
      associated with disease outcome) and other clinical parameters. In addition the investigators
      will also measure the effect of bortezomib on biomarkers associated with fibroblast
      activation. If successful, the study will provide the rationale for a multi-center placebo
      controlled trial to test the efficacy of bortezomib in SSc patients at high risk for
      progressive pulmonary disease.
    
  