
    
      Alzheimer's Disease (AD) has long been known to carry an increased risk of seizure, with
      early estimates suggesting patients with AD have a 10-22% risk at least one unprovoked
      seizure and an 8- to 10-fold higher seizure rate over the general population. Retrospective
      data has suggested that the onset of both clinical seizure and abnormal discharge on
      electroencephalogram (EEG) may cluster around or even precede the onset of cognitive decline.
      With extended EEG and/or 1-hour magnetoencephalogram (MEG), up to 42% of patients with AD
      have evidence of subclinical seizure or epileptiform discharges, two-thirds of which were
      identified only during sleep. Recent evidence has also found a much higher incidence of
      dyscognitive seizure (47%) and other nonconvulsive semiologies (55%) than previously
      reported, including jamais vu, déjà vu, sensory phenomenon, speech arrest/aphasia, and
      amnestic spells.

      A particularly problematic aspect of dementia in general and AD in particular is
      neuropsychiatric symptoms. Neuropsychiatric symptoms increase with duration and severity of
      dementia, observed in as much as 60-90% of these patients. To some extent, neuropsychiatric
      symptoms may also be associated with focal dysfunction, particularly of the non-dominant
      fronto-temporal lobes. Seizure or transient epileptiform discharges, then, might explain some
      of the neuropsychiatric manifestations associated with AD, especially since the most common
      areas of discharge are the fronto-temporal lobes in AD. Neuropsychiatric symptoms and their
      causes are of particular concern in the management of patients with AD given the strain on
      patients and families and their high association with nursing home placement.

      This study will complete up to 3 serial EEGs on each participant, and all participants with
      epileptiform activity identified on EEG will be started on levetiracetam. All participants
      will be followed with serial neuro-psychiatric symptom, cognitive, severity, and
      quality-of-life metrics in order to analyze the effect of levetiracetam on these measures
      over 1 year.
    
  