
    
      Heart failure is henceforth the main cause of death in adult patients with congenital heart
      disease (CHD). The number of affected patients is expected to continue to grow exponentially
      due to the important increase and aging of this population.

      In symptomatic patients despite optimal pharmacological therapy, Cardiac Resynchronization
      Therapy (CRT) offers a well-recognized therapeutic option in dilated and ischemic
      cardiomyopathies with severely impaired left ventricle ejection fraction and complete left
      bundle branch block. In patients with CHD, the level of evidence is much more limited.
      Underlying phenotypes are heterogeneous, including systemic right ventricles (SRVs), isolated
      sub-pulmonary right ventricle dysfunctions, single ventricles, and most of patients have a
      right bundle branch block. All these specificities question the extrapolation of data
      reported in patients with acquired cardiomyopathies. Despite the lack of evidence, CRT
      systems have been progressively used in CHD patients, also because alternative options are
      poor, mainly represented by cardiac transplantation, but grafts are rare and congenital
      patients frequently have contraindications.

      A positive impact of CRT in CHD has first been suggested in small series where hemodynamic
      invasive parameters (e.g. dP/dt max) were improved and QRS narrowed by multisite pacing. A
      few subsequent studies then reported an improvement of ventricular functions and
      patient-reported functional subjective parameters (mainly NYHA classification). However, the
      number of patients included in most studies was limited and heterogeneous forms of CHD were
      often pooled when interpreting results. The studies evaluating CRT specifically in patients
      with SRV are very rare and demonstrated conflicting results. The largest study to date
      assessing specifically CRT in patients with SRV included 20 patients with congenitally
      corrected transposition of the great arteries (cc-TGA) and demonstrated an acute improvement
      in two-thirds of patients.

      Although patients with SRV represent one of the main groups of CHD patients currently
      implanted with CRT, the paucity of specific data in this population has been highlighted as a
      major evidence gap and as a high-impact research question by the American Heart
      Association/American College of Cardiology guidelines committee.
    
  