
    
      Patients who are admitted to Yale New Haven Hospital with first acute myocardial infarction
      within the onset of 12 hours of symptoms will be eligible for this study and referred by
      their physician for this study. Subjects will be screened with medical interview and physical
      exam for eligibility. Clinical data will be obtained for demographic purposes including: EKG
      upon admission, serum cardiac markers, basic metabolic panel, cardiac catheterization report
      and recent echocardiography report. All standard medications will be allowed which include
      diuretics, ACE/Ang-II inhibitors, nitrates/hydralazine, digoxin, low dose aspirin,
      beta-blockers, calcium channel antagonists, anticoagulants and anti-arrhythmic agents.

      A 10cc blood sample will be drawn from a peripheral vein at 3 days post myocardial infarction
      into chilled EDTA tubes, plasma decanted and placed at -70 degrees C until MMP/TIMP assays
      are performed. These samples will be sent to collaborators at the Medical University of South
      Carolina for high sensitivity plasma assays developed at MUSC for MMP-1, -13, -8, -2, -9 and
      TIMP-1, -2, -4. [1] These assays will be performed in Core C and detailed description of
      specificity of these measurements is described. In addition, indices of collagen synthesis
      and degradation, through the use of telopeptide measurements will be measured in these plasma
      samples.

      Nitroglycerin resting Tl-201 myocardial perfusion imaging will be performed between 2-5 days
      after myocardial infarction. Subjects will have a peripheral intravenous line placed and will
      be injected with 2.5-3.5mCi of Tl-201. The Tl-201 given will be a slightly lower dosage than
      the standard clinical protocol of Yale New Haven Hospital nuclear cardiology lab because of
      improved reconstruction algorithms with CT will allow lower doses of radioactive isotopes.
      Resting myocardial perfusion images will be acquired 5 minutes post-injection on a multislice
      helical SPECT/CT (GE Infinia Hawkeye) followed by a CT scan. A redistribution image will be
      performed 4 hours after thallium administration. Each SPECT scan will take approximately 25
      minutes. Perfusion defect size will be quantified using the Yale C-Q method previously
      described [2].

      Transthoracic echocardiography will be performed at 2-5 days post-MI and 28 days after MI in
      standard apical and parasternal views using a commercial ultrasound system either Phillips
      7500 or IE33 ultrasound imaging system with an S3 transducer. The transducer will be placed
      on the apical and/or parasternal location on the chest and ECG-gated images will be obtained
      during a breath hold. Each acquisition will be performed in zoom mode at 40 Hz, over the
      entire LV in 4 cardiac cycles with 40 frames per cardiac cycle. Image data will be captured
      in digital form and will be backed up on DVDs. NOTE: No patient HIPPA data will be saved on
      the DVD. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), end-diastolic volume (LVEDV), and
      end-systolic volume (LVESV) will be measured. The echocardiograms will be used to determine
      LV mass, LV cavity size and regional thickening. Patients will undergo MRI with gadolinium
      contrast in the GE Signa 1.5 tesla magnetic resonance image scanner located in the Yale-New
      Haven Hospital MRI Center, using standard ECG-gated cine gradient echo, and echo-planar,
      phase contrast and MR tagged imaging sequences.

      Electrocardiographic monitoring will be maintained during the magnetic resonance imaging. MRI
      scans will occur between 2-5 days post-MI.

      The first acquisitions to be performed will be combined cine-gradient echo/cine phase
      velocity approach that will obtain both the magnitude images required for our segmentation
      and shape-based tracking as well as contrast data for finding midwall myocardial velocities
      in a single image acquisition. This sequence will yield adjacent 5 mm thick axial images with
      in plane resolution of approximately 1.6mm x 1.6mm. We will acquire 16-20 cardiac phase per
      location. Patients will receive 0.1 mmol/kg of standard gadolinium contrast in a peripheral
      IV. The acquisition will apply inversion recovery preparatory pulse to null normal
      myocardium, followed by a segmented k-space gradient echo acquisition. We anticipate that all
      of the proposed magnetic resonance imaging for each subject will be completed within 2 hours.
      The technologist or doctor operating the scanner will be able to see the subject. The
      operator will maintain contact by voice with the subjects.

      None of the aforementioned procedures are considered experimental and individually, may or
      may not be part of the subjects' standard of care post myocardial infarction. During each
      part of the step of image acquisition, there will be a physician present. All data will be
      transferred via network to the image processing laboratory for analysis and will not include
      any projected personal information.
    
  