
    
      Macular edema is a major cause of vision loss in patients with CRVO and BRVO. Both CRVO and
      BRVO are common retinal problems and are caused by a blockage in one of the large retinal
      veins (central retinal vein occlusion - CRVO) or smaller retinal veins (branch retinal vein
      occlusion - BRVO). Currently, there is no effective treatment for macular edema associated
      with CRVO and standard care treatment is observation. Grid laser photocoagulation may be
      effective for some patients for macular edema associated with BRVO, but many patients derive
      limited benefit from this treatment. Therefore, the development of new treatment modalities
      for macular edema caused by these two conditions is an important research goal.

      Over the last several years, many patients with macular edema from CRVO and BRVO have been
      treated with an injection of a type of steroid called triamcinolone directly into the eye.
      This type of injection is called an intravitreal injection. The triamcinolone preparation
      commonly injected into the eye is Kenalog and is FDA-approved only for use in muscles and
      joints. The SCORE Study will use a formulation of triamcinolone made specifically for the
      eye.

      The SCORE Study is a multicenter, randomized, Phase III trial to compare the effectiveness
      and safety of standard care versus triamcinolone injection(s) for the treatment of macular
      edema associated with CRVO and BRVO. In each of the two disease areas, 630 participants will
      be randomized (similar to a flip of a coin) in a 1:1:1 ratio to one of three groups: standard
      care, intravitreal triamcinolone 4 mg, or intravitreal triamcinolone 1 mg. After
      randomization, participants will be examined every 4 months through 3 years to collect
      ophthalmic information, including visual acuity, intraocular pressure, optical coherence
      tomography, and fundus photography . Fluorescein angiography will be performed at 4, 12 and
      24 months. Repeat intravitreal injections of triamcinolone and repeat laser treatment will be
      provided as clinically indicated based on protocol-specific guidelines.

      The primary outcome is improvement by 15 or more letters from baseline in best-corrected
      ETDRS visual acuity score at the 12-month visit. Secondary outcomes include changes from
      baseline in best-corrected ETDRS visual acuity score, changes in retinal thickness as
      assessed by stereoscopic color fundus photography and optical coherence tomography, and
      adverse ocular outcomes.
    
  