
    
      Following posterior spinal fusions, many patients are treated with analgesics or other
      modalities for prolonged periods before choosing the surgical alternative. In addition, the
      narcotic-based anesthetic required for the procedure may induce postoperative hyperalgesia
      (1). Inadequate treatment of this pain can result in prolonged hospitalization,
      cardiopulmonary complications, and poor surgical outcome (2).

      Pain during the immediate postoperative period is usually managed with IV narcotic PCA and
      then transitioned to a combination of long-acting and short-acting oral analgesics. Because
      of the requirement for continuous carrier fluid infusion, cumbersome pump technology
      restricting mobility and supervision by a dedicated pain team to control programming of the
      pump, the PCA modality is often discontinued prior to all the patients' pain needs being met.

      The investigators' most recent study evaluated the addition of pregabalin to the pain regimen
      after spinal fusions. The study found that after the removal of the PCA modality, these
      patients had considerable pain during physical therapy (PT), and their pain was not improved
      with the addition of pregabalin.

      The IONSYS system might alleviate some of the problems encountered with conventional PCA
      systems (3,4). The system is an iontophoretic transdermal (needleless) system preprogrammed
      to deliver upon activation 40 mcg fentanyl over a 10-minute period, with up to 6 doses per
      hour. The system performs for 24 hours. The drug is embedded in a matrix gel and is only
      delivered when a current is propagated between the two poles of the system. Other than the
      usual narcotic side effects, the only specific side effect is a local dermatological reaction
      to the patch (5% had a rash, which cleared after removal). The system was designed with
      fentanyl, since hydromorphone cannot be incorporated in this type of matrix. Unlike
      hydromorphone, fentanyl is quick acting and doesn't hang around. The in-house chronic pain
      service currently puts many of their patients on IV fentanyl, because of the belief that it
      works when they have pain but is quickly metabolized.
    
  