
    
      Polypodium Leucotomos (PL), a tropical fern that is grown in Central America, has been found
      to contain active compounds that provide antioxidative, photoprotective, chemoprotective,
      anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory properties.The antioxidative effects of PL include
      inhibition and scavenging of free radicals, lipid peroxidation and reactive oxygen species
      (ROS) such hydrogen peroxide, superoxide anion, hydroxyl radical and singlet
      oxygen.Ultraviolet radiation (UVR) and visible light (400-700 nm) can induce DNA damage in
      the human skin through ROS production.

      The visible spectrum is the part of the electromagnetic radiation that is visible to the
      human eye. While many of the photodermatology studies have focused mainly on the UV portion
      of the electromagnetic radiation spectrum, as of lately, there have been more studies on
      visible light. The visible light radiation can exert various biologic effects such as
      erythema, pigmentation, thermal damage and free radical production. Addtionally, visible
      light exposure can cause or exacerbate photodermatoses such as solar urticaria, chronic
      actinic dermatosis (CAD) and cutaneous porphyrias. Sunscreens are the mainstay treatment for
      these photodermatoses, but often sunscreens offer none to weak protection against visible
      light.

      In the past, studies have studied the erythema development and pigmentary changes induced by
      visible light. A recent study by Mahmoud et al. reported that visible light induces dark and
      relatively sustained pigmentation, which has clinical relevance in the treatment of
      photodermatoses as well as the need for development of filters that protect against visible
      light.

      PURPOSE: To study the effects of visible light on the skin after administration of oral
      Polypodium leucotomos.

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

      •Primary objective: Compare the effects of skin irradiated with visible light with and
      without oral polypodium leucotomos
    
  