
    
      Although positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) has been widely used in mechanical
      ventilated patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), how to select the
      "optimal" PEEP is far from consensus. The application of PEEP may result in beneficial effect
      by recruiting previously collapsed lung areas, harmful effect by over-distending previously
      aerated lung areas, or a combination of the both. The net effect of PEEP in a certain patient
      may depend on the recruitability. Because recruitability varies extremely in ARDS patients
      and strongly correlates with the response to PEEP, estimation of end-expiratory lung volume
      (EELV) may be essential for individualized setting of PEEP.

      Passive spirometry has long been used to measure the lung recruitment volume (VREC). A
      prolonged expiration to zero end-expiratory pressure (ZEEP) or airway release maneuver is
      required and PEEP induced lung volume change above functional residual capacity (FRC) is
      measured. This technique assumes that FRC does not change at different PEEP levels.

      This assumption that PEEP has no effect on FRC can date back to the study of Valta et al in
      the early 1990s. Using respiratory inductive plethysmography (RIP), they found that in
      ALI/ARDS patients, after expiring from different PEEP levels to ZEEP, the plethysmography
      signal returned to the same baseline value. They concluded that FRC does not change with
      PEEP, and that changes of EELV are attributable only to change in ∆EELV. Ranieri et al
      arrived at similar conclusions by measuring differences in lung volumes at different PEEP
      levels using standardized pressure-volume (P-V) curves derived from the ventilator circuit
      monitors. However, Patroniti et al found an elevation of FRC as increasing of PEEP in
      patients with ARDS. In this study, FRC was measured with the helium dilution technique, and
      concluded that neglecting this effect resulted in marked underestimation of VREC. Whether the
      FRC changes at different PEEP levels remains controversial. The aim of the study is to assess
      the effect of PEEP on FRC during mechanical ventilation.
    
  