
    
      Aim: To evaluate a novel individualized, multicomponent care program to optimize metabolic
      control in obese type 2 diabetic participants with suboptimal glycemic control.

      Hypothesis: The change from a traditional clinic consultation to an individualized,
      multicomponent care program will improve cardiometabolic parameters in suboptimally treated
      obese type 2 diabetic participants.

      Study design: This is a pilot translational study aiming to compare the effects of a
      multi-component care program with personalized drug regimen augmented by behavioural therapy
      with psychological support and peer influence, led by a diabetes specialist team on metabolic
      and psychobehavioural health in obese type 2 diabetic participants versus usual care.

      Settings: The participants would be identified from the Prince of Wales Hospital (PWH). The
      recruitment period would be 6 months. Since 1995, the PWH runs a comprehensive complication
      screening program in the ambulatory Diabetes Centre. On a weekly basis, 50-100 patients
      undergo assessments for risk factors and complications by nurses and healthcare assistants
      using standard protocols. On average, 12-20 patients attend each session. Since 2007, these
      data are entered into a web-based Joint Asia Diabetes Evaluation (JADE) Program which
      incorporates a validated risk engine to generate an integrated report with risk categories,
      care protocols, trends of risk factor control and decision support to empower both doctors
      and patients to make informed decisions. After the assessments, these patients return 8-12
      weeks later to undergo a 2-hour group session where nurses will explain the JADE report and
      reinforce patients about their treatment targets and self-blood glucose monitoring
      techniques. Since these patients usually undergo comprehensive assessment, receive education
      and attend medical clinic visits in the same group, these settings have provided an excellent
      opportunity for healthcare providers to create an environment and use group dynamics to
      promote collaborative learning as well as provide mutual social and emotional support.

      For this EMERALD (E) project, 410 eligible participants will be randomized to either the E or
      usual care (UC) group, which was done independently by a statistician. The group allocation
      of each participant will be assigned by having a staff independent of the study. Computer
      generated random codes will be prepared by the statistician prior to participant recruitment
      and the codes will be stored in a computer. Irrespective of the assignment group, all
      participants will receive a 2-hour session on how to interpret the JADE report and their risk
      profiles and will be reinforced on the importance of achieving targets and optimizing
      self-care.

      Participants assigned to the UC group will be followed up in their usual clinic according to
      the 'standard' practice. Participants assigned to the E group will be invited to join the
      1-year multi-component program. They will have the nature of the program and the follow-up
      schedule explained to them. This multi-component program will be held on a 4-weekly basis for
      the first 3-4 months followed by a maintenance program involving 2-4 group activities every
      year. Between clinic visits, participants in E group will also receive telephone reminders
      from the staff and peer supporters for reinforcement of compliance and for social support.
      Participants who refuse to join will be asked about the reasons for refusal and this will be
      documented for future analysis.

      Intervention procedure for EMERALD Group Participants assigned to the E group will be
      followed up at the PWH Diabetes Centre led by the nurses and supported by diabetologists. All
      medical follow up visits will take place in the Diabetes Centre instead of the busy medical
      clinics. All participants will be followed up by diabetes specialists or trained doctors
      using the HbA1c and age, body weight, presence of diabetes complications, and disease
      duration of diabetes (ABCD) algorithm proposed by a group of experts with particular emphasis
      on individualizing HbA1c goals and selecting drugs based on clinical profiles to maximize
      benefits and minimize harm.

      Overall framework Participants assigned to the E group will undergo an intensive 3-4 months
      empowerment program where participants within the same group sharing similar profiles will
      return to the centre monthly to undergo a 2-3 hour activity session led by diabetes nurses,
      peer supporters and paramedics. The doctors will adjust medical therapy on a 3-4 monthly
      basis with the nurses reinforcing compliance and providing the liaison between the doctor and
      patient. Between medical visits, the nurses or research assistant will telephone the patients
      at least once to provide support, help problem-shoot and remind them of their follow-up
      schedule. All participants will be encouraged to exchange telephone numbers and the peer
      supporters are encouraged to organize ad lib activities depending on the group dynamics. At
      each group visits (including the 3-4 monthly medical visit), all participants will measure
      their own blood pressure (BP) and body weight and list HbA1c value (available every 3 months)
      for sharing. Participants with the best (or improved) results and those with the least
      optimal (or deteriorated) results will be encouraged to share their experiences. The nurse
      will serve as a facilitator, assisted by the peer supporters, to encourage group sharing and
      problem-shooting. In the 9-month maintenance period, the nurses and peer supporters will
      organize at least 2 group activities open to all patients in the E group. Attendance for
      these group activities will be documented for future per protocol analysis. After 1 year,
      participants will return to their usual care management.

      Medical review and social activities open to all groups. Endocrinologists will use ABCD
      algorithm to titrate treatment in the E group who will also be given JADE follow-up reports
      to engage them in the care and management process by informing participants the trends of
      risk factor control (HbA1c, BP, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol [LDL-cholesterol] and
      body weight) and used of medications. All participants will undergo repeat assessments at 1
      year and 2 years using the standard protocols.

      Clinical and laboratory parameters will be measured in the diabetes complications screening
      as described in the Hong Kong Diabetes Registry and JADE (2) with detailed documentation of
      HbA1c, BP, LDL-cholesterol, body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC) and other
      parameters. Participants in the UC will be followed up in their usual clinic managed by their
      usual care providers. The outcome measures including HbA1c, BP, LDL cholesterol, admissions,
      hypoglycaemic episodes and all clinical endpoints will be captured by the Hospital Authority
      (HA) Computer Management System (CMS). In addition, repeat diabetes complication screening
      will be provided to all participants in the E and UC group at 1 year and 2 years for
      comparison. Psychological parameters will be measured by questionnaires including Patient
      Health Questionnaire 9 (PHQ9), EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D), Summary of Diabetes Self-Care
      Activities-16 (SDSCA-16), Depression Anxiety-Stress Scale (DASS-17) and Dissociative
      Experiences Scale-11 (DES-11).

      Statistical Analysis: Data will be double-entered for validation and presented using
      appropriate descriptive statistics. Skewed variables will be transformed. Between-group
      comparisons of baseline values will be made using t-test, Mann-Whitney test, Pearson
      Chi-square or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate. Mixed-effects modes will be used to
      compare the differential changes on various outcome variables across the time points at T1
      (baseline), T2 (year 1) and T3 (year 2) between the two study arms with adjustment for
      potential confounders. The potential confounders will be selected on the basis of clinical
      judgement and statistical incomparability at the baseline. Baseline clinical characteristics
      with p values <0.25 for between-group difference and other variables that may confound the
      comparison results of the outcomes based on the clinical judgement will be considered as
      potential confounders. Mixed-effects model can account for intra-correlated repeated measures
      data and accommodate missing data caused by incomplete visits or those who have dropped-out,
      provided the data are missing at random. Mixed-effects models will be performed using the
      PROC MIXED (SAS Institute, Cary, NC, release 9.2). Other statistical analyses will be done
      using Statistical Package for the Social Science (SPSS) 18.0. A two-sided P<0.05 is
      considered significant.

      Sample size determination: The sample size estimation of the study is based on the primary
      outcome, i.e. changes in HbA1c at 0 and 2 years between the two study arms. The investigators
      used the method of Hedeker et al that can handle sample size estimation for longitudinal
      study with attrition and its associated program RMASS2 to estimate the sample size. In this
      study, the investigators aim to detect a mean difference of within-subject change in HbA1c
      between the two arms of value of at least 0.5%. Based on previous study, the investigators
      expect a standard deviation of 1.7% for HbA1c in the targeted population. From the
      investigators' experience on follow-up studies on diabetic patients, the attrition rate
      should be less than 20%. Using the freeware RMASS2, the investigators estimate that 205
      subjects per study arm will assure the study 80% power at 5% level of significance to detect
      a mean difference of 0.5% in HbA1c between the two groups at year 1 and 2, assuming no
      between-group differences in baseline HbA1c, a standard deviation of HbA1c of 1.7%, and an
      attrition rate of 20%.
    
  