
    
      The most prevalent disordered eating pattern described in overweight youth is loss of control
      (LOC) eating, during which individuals experience an inability to control the amount of food
      they are consuming. LOC eating is associated cross-sectionally with greater adiposity in
      children and adolescents, and appears to predispose youth to gain weight or body fat above
      that expected due to normal growth, thus likely contributing to obesity in susceptible
      individuals. No prior studies have examined whether LOC eating can be decreased by
      interventions in children or adolescents, or whether programs reducing LOC eating affect
      weight gain. Interpersonal Psychotherapy (IPT), a form of psychotherapy that has been adapted
      for the treatment of eating disorders, has demonstrated efficacy in reducing binge eating
      episodes and inducing modest weight losses (or at least weight stabilization) among adults
      diagnosed with binge eating disorder. In Study 1, we proposed a pilot study of the efficacy
      of group IPT as an intervention to slow the trajectory of weight gain in 36 overweight or
      at-risk for overweight youth who report symptoms of LOC eating. We hypothesized that
      reductions in LOC eating among adolescents who engage in such episodes and who are at risk
      for obesity will decrease the likelihood of inappropriate weight gain. In this pilot study,
      changes in body composition of adolescent girls participating in a 12-week IPT group
      intervention were compared with those of girls participating in a health education program at
      6 month and 1 year follow-up visits. Significantly more girls who participated in IPT
      stabilized their weight compared to girls who participated in health education. These
      promising preliminary data were the basis for an adequately powered trial of adolescent IPT
      for the prevention of excessive weight gain that is currently underway (NICHD Protocol
      08-CH-0139). In Study 2, we wish to pilot an excess weight gain prevention program targeting
      LOC eating behaviors in middle childhood youth and in their parents. In Study 2 the
      prevention programs will be delivered in a parent-child dyadic format instead of an
      adolescent group format. Enrolling children and their parents will also allow pilot exome
      sequencing genetic analyses to be conducted.
    
  