
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To preserve the excellent cure rate in patients with lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin
      disease (LPHD) while employing a treatment strategy that minimizes the exposure to
      chemotherapy and radiation therapy in appropriate patients.

      II. To estimate the proportion of stage I patients (with a single involved lymph node that is
      totally resected) who can be cured with surgery alone.

      III. To estimate the proportions of stage I unresected, stage I resected (whose disease has
      recurred after observation), and stage II LPHD patients who can be cured with adriamycin
      (doxorubicin)/vincristine/prednisone/cyclophosphamide (AV-PC) x 3, with involved field
      radiation therapy (IFRT) for those who are not in a CR after chemotherapy.

      IV. To reduce the potential for long-term toxicity of LPHD treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

      Patients with stage IA disease who underwent confirmed complete resection of a single
      involved lymph node at diagnosis undergo observation only*.

      Patients with stage IA disease who underwent possible complete resection of a single involved
      lymph node at diagnosis undergo imaging at 6-7 weeks after surgery. Patients with a confirmed
      complete resection by imaging undergo observation only*. Patients who do not demonstrate
      complete resection by imaging proceed to combination chemotherapy with or without
      radiotherapy.

      Patients with stage IA disease who underwent a fine needle aspiration of a single involved
      lymph node OR an incomplete resection of a single involved lymph node at diagnosis may
      undergo a second surgery to achieve complete resection. Patients who undergo complete
      resection during the second surgery undergo imaging at 6-7 weeks after surgery. Patients with
      a confirmed complete resection by imaging undergo observation only*. Patients who do not
      undergo a second surgery OR do not achieve complete resection with the second surgery proceed
      to combination chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy. Patients with stage IA disease with
      involvement of more than 1 lymph node OR stage IIA disease proceed directly to combination
      chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy.

      NOTE: *Patients with recurrent disease after observation only undergo biopsy and restaging
      and then proceed to combination chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy.

      COMBINATION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over
      10-30 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 1, vincristine IV over 1 minute on
      days 1 and 8, and prednisone orally (PO) or IV two or three times daily on days 1-7.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve complete response (CR) after 3 courses of therapy
      proceed to follow-up. Patients who do not achieve a CR proceed to involved-field
      radiotherapy.

      INVOLVED-FIELD RADIOTHERAPY (IFRT): Beginning within 3 weeks after completion of combination
      chemotherapy, patients undergo IFRT once daily, 5 days a week for 2.8 weeks (14 treatments).

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, annually for 5
      years, and then every 5 years for 10 years.
    
  