
    
      BACKGROUND Cardiovascular disease (CVD) in the UK is behind 1 in 4 deaths/year (>150,000
      people), with coronary heart disease (CHD) being the most common type [1]. In addition to the
      loss of life, the economic cost of CVD is considerable; in 2015 healthcare for CVD alone in
      the UK amounted to £10.9 billion with a further £7.7 billion lost from the economy due to
      productivity loses [2].

      Mortality figures due to CHD have been reduced recently, in part due to increased provision
      of cardiac rehabilitation (CR), a therapeutic approach based on exercise training to improve
      cardiac function, plus advice regarding smoking cessation, dietary changes and weight loss
      [3].

      RATIONALE Most of the evidence on the benefit of CR examines the links between exercise and
      CV morbidity and mortality [4]; however, there is considerable evidence showing improvements
      in markers of cardiovascular risk through different dietary strategies [5]. Of particular
      relevance, results from studies on both the primary and secondary prevention of CVD suggest
      Mediterranean diet-based approaches are the most adequate to treat these patients [6-13].

      Obesity, and in particular, visceral adiposity, is associated with cardiometabolic (CM) risk
      markers (e.g., high cholesterol and triglycerides levels, HbA1c, etc.) [14-16], however, an
      "obesity paradox" appears to exist in the cardiac population, where increased mortality has
      been linked to low body mass index (BMI) [17, 18]. However, low lean body mass (LBM) is the
      likely driver of this phenomenon due to sarcopenia, a progressive loss of LBM associated with
      aging [19]. Patients with a combination of low LBM and abdominal distribution of body fat,
      known as sarcopenic obesity (SO), are at greater risk of CVD, exacerbated in CR [20-23].
      Thus, increasing relative LBM content, rather than simply promoting weight loss, may be an
      appropriate target in CR patients.

      One particular barrier to maintaining or accruing LBM is the presence of anabolic resistance
      in older adults, which can result in a reduced muscle protein synthetic (MPS) response to
      both exercise and the ingestion of currently recommended intakes of protein [24]. Protein
      intakes above currently recommended levels (1.0-1.5 g/kg/BW) [25] combined with sufficiently
      intense resistance training [26] can overcome this anabolic resistance and positively
      influence muscle mass, ultimately leading to greater improvement in body composition, when
      accompanied by a reduction in total body fat mass [27].

      RESEARCH QUESTION The investigators aim to determine the prevalence of sarcopenic obesity in
      a CR population and how this body composition relates to markers of cardiometabolic health.
      As there is no consensus definition of SO, multiple definitions, along with their
      relationship with CM risk markers, will be investigated.

      The investigators aim to investigate to what extent a high-protein Mediterranean-style diet
      and resistance exercise, alone and in combination, can augment LBM. Furthermore, the
      investigators will ascertain whether the above interventions improve markers of
      cardiometabolic health.

      Therefore, the investigators will conduct a feasibility study with embedded pilot to obtain
      preliminary data on the practical and clinical considerations and cost-effectiveness of the
      proposed interventions, in preparation for an appropriately powered randomised controlled
      trial for increasing lean mass and improving cardiometabolic risk markers in patients with
      SO.

      STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS OF DATA COLLECTION AND DATA ANALYSIS A single-centre,
      cross-sectional analysis of the prevalence of SO in CR patients followed by a single-centre,
      2x2 factorial, randomised, open label controlled trial.

      RANDOMISATION AND BLINDING All participants will be assigned to their group by computer
      randomisation by the PhD student. Due to the nature of the intervention, blinding will not be
      possible.

      BASELINE ASSESSMENTS STAGE 1: Screening and focus group

      To be carried out at LJMU Byrom St campus (L3 3AF) by the PhD student. The visit is expected
      to last 30 minutes and will entail:

      i) Assessing body composition. This will be done in three different ways.

        -  Firstly, the investigators will measure participant height using a stadiometer and waist
           circumference using a tape measure.

        -  Secondly, the investigators will use a bioelectrical impedance analysis scale to measure
           lean body mass, total body fat mass and visceral fat mass.

        -  Thirdly, the investigators will perform a DXA (Dual-energy X-ray Absorptiometry) scan
           for 15-20 minutes which allows us to create an image of the distribution of lean body
           mass and fat mass.

      ii) Taking blood pressure

      • Following standard protocol, participants will be asked to sit for 5 minutes before the
      investigators take blood pressure; the investigators will measure it three times to ensure an
      accurate reading.

      iii) Grip strength test • Will be tested using a device that one squeezes as hard as possible
      (grip strength dynamometer). The investigators will do this three times to ensure an accurate
      reading.

      (iv) Mediterranean Diet Score

        -  Participants will fill in a brief 13-question questionnaire regarding the frequency of
           their intake of certain foods (v) Sarcopenia quality of life questionnaire

        -  Participants will fill in a brief questionnaire regarding the current impact of
           sarcopenia on their quality of life

      Participants will also be invited to attend a focus group to share views and opinions about
      food habits and preferences, and about physical activity. This will be carried out at
      participants via phone or video call, will take 15-20 minutes and will be recorded and
      transcribed.

      INTERVENTIONS (IF APPLICABLE) Based on the results from the first visit, approximately 60
      patients with lower proportions of muscle mass to fat mass will be asked to take part in the
      diet and exercise intervention, which will last 12 weeks. Participants at this stage will be
      allocated to one of four groups: 1) standard CR; 2) CR plus personalised advice to follow a
      high-protein, healthier diet; 3) CR plus resistance exercise; 4) CR plus diet and resistance
      exercise.

      Personalised dietary advice: if allocated to groups 2 or 4, the investigators will ask
      participants to make changes to their diet to adapt it to a high-protein, Mediterranean-style
      diet. Research shows that Mediterranean-style diets can reduce cardiovascular risk, and
      although there are different versions of this type of diet, they all have in common:

        -  eating more fruit and vegetables,

        -  reducing commercial pastries, and replacing refined carbohydrate foods (white bread,
           white rice, white pasta) by wholegrains (wholegrain bread, rice and pasta),

        -  replacing butter and margarine by olive oil as the main culinary fat,

        -  reducing fatty meat and replacing by lean meat, fish, and legumes (peas, beans,
           lentils), and by high-protein, low fat foods, such as low-fat dairy (participants will
           be provided with 2 high-protein yoghurts to eat each day).

      Participants will receive personalised guidance to help follow the new diet in the form of
      sessions at their community CR centre along with guide books and recipe guides. The goal is
      to make small, easy changes to their current eating habits, so the diet will be easy to
      follow. All foods included will be affordable and easy to find in local supermarkets
      (shopping guides will be provided), and the investigators will provide suggestions and
      recipes to prepare food.

      If allocated to groups 1 or 3, participants will be asked to follow the diet recommendations
      given during phase 3 of CR.

      Resistance exercise: if allocated to groups 3 or 4, participants will be asked to perform
      resistance exercise. This involves weights or weight machines aimed at building muscle
      strength. Participants will be shown how to do the exercises by qualified instructors (BACPR
      cardiac rehabilitation certified) in the community centre where they carry out their current
      phase 3 cardiac rehabilitation. All exercises have been deemed safe for cardiac
      rehabilitation patients and an instructor will be available at all exercise sessions should
      they need assistance. Participants will be required to attend 3 sessions per week and each
      session is expected to last approximately 45 minutes.

      If allocated to groups 1 or 2, participants will be asked to continue with the standard,
      aerobic-style exercise (treadmills, rowing machines, elliptical trainers) they have used in
      phase 3 of CR. This will also require 3 sessions per week.

      5.4 SUBSEQUENT VISITS

      ALL stage 2 participants will have to attend two more appointments at LJMU. The second visit
      will be just before beginning the intervention, and the third immediately after completing
      the intervention. Visits are expected to last 45-60 minutes and will entail:

      i) Measures of body composition, blood pressure and grip strength, as described above.

      ii) A venous blood sample

      • The investigators will take about 8 teaspoons of blood. Particpants will need to fast for
      at least 12 hours prior to their appointment (although water is encouraged), as otherwise
      this may affect the result of the test.

      iii) Focus Groups • At the final visit the investigators will also ask about participant
      experiences with the diet and/or exercise regime allocated to them, and to check whether they
      have experienced any so-called adverse events over the study.

      iv) Food diaries (prior to lab appointments)

        -  Prior to second and third lab visits, participants will given a template of a three-day
           food diary, which they will need to complete the week before their lab appointment (on
           three working days plus one weekend or festive day, non-consecutive whenever possible),
           and bring with them on the morning of the visit. Participants will be contacted the day
           before to remind them of their appointment and what they must bring.

           (v) Mediterranean Diet Score

        -  Participants will fill in a brief 13-question questionnaire regarding the frequency of
           their intake of certain foods

      (vi) Sarcopenia quality of life questionnaire

      • Participants will fill in a brief questionnaire regarding the current impact of sarcopenia
      on their quality of life

      STUDY SETTING This is a single centre study with all data collection taking place in LJMU,
      Byrom St. campus. All exercise will be carried out at the participants community CR centre,
      supervised by trained members of the community CR program.

      STATISTICS AND ANALYSIS Cross-sectional study: from the results of body composition analysis,
      the prevalence of SO will be analysed in the sample. Differences in prevalence between
      genders, and between cardiac conditions (e.g. arrhythmia, myocardial infarction, coronary
      artery disease etc.) will be assessed by Chi-squared tests. The investigators will use
      Pearson or Spearman correlations (according to normality) to study the associations between
      body composition variables, markers of strength and performance, and biomarkers of
      cardiovascular risk (based on patient data requested from LHCH) and multiple regression to
      assess the predictive capacity of indicators of sarcopenic obesity and muscle strength on
      cardiovascular risk.

      Pilot study: comparisons between intervention groups for all outcome measures will be
      performed by means of mixed model ANOVA, to account for inter-subject (differences between
      treatments) and intra-subject (differences between baseline and endpoint) variability. Since
      a sample size calculation will not be conducted for this component, interpretation of the
      results will be largely descriptive and focused on confidence limits around parameter
      estimates.

      Statistical significance will be set at p<0.05, and all analyses will be conducted using IBM
      SPSS Statistics v25 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL).

      PARTICIPANT RECRUITMENT STUDY PARTICIPANTS Participants will be recruited from Liverpool
      Heart & Chest Hospital Cardiac Rehabilitation unit. Participants in the cross-sectional study
      will be admissions to phase 3 CR. Participants in the intervention trial will have recently
      completed phase 3 CR, will have been deemed as cardiac stable, and will be willing to
      participate in phase 4 CR (Activity for Life). The minimum age restriction for participants
      will be 40-years

      The sample size for the feasibility study has been arbitrarily kept small (10-15 participants
      per intervention group) to allow ease of recruitment and management of participants before
      development into a fully powered randomised controlled trial.

      RECRUITMENT TECHNIQUE Participants will be approached by members of their clinical care team
      at LHCH, who will invite them to participate and confirm they are willing to be contacted by
      the research team for more information. Please refer to 6.5 for further details.

      PARTICIPANT IDENTIFICATION Eligible participants will be recruited from patients recently
      referred to cardiac rehabilitation (Liverpool Heart & Chest Hospital Cardiac Rehabilitation
      Unit), which is where the investigators will start the study. In collaboration with the LHCH
      Cardiac Rehabilitation Uniteligible participants will first be identified by the clinical
      care team.

      Eligible participants will be approached by members of the Knowsley Community Cardiovascular
      Services team, part of Liverpool Heart & Chest Hospital Cardiac Rehabilitation unit.
      Participants will be informed of the research and provided with a participation information
      sheet and asked to reply with their interest after 24 hours. They will then be contacted by
      the PhD student.

      SCREENING AND ELIGIBILITY ASSESSMENT The maximum period from screening in stage 1 to the
      recruitment for the intervention (stage 2) will depend on the participant's progression
      through CR phase 3. As phase 3 normally last 8 weeks, and assuming a participant has just
      started CR phase 3 there may be up to 8 weeks from the first (screening) visit to second
      visit (baseline) measurements.

      INFORMED CONSENT The participant must personally sign and date the latest approved version of
      the Informed Consent form before any study specific procedures are performed.

      Written and verbal versions of the Participant Information and Informed Consent will be
      presented to the participants detailing no less than: the exact nature of the study; what it
      will involve for the participant; the implications and constraints of the protocol; the known
      side effects and any risks involved in taking part. It will be clearly stated that the
      participant is free to withdraw from the study at any time for any reason without prejudice
      to future care, without affecting their legal rights, and with no obligation to give the
      reason for withdrawal.

      The participant will be allowed as much time as wished to consider the information, and the
      opportunity to question the Investigator, their GP or other independent parties to decide
      whether they will participate in the study. Written Informed Consent will then be obtained by
      means of participant dated signature and dated signature of the person who presented and
      obtained the Informed Consent. The person who obtained the consent must be suitably qualified
      and experienced, and have been authorised to do so by the Chief/Principal Investigator. A
      copy of the signed Informed Consent will be given to the participant. The original signed
      form will be retained at the study site.

      DISCONTINUATION/WITHDRAWAL OF PARTICIPANTS FROM STUDY

      Each participant has the right to withdraw from the study at any time. In addition, the
      Investigator may discontinue a participant from the study at any time if the Investigator
      considers it necessary for any reason including:

        -  Pregnancy

        -  Ineligibility (either arising during the study or retrospectively having been overlooked
           at screening)

        -  Significant protocol deviation

        -  Significant non-compliance with treatment regimen or study requirements

        -  Withdrawal of Consent

        -  Loss to follow up

      Should a participant wish to withdraw from the study, their anonymised data will be retained
      for 10 years. Their data may still be included in the analysis if they withdraw after
      completing the intervention, and for reasons that do not affect the study outcomes. If the
      participant wants their data to be removed from the study, they may contact us and request
      such.

      Withdrawn participants may be replaced should sufficient time and resources be available.

      The reason for withdrawal by researcher (and by participant, if this information is
      volunteered) will be recorded in a study file.

      DATA MANAGEMENT ACCESS TO DATA Direct access will be granted to the research team, authorised
      representatives from the Sponsor and host institution for monitoring and/or audit of the
      study to ensure compliance with regulations.

      DATA RECORDING AND RECORD KEEPING The information provided as part of the study will be
      anonymised. The investigators will use codes to label, trace and identify samples, records
      and questionnaires; the investigators will never use any personal data from which
      participants can be identified, such as name, initials, or date of birth.

      Documents that include personal data (such as the consent form, or contact details) will be
      stored on password-protected computers and locked filing cabinets at LJMU, accessed only by
      the research team. They will be destroyed upon completion of the study, unless they would
      like a copy of the final study results; in that case, the investigators will retain their
      names, phone numbers and email addresses, so the investigators can contact them later. The
      results should be available approximately 1 year after the study is completed; participant
      personal data will be then deleted.

      Research data will be stored in databases using the codes as identifiers, never personal
      data, and they will be kept in password-protected computers only accessed by the research
      team. Samples will be booked into a database and receive a laboratory code, with only those
      involved in the research having access. All data and samples will be destroyed after 10
      years.

      The names of participants will never be published in any communication of results and
      findings.

      SAMPLE HANDLING

      Blood samples will be processed and stored according to current UK regulations and rules of
      good research practice (Human Tissue Act 2004), and will be kept for a maximum of 10 years.
      Briefly, blood samples will be processed immediately after collection, and the serum will be
      stored in a secure freezer in the Life Sciences Building at LJMU's Byrom St campus. All
      samples will be stored pseudo-anonymously; this means that all identifiable information will
      be removed and replaced by a code to allow the research team to trace the samples and match
      them with the other measurements (body weight, muscle mass measures, etc.). Once all
      participants have completed the intervention, samples will be analysed. Once the specified
      storage period ends, all samples will be disposed of following current UK regulations.

      ETHICAL AND REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS DECLARATION OF HELSINKI The Investigator will ensure
      that this study is conducted in accordance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki
      and relevant regulations

      ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF RISK Participants will be scanned by a DXA scanner, which will
      involve use of small doses of ionising radiation, though this is a minimal amount compared to
      other medical imaging techniques, such as standard X-ray and CT scans. The DXA scan would be
      equal to approximately 2 microsieverts (μSv); this is compared to 20 microsieverts for a
      chest X-ray and 10,000 microsieverts for a CT scan. It is also less than a transcontinental
      flight (40 μSv) and one day of natural background radiation (8 μSv).

      Great care will be taken to ensure vulnerable people (for example, pregnant women) will not
      be permitted to take part, both during the initial screening and recruitment, and also during
      the scans where mandatory exclusion criteria are checked before the scan can begin.

      The study will limit the involvement of each participant to three scans, and they will be
      fully informed as to the exposure they will have, should they choose to participate. The
      radiation exposure is so low that no shielding of the room or of the person conducting the
      scans is necessary; therefore, the anticipated risk to the participant is negligible.

      The participants are being asked to be involved in a study which has a central focus on body
      weight and composition, which can be a very sensitive subject. As the participants will be
      willing volunteers for the study, it is expected that only people who are comfortable with
      this issue will be involved. Additionally, the participants can request for their
      bio-impedance and anthropometric measurements to be taken by a member of the research team of
      the same gender. They can also request a chaperone to be present during the procedure.
      Privacy and confidentially will be ensured when taking measurements, and all data will be
      anonymised upon collection and storage.

      In addition, participants will be reminded that they can withdraw and remove themselves from
      the situation (and the study) at any time.

      For the DXA scans, questionnaires and anthropometric measurements, it is not anticipated that
      there will be significant inconvenience for those who choose to take part in this project, as
      their time involvement is minimal at 45 minutes per visit, and the investigators will do
      their best to accommodate their visit times to their preferences and availability (within the
      limits of the research requirements).

      Participants will be made aware of the requirements of the dietary intervention while seeking
      consent, and it is expected that those who are comfortable with this dietary change will be
      involved. The dietary intervention will not use difficult to source ingredients and will be
      tailored to suit the tastes of the participants. Various recipes and food substitutions will
      be provided to participants at the beginning of the protocol. The high-protein diet of the
      protocol would only be potentially detrimental to individuals who have renal deficiency, and
      therefore this is one of the studies exclusion criteria. Participants will also receive
      regular contact from the PhD student regarding their adherence.

      Participants will be made aware of the requirements of the exercise intervention while
      seeking consent, and it is expected that those who are comfortable with this change in
      physical activity will be involved. All participants will have received exercise tolerance
      tests as part of their NHS cardiac rehabilitation and will be cleared for the exercise
      protocol. They will also receive instruction from a collaborator suitably trained in exercise
      for cardiac rehabilitation regarding how to safely complete the exercise protocol.

      The involvement of the participants and their data will be kept confidential, with no
      personal identifying data being present on questionnaires, forms or DXA scans. The unique
      code that can identify a participant will be kept on a secure system that can only be
      accessed by the research team. Therefore it is not expected that there will be a significant
      risk of a confidentiality breach.

      Should the participant disclose information indicating a risk of potential harm to themselves
      or others, the appropriate authority will be contacted (LHCH, patient's GP, police etc,).

      PARTICIPANT CONFIDENTIALITY The data custodian will be the PhD student. All investigators and
      study site staff must comply with the requirements of data protection legislation with
      regards to the collection, storage, processing and disclosure of personal information and
      will uphold the Act's core principles.

      Information provided as part of the study will be anonymised. The investigators will use
      codes to label, trace and identify samples, records and questionnaires; the investigators
      will never use any personal data from which participants can be identified, such as name,
      initials, or date of birth.

      Documents that include personal data (such as the consent form, or contact details) will be
      stored on password-protected computers and locked filing cabinets at LJMU, accessed only by
      the research team. They will be destroyed upon completion of the study, unless participants
      would like a copy of the final study results; in that case, the investigators will retain
      their name, phone number and email address, so the investigators can contact them later.
      Their personal data will then be deleted

      Research data will be stored in databases using the codes as identifiers, never personal
      data, and they will be kept in password-protected computers only accessed by the research
      team. Samples will be booked into a database and receive a laboratory code, with only those
      involved in the research having access. All data and samples will be destroyed after 10
      years.

      The names of participants will never be published in any communication of results and
      findings.

      EXPENSES AND BENEFITS Participants will not be reimbursed for travel expenses incurred while
      participating in the study

      Participants in the high protein diet groups will be provided with 2 high-protein yoghurts
      per day for the duration of the trial.

      The diet and exercise chosen in this study have been shown to have a number of benefits:

        -  High-protein foods may increase satiety after a meal, reducing hunger.

        -  This may also lead to a lower calorie intake and consequential potential weight loss.

        -  This may lead to a loss of fat mass, improving body composition.

        -  Muscles may grow and become stronger, meaning everyday activities will feel easier.

        -  Blood sugar levels may improve due to healthier muscles helping with blood sugar
           control.

        -  Blood cholesterol and fats may improve, reducing risk of further cardiac events.

      OTHER ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS In the unlikely event of finding any abnormalities or anything
      of clinical significance, the findings will be checked by a clinical specialist. If the
      specialist feels that the abnormality was medically important, they will discuss the
      implications with the participant and arrange for further investigations as necessary.
      Participants will not be informed unless the doctor considers the finding has clear
      implications for their current or future health. It is important to note that data collected
      are not carried out for diagnostic purposes, and therefore the data are not a substitute for
      a clinical appointment. Rather, the data are intended for research purposes only.

      RESEARCH ETHICS COMMITTEE (REC) AND OTHER REGULATORY REVIEW & REPORTS

        -  Before the start of the study, a favourable opinion will be sought from from the UK
           Health Departments Research Ethics Service NHS REC for the study protocol, informed
           consent forms and other relevant documents e.g. advertisements

        -  Approval will be obtained from LJMU REG (and Co-Sponsors) for any amendments to, or
           changes of status in the study prior to submission to the REC that ethically approved
           the study and any other regulatory authorities

        -  All correspondence will be retained.

        -  The protocol, informed consent form, participant information sheet and any proposed
           advertising material will be submitted to the HRA for written approval.

        -  Annual Progress Reports will be submitted to the NHS REC which gave the favourable
           opinion, the HRA (hra.approval@nhs.net) and the Sponsor (Sponsor@ljmu.ac.uk) on the
           anniversary of NHS REC Favourable Opinion, and annually thereafter until the End of
           Study Declaration has been submitted to the NHS REC which gave the favourable opinion,
           the HRA and the Sponsor

        -  Upon the completion of the study an End of Study Declaration (within 90 days of the end
           of the study) and End of Study Report (within 12 months of the end of the study) will be
           submitted to the NHS REC which gave the favourable opinion and LJMU REG
           (sponsor@ljmu.ac.uk)

        -  Annual Progress Reports will be submitted to the NHS REC which gave the favourable
           opinion and the Sponsor (Sponsor@ljmu.ac.uk) on the anniversary of HRA approval, and
           annually thereafter until the End of Study Declaration has been submitted to the NHS REC
           which gave the favourable opinion and the Sponsor.

        -  Upon the completion of the study an End of Study Declaration (within 90 days of the end
           of the study) and End of Study Report (within 12 months of the end of the study) will be
           submitted to the NHS REC which gave the favourable opinion and LJMU REG
           (sponsor@ljmu.ac.uk)

        -  Early termination or suspension of the research will be reported to all relevant review
           bodies and the Sponsor (sponsor@ljmu.ac.uk) within 15 days.

      SCIENTIFIC REVIEW

      The study protocol went through successive stages of scientific review:

        1. It was first reviewed and approved for support under the cross-faculty PhD funding
           scheme. The panel reviewing the proposals was formed by staff from the Faculty of
           Science, Faculty of Education, Health and Community, and the Institute of Health
           Research, LJMU.

        2. The study was subsequently reviewed and approved by the Service Users Research Endeavour
           (SURE) Group of the Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital.

        3. Finally, our study protocol was presented at and approved by the Research and Innovation
           Committee of the Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital.

      All different stages of review were carried out by independent reviewers, both internal (from
      LJMU) and external (LHCH), meeting the requirements of Level 4 studies.

      PROTOCOL COMPLIANCE Protocol adherence will be monitored with weekly phone call with each
      participant, carried out by the PhD student. This will also be an opportunity for participant
      to inform the PhD student of any adverse events they have experienced.

      Accidental protocol deviations can happen at any time. They will be adequately documented on
      the relevant forms and reported to the Chief Investigator and Sponsor immediately.

      Deviations from the protocol which are found to frequently recur are not acceptable, will
      require immediate action and could potentially be classified as a serious breach.

      The Investigator may discontinue a participant from the study at any time if the Investigator
      considers it necessary for any reason. Such occurrences will be detailed in the individual
      participant study logs

      CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS A standard Non-Commercial Model Agreement (mNCA) will be negotiated
      with Liverpool Heart & Chest Hospital

      A research passport (letter of access) will be applied for, for the PhD student who will
      undertake the research within the NHS.

      DEFINITION OF END OF STUDY The end of study is the date of completion of analysis of samples.

      END OF STUDY AND ARCHIVING The end of study is the date of the last visit of the last
      participant. Relevant consent forms will be obtained for each participant, allowing for the
      samples to be stored and data to be archived for at least 10 years.

      ACCESS TO THE FINAL STUDY DATASET Aim: to describe who will have access to the final dataset
      The PhD student, all supervisors and the lead clinician will have access to the full dataset.
      The study will allow site investigators to access the full dataset if a formal request
      describing their plans is approved by the steering group. Any secondary analysis will only be
      undertaken with the consent of the participants. All patient documentation will reflect the
      future use of data in research.
    
  