
    
      Cognitive Assessment

      Following enrollment, research staff will administer a battery of five neuropsychological
      measures assessing memory, information processing, and executive functioning. These measures
      take approximately 20-30 minutes to complete.

      Hypnotic and Relaxation Exercise

      A research staff member will administer in person the Modified Stanford Hypnotic Clinical
      Scale (SHCS) to assess hypnotizability for all participants following enrollment but prior to
      randomization. This measure takes approximately 15-20 minutes to complete.

      Baseline Data and Demographic Form

      A research staff member will then ask the participant to provide demographic data (age, sex,
      marital status, income, education level, employment status) and deployment history (number
      and month of deployments, whether deployment involved hostile duty) for descriptive purposes.
      Study investigators will also ask participants their history of receiving the study
      treatments, and the presence of history of military sexual trauma.

      The baseline data and demographic form will take approximately 20-30 minutes to complete, and
      may be completed following enrollment either in person or over the telephone at a later time
      if more convenient for the participant.

      Brain Wave Activity (or EEG) Assessment

      Brain wave activity will be assessed following enrollment by conducting a brain wave activity
      or EEG assessment. The brain wave activity assessment will take place at the Integrated Brain
      Imaging Center (IBIC) at the University of Washington main campus. The IBIC is a
      research-dedicated technology center organized under the department of Radiology.

      EEG will be sampled with an electrode array using an electrode net dipped in a saline
      solution. The research staff member, an IBIC employee with a Without Compensation (WOC)
      appointment at the VA, will collect the EEG activity data, and ask the participant to remain
      as still as possible during portions of the assessment.

      The EEG technician will collect from the participant data regarding medication used within 24
      hours of assessment. He/she will also ask the participant to rate the intensity of his or her
      pain just before the assessment (current pain), after a few minutes of the assessment
      (current pain and worst, least, and average pain over the past few minutes), and at the end
      of the EEG session (current pain, and worst, least, and average pain over the past few
      minutes), using 0-10 Numerical Rating Scales.

      The entire brain wave activity assessment will take approximately 45-60 minutes to complete.
      Subjects will be asked to complete the same brain activity assessment following completion of
      treatment following the same procedures above. Participants may still participate in the
      study if they decline to participate in the EEG assessments.

      Assessment: Pre-Treatment and General Overview

      Subjective reports of pain intensity vary over time, and to most accurately measure pain
      intensity (our primary outcome), it is most valid to assess multiple times and take an
      average. Hence, study investigators have developed a method of assessment that will seek to
      obtain up to four telephone assessments over a period of one week or 7 days with a minimum of
      24 hours between each assessment. During each telephone contact, research staff will ask
      participants, at minimum, to rate their current, average, worst and least pain intensity over
      the past 24 hours, as well as their average pain intensity over the past 7 days. In addition,
      if possible, research staff will ask the participant to rate their current, average, worst
      and least pain intensity over the past week during the final telephone contact. These
      assessments will be referred to as "short assessments." The primary outcome will be an
      average of all of the 24-hour ratings (range=1-4 ratings) of average pain intensity obtained
      over a period of one week during each assessment period.

      In addition, sometime during this assessment period researchers will ask questions regarding
      pain interference, depression, anxiety, sleep disturbance, post-traumatic stress disorder
      (PTSD) symptoms, medication use, medical services utilization, thoughts about pain and
      treatment motivation. This latter set of questions will only be asked once during the
      assessment period, and will be referred to as "the long assessment." Research staff will give
      participants the option to: 1) complete the long assessment during one of the four short
      telephone assessments described above; or 2) spread the long assessment across several days
      during the assessment period. The entire long assessment or portions thereof may fall up to
      two days outside the 7-day period for the four short assessments.

      The entire time required to answer questions during the assessment period is 45-60 minutes.

      The assessment period described above will be completed prior to initiating treatment, and
      then after completion of treatment sessions #2, 4 and 6 and 8 (i.e. post-treatment), and 3
      and 6 months following the end of treatment for a total of seven times. These assessment
      periods that occur following the start of treatment will also include questions about group
      climate, therapeutic alliance with the group clinician, treatment satisfaction, and overall
      improvement since the participant began the pain program.

      Randomization

      Enrolled participants who complete the required baseline components (cognitive assessment,
      hypnotic and relaxation exercise, baseline data form, and pre-treatment assessment period)
      will be randomized in stratified blocks to ensure that participants with each sex and pain
      type (neuropathic, non-neuropathic, mixed or undetermined) have an equal chance of being
      randomized to one of the 3 conditions.

      Treatment Scheduling

      Cohorts of study intervention groups will be offered beginning every four months. In each
      4-month period, there will be two class options for each condition, one based in Seattle and
      one at American Lake. Thus, there will be six classes offered per four month period, or a
      total of 18 classes per year.

      Up to 15 participants can be enrolled in each intervention class; 10 spots will be protected
      for research participants, and the remaining 5 for Veterans who have completed the study and
      wish to try another type of intervention, or who are non-research participants. If any
      protected research spots are not filled at the start of a cohort, non-research participants
      will be offered those spots and vice versa.

      Treatment

      In all three treatment conditions, intervention appointments will be scheduled in regular
      group clinics at the VA facility (American Lake or Seattle). This means that treatment
      sessions will appear on the Veterans' lists of regular clinical appointments. Although the
      appointments are scheduled for 90 minutes, in practice they will last 60-80 minutes, with a
      10 minute time cushion built in to allow for participants who may have mobility limitations
      to arrive, settle, and then vacate the group rooms without hurrying.

      The group sessions will be conducted by VAPSHCS providers who have undergone a formal two-day
      training process that prepares clinicians to conduct each of the three treatment
      interventions in a group setting.

      In all conditions, home practice activities will be assigned to increase engagement in the
      treatment. Participants will be asked to record the extent of engagement in these activities
      using a form provided to them by the clinician. Study investigators realize that adherence to
      interventions assigned outside of treatment sessions may influence study outcomes so will
      utilize data collected by the clinicians about homework compliance. In addition, all
      participants in all interventions will be given a treatment workbook with materials to refer
      to and discuss during the group sessions as well as additional materials to read between
      sessions.

      Please see below for description of study treatment interventions.

      Data Collected during Treatment Sessions

      Participants will complete and hand in a form regarding their completion of tasks or
      "homework" assigned by the clinician from the previous session.

      In addition, participants will complete and hand in forms before and after each session that
      include questions regarding pain intensity and comfort level, as well as questions about what
      the participants have found helpful or non-helpful about the treatment. Finally, study
      clinicians will complete a form each session that captures information regarding the
      perceived engagement of each participant in that particular session. All of these forms will
      be labeled with a subject's name.

      Audio Recordings

      The group treatment sessions will be audio recorded to make sure the study clinician is
      following study procedures.

      Optional Assessments

      For the pre-treatment and post-treatment telephone assessment periods, research staff will
      use a script to invite participants upon completing the assessment period to participate in
      an optional assessment consisting of two measures developed by study researchers. The
      optional assessment should take approximately 10-15 minutes to complete, and consists of
      questions about how participants feel when they feel pain or think about their pain problem,
      and how participants respond to their pain.

      Open Label Phase

      Following the completion of the 6-month telephone assessment period research staff will
      invite participants to complete in one or both of the treatment groups they did not attend
      during participation in the main phase. Participants would only participate in one treatment
      group at a time. The open label phase does not include any screening procedures; all research
      participants are welcome to participate. Research staff will schedule a consent session if
      the participant is interested in participating in the 'open label phase' of the study.

      Sleep Sub-Study

      Subjects enrolled in the main study will be offered the opportunity to participate
      concurrently in the sleep sub-study. All subjects enrolled in the main study are eligible to
      participate in the sub-study. Interested subjects will participate in a separate informed
      consent process before participating in sub-study procedures.

      Telephone Assessments

      A research staff member will ask each sub-study subject two questions about how much the
      subject agrees with certain statements about his/her sleep, as well as two questions about
      how confident the subject is about carrying our certain sleep behaviors. These questions will
      be asked during the pre-treatment assessment period, 4-week assessment period, post-treatment
      assessment period, and the assessment period that takes place 3 months following the end of
      treatment.

      Sleep Diary

      Three times during his/her participation in the sub-study, study investigators will ask the
      subject to keep a sleep diary: once following enrollment but prior to randomization, once
      following the end of treatment, and once three months following the end of treatment. The
      subject will complete a diary entry twice a day (morning and night) for seven days. In the
      morning, the subject would answer basic questions about his/her sleep during the previous
      night, including time the subject thinks s/he fell asleep, the quality of his/her sleep, and
      any other experiences that might have affected his/her sleep. In the evening, the subject
      will answer questions about how the subject felt that day, any problems s/he experienced such
      as illness or discomfort, and basic activities s/he participated in like going to work,
      napping, drinking caffeinated beverages, etc.

      Also, the subject will be instructed to call a toll free number twice a day to report when
      s/he woke up in the morning, and when s/he is going to sleep in the evening.

      Actigraphy Device

      Three times during his/her participation in the sub-study, study investigators will ask the
      subject to wear a sleep monitor device called an Actigraph: once following enrollment but
      prior to randomization, once following the end of treatment, and once three months following
      the end of treatment. The subject would wear the actigraph (Actiwatch , Philips Respironics,
      Bend, OR) like a wrist watch on his/her non-dominant arm. The device will measure how long
      the subject sleeps, as well as the overall quality of his/her sleep. The subject will wear
      the actigraph at all times during the same 7-day period s/he is completing the sleep diary
      except for when the subjects is participating in activities that might get the actigraph wet
      like swimming, showering, or bathing.
    
  