
    
      Endoscopic resection of superficial esophageal neoplasms is widely used as an alternative to
      esophagectomy, since it is less invasive, besides presenting good clinical results. Compared
      with esophagectomy, patients submitted to endoscopic resection present shorter
      hospitalization time, lower incidence of complications and better quality of life in the long
      term.

      However, repair of esophageal ulcer, caused by endoscopic resection, which occupies three
      quarters or more of the circumference of the organ, can result in the formation of stenosis.

      In the past, there was no consensus on the use of preventive therapies for esophageal
      stenosis after extensive ESD. However, Oliveira et al recently demonstrated through
      systematic review and meta-analysis that the use of these therapies reduces the rate of
      stenosis (40% on average), decreased the number of dilations to resolve the stenosis (8
      sessions less ), Without altering the number of complications.

      Theoretically, corticosteroids are the most appropriate choice due to their mechanism of
      action, modulating wound healing by preventing inflammation, by reducing prolyl hydroxylase,
      which helps reduce collagen production.

      However, treatment with corticosteroids, especially at high oral doses, can cause several
      adverse effects, such as immunosuppression, diabetes, psychiatric disorders, osteoporosis,
      optic lesion and peptic ulcer. Thus, the use of local corticosteroid injection could minimize
      these side effects. However, local injection implies risks of bleeding and perforation, and
      is of limited use in patients receiving anticoagulant or antiplatelet therapy.

      The objective of this study was to compare the local corticosteroid injection and the use of
      oral corticosteroids to prevent stenosis after extensive submucosal endoscopic resection of
      superficial esophageal carcinoma, in relation to the stenosis rate, number of dilations
      necessary to resolve the stenosis and frequency of complications.
    
  