
    
      Background:

      During recent years, the cancer-testis (CT) antigens (CTA) have emerged as attractive targets
      for cancer immunotherapy. Whereas malignancies of diverse histologies express a variety of
      CTAs, immune responses to these antigens appear uncommon in cancer patients, possibly due to
      low-level, heterogeneous antigen expression, as well as immunosuppressive regulatory T cells.
      Conceivably, vaccination of cancer patients with allogeneic tumor cells expressing high
      levels of multiple CTAs in combination with depletion of T regulatory cells will induce broad
      immunity to these antigens. In order to examine this issue, patients with sarcomas,
      melanomas, germ cell tumors, or epithelial malignancies metastatic to lungs, pleura or
      mediastinum will be vaccinated with irradiated K562 erythroleukemia cells expressing GM-CSF
      (K562-GM) following thoracic metastasectomy. Vaccines will be administered in conjunction
      with metronomic oral cyclophosphamide (50 mg PO BID x 7d q 14d), and celecoxib (400 mg PO
      BID). Serologic responses to a variety of recombinant CTAs will be assessed before and after
      vaccination.

      Primary Objectives:

      -To assess the safety of K562-GM allogeneic tumor cell vaccines in combination with oral
      metronomic cyclophosphamide and celecoxib in patients undergoing thoracic metastasectomy.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with histologically or cytologically proven sarcoma, melanoma, or epithelial
           malignancies metastatic to lungs, pleura or mediastinum who can be rendered no clinical
           evidence of active disease (NED).

        -  Patients must be 18 years or older with an ECOG performance status of 0 2, without
           evidence of unstable or decompensated myocardial disease. Patients must have adequate
           pulmonary reserve evidenced by FEV1 and DLCO equal to or greater than 30% predicted;
           pCO2 less than 50 mm Hg and pO2 greater than 60 mm Hg on room air ABG; and be on no
           immunosuppressive medications except inhaled corticosteroids at the time vaccination
           commences.

        -  Patients must have a platelet count greater than 100,000, an ANC equal to or greater
           than 1500 without transfusion or cytokine support, a normal PT, and adequate hepatic
           function as evidenced by a total bilirubin of <1.5 times upper limits of normal. Serum
           creatinine less than or equal to 1.6 mg/ml or the creatinine clearance must be greater
           than 70 ml/min/1.73m(2) at the time vaccination commences.

      Design:

        -  Following recovery from thoracic metastasectomy, patients with NED or MRD will be
           vaccinated via deep subcutaneous injection with 1x10(8) irradiated K562 GM-tumor cells
           periodically over 6 months.

        -  Vaccines will be administered in conjunction with metronomic oral cyclophosphamide and
           celecoxib.

        -  Systemic toxicities, and immunologic response to therapy will be recorded. Pre and post
           vaccination serologic responses to a standard panel of CT antigens as well as cell
           mediated responses to epigenetically-modified autologous EBV-transformed B and
           autologous tumor cells (if available) will be assessed before and after vaccination.

        -  Numbers/percentages and function of T regulatory cells in peripheral blood will be
           assessed before, during, and after vaccinations.

        -  Patients will be followed in the clinic with routine staging scans until disease
           recurrence.

        -  As the exact set of comparisons and analyses to be performed will be determined
           following completion of the trial, and will be based on limited numbers of patients, the
           analyses will be considered exploratory and hypothesis generating rather than
           definitive.

        -  Approximately 25 patients will be accrued to this trial.
    
  