
    
      Intervention: Self-Monitoring Questionnaire (a questionnaire relating to the process of IC
      self-administered by study coordinators) and evaluation of the informed consent process using
      the Brief Informed Consent Evaluation Protocol (BICEP) developed during the EQUIC-DP phase.

      Primary Hypothesis: We hypothesize that by focusing attention on what may have become a
      routinized process, the quality of the IC encounter will be enhanced. We will evaluate the
      success of this intervention by having the patient-subject complete a telephone
      questionnaire, the BICEP (Brief Informed Consent Evaluation Protocol), after the IC process
      is completed.

      Primary Outcomes: The quality of the informed consent process, as measured by the BICEP
      (Brief Informed Consent Evaluation Protocol). The BICEP also offers a method to certify
      informed consent in routine use.

      Study Abstract: Enhancing the Quality of Informed Consent Self-Monitoring (EQUIC-SM) is one
      component of a VA Cooperative Studies Program-wide initiative on informed consent (EQUIC).
      Its objective is the field testing and iterative improvement of one intervention in the
      informed consent (IC) process, self monitoring. Self-monitoring involves having the person
      obtaining IC complete a Self-Monitoring Questionnaire, or SMQ after the IC encounter with a
      patient-subject being recruited for a participating study. We conceive of the SMQ as an
      activation device which prompts the person obtaining IC to monitor how he/she conducts the IC
      encounter. RESEARCH DESIGN: EQUIC-SM will be conducted in conjunction with participating
      clinical trials of the VA CSP at multiple VAs throughout the country. Patient-subjects will
      be recruited from among participants in these parent studies. Parent studies will be
      randomized to SM protocol or to control sites.

      METHODOLOGY: Patient-subjects will be informed about EQUIC-SM at the time that they are first
      presented with information about the parent study. The person obtaining consent will use a
      scripted description of EQUIC-SM. If the subject agrees, verbal consent for EQUIC-SM will be
      obtained. The same parent study informed consent process will be used for both the SM
      protocol and control arms of EQUIC-SM; however in the SM protocol arm, the person obtaining
      consent will complete the SMQ after the IC process. In both arms, patient-subjects will be
      asked to complete the BICEP interview after the parent study IC process is completed.
      FINDINGS: Investigators will use the results of EQUIC-SM to assess the value of the
      self-monitoring technique in improving the quality of informed consent. The premise is that
      focusing the attention of the person obtaining informed consent on the IC process will
      enhance the quality of the IC encounter, and thus of the informed consent obtained.

      SIGNIFICANCE: Practitioners of clinical trials have a responsibility to ensure that patients
      participation in research be informed and voluntary. This responsibility implies that we
      should strive continuously to improve the effectiveness of methods for informing prospective
      research volunteers about experimental studies, thereby enhancing the protection of their
      interests. If the self-monitoring technique tested in EQUIC-SM proves to enhance the quality
      of informed consent, this technique may be adapted for wider use in conducting clinical
      trials, thus representing an important step towards this goal.
    
  