
    
      This was a Phase 3, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial designed
      to evaluate the efficacy and safety of adalimumab (ADA) in patients with moderately to
      severely active ulcerative colitis (UC).

      The duration of the study was up to 65 weeks, including a Screening Period of up to 3 weeks,
      a double-blind (DB) placebo-controlled treatment period of up to 52 weeks, and a 70 day
      follow-up phone call for participants who prematurely discontinued or who did not enroll in
      the extension study NCT# 00573794 (M10-223).

      Adult participants with moderate to severe UC (Mayo score of 6 to 12 points with endoscopy
      subscore of 2 to 3 points), confirmed by colonoscopy with biopsy or flexible sigmoidoscopy
      with biopsy, were to be enrolled at approximately 120 sites worldwide. Planned enrollment was
      500 participants.

      Participants were to be stratified by prior exposure to infliximab and/or other anti-TNF
      agents, and randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive ADA or placebo by subcutaneous injection.
      Participants assigned to the ADA treatment arm were to receive an induction dose of 160 mg at
      Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2, and 40 mg every other week (eow) starting at Week 4. Participants
      assigned to the placebo treatment arm were to receive matching placebo during the same period
      of time. At or after Week 10, participants who met the criteria for inadequate response could
      be switched to open-label (OL) ADA 40 mg eow beginning at Week 12. Inadequate response was
      defined as:

        -  Partial Mayo score greater than or equal to Baseline score on 2 consecutive visits at
           least 14 days apart (for participants with a partial Mayo score of 4 to 7 at Baseline).

        -  Partial Mayo score greater than or equal to 7 on 2 consecutive visits at least 14 days
           apart (for participants with a partial Mayo score of 8 or 9 at Baseline).

      Participants who demonstrated inadequate response at 2 consecutive visits at least 14 days
      apart while on OL administration ADA 40 mg eow were permitted to dose escalate to ADA 40 mg
      weekly (ew). Participants with persistent inadequate response while on ADA 40 mg ew may have
      been discontinued from the study at the Investigator's discretion. Upon completion of the
      study, participants had the option to enroll into the OL extension Study M10-223 in which
      they could receive ADA treatment.

      Efficacy and safety measurements were performed throughout the study. A follow-up phone call
      was made 70 days after the last dose of study drug to obtain information on any ongoing or
      new adverse events (AEs) for all participants who terminated early or who did not enroll in
      the OL extension study.
    
  