
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM) is a plasma cell tumour with an annual incidence in the UK of
      approximately 40 -50 per million i.e. 4500 new cases per annum. Approximately 20% of the
      patients diagnosed with multiple myeloma have a significantly worse prognosis at 3 years than
      other multiple myeloma patients and these are characterised as having high risk (HR) disease
      defined by genetic lesions and gene expression profiles (GEP). There have been no significant
      improvements in outcome over the last decade for patients with HR disease. Therefore, it is
      important to identify more effective treatment options for this group of patients especially
      given that the number of novel agents are potentially available and which can be given as
      part of intensive therapy regimen.

      Intensive treatment in HR patients has been used outside the UK with promising results but
      access to drugs in the UK has been challenging with constraints in the NHS treatment pathway.
      This is the first time in the UK that newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients may be
      entered into a clinical trial prospectively according to their genetic risk profile. It
      provides a unique opportunity to improve outcomes and provide evidence for high cost novel
      treatment strategies in this restricted population of poor prognosis patients.

      The MUKnine trial is designed to evaluate the novel treatment strategies for multiple myeloma
      patients with HR disease and incorporate a genetic screening component. Patients identified
      as having HR disease are then invited to take part in the phase II single arm, multi centre
      trial that investigates the intensive treatment schedule comprising four novel agents
      bortezomib (Velcade), lenalidomide (Revlimid), daratumumab (Daralex), dexamethasone with
      cyclophosphamide. The trial will determine if this treatment strategy is sufficiently active
      to take forward in to further testing in this population. Patients identified as not having
      HR disease will receive standard local treatment and will be followed up in a cohort study to
      assess response, progression free survival and overall survival.
    
  