
    
      AR therapy is rapidly becoming the standard of care for the treatment of HIV infection. AR
      therapy provides the best opportunity for maximizing viral suppression, reducing toxicity and
      delaying the emergence of resistant strains. The newest class of AR agents, the HIV protease
      inhibitors, exhibits the most potent anti-HIV effects described to date. This study will
      compare 2 protease inhibitors, NFV and RTV for efficacy and safety in a population with
      advanced HIV disease, who are taking various background nucleoside therapies.

      Eligible patients will be randomized either to NFV plus background AR nucleoside therapy or
      to RTV plus background AR nucleoside therapy. Background AR therapy may also be no background
      therapy, although use of protease inhibitors as monotherapy is not recommended unless there
      is no alternative. Patients will be allowed to cross over to the alternate protease inhibitor
      if they reach a primary study endpoint. Data will be collected every 4 months.

      [AS PER AMENDMENT 10/2/97: Patients assigned to the NFV arm who develop a significant
      intolerance may switch to RTV or IDV; those assigned to the RTV arm who develop a significant
      intolerance are encouraged to switch to IDV (NFV allowed if IDV contraindicated). Switchover
      for intolerance is strongly discouraged during the first 4 weeks of follow-up. Patients
      initially assigned to NFV therapy who experience disease progression may switch to RTV; if
      RTV is not tolerated, patients may switch to IDV. Because of the cross-resistance between RTV
      and IDV, patients who progress on RTV should switch to NFV.] [AS PER AMENDMENT 12/15/98:
      Patients originally assigned to NFV who experience poor virologic control or disease
      progression should change to RTV or IDV or enroll in the PIP protocol (CPCRA 057).
      Conversely, patients originally assigned to RTV should change to NFV or enroll in the PIP
      protocol (such patients continue to be followed on this study). Because of cross-resistance
      between RTV and IDV, change from RTV to IDV is discouraged. Determination of poor virologic
      control or disease progression is at the discretion of the patient's clinician. Change in
      background antiretroviral therapy should occur at the same time that the protease inhibitor
      is changed for poor virologic control or progression; the choice of new background
      antiretroviral agents is at the discretion of the clinician.] Randomization is stratified by
      clinical site.] [AS PER AMENDMENT 3/11/98: SUBSTUDY CPCRA 045: At least 600 patients (>= 400
      from CPCRA sites and >= 200 from CTN sites) will be enrolled in the substudy. These patients
      will have a plasma sample collected for HIV RNA and genotypic resistance within 30 days prior
      to randomization, at the 1-month visit, and at the q-4-month study visits thereafter until
      the end of the study. CD4+ cell counts will be done at the 1-month visit and at the q-4-month
      study visits until the end of the study. A subset of patients will also have
      immunophenotyping of CD4+ and CD8+ cell TCR V-beta clones carried out before and during
      treatment. Another subset of patients at selected sites will have viral cultures performed
      for phenotypic drug sensitivity testing.

      Initially, specimens for 50 randomly chosen patients in the group originally assigned RTV
      will be identified for resistance testing. Of this group, specimens for those who have
      received RTV/IDV for more than 1 month will be analyzed for genotypic resistance to obtain an
      estimate of the rate of resistance development and to estimate the risk of disease
      progression associated with resistance to RTV/ZDV. Based on these estimates, determination
      will be made of the total number of patients and specimens in both treatment groups in order
      to address the primary objective of comparing genotypic resistance in the two groups.]
    
  