
    
      This is the first Development Safety Update Report prepared for Phase I-IIA Clinical Trial-
      FIBHGM-ECNC007-2010 (PHASE I / IIA CLINICAL TRIAL, UNICENTRIC, RANDOMIZED, CONTROLLED, TWO
      PARALLEL-GROUPS, TO EVALUATE THE SAFETY OF A NEW THERAPY WITH STEM CELLS DERIVED FROM ADIPOSE
      TISSUE FOR GLOTTAL GAP IN THE UNILATERAL PARALYSIS OF THE VOCAL CORD in the International
      Conference on Harmonization (ICH) E2F format. This trial contains relevant safety information
      from the reporting interval of 08 July 2012 to 30 Sep 2014 This phase I / IIA clinical trial
      has been conducted to evaluate the safety of ADRCs. This new therapy is performed to induce
      the overexpression and production of microvessels in the paralyzed vocal cord, to permanently
      increase its volume and thus facilitate the GG closure. In paralysis of VC an increase of
      glottal gap occurs leading to dysphonia and aspiration of food, foreign bodies...

      The creation of these new blood vessels, through the action of stem cells derived from
      adipose tissue, may produce a greater volume of the paralyzed vocal cord allowing GG closure
      more easily.

      Patients included in this clinical trial require treatment for unilateral vocal cord
      paralysis. It has been considered regarding the authorised protocol that a glottal GAP
      requires intracordal injection to increase its volume when the glottal closure·during
      phonation is insufficient or there is lack of compensation to the contralateral vocal cord.

      Patients are randomized to receive one of the following therapeutic strategies:

      Group A: Autologous Fat processed by centrifugation to fill a paralyzed vocal cord, using the
      same.

      Group B: Autologous Fat enriched with stem cells from adipose tissue to treat vocal cord
      paralysis.

      Active control: Autologous fat tissue processed by centrifugation. Route of administration:
      Injection inside a paralyzed vocal cord.

      Experimental drug: Stem cells from autologous adipose tissue in which autologous tissue is
      enriched or in suspension to fill the paralyzed vocal cord. The aim is to induce the
      overexpression and production of microvessels at local level. Route of administration:
      injection into the thickness of a paralyzed vocal cord.

      In patients assigned to ADRC group therapy, two surgical interventions are performed on the
      same day, once randomized, at visit 0 according to the protocol. For the group assigned to
      the control (autologous adipose tissue), the therapy is performed in a single surgical
      intervention, once randomized, at visit 0 according to protocol.

      The patients who are included will be followed for six months from the implant.
    
  