
    
      Identifying the frail elderly patients or those at risk of becoming frail has become a
      cornerstone of modern geriatric medicine. The term 'frail' has been elusive during quite a
      long time. Several studies have been conducted over the last 15 years to clarify this
      concept: fragility is a clinical syndrome defined by an increase of vulnerability following a
      decline in physiological reserves and organic functions, that compromises the ability to cope
      with daily life or acute stress.

      Many instruments have been developed to identify fragility at the individual level. The
      'Fragile' phenotype defined by Fried (Cardiovascular Health Study) is based on 5 criteria:
      weakness, slowness, low level of activity, exhaustion, and unintentional weight loss. The
      patient is fragile if it meets at least three out of five criteria. It is 'pre-fragile' if it
      meets one or two criteria.

      In onco-geriatrics, the International onco-geriatrics society recommends the implementation
      of a 'G8 scale' to detect elderly patients at risk of fragility. People with a positive G8
      are then referred to the geriatric team to benefit from a comprehensive geriatric assessment.
      This evaluation is interpreted by the geriatrician, who draws an action plan to overcome the
      various problems of the elderly patient. The evaluation also helps the oncologist in the
      choice of treatment for the patient: palliative care, standard treatment or adapted treatment
      (No-go, Go-go or slow-go).

      However, many studies have shown that fragile patients had a greater morbidity and mortality
      than non-fragile patients. The rate of postoperative complications and the length of stay are
      significantly higher in fragile patients suffering from a colorectal cancer treated by
      elective surgery.

      On the other hand and quite surprisingly, another study showed that none of the comprehensive
      geriatric assessment based fragility indicators was able to predict a post-surgery functional
      decline in patients having undergone surgery for colorectal cancer.

      One of the primary goals of geriatry being to maintain the autonomy and independence of
      patients.

      The investigators would thus like to assess if fragility as defined by the Fried criteria is
      predictive of a functional, physical or cognitive decline, or a loss of quality of life in
      patients treated for a solid malignant tumor.

      Furthermore, they will assess if the frailness categorization has an impact on the oncologic
      treatment decision. Does the oncologist switches the patient's oncologic treatment after
      being informed of the frailness status ?
    
  