
    
      Heart valves help control blood flow through the heart and, if diseased, may need to be
      replaced. After having a heart valve replaced, patients have a higher risk of death than
      people who have not had a valve replaced. In young adult patients, replacing the aortic heart
      valve with a mechanical valve halves their life-span compared to other people their age.
      Mechanical valves tend to form blood clots so they need long-term blood thinners that
      increase risk of bleeding and lower quality of life. Animal tissue valves reduce clotting and
      bleeding risks but wear out sooner and shorten patient life-span. An operation, called the
      Ross procedure, replaces a patient's diseased aortic valve with his/her own pulmonary valve
      and uses a donor valve in the pulmonary position which receives less stress than the aortic
      valve. The Ross procedure aims to improve valve durability with less clotting, avoiding use
      of blood thinners. Patients and physicians need a large, high-quality study comparing the
      Ross procedure and standard valve replacement to know if either approach is better.

      The investigators will perform a 3-year feasibility study in seven sites, in Canada and
      abroad, to test the study design and ability to do a larger, conclusive study comparing the
      impact of the Ross procedure to standard valve replacement on survival without valve-related
      life-threatening complications. Patients will be randomized, like flipping a coin, to receive
      the Ross or standard valve surgery. The goals are 1) to evaluate if the investigators can
      recruit 6 patients per site per year, 2) to test if the assigned procedure is performed in
      over 90% of study patients, and 3) to see how many mechanical vs. tissue valves are used in
      the standard valve group. Patients eligible but not enrolled in the trial will be asked if
      the investigators can collect some data on how they do after their surgery. If the
      investigators show the study is feasible, they will proceed to the full study and will
      include the feasibility patients in the full study.
    
  