
    
      Many bone marrow failure syndromes in humans are now recognized to result from immunological
      mechanisms. These diseases include aplastic anemia; single hematopoietic lineage failures
      such as pure red cell aplasia, Diamond Blackfan Anemia, agranulocytosis, and amegakaryocytic
      thrombocytopenic purpura; and some types of myelodysplasia. Patients with these conditions,
      who may suffer variable degrees of anemia, leukocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia, alone or
      combination, have been shown to respond to a wide variety of immunosuppressive agents,
      ranging from corticosteroids to cyclosporine (CSA) and antithymocyte globulin (ATG). However,
      except for severe aplastic anemia, which has been shown to be appropriately treated with
      either bone marrow transplantation or a combination of ATG and CSA, single agents or regimens
      have usually not been applied systematically to other immune-mediated hematologic diseases.
      In an effort to discover other and especially less toxic treatments for
      immunologically-mediated bone marrow diseases, we seek to apply a new therapy, a humanized
      anti-interleukin-2 receptor (lL-2R) monoclonal antibody (mAb ), to a subset of patients with
      bone marrow failure. Anti-IL-2R mAb acts against activated lymphocytes, thus sharing an
      important mechanism of action with ATG. However, the mAb is much less toxic than ATG and may
      be administered to outpatients at relatively infrequent intervals (every 2 weeks).

      The primary objective is to test the efficacy of anti-IL-2R mAb (daclizumab), we propose to
      treat four groups of patients: 1) moderate aplastic anemia, 2) single lineage failure states
      including pure red cell aplasia or Diamond Blackfan anemia, 3) relapse of severe aplastic
      anemia and 4) refractory severe aplastic anemia not responding to both horse and rabbit
      ATG/CsA. Subjects will receive daclizumab once every other week for a total of 5 doses.
      Patients relapsing after response to initial treatment may be treated with 2 additional
      courses of daclizumab. In November 2005, the relapsed and refractory severe aplastic anemia
      arms were closed by the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) for lack of efficacy. In
      October 2008, the moderate aplastic anemia arm was closed by the DSMB when the data was
      determined sufficient for making statistical inferences regarding the original hypotheses. In
      October 2008, accrual to the Diamond Blackfan anemia arm was closed by the DSMB for lack of
      accrual.

      The Primary endpoint is hematologic response at 3 months. Secondary endpoints include
      transfusion dependence, overall survival, life threatening toxicity, transformation-free
      survival, and response duration.
    
  