
    
      American Diabetic Association (ADA) defined Diabetes mellitus as a group of metabolic
      diseases characterized by hyperglycemia resulting from defects in insulin secretion, insulin
      action, or both. The chronic hyperglycemia of diabetes is associated with dysfunction of
      various organs, especially the eyes, kidneys, nerves, heart, and blood vessels.

      Most common among the neuropathies are chronic sensorimotor distal symmetric polyneuropathy
      (DPN) and autonomic neuropathies. According to ADA(American Diabetes Association),
      DPN(Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy) is "the presence of symptoms and/or signs of peripheral
      nerve dysfunction in people with diabetes after exclusion of other causes. It is estimated
      that 60% to 70% of individuals with diabetes have mild to severe forms of nervous system
      damage.

      DPN(Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy) causes decreased sensation, proprioception, reflexes, and
      strength in the lower extremities, leading to balance dysfunction. Physical therapy
      interventions utilized to reduce the balance dysfunction can range from restoration of the
      health of the neurons to sensory integration to compensatory strategies. Various treatment
      protocols include improving circulation, the guided practice of integrating internal and
      external sensory input, education on sensation loss and fall risk, instruction on home
      modifications, and introduction of assistive devices to minimize balance dysfunction.

      A systematic and evidence-based search of relevant literature was performed by utilizing
      PubMed and Google Scholar as search engines.

      Search term for the initial literature review was Diabetes mellitus, the prevalence of
      DPN(diabetic peripheral neuropathy), causes of peripheral neuropathies and loss of balance,
      the pathophysiology of diabetes-related peripheral neuropathy, treatment options for balance
      training, strengthening lower extremities, aerobics, cognitive approach. The search was
      limited to papers in English preferably published since 2000 with full text available.
      Different studies were available regarding balance exercises and their effects but limited
      data was available regarding BRACE ( Balance, Resistance, Anaerobic, and Cognitive Exercise)
      protocol as a whole in recent years.

      Balance exercises are feasible and safe and have the potential to improve balance and gait.
      These should be used as supportive therapy for DPN patients. Lower extremity resistance
      (strengthening) exercises are fairly recommended for clinical use in treating balance
      dysfunction in patients with DPN than monochromatic infrared energy therapy, vibrating
      insoles, and use of a cane.

      Previously, walking and weight-bearing were considered contraindicated in DPN patients to
      avoid foot ulcers, deformity, or fall risk. Emerging research has revealed positive
      adaptations in response to overload stress in these people, including evidence for peripheral
      neuroplasticity in animal models and early clinical trials.

      According to WHO estimation, a number of individuals approximately 47 million worldwide have
      cognitive impairments which will increase to 75 million by 2030. A 2 years longitudinal study
      in Korea showed a significant association between cognitive decline and physical activity.
      Pain interference may be reduced following an aerobic exercise intervention among people with
      painful DPN, without a change in pain intensity.

      Although, multiples researches have shown the effects of particular interventions on DPN
      still there is a lack of multi-component interventional studies to show the effects on
      balance issues.
    
  