
    
      All participants will receive an iPad pre-loaded with an instructional PDF containing written
      instructions and embedded recorded audio prompts to assist with the delivery of an
      established vocal training paradigm, the Vocal Function Exercises (VFE) developed by
      Stemple.22 The VFE involves a set of four exercises focusing on extending maximum phonation
      time, increasing pitch range, and, therefore, improving coordination of the respiratory,
      phonatory, and resonatory systems during voicing. The iPads will be collected from the
      participants at the conclusion of the study at the post-intervention testing sessions.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to either an experimental feedback group or active
      control no feedback group. Participants in the feedback group will receive iPads pre-loaded
      with Sonneta Voice Monitor app (MintLeaf Software) which will provide tailored feedback
      regarding pitch, loudness, and duration of phonation during practice sessions. The no
      feedback group will be provided with an iPad pre-installed with the PDF for the full duration
      of the study, but no feedback app.

      Prior to and separate from the individual baseline testing appointments (described below),
      one group-based introductory session will be held to orient all participants to iPad controls
      (i.e., navigation, volume, recordings), as well as training specific to their assigned
      condition (how to use the pdf or app). Participants will complete a progressive weekly
      training schedule (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 7, 7, & 7 days per week) 2x per day for 30-minute sessions
      over 8 weeks. The first training session will be monitored to provide technical assistance
      and ensure fidelity of the training protocol. Undergraduate research assistants from Dr.
      Johnson's lab will contact each participant via telephone on a weekly basis to provide
      technical assistance and confirm adherence to the training schedule.
    
  