
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD-malignant melanoma [MM]) of Abraxane
      (nab-paclitaxel)/bevacizumab-complex (AB-complex) among patients with metastatic malignant
      melanoma.

      II. To determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD-gynecologic [GYN]) of AB-complex among
      patients with gynecologic cancers.

      III. To further assess the safety profile and anti-tumor activity of the recommended phase II
      dose of AB-complex for patients with endometrial cancers.

      IV. To further assess the safety profile and anti-tumor activity of the recommended phase II
      dose of AB-complex for patients with select advanced soft tissue sarcoma (angiosarcoma,
      solitary fibrous tumor or epithelioid hemangioendothelioma).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To gather preliminary data on tumor response rate and progression free survival time of
      AB-complex among patients with metastatic malignant melanoma.

      II. To gather preliminary data on tumor response rate and progression free survival time of
      AB-complex among patients with gynecologic cancers.

      III. To gather preliminary data on tumor response rate and progression-free survival time of
      AB-complex among patients with soft tissue sarcoma.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES (DOSE-ESCALATION COHORTS ONLY):

      I. Pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel administered in the context of AB-complex. II. Tumor
      concentrations of paclitaxel 24 hour (h) following AB-complex infusion and correlation with
      plasma levels.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive nab-paclitaxel/bevacizumab-complex intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on
      days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 12 months.
    
  