
    
      The prognosis of high-risk neuroblastoma after conventional chemoradiotherapy is generally
      poor. Therefore, a strategy using high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell rescue
      (HDCT/ASCR) has been explored to improve the prognosis of patients with high-risk
      neuroblastoma. This strategy is based on the hypothesis that dose escalation might improve
      the survival of children with high-risk neuroblastoma. The results of randomized trials
      comparing HDCT/ASCR with chemotherapy alone showed a better event-free survival (EFS) in the
      HDCT/ASCR arm than in the continuous chemotherapy arm. However, the overall EFS was
      unsatisfactory.

      In this context, investigators have examined the efficacy of double or triple tandem
      HDCT/ASCR to further improve the outcome of high-risk neuroblastoma patients. George et al.
      carried out a single arm trial of tandem transplantation as consolidation therapy, and
      reported improved long-term survival (5-year progression-free survival 47%) with acceptable
      toxicity. Kletzel et al. also conducted a single arm trial of triple tandem transplantation
      and reported improved survival (3-year EFS 57%). They demonstrated that further dose
      escalation using sequential HDCT/ASCR might result in further improvements in the survival of
      patients with high-risk neuroblastoma.

      Investigators in the present study also carried out tandem transplantation as consolidation
      therapy, and reported improved long-term survival (5-year progression-free survival 62%) with
      acceptable toxicity. However, throughout our previous study, multiple modifications were made
      in the treatment plan, which resulted in significant variability over time between patients.
      This variability may create doubt as to whether tandem HDCT/ASCR itself resulted in the
      improved outcome. In addition, toxic death rate was relatively high (15.4%), although final
      survival rate was very high (best survival rate ever reported). Therefore, prospective study
      is needed to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of tandem HDCT/ASCR.
    
  