
    
      Background:

      Indigenous Ways of Knowing coupled with Indigenous Healing provide the foundation for
      achieving personal and community wellness. Specific health outcomes experienced by Canada's
      Indigenous Peoples- including trauma and substance use disorders (SUD)-are seen as a direct
      consequence of colonization. Most notably, these effects are seen in the multi-generational
      trauma of the residential school system (Kirmayer, et al., 2009; Menzies, 2014; Thatcher,
      2004; Stewart, 2008). The aspiration of healing and wellness is most effectively achieved by
      using tools and methods that are both appropriate and effective for Indigenous Peoples and
      communities. The evidence suggests that one of the key consequences of the colonial influence
      on Canada's Indigenous Peoples has been intergenerational trauma, and high rates of
      depression, suicide, and SUD (Bombay, Matheson, & Anisman, 2009; Kirmayer, et al., 2000;
      Haskell & Randall, 2009). Intergenerational trauma is the most common term used to describe
      the systematic trauma suffered by Indigenous Peoples (Evans-Campbell, 2008; Haskell, 2009;
      Palacios & Portillo, 2009). Intergenerational trauma is now seen as a precursor to
      depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, re-enactment of trauma, suicide, and SUD
      (Brave Heart, 2004; Duran, 2006; Menzies, 2014; Thatcher, 2004; Waldram, 2006). Indigenous
      communities in Canada face significant challenges with intergenerational trauma, which often
      manifest in SUD. Indigenous communities have identified SUD as one of their greatest health
      challenges, with some Northern Ontario First Nations communities experiencing SUD rates of
      70% (Calveson 2010). Between 2004 and 2009, the number of Indigenous patients seeking
      treatment for SUD in Ontario increased threefold (Calverson 2010). In 2009, the Nishnawbe
      Aski Nation declared a state of emergency for prescription drug abuse (Prescription Drug
      Backgrounder; NAN, 2009), and the number of people seeking treatment continues to rise. Many
      Elders, traditional healers, and Indigenous scholars agree that connecting treatment to
      culture, land, community, and spiritual practices is a pathway to healing trauma and SUD for
      Indigenous Peoples. To address SUD for Indigenous patients, Mamaweswen, The North Shore
      Tribal Council operate the Benbowopka Treatment Centre. Benbowopka is a residential treatment
      site in Blind River, Ontario with a mandate to provide treatment for Indigenous patients with
      trauma and SUD. Historically, the treatment program at Benbowopka merged Indigenous Healing
      with an abstinence-based residential treatment model. However, a 2015 program review
      identified the need to modernize the program to address the increasing number of patients
      with concurrent trauma and SUD. The skills required to heal from intergenerational trauma and
      subsequent recovery of identity can be enhanced by cultural practices, Indigenous Healing,
      the presence of Elders, and through traditional ceremony (Duran, 2006; Menzies, 2014;
      Thatcher, 2004; Waldram, 2006). Similarly, Seeking Safety (SS) is a validated, manualized
      psycho-educational counseling program that targets the unique problems resulting from SUD and
      trauma (Najavits, 2009). Importantly, the perspective of SS is convergent with traditional
      Indigenous Healing methods. Because of the content and delivery method of SS, the program
      complements traditional teachings such as holism, relational connection, spirituality,
      cultural presence, honesty, and respect (Gone, 2008; Lavallée, 2008; Menzies, 2014; Marsh et
      al., 2016). Benbowopka staff work with the Client's Circle of Care Team to develop the
      necessary support services to address the client's physical, mental health/addictions and
      cultural needs as part of their aftercare services once discharged. In 2016, Benbowopka
      worked with Dr. Teresa Marsh to integrate and implement SS into a novel treatment
      intervention, known as Indigenous Healing and Seeking Safety (IHSS) (Marsh et al., 2015;
      Marsh et al., 2016a; Marsh et al., 2016b). The IHSS intervention aims to increase the coping
      skills of participants and reduce the chance of relapse by emphasizing values such as
      respect, care, integration, and healing of self (Najavits, 2007). This community-led
      initiative-with a novel IHSS clinical treatment framework-presents a unique opportunity to
      study innovative approaches to Indigenous wellness.

      Indigenous Healing and Seeking Safety (IHSS) Intervention: Initial 90-minute meetings will be
      conducted with the participants; during these meetings, participants will receive information
      about IHSS, traditional healing, sharing circles, sweat lodge ceremonies, and program
      details. The sharing circles will take place at Benbowopka Residential treatment Centre in
      Blind River, Ontario. Each of the sharing circles will be cofacilitated by two Indigenous
      health-care workers. These facilitators will organize and lead sharing circles daily
      throughout the 28-day treatment cycle. Each sharing circle will be two hours long. The
      Seeking Safety program consists of up to 25 treatment topics that aim to teach participants a
      variety of skills. The majority of topics address the cognitive, behavioral, interpersonal,
      and case management needs of persons with SUD and posttraumatic stress disorders (PTSD)
      (Najavits, 2002a). To adhere to the concept of Two-Eyed Seeing and cultural sensitivity, the
      material will be conveyed verbally. The facilitators will encourage a language that respects
      the participants' cultural values and beliefs. To encourage a holistic view of mental health
      and substance use (which includes connection to community), Indigenous healing practices will
      be incorporated into the sharing circles. Each sharing circle will be opened and closed with
      smudging, ceremonial drumming, and singing. Tobacco-a herb recognized in Indigenous culture
      for its healing powers-will be prepared in bundles in advance of the sharing circles. It will
      be offered to each participant for protection and healing. The cultural coordinator and
      facilitators will introduce their sacred items and sacred bundle during the sharing circles.
      A sacred bundle can consist of one or many items. It can be a tobacco or sacred medicine
      pouch worn around the neck, or it can be an item such as a sacred pipe that the spirits have
      given to a person to carry for the people. The sacred bundle is considered a very precious
      possession that represents a person's spiritual life (Hart, 2010; Menzies, 2010). The
      participants will be invited to bring their bundles, and will be encouraged to place their
      sacred bundles or items at the center of the circle. Participants will also partake in at
      least three sweat lodge ceremonies held once a week during the four-week cycle of the
      intervention period. Sweat lodge ceremonies will provide a powerful way to bring forth
      Two-Eyed Seeing as an Indigenous decolonizing methodology. The sweat ceremonies help repair
      the damage done to the spirits, minds, and bodies of the participants. During the sweat
      ceremonies, the cultural coordinator will give teachings about Aboriginal traditional healing
      and its restorative power. Participants will also be invited to share their stories and
      experiences. Also, participants will attend at least two Sacred Fire ceremonies with the
      staff and cultural coordinator with the purpose of helping them let go of past traumas and
      substances. Mamaweswen North Shore Community Health Services currently provides a range of
      physical and mental health/addictions pre-treatment and aftercare services to the seven
      Member First Nation communities in our area. Each First Nation community in our area also
      provides some pre-treatment and aftercare services. All of these services work closely with
      Benbowopka Treatment Centre around the referral and transitioning of clients between required
      mental health and addiction services. Mamaweswen North Shore Community Health Services has
      continued on with its community opiate withdrawal program on Sagamok Anishnawbek and has now
      established an additional partnership with the Sault Ste. Marie Indian Friendship Centre to
      offer community opiate withdrawal to First Nation individuals who are living in Sault Ste.
      Marie.

      Objective: This proposal aims to evaluate the effectiveness of the treatment model Indigenous
      Healing and Seeking Safety (IHSS) for the treatment of Indigenous patients with a history of
      trauma and SUD. Study findings will be used to inform trauma and SUD residential treatment
      programming and implementation for Indigenous communities across Canada. Our work will
      contribute to the field of community-based trauma and addiction programming by addressing
      objectives that consider:

      i) the patient perspective; does patient satisfaction improve when IHSS methodology for
      treatment of trauma and SUD replaces an abstinence-focused approach? ii) the program
      perspective; do program completion rates improve following the implementation of IHSS
      intervention? iii) the community perspective; do health system outcomes in the year following
      treatment completion decrease following IHSS implementation?

      Hypothesis: We expect that patients who are treated with the IHSS model will have improved
      treatment satisfaction (increase of 10% over pre-intervention rates), improved treatment
      completion (increase of 10% over pre-intervention rates), and a greater reduction in health
      system usage for addiction-related services at one-year follow-up compared to those treated
      within the abstinence-based model (decrease of 10% over preintervention rates).

      Community Partnership:

      The Mamaweswen (North Shore Tribal Council) and the Benbowopka Treatment Centre represent
      seven member communities (Batchewana, Garden River, Thessalon, Sagamok, Mississauga,
      Atikameksheng, and Serpent River) on the North Shore of Lake Huron. Mamaweswen and our
      research group began collaborating on the evaluation of the IHSS protocol in the fall of
      2016. The primary research questions and the research approach were developed and supported
      at the community level. Improving care for community members who are affected by trauma and
      SUD is a priority for Mamaweswen, the North Shore Tribal Council; it is also a shared
      research interest with collaborators from the Northern Ontario School of Medicine (NOSM) and
      the Institute for Clinical and Evaluative Sciences (ICES). Together, Mamaweswen, NOSM, and
      ICES are aiming to build reciprocal capacity building processes that enable academic
      collaborators to understand the context of community priorities and allow the community to
      build capacity for future research and quality improvement initiatives.

      Benbowopka Treatment Centre employs a culturally-based residential substance use treatment
      program, following the Seven Grandfather Teachings. Through these Aboriginal teachings and
      principles, individuals will learn to understand and accept that they are out of
      balance-according to the Medicine Wheel-as a result of their SUD. As patients move along the
      road to recovery, they will learn how to maintain balance and harmony in their mental,
      physical, emotional, and spiritual health. Individuals will participate in individual
      counselling, group educational sessions, and talking circles; they will also learn relaxation
      techniques (through yoga and drumming), the importance of addressing their physical health
      through proper nutrition and exercise, and how to address their spiritual health through
      cultural activities and teachings. Benbowopka also endorses medication-assisted treatment
      with buprenorphine/naloxone for patients with opioid use disorder.

      The Northern Ontario School of Medicine (NOSM) is a made-in-the-North medical school that has
      an innovative model of community-engaged medical education and research, while staying true
      to its social accountability mandate of improving the health of the people and communities of
      Northern Ontario. NOSM brings together over 90 community partners, over 1,400 clinical,
      human, and medical sciences faculty, and more than 200 employees. NOSM's success is very much
      a result of partnerships and collaborations with individuals, communities, and organizations,
      including Indigenous communities. The Institute for Clinical and Evaluative Sciences (ICES)
      is a not-for-profit research institute encompassing a community of research and clinical
      experts, and a secure and accessible array of Ontario's health-related data. ICES has a
      special focus to enhance the health of Indigenous peoples through a collaboration with the
      Chiefs of Ontario.

      Methodology:

      Design: We plan to conduct a pre/post intervention matched comparison group study. We will
      compare historical treatment outcomes for past Benbowopka patients to outcomes following IHSS
      treatment for Indigenous patients with a history of trauma and SUD. All patient data will be
      anonymized at the time of data entry. Propensity matching will be undertaken for patient
      characteristics, including sex/gender, age, and substance use type. The National Native
      Alcohol and Drug Abuse Program (NNADAP) tool will be used to analyze the program objective;
      that is, whether completion rates improve following the implementation of the IHSS
      intervention. Additionally, a Client Quality Assurance Survey will be utilized to determine
      patient satisfaction.

      Sample and Study Window: The pre-IHSS intervention study window will span the 36 months prior
      to the implementation of the IHSS intervention (April 1, 2013 - March 31, 2016; n=343), and
      the Post-IHSS intervention study window will span the 27 months post-IHSS implementation
      (January 1, 2018 - March 31, 2020; n>300). We will only include data from patients initiating
      treatment at Benbowopka during the study window. Patient follow-up will occur in the one year
      following treatment completion and/or discontinuation. Anonymized patient records will be
      linked via Ontario Health Insurance Plan (OHIP) number, or Indian Registry Number, to the
      administrative health data at the ICES, and we will query data in the one year following
      completion or discontinuation of IHSS at Benbowopka to ascertain impact of substance use on
      health outcomes including hospitalization, ED visits and opioid-related overdose. For
      patients with multiple admissions, the date of first admission will serve as the index date
      for health outcomes evaluation. Treatment Setting: Benbowopka treats approximately 100
      patients per year in a residential treatment program, and the program has high quality
      retrospective data based on standardized assessment screening tools routinely used by the
      Drug and Alcohol Treatment Information System and the National Native Alcohol and Drug Abuse
      Program. For the 343 patients admitted between April 1, 2013 and March 31, 2016 86% were
      Indigenous, 57% male, 84% had alcohol as the primary substance and 38% had opioids as the
      primary or secondary substance with 65% of patients completing the program.

      Access to Linked Administrative Health Data: We propose to link de-identified patient data to
      record-level provincial health systems data at ICES. ICES routinely links partner data to its
      core health systems data holdings. ICES linkage will enable virtual follow-up of Benbowopka
      patients for health systems usage. The main data required for this analysis are available at
      ICES.

      Data Governance: We will respect the Tri-council Policy Statement, Chapter 9, which
      highlights the importance of engaging with First Nations throughout all phases of the
      research process. In addition, we will honour Indigenous knowledge by engaging with Elders
      and the Mamaweswen Council. Anonymized data collected at Benbowopka will be linked in
      accordance with data governance protocols and data-linkage process established at ICES in
      consultation with the Chiefs of Ontario. All parties involved in the study will respect
      Indigenous principles of OCAP.

      Planned Analysis:

      Using anonymized Benbowopka/ICES-linked data, we propose to evaluate the pre/post-IHSS
      intervention outcomes. This analysis strategy will provide insight into i) patient
      satisfaction, ii) program completion, iii) and health systems outcomes for Benbowopka
      patients. A detailed schematic of the analysis plan is provided in adjacent figure. Baseline
      metrics will be established for April 1 2013 - March 31 2016 (n = 343) and will be compared
      to January 1 2018 - March 31, 2020 (n>300) with a one year follow up for health systems
      outcomes. Specific variables to address patient wellbeing will be captured in the patient
      satisfaction survey and structures assessments at patient enrollment. Anonymized linked data
      outcomes from ICES will include primary care visits, mental health visits, initiation of
      opioid agonist therapy, ED visits, hospitalizations, and all cause mortality.

      Training:

      Wellness, training, and capacity building are cornerstones to the application. Clinicians at
      Benbowopka have been trained in the IHSS methodology (beginning January 2016), and IHSS is
      now routinely delivered to patients. The investigators have worked with Benbowopka team to
      digitize the data collection and maintenance of their health record system. Establishing a
      digital health record has enabled efficient data capture and evaluation for quality
      improvement, research, and reporting purposes. Benbowopka staff, patients, and the Mamawesen
      communities will benefit from this training and technology enhancement going forward.
      Importantly, the reciprocal training and skills developed by the community and research team
      will strongly position collaboration for future community-based research studies, and it will
      materially increase the capacity for high-quality Indigenous Wellness research in Northern
      Ontario. Community-based trainees will include three clinical staff, a community-based
      graduate student, and a research assistant based in the community. The academic research team
      will also benefit from enhancing its understanding of Indigenous Healing, unique community
      perspectives, and Indigenous ways of knowing.

      Anticipated Outcome:

      We will evaluate the results of the IHSS intervention against three distinct primary
      outcomes. The lens applied to these outcomes will consider:

      i) the patient perspective; we will use Client Quality Assurance Survey tool to assess the
      appropriateness and satisfaction of the intervention ii) the program perspective; we will use
      the structured assessments at admission to characterize changes in the patient population and
      the program completion rate as primary outcome to assess the effectiveness of the IHSS
      intervention iii) the community perspective; we will use the change in substance use related
      health system usage between the year prior and the year following treatment completion as an
      indication of the impact of the admission on health system outcomes. We believe our study
      findings may validate an innovative approach for effective and appropriate care for patients
      with intergenerational trauma and SUD. We expect that patients who are treated in the IHSS
      treatment model will have improved satisfaction and outcomes as compared to previous patients
      of Benbowopka who were treated under the abstinence based model of therapy. Objective
      measures will include pattern of substance use at admission (to characterize changes in the
      patient population), treatment completion, and reduction in health system outcomes in the
      year following treatment compared to the year prior to admission.

      Impact and Knowledge Translation:

      A material benefit for the community partners will be the digitization of data collection
      process. For Benbowopka, digitization will enable enhanced ease of program evaluation,
      reporting, and future quality improvement and research initiatives. Outcomes of the proposed
      collaboration will use a push, pull, and exchange strategy to benefit the Mamaweswen,
      Benbowopka, and stakeholders who have an interest in programming and implementation of trauma
      and SUD treatment.

      Push Strategy: Collaboratively, we will actively disseminate the study findings to
      stakeholders, including Indigenous Health Authorities, Provincial and Federal funding
      agencies, and community-based treatment programs. Specifically, we will organize in-person
      presentations to the Chiefs of Ontario and Mamaweswen North Shore Tribal Council. Data will
      be provided to stakeholders via print, digital, and social media (Facebook/Twitter) via
      presentation, infographic and explainer video format.

      Pull Strategy: We also propose to make study findings freely available on the Benbowopka,
      Mamaweswen, and other partner websites. Detailed study findings may also be made available
      via open source peer-reviewed publication. Social media hashtags and user groups will target
      those who may wish to 'pull' the freely available study findings.

      Exchange: To ensure that the necessary knowledge users are directly engaged, a
      multidisciplinary team of stakeholders will be assembled for in-person meetings and webinars
      to discuss study outcomes and recommendations for planning and implementation. These
      stakeholders will include community members, leaders in the field of Indigenous Health,
      provincial and federal healthcare funders, and academic researchers. In addition to
      internet-based knowledge translation, we will also organize a series of in-person
      presentations for communities who are served by Benbowopka.
    
  