
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine
      chemoprophylaxis in healthcare personnel and residents:

        1. the incidence of secondary cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection in residents

        2. the incidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the staff. To assess the effect of measures to
           promote infection control. Design: Controlled, randomized, triple-blind cluster
           multicentre trial. Subjects: Institutionalized older people and nursing homes staff in
           four Autonomous Communities.

      Sample: 880 professionals, 1050 residents in 84 residences. They will be given 800mg of
      hydorxychloroquine the first day and 400mg in the subsequent four days. Nasopharyngeal
      exudate will be taken for baseline RT-PCR, and at six and 14 days after the adminsitration of
      hydroxychloroquine.

      Mortality, compliance, safety, symptoms, and hospital admission will be evaluated
      secondarily.

      The highest risk group for SARS-CoV-2 infection is that of people over 60 years of age, with
      cardiovascular disease, diabetes, COPD and immunosuppression, reaching up to 32% of those
      infected. But, in addition, the impact is especially insidious among institutionalized older
      people. The Spanish MInistry of Health has developed some regulations with measures to curb
      the impact in this context. WHO places institutionalized people as a very vulnerable group
      due to their permanent close contact with other people in the residence, the abundance of
      group activities, the presence of people with cognitive impairment and the need for help for
      their activities of daily living, which involves close physical contact with healthcare
      personnel. Even the interventions for preventing and controlling the infection could
      seriously affect the mental health and well-being of this vulnerable people, even if they do
      not contract the infection. In the province of Malaga (Spain), a checklist has been developed
      consisting of 13 items related to knowledge and compliance with the rules of prevention,
      self-protection, isolation and circuits, carried out by case management nurses. This
      instrument contains many of the WHO recommendations and may be an element that could make a
      difference in this context.

      A significant proportion of those infected are known to have had close contact with probable
      or confirmed SARS-CoV-2 cases. In institutionalized people, the main source of contact (once
      family visits have been eliminated) is caused by cross-contamination with the care staff who
      provide direct care or other infected residents. In nursing homes, staff ratios are much more
      limited than in acute care hospitals (aggravated by the demand for professionals due to the
      epidemic). Furthermore, the possibility of isolation of infected patients is very limited: On
      average, residences only have 15% of their rooms prepared for isolation.

      Among the various therapeutic strategies being tested, the use of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ)
      emerges as a viable option, albeit with limitations in the studies. This use has already been
      proposed for a long time due to its potential antiviral action, since it alkalinizes the
      cellular pH necessary for binding of the virus to the host cell and interferes with
      glycosylation of ECA2 receptors and blocks endosomatic transport of the virus. HCQ
      administered in a safe dose range is distributed throughout the body, including the lung
      parenchyma after oral administration, with few adverse effects. Compared to the antivirals
      under study for SARS-CoV-2 infection, it is much more feasible in real clinical practice
      conditions to access HCQ, a drug on which, in addition, there is enormous experience, its
      safety is well known, It is funded by the National Health System (NHS), it is cheap and
      accessible on the NHS. There are currently several clinical trials underway and a consensus
      has been developed that recommends their use in patients with SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia. Regarding
      the prophylactic use of HCQ, another trial in Spain has just started to use it in a "test and
      treat" strategy in patients among the general population, but it does not directly affect the
      institutionalized population. Our study aims to explore whether the administration of
      chemoprophylaxis in nursing homes is a protective strategy for both institutionalized people
      and the professionals themselves.

      This is an controlled, randomized, triple-blind cluster study.The primary target population
      of the study consists of professionals who provide direct care in nursing homes (nursing
      assistants and nurses) and institutionalized older people.

      The sampling frame will be integrated by the Communities of Andalusia, Madrid, Aragon and the
      Autonomous Community of Navarra. A conservative sample calculation has been designed, due to
      the current uncertainty regarding incidence. The incidence of Andalusia has been taken as the
      lower limit and the incidence provided in the study by Kimball et al. as an upper limit, and
      bearing in mind that many nursing homes are taking measures to isolate and relocate
      residents. To decrease the minimum infection rate in residents from 25% to 10% (delta =
      -0.15), with an alpha of 0.05, a power of 80%, assuming a minimum of 13 residents per cluster
      with a CCI of 0.1, with a replacement rate of losses of 25%, a total of 1050 residents would
      be necessary, with 7 clusters in each step, distributed in a total of 84 nursing homes.
      Regarding workers, taking the references from Andalusia and the study by McMichael et al. to
      decrease the minimum infection rate in professionals from 18% to 5% (delta = -0.13), with the
      same power parameters, assuming a minimum of 10 professionals per cluster with a CCI 0.1, and
      a replacement rate of 5% 880 professionals with the same number of clusters and nursing homes
      are required.

      The PREVICHARM study was originally conceived at the end of March 2020 as a randomized
      clinical trial by stepped wedge clusters, since it was a methodological path that at that
      time allowed all participating subjects to receive the drug as chemoprophylaxis, in a
      staggered manner, without losing the comparison with a control group. After the evolution of
      the pandemic and the research around HCQ, the research team has considered the need to
      introduce some modifications in the design, to eliminate the staggering in the trial
      sequence, maintaining the design controlled and randomized by clusters, but, introducing an
      assignment of two parallel arms by triple blind to, on the one hand, have a totally blinded
      design that improves the robustness of the conclusions and, on the other, simplify the
      operationalization of the trial and thus further strengthen its feasibility. A criterion on
      the period of time necessary for inclusion has also been updated, reducing it to 8 days, in
      light of current knowledge on the predictive value of PCR in the course of infection in
      exposed patients.

      The modifications do not affect the objectives, or hypotheses, or the outcomes, or the
      evaluation procedures thereof, or the follow-ups or the evaluation of the safety of the
      trial.

      Variables: Sociodemographic, adjustment and control of confounders (Cluster, follow-up time,
      hours worked by each professional during the study, gradient of application of
      non-pharmacological measures); Primary endpoints: Number of secondary cases of SARS-CoV2
      infection among residents, and SARS-CoV-2 infection in caregivers who provide direct care;
      Secondary endpoints: mortality, compliance with treatment, symptoms of SARS-CoV-2 infection,
      hospital admission of personnel and adverse events.

      All the nursing homes in the province will be invited to participate and after randomization,
      the phased inclusion of residences will begin, requesting the consent of professionals to be
      included and proceeding to collect basal exudate and study variables. In the randomized
      nursing homes in each step as an intervention, the HCQ regimen will be provided and the
      nasopharyngeal exudate follow-up will be performed for RT-PCR at 6 and 14 days. In those in
      the control group step, an exudate will be collected on the same days than intervention
      group. Once enrolled, subjects will receive a double naso-oro-pharyngeal swab and will be
      provided blinded medication (HCQ or placebo, as appropriate) for the entire chemoprophylaxis
      cycle. Subsequently, smears will be taken again at 6 and 14 days. The sample collection
      procedure will be standardized through the protocol developed by the Ministry of Health and
      technicians will be trained in advance in its performance.

      The technicians will go to each residence according to a cadence pre-established by the
      research team.

      Adverse events will be monitored at each weekly visit using a standardized procedure
      (gastrointestinal disorders, appetite disturbances, hypoglycemia, weight loss, decreased
      visual acuity, photophobia, impaired visual accommodation with symptoms of blurred vision,
      deafness, tinnitus, and vertigo, muscle weakness, symptoms of liver and kidney disorders,
      neurological disorders). Serious and non-serious adverse events will be distinguished and
      will be notified by means of a standard procedure to the Research Ethics Committee, and to
      the Spanish Agency for Medicines and Health Products. An insurance policy has been contracted
      for risk coverage.

      The study will comply with all the precepts of the Declaration of Helsinki and its subsequent
      revisions, as well as the Standards of Good Practice. Participants will be informed of the
      characteristics and purpose of the study and will be asked for informed consent in accordance
      with the regulations in force in Spain using the form and the corresponding information
      sheet. The study has been approved by the Malaga Provincial Research Ethics Committee and the
      Spanish Agency for Medicines and Health Products, as well as the participating institutions.

      All the trial monitoring process and pharmacovigilance will be carried out by the Clinical
      Trial Units of the Spanish Clinical Research Network of the participating Centers.

      Exploratory data analysis, bivariate analysis (chi square, Student t, ANOVA or their
      non-parametric equivalents in case of non-normality) will be performed and the main
      hypothesis will be tested using generalized linear binomial and Poisson models, also taking
      the cluster, as random effects factor, and time as a fixed factor. Intrasubject analyzes will
      be carried out using mixed generalized linear models. All the analyses will be performed by
      intention to treat, using multiple imputation models.

      The total estimated duration is a maximum of 12 months.
    
  