
    
      This study will use a randomized, repeated measures design. A sample of 125 participants will
      be recruited and consented from the Children's Hospital of Michigan and outpatient diabetes
      clinics affiliated with the Detroit Medical Center. 108 will be randomized to one of three
      treatment conditions (remaining participants are expected to consent but not enroll or fail
      to initiate treatment). These participants will be enrolled in 3 cohorts of 30-36
      participants.

      Measures will be administered at 3 home-based study visits to maximize participant
      convenience. The initial study visit (Visit 1) will be scheduled at the beginning of the
      study. Visit 2 will coincide with the end of treatment which is approximately 3 months after
      the initial study visit. Visit 3 is the 3-month follow up and will be scheduled about 6
      months after the initial study visit. At each visit, participants will complete
      questionnaires assessing their current diabetes management, stressors, quality of life,
      mental health, and demographic characteristics. These questionnaires will be completed using
      Qualtrics accessed via the internet on a university laptop computer. A research assistant
      will download the participant's glucose meter to obtain the frequency of blood glucose
      testing during the two weeks preceding data collection. The research assistant will also
      assist participants with providing a blood sample via fingerstick (HbA1c) and saliva samples
      by mouth (cortisol, Visits 1 and 2 only). All participants will be asked to take part in an
      exit interview at Visit 3 to obtain feedback on the treatment they received.

      After Visit 1, participants will be randomized using a 1:1:1 ratio to MBSR, CBT, or Diabetes
      Support and Education (DSE). All three treatments are group format meeting (10-12
      participants per group) for nine consecutive weeks at a location convenient to the
      participants. In MBSR treatment focuses on the instruction and practice of mindfulness
      techniques, such as meditation and yoga, and the application of these practices to everyday
      activities. CBT utilizes activities to understand how thoughts affect emotions and behaviors,
      the application of these activities to current stressors, and strategies to apply these new
      skills to future stressors. The DSE group is the attention control condition; DSE
      participants will receive diabetes education via a support group format. All group sessions
      will be audiotaped for treatment fidelity monitoring and assessment. There are no planned
      research interventions for the DSE group.
    
  