
    
      Inclusion Criteria:

      The study population will be comprised of men and non-pregnant women age 18 years or older
      presenting with ICH or SAH that require ICP monitoring via ventriculostomy, and that require
      IV antihypertensive therapy to a) reduce the risk re-bleeding in SAH and b) reduce the risk
      of hematoma expansion over time due to further bleeding.

      This study population will require rapid and sustained tight control of blood pressure
      between 110 to 140 mmHg.

      Subjects may be included in the study if they meet all of the following criteria:

        1. Age 18 years or older

        2. Patient presentation with ICH or SAH, and that require ICP monitoring via
           ventriculostomy drain.

        3. Baseline systolic blood pressure (immediately prior to initiation of Cleviprex) >160
           mmHg measured

        4. Requires IV antihypertensive therapy to achieve SBP 110 - 140 mmHg

        5. Patients with a life expectancy of > 5 hours.

        6. Written informed consent from the patient or their legal representative before
           initiation of any study specific procedures

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Subjects will be excluded from the study if any of the following exclusion criteria apply
      prior to enrollment:

        1. Receipt of an oral antihypertensive within 2 hours prior to initiation of Cleviprex

        2. Receipt of IV nicardipine

        3. Glasgow coma score (GCS) of <5 and fixed dilated pupils

        4. Expectation that the patient will not tolerate or require > 5 hours of concurrent
           Cleviprex treatment and ICP monitoring

        5. Known or suspected aortic dissection

        6. Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) on presentation

        7. Positive pregnancy test , known pregnancy or nursing mother

        8. Intolerance or allergy to calcium channel blockers

        9. Allergy to soybean oil or egg lecithin

       10. Known liver failure, cirrhosis or pancreatitis

       11. Defective lipid metabolism

       12. Severe aortic stenosis

       13. Prior directives against advanced life support

       14. Participation in other clinical research studies involving the evaluation of
           investigational drugs or devices within 30 days of enrollment

      Patients excluded for any of the above reasons may be re-screened for participation at any
      time if the exclusion characteristic has changed.
    
  