
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Describe the outcome of patients with stage I adrenocortical tumor (ACT) treated with
      surgery alone.

      II. Describe the outcome of patients with stage II ACT treated with radical adrenalectomy
      plus regional retroperitoneal lymph node dissection.

      III. Describe the outcome of patients with unresectable or metastatic ACT treated with
      mitotane and a cisplatin-based chemotherapy regimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the feasibility and complications associated with the use of radical
      adrenalectomy and regional node dissection (RLND) in these patients.

      II. Determine the toxicity of mitotane when administered with cisplatin, etoposide, and
      doxorubicin hydrochloride in patients with residual disease after surgery, inoperable tumors,
      or metastatic disease at diagnosis.

      III. Determine, prospectively, the frequency of tumor spillage during surgery in these
      patients.

      IV. Determine the frequency of lymph node involvement in these patients. V. Compare the
      incidence and type of germline p53 mutation in non-Brazilian children and children from
      Southern Brazil.

      VI. Characterize the cooperating molecular alterations associated with ACT. VII. Determine
      the presence of embryonal markers in children with ACT.

      OUTLINE:

      STRATUM I (stage I disease): Patients undergo primary tumor resection and retroperitoneal
      lymph node sampling followed by observation. Patients who have undergone prior surgery
      without nodal sampling undergo observation only.

      STRATUM II (stage II disease): Patients undergo primary tumor resection and extended regional
      lymph node dissection followed by observation. Patients who have undergone prior surgery with
      simple resection of the primary tumor undergo exploratory surgery with extended regional
      lymph node dissection followed by observation.

      STRATUM III (stage III or IV disease):

      INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive cisplatin-based chemotherapy comprising oral
      mitotane four times daily on days 1-21; cisplatin IV over 6 hours on days 1-2; etoposide IV
      over 1 hour on days 1-3; and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on days 4-5. Patients
      also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) once daily beginning on day 6 and
      continuing until blood counts recover OR pegfilgrastim SC once on day 6. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for 2-4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients with stable disease or partial response proceed to surgery. Patients with a complete
      response proceed directly to continuation chemotherapy.

      SURGERY: Patients with stage III disease undergo extended surgery and regional lymph node
      dissection. Patients with stage IV disease undergo primary tumor resection (if feasible) with
      regional lymph node dissection and resection of the metastases. Patients then proceed to
      continuation chemotherapy.

      CONTINUATION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive additional cisplatin-based chemotherapy (as in
      induction chemotherapy) for 4-6 courses followed by mitotane alone for an additional 2
      months. Patients with stage IV disease then proceed to additional surgery when feasible.

      ADDITIONAL SURGERY: Patients with stage IV disease may undergo additional primary tumor
      resection with regional lymph node dissection and resection (or re-resection) of the
      metastases.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 5 years.
    
  