
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, the following tests and procedures will be performed
      before radiation therapy:

        -  You will have a bone mineral density test. A bone mineral density test measures bone
           loss over time, identifies osteoporosis (a disease of the bones that causes them to be
           weak and easily breakable) or the risk for developing osteoporosis, and checks your risk
           for fractures. During the test, you will lie on a cushioned table while a mechanical
           arm-like device will pass over your body. This device will not touch you.

        -  During your routine visits, you may have either a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan
           or a computed tomography (CT) scan of the pelvis as part of your standard of care. A PET
           scan may be done if your doctor thinks it is necessary. These scans will be reviewed by
           the research staff of this study to determine your response to therapy, determine if
           your cancer has returned, and to look for broken bones.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to test for bone turnover.

        -  Blood (about 2 to 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for tests to measure the level of vitamin
           D, calcium, phosphorus, and parathyroid hormone (PTH).

        -  Researchers will collect information from your medical record. This information will
           include your medical history, your ethnicity, if you have had any bone fractures, if you
           have a history of bone fractures in your family, and your use of tobacco and/or alcohol.

      At 4 weeks after start of radiation therapy, blood (about 2 to 3 teaspoons) will be drawn to
      test for bone turnover.

      At 3 months, 1 year, and 2 years after you complete radiation:

        -  You will have a bone mineral density test.

        -  You may have either an MRI or CT scan of the pelvis as part of your standard of care. A
           PET scan may be done if your doctor thinks it is necessary. These scans will be reviewed
           by the research staff of this study to determine your response to therapy, determine if
           your cancer has returned, and to look for broken bones.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for tests to measure the level of vitamin D
           and to test for bone turnover.

      Length of Study:

      You will be off study 2 years after you complete radiation.

      After 2 years and for up to 5 years, results of bone density tests or scans of the pelvis
      that you have outside of this study will be collected.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 300 women will take part in the study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  