
    
      Stroke is the third leading cause of death in the United States and other developed countries
      and a major source of disability. Prognosis for regaining the ability to walk is good, with
      64% of those initially dependent in walking regaining independence by 3 months. However, many
      gait abnormalities persist. A conservative estimate suggests that 20% of stroke survivors
      have a drop foot. Drop foot following stroke is caused by paresis of the ankle dorsiflexor
      muscles. It prevents the patient from effectively swinging the leg during walking, causing an
      abnormal gait characterized by hip hitching and circumduction and toe catch. Walking speed in
      people with drop foot is often significantly reduced and the risk of stumbling or falling is
      high. The conventional treatment for drop foot is an ankle-foot orthosis (AFO). While AFOs
      are appropriate for many patients, in certain patient groups AFOs have significant
      limitations (e.g. in patients with strong spasticity, suffering from pronounced inversion,
      suffering from volume changes in the lower extremity, etc). An alternative way of treating
      drop foot is by means of functional electrical stimulation. Clinical studies evaluating the
      effectiveness of drop foot stimulation suggest that it provides many benefits to patients,
      such as an improved confidence in walking, increased walking speed and endurance, less effort
      during walking and reduced spasticity. Implantable systems such as ActiGait are considered
      therapeutic alternatives specifically for those patients for whom conventional treatments
      have failed. ActiGait system consists of an external module (antenna and control module), a
      foot switch transmitting to the external module and an implanted assembly (receiver, pulse
      train generator, electrodes). The objective of this study is to obtain additional evidence on
      safety of ActiGait implantation procedure and on its efficacy. The study will enrol 5
      subjects that will be implanted and followed for 12 weeks. Efficacy outcomes will be assessed
      at the baseline and during two follow-up visits (week 6 and 12). Subjects will be asked to
      walk with and without their preferred walking at the baseline and with and without
      stimulation at follow-up visits.
    
  