
    
      Celiac disease is one of the most common forms of food intolerance (prevalence 1/200). The
      disease occurs in genetically predisposed individuals after ingestion of foods containing
      wheat gluten and similar proteins found in other common cereals such as barley and rye.
      Celiac patients can suffer from severe malabsorption syndrome, mainly characterized by
      diarrhea, weight loss and growth retardation. The only therapeutic approach currently
      recognized is a life-long gluten-free diet.

      Specific regions of gluten molecule become recognizable by lymphocytes and activate them, due
      to changes made by tissue transglutaminase. These changes consist in the conversion of
      specific residues of glutamine (Q) into glutamic acid (E). The consequence is an increased
      binding affinity between gluten and histocompatibility molecule (HLA-DQ2), localized on the
      surface of the "antigen presenting cells" (APC); the exposure of the fragments of modified
      gluten on the surface of APC is a phenomenon that eventually activates T lymphocytes.

      Recent studies on modified gluten confirmed the hypothesis that it is possible to block the
      presentation of gluten to lymphocytes by means of lysine ethyl ester binding exclusively to
      those gluten regions responsible for lymphocyte activation.

      Specifically, it is possible to perform the enzymatic treatment directly on flour instead of
      extracted gluten, maintaining the same anti-inflammatory effectiveness. The final procedure
      consists in dissolving the flour in water in the presence of appropriate concentrations of
      enzyme and lysine ethyl ester, maintaining the suspension in constant motion for two hours at
      room temperature.

      The procedure uses a food-grade enzyme, the microbial transglutaminase (mTGasi) isolated from
      Streptoverticillium mobarensis, already used for the preparation of food. The mTgasi is able
      to catalyze the formation of intermolecular "cross-links" modifying the functional properties
      of the products through the aggregation and polymerization of proteins. The peculiar method
      identified by our laboratory reduces the possibility of cross-links between proteins:
      consequently, minimal changes involve the gluten structure and, consequently, the
      visco-elastic properties of the dough.

      Objective of the study is to validate the ability of the enzyme treatment of wheat flour with
      mTGasi and lysine ethyl ester to block the toxic effect of gluten in celiac patients.
    
  