
    
      Background: In 2006, the prevalence of overweight and obesity combined in scholar and
      adolescents in Mexico was 26% and 31% respectively, which represents more than double of that
      reported in year 2000. Together with such increments in the obesity rates, it was observed
      similar increases in the incidence of other metabolic conditions such as insulin resistance
      (IR). In a very simplistic manner, it seems that the link between obesity and IR is a chronic
      inflammatory status because the adipose tissue-derived inflammatory molecules interfere with
      the uptake of fatty acids and glucose in peripheral tissues.

      On the other hand, it is accepted that the long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA)
      omega-3 exhibit anti-inflammatory properties. In addition, it has been also demonstrated the
      beneficial effect exerted by such fatty acids on insulin sensitivity, and in stabilizing the
      weight lost achieved with hypocaloric diets.

      At present, the prevalence of overweight and obesity combined are in the range of 41-43% in
      the adolescent population that attend the four areas of influence of the Mexican Institute of
      Social Security (IMSS) in Mexico City. Interventions addressed to improve the nutritional
      status of these groups of age are expected to impact the risk for IR and its associated
      co-morbidities.

      Objective: To evaluate the impact of supplementation with LCPUFA omega-3, together with a
      dietary strategy, on obesity and insulin resistance in a sample of obese adolescents attended
      in the IMSS.

      Methods: In a randomized clinical design, 300 obese individuals, 12-18 years old, will be
      selected. At selection, individuals will be randomly assigned to receive daily a capsule with
      1.1 g LCPUFA omega-3 during three mo together with a hypocaloric diet which follows the World
      Health Organization (WHO) recommendations (D+O3), or to receive daily a capsule with 1.0 g
      sunflower oil and a similar diet (P+D). After randomization, dietary information (24h-recall
      and FFQ), anthropometric measurements, and peripheral blood samples, will be obtained. Blood
      samples will be used to determine fasting plasma glucose and insulin, and erythrocytes fatty
      acid profile; such determinations will be repeated at three and six mo of follow-up.
      Anthropometry and 24 h-recalls will be repeated monthly.

      For follow-up, studied subjects will be evaluated monthly to deliver capsules and to check
      for dietary adherence. Treatments will be administered during three months and the follow-up
      will continue throughout six months. At the end of the follow-up it is expect that the D+O3
      group will present: a) higher decreases in mean weight and body mass index (BMI), b) greater
      decreases in the mean fasting insulin concentration, homeostasis model assessment (HOMA)
      index, and IR frequency, c) longer duration of weight lost.

      Statistical analyses: Student and paired-t test will be used for inter and intra group
      comparisons respectively. Logistic regression models and repeated measures analyses will be
      conducted to evaluate the effect of treatments, adjusting by diet and weight loss, as well as
      by confounders such as puberty and treatment adherence.

      Infrastructure: The Unit of Research in Medical Nutrition owes the equipment needed to
      conduct the laboratory determinations proposed in this research, as well as the personnel
      qualified to conduct, monitor, analyze and evaluate data from field investigation, specially
      that related to obesity and IR.
    
  