
    
      Cardiogenic pulmonary edema is defined as an increase of hydrostatic pressure in the
      pulmonary microcirculation resulting from postcapillaire hypertension.

      The direct consequence is extravasation of fluid in the alveolar and interstitial tissue,
      leading to acute hypoxemia and a decrease in lung compliance. The decrease in lung
      compliance, increased airway resistance (interstitial and bronchial edema) and hypoxemia will
      cause an increase in work of breathing. The imbalance between the ability of respiratory
      muscles to generate effective gas exchange and exaggerated ventilatory load can lead to
      respiratory muscle fatigue requiring use of mechanical ventilation through endotracheal
      prosthesis. In addition, the increase in inspiratory muscles work during the CPE generates
      very important pleural depression, which increases transmural pressure and left ventricular
      afterload and thus increases pulmonary edema.

      The CPAP is a non-invasive ventilation mode most currently used CPE. It is usually obtained
      via a mask and an expiratory valve to maintain constant pressure in the circuit. No
      inspiratory assistance is provided to the patient. The BOUSSIGNAC valve is currently used in
      clinical practice as an adjunct to the pharmacological treatment of CPE.The effect of CPAP is
      mainly linked to its ability to recruit zones that are collapsed during expiration. • NIPSV
      combines a positive expiratory pressure to ventilatory assistance pressure during inspiration
      delivered by a ventilator. It corresponds to a CPAP associated with inspiratory assistance,
      and thus, it is likely to improve the ventilation parameters, and in particular to reduce
      respiratory work more efficiently than CPAP alone.These beneficial physiological effects of
      NIPSV were well demonstrated during the decompensation of COPD ; they wait to be confirmed
      during CPE. Physiological studies have shown that the NIPSV is more effective in terms of
      reducing the work of breathing in CPE. However, none of the 7 published randomized studies
      has shown superiority of the NIPSV compared to CPAP in terms of reducing mortality and
      intubation requirement
    
  