
    
      Severe aplastic anemia (SAA),myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and paroxysmal nocturnal
      hemoglobinuria (PNH) are life-threatening bone marrow disorders. For SAA patients, long term
      survival can be achieved with immunosuppressive treatment. However, of those patients treated
      with immunosuppressive therapy, one quarter to one third will not respond, and about 50% of
      responders will relapse.

      Although allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) offers the opportunity of cure,
      HLA-matched donors are available for only half the patients needing a transplant. Combined
      haplo-cord transplantation has recently been shown to be a viable transplant option for those
      patients lacking an HLA matched donor. In our ongoing protocol 08-H-0046, we have utilized
      this approach in 29 patients with SAA, and SAA evolving to MDS with 27/29 patients having
      sustained engraftment and achieving transfusion independence. However, engraftment patterns
      have varied substantially and, in some patients,, cord engraftment was profoundly delayed or
      never occurred.

      Haploidentical peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (haplo-SCT) has the advantage over
      cord transplantation of immediate allograft availability, higher stem cell doses, and the
      feasibility of repeating cell collections if necessary for collecting CD34+ cells for stem
      cells boosts or lymphocytes to treat or prevent disease relapse or infection. Recently, the
      use of post-transplant cyclophosphamide (Cy) has been shown to be an effective strategy to
      prevent GVHD in recipients of haploidentical HSCT, but most reports have focused on patients
      with hematological malignancies. At present, few data exist on the use of haploidentical
      transplantation using post-transplant cyclophosphamide for patients with aplastic anemia that
      have ATG-refractory disease and are heavily-transfused and HLA-alloimmunized. These patients
      are at an exceedingly high-risk for graft rejection compared to other patient populations.

      This research protocol is therefore designed to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of
      using an unmanipulated GCSF mobilized peripheral stem cell allograft from a haploidentical
      donor and post-transplant cyclophosphamide for patients with SAA,SAA evolving to MDS, or PNH
      that has proven to be refractory to conventional therapy in patients who lack an HLA-matched
      donor (sibling/ or matched unrelated donor) and who do not have access to a good quality
      umbilical cord product that meets criteria for expansion (due to insufficient numbers of TNC
      and/or CD 34+ cells and/or inadequate HLA match) on NHLBI protocol number # 17-H-0091.

      The primary endpoint of the study is chronic GVHD-free survival (defined as the percentage of
      patients who are alive with no evidence of moderate or severe chronic GVHD at 1-year
      post-transplant). Secondary endpoints will include engraftment, 100 day and 200-day treatment
      related mortality (TRM), and standard transplant outcome variables such as non-hematologic
      toxicity, incidence and severity of acute and chronic GVHD, and relapse of disease. Health
      related quality of life will also be assessed as secondary outcome measure.
    
  