
    
      BACKGROUND: Visual Field defects after cerebral infarction is an increasingly acknowledged
      problem, which has consequences for patient outcome. The aim of the Norwegian Occipital
      Ischemic Stroke Study (NOR-OCCIP) is to: 1.) Improve clinical diagnostics and management of
      visual field defects in occipital stroke. 2.) Identify and estimate the need for visual
      rehabilitation among patients with VFD by studying the natural course and the rate of
      spontaneous recovery. 3.) Study the effect of visual rehabilitation both on visual function
      as well as on quality of life. METHODS: Patients with acute ischemic occipital stroke on MRI
      are recruited from Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim. Patients are included for a period of 1.5
      years, starting August 15th 2013. Patients are eligible for inclusion if >18 years, written
      consent is obtained and the patient is able to co-operate to examination with autoperimetry.
      Within one week patients are examined by ophthalmologist after a standardized protocol
      including autoperimetry. During week four patients are examined by vision teacher after a
      standardized protocol and a structured interview on vision specific function and quality of
      life (VFQ-25) is conducted by a study nurse via telephone. If visual rehabilitation is
      provided by the municipality in which the patient lives, the patient will be referred to
      such. Eye examination including autoperimetry, vision teacher assessment and VFQ-25 is
      repeated after 6 months. All patients will be registered in the national stroke registry, and
      the following variables will be analysed: Demographic variables, lifestyle factors, clinical
      status at admission (scores on NIHSS), clinical status at discharge and 3 months post-stroke
      (scores on modified Rankin Scale). So far 62 patients have been included. Limited research
      exists on visual impairment after cerebral infarction. It is important to establish the
      natural course of visual impairment after ischemic stroke, and to evaluate the effect of
      visual rehabilitation.
    
  