
    
      This is a prospective single cohort study to evaluate the feasibility of dynamic whole body
      PET/CT in identifying and quantifying lesions where standard static PET has been negative or
      equivocal.

      18F-FDG PET/CT - Participants that have been chosen and consented to participate in the
      optional DWB PET/CT scan sub-study will undergo an extra 18F-FDG PET/CT procedure. 18F-FDG is
      considered standard care and has been approved by Health Canada. A fasting period of 6 hours
      is required before the scan. Diabetic participants should withhold short acting insulin
      during the fasting interval, and discuss with their physician whether to reduce long acting
      insulin the morning of the examination. Participants will also be instructed to drink 3 to 4
      glasses of water within two hours prior to their scan appointment in order to promote
      hydration and facilitate urinary clearance of background radiopharmaceutical.

      Prior to the 18F-FDG PET/CT procedure, participants will be instructed to take their usual
      medications as prescribed by their physician.

      After providing informed written consent subjects will complete a medical history
      questionnaire.

      The PET dynamic scan will start 30 minutes after the 18F-FDG injection. This will be followed
      by several whole body static acquisitions for a total scan time that will not be longer than
      32 minutes.

      After the DWB scan is finished, participants will be given the option to go to the washroom
      again. After this, a new PET/CT acquisition, as specified in the 18F-FDG PET/CT scan
      protocol, will immediately follow. Upon completion of the second PET scan, participants will
      be free to leave the department and will be encouraged to drink 3 - 4 extra glasses of water
      by the end of the day to promote further clearance of the remaining tracer in the urinary
      tract.

      68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT - Participants that have been chosen and consented to participate in the
      optional DWB PET/CT scan sub-study will undergo an extra 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT procedure. The
      68Ga-DOTATOC radioactive tracer is manufactured for this study under a Clinical Trial
      Application filed with Health Canada. Prior to the 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT procedure,
      participants will be instructed to take their usual medications as prescribed by their
      physician. After providing informed written consent subjects will complete a medical history
      questionnaire. Participants will not be encouraged to drink additional water due to the
      requirement to stay on the scanner for up to 90 minutes (60 min DWB followed by standard PET
      acquisitions). There are no dietary restrictions.

      After the DWB scan is finished, participants will be given the option to go to the washroom
      again and their vital signs will be recorded one more time. For this sub-study the vital
      signs will not be collected after the radiotracer injection to accommodate for the DWB
      protocol. After this, a new PET/CT acquisition, as specified in the 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT
      protocol, will immediately follow. Upon completion of the second PET scan, participants will
      be free to leave the department and will be encouraged to drink 3 - 4 extra glasses of water
      by the end of the day to promote further clearance of the remaining tracer in the urinary
      tract.

      18F-DCFPyL PET/CT - Participants that have been chosen and consented to participate in the
      optional DWB PET/CT scan sub-study will undergo an extra 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT procedure. The
      18F-DCFPyL radioactive tracer is manufactured for this study under a Clinical Trial
      Application filed with Health Canada.After providing informed written consent subjects will
      complete a medical history questionnaire. Prior to the 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT procedure,
      participants will be instructed to take their usual medications as prescribed by their
      physician. Participants will not be encouraged to drink additional water due to the
      requirement to stay on the scanner for 90 minutes of the DWB acquisition. They will be unable
      to use the washroom during this time. As with the main study, participants will be instructed
      to fast for 4 hours prior to their appointment. The participant will receive a bolus
      intravenous dose of 18F-DCFPyL from an approved supplier, at a dose of approximately 296 MBq
      followed by a 5 to 20 mL normal saline flush and simultaneously a 6 minute dynamic
      acquisition of the heart will be started. This will then be followed by several whole body
      static acquisitions for a total scan time that will not be longer than 90 minutes.After the
      DWB scan is finished, the participant will be allowed to rest in a comfortable chair or bed
      for 30 minutes. During this time the vital signs will be recorded again. For this sub-study
      the vital signs will be measured before the radiotracer injection and again after the DWB PET
      scan to accommodate the DWB protocol. The participants will then be taken to a designated
      washroom and asked to void prior to the standard PET scan to clear excreted 18F-DCFPyL
      activity from the urinary tract.The participants will return to the scanner room and undergo
      the planned PET/CT imaging described in the main study.

      Participant adverse event monitoring will be completed as part of regular standard of care
      (18F-FDG) or according to the main study protocols.

      Follow-up Assessments - Follow-up information will be collected from the patient's medical
      records for up to 5 years following the PET/CT scan to obtain confirmatory information (from
      pathology and additional imaging showing progression or regression under treatment) about the
      status of known lesions.

      The study is expected to take approximately 4 years for accrual.
    
  