
    
      The study evaluated Mini Mental Test scores of patients who received total hip replacement
      surgery in Izmir Bozyaka Training and Research Hospital from November 2013 to September 2014.
      In the assessment, Mini Mental Test (MMT) was used for literate and Modified Mini Mental Test
      (MMMT) was used for illiterate patients. Test scores were obtained on the initial admission
      day (MMT1), 24 hours prior to surgery (MMT2) and 24 hours after the surgery (MMT3). A drop of
      4 points or more between each test was defined as significant cognitive dysfunction
      development. Patients who did not have any change or a change less than 4 points between MMT1
      and MMT3 were grouped as "no cognitive dysfunction" (Group 1) and patients with a difference
      more than 4 points between MMT1 and MMT3 were grouped as "cognitive dysfunction" (Group 2).
      All analyses were performed using those 2 patient groups.

      Patients who were planned to undergo total hip replacement surgery without cement over 18
      years of age and within ASA Group 1, 2 and 3 according to ASA physical status score were
      included in the study.

      Patients younger than 18, who did not speak Turkish, with known cancer history, previous
      steroid treatment, SVO history in last 6 months, with central nervous system diseases
      (current meningitis, encephalitis, tumors, major degenerative diseases), with dementia,
      Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Disease, pregnant patients, patients with neuropsychiatric
      diseases or received antidepressant, antipsychotic or anticonvulsive treatment in the last 6
      months, uncooperative patients, patients with substance abuse problems, patients with severe
      organ failure (end-stage liver failure, dialysis-dependent kidney failure), patients who
      required ICU following surgery, patients where regional anesthesia was contraindicated
      (Idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH), clotting disorders, infection on operational
      site) were excluded from the study.

      No premedication was done on patients during preoperative period. Hydration during
      preoperative period was done by IV 0.9% NaCl aqueous solution with a fasting period of 6-10
      hours prior to surgery.

      In our study, combined spinal-epidural anesthesia was used for anesthesia for all the
      patients. Surgical intervention was allowed on the patients with sensory block on T8
      dermatome levels. Patients also received 0.5 mg IV bolus midazolam with Ramsey Sedation Scale
      3.

      During anesthesia, systolic blood pressure decreases more than 20% compared to preoperative
      period was defined as hypotension. 5 mg IV Ephedrine was administered to the patients when
      their arterial blood pressure levels stayed 50mmHg and below despite fluid replacement.
      Bradycardia was defined as pulses below 40 bpm and was treated with 0.5 mg IV atropine.

      Postoperative pain management was planned according to Visual Analogue Scale (VAS). In
      patients with VAS score 3 and above, 10 ml isobaric bupivacaine 0.125% was administered
      through epidural catheter. No additional medication (opiates or NSAIDs) were used for
      analgesia.

      Demographics, education levels, employment status, operation indications, ASA scores,
      comorbid diseases and tobacco use of all patients were questioned and recorded. Scores of MMT
      or MMMT of patients on their initial admission, 24 hours prior to surgery and 24 hours after
      surgery and its parameters were all recorded and grouped.

      The period from the initial admission to the surgery date was calculated and recorded.
      Patients' hemoglobin, hematocrit, serum electrolyte levels on their admission, preoperative
      and postoperative periods were recorded.

      Finally, anesthesia duration, surgery duration, administered midazolam, atropine and
      ephedrine doses, crystalloid, colloid, blood and blood products used during surgery and total
      blood loss volume were all recorded.
    
  