
    
      The manipulation of the wounds for its treatment is a painful process and there is currently
      no marketed any topical drug to decrease this suffering.

      The objective of this study is to demonstrate that lidocaine topical solution applied prior
      to wounds treatment, reduces the pain of the procedure compared to the treatment done after
      application of placebo solution. In addition, if the process was less painful, the
      consumption of systemic analgesics would be reduced (or eliminated) and, therefore, also its
      secondary effects.

      It is a single-center clinical trial, prospective, randomised, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled study that will include 46 patients (23 lidocaine group, 23 placebo group)
      who presents painful wounds during treatment in the Bellvitge University Hospital (HUB)
      outpatients area.

      The Pharmaceutical Department of HUB prepares a dilution of lidocaine 0.5% in 20ml disposable
      syringes and identical disposable syringes containing 20ml saline solution (process
      authorized by the Spanish Agency of Medicines and Sanitary Products).

      When a patient arrives at the outpatient area (dermatology or plastic surgery departments) to
      treat a wound, the nursery or the doctor who does the procedure evaluates the pain during the
      treatment. If it is 5 or more points according the "Verbal Numerical Scale" (VNS), the
      nursery will explain to the patient the possibility of being a participant in this study, and
      give the information document. If the patient is interested, the doctor of the Pain
      Department will be warned and an EKG and a pregnancy test (if the patient is a woman in
      fertile age) will be done.

      The doctor of the Pain Department will answer to any question about the study, will collect
      the medical record, will evaluate de EKG and the pregnancy test if it was done. Counting with
      all this information, and checking inclusion/exclusion criterias, the patient will be
      recluted. The patient will be ask to register in a data document any analgesic needed in the
      following 24 hours and also to register the VNS punctuation (0-10) 24 hours after the
      procedure, and to bring all this information the day of the next wound treatment. To avoid
      bias, the doctor of the Pain Department, will ask the patient to take the same analgesics the
      day of the study.

      Between the basal wound treatment (it is, the day of the recruitment) and the wound treatment
      of the study (it will be the next wound treatment, when lidocaine or placebo will be applied,
      depending on the random list) there will not elapse more than 10 days.

      The random process, will be done in the Pharmaceutical Department, following a table of
      random, starting at numer 01. The pair number will receive lidocaine, and the odd numbers
      saline solution. Each syringe will be named by an ordinary number, according with the
      recruitment number. And they will give this syringes to the outpatient area.

      The day of the study, the nursery or the Pain Department doctor will record the VNS
      punctuation before treatment; then the nursery will apply wetted gauzes with the study
      solution and will wait 7-15 minutes to effect (exactly time counted and registrered with a
      chronometer). After this time the habitual treatment will be applied and at this moment the
      pain in the VNS will be recored. The nursery or the Pain Department doctor will be attentive
      to any secondary effect appears. And finally, the nursery will ask again about the pain 15
      minutes after the procedure.

      The nursery or the Pain Department doctor will ask to the patient to record the analgesics
      need in the following 24 hours and, after this period, the Pain Department doctor will call
      the patient to ask about this record, about the pain at 24 hours after the procedure and if
      any secondary effect has been detected.

      Comparing the procedures carried out after lidocaine solution with saline solution, the
      investigators will evaluate the reduction of pain in the wounds treatment.
    
  