
    
      Delirium is a common neurologic complication after cardiac surgery. Up to 52% of
      postoperative cardiac surgery patients have delirium. The occurrence of postoperative
      delirium is associated with worse outcomes, including prolonged length of stay in the ICU and
      hospital, increased morbidity and mortality, compromised long-term cognitive function and
      physical ability, and elevated medical care costs. Morbidity of postoperative cognitive
      dysfunction and delirium mostly common in patients with age more than 60 years.

      Several factors including cerebral anoxia, embolism, excessive excitatory neurotransmitter
      release, systemic inflammatory response, electrolyte and metabolic disorders and hemodynamic
      changes have been demonstrated to contribute to postoperative neurological dysfunction and
      delirium.

      Previous studies have shown that inhalation anaesthesia and total intravenous anaesthesia
      (TIVA) may produce different degrees of cerebral protection in these patients. Effects of
      this two types of anaesthesia in cardiac surgery with CPB remain controversial and much
      debated.

      Inhalation agents depress glucose metabolism, decrease cerebral metabolic rate and oxygen
      consumption. They also partially uncouple the reactivity of cerebral blood flow to CO2. The
      changes in cerebral blood flow (CBF) depend on the changes in cerebral metabolism and on
      direct vasodilatory effects. Cerebral autoregulation is dose-dependently altered. Volatile
      anaesthetics have been shown to initiate early ischemic preconditioning in neurons, but
      models of focal brain ischemia suggest it can take 24 h for preconditioning to develop fully.

      Propofol is a well-known potentiator of GABAA receptors, it reduces cerebrovascular
      resistance, CBF and cerebral oxygen delivery during cardiopulmonary bypass. A neuroprotective
      effect of propofol has been shown to be present in many in vitro and in vivo established
      experimental models of mild/moderate acute cerebral ischemia.

      In recent meta-analysis of 13 randomized controlled studies Chen et al compared the
      neuroprotective effects of inhalational anesthesia and those of total intravenous anesthesia
      (TIVA) in cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. They have shown that anesthesia with
      volatile agents appeared to provide better cerebral protection than TIVA. As this
      meta-analysis had several limitations (small sample size of included studies, high
      heterogenity, etc.), further studies with larger clinically relevant sample-sizes are needed
      to demonstrate which anesthetics are more beneficial in terms of brain protection in cardiac
      surgery.
    
  