
    
      Preliminary data from the investigators' laboratory demonstrate a negative relationship
      between hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) and ETBR function, supporting ETBR may be dysfunctional in the
      presence of T1D. Using near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) to non-invasively assess muscle
      function, the investigators have also observed reduced skeletal muscle mitochondrial function
      in people with T1D compared to healthy controls. In addition, reduced circulating Sirt1 is
      associated with both ETBR and skeletal muscle mitochondrial dysfunction in the general
      population. For the current application, the investigators propose to utilize intradermal
      microdialysis and NIRS as unique, novel, and minimally invasive methods to investigate ETBR
      and skeletal muscle mitochondrial function, respectively, in people with T1D. Accordingly,
      the central hypothesis is that increasing circulating Sirt1 with oral supplementation of
      resveratrol will improve both ETBR function and mitochondrial skeletal muscle function,
      reducing overall CVD risk (Figure 1). The investigators will test this hypothesis with the
      following specific aims:

      Aim 1: To test the hypothesis that an increase in Sirt1 will improve ETBR function in people
      with T1D. The investigators will evaluate ETBR function and circulating Sirt1 at baseline and
      after a 12-week treatment of resveratrol or placebo. Based on preliminary data, the
      investigators predict that people with T1D will have ETBR dysfunction compared to controls.
      In addition, the investigators predict that increasing Sirt1 following resveratrol treatment
      will improve ETBR function, whereas no change will occur with placebo.

      Aim 2: To test the hypothesis that an increase in Sirt1 will improve skeletal muscle
      mitochondrial function and lower HbA1c in people with T1D. A non-invasive assessment of
      skeletal muscle function will be performed on people with T1D before and after 12-weeks of
      treatment with resveratrol or placebo. Compared to controls, the investigators predict that
      people with T1D will have skeletal muscle dysfunction. Following 12 weeks of resveratrol, the
      investigators predict that the increase in circulating Sirt1 will improve skeletal muscle
      function. Additionally, the investigators predict the improved skeletal muscle function will
      contribute to a subsequent decrease in HbA1c in people with T1D.
    
  