
    
      The incidence of obesity has increased dramatically over the past two decades in the United
      States (US). Twenty-five percent of adult Americans are now classified as obese. Obesity is
      associated with physiological alterations that can affect drug clearance and volume of
      distribution. Obese subjects are often excluded from phase 1 pharmacokinetic studies. As a
      result, drug dosing regimens developed for clinical use may not be appropriate for the obese
      population. Use of fixed dosing regimens may result in under dosing of obese patients. In
      contrast adjustment of drug dosing based on total body weight may lead to over dosing of
      obese patients. Oseltamivir phosphate (Tamiflu®) is an antiviral agent that is currently
      dosed as 75 mg once daily for chemoprophylaxis and twice daily for treatment of influenza in
      adults.

      Oseltamivir is rapidly converted to its active metabolite, oseltamivir carboxylate by
      esterases. The clearance of oseltamivir carboxylate is dependent on tubular secretion and
      glomerular filtration. Given that these drug elimination pathways may be enhanced in obese
      individuals, oseltamivir carboxylate plasma exposures may be lower in obese subjects compared
      to normal weight subjects. Although a specific plasma exposure target for oseltamivir
      carboxylate has not been established, lower oseltamivir carboxylate exposures may predispose
      obese patients to treatment failure and increase the probability for emergence of
      oseltamivir-resistant influenza virus. The current study proposes to characterize the plasma
      oseltamivir carboxylate concentration-time profile after multiple doses of oral oseltamivir
      in a cohort of healthy morbidly obese subjects. The study will be performed using a phase 1,
      open-label,multiple dose, pharmacokinetic study design in twenty obese adult subjects. This
      pilot study will provide pharmacokinetic data that may be incorporated into existing
      oseltamivir carboxylate population pharmacokinetic models to define appropriate doses of
      oseltamivir in obese patients.
    
  