
    
      Aims:

        1. To confirm that IPC (intermittent pneumatic compression) has a positive effect on
           systemic coagulation status, tissue metabolic activity, collagen formation and tissue
           microcirculation.

        2. To compare the above effect of two different IPC devices: one rapid calf-IPC which
           expels blood from the veins sharp and rapidly and one slow calf-IPC, which pumps the
           blood in a more gentle and progressive way. This study could also make implications on
           how the blood flow parameters could be interpreted in the clinical setting, as previous
           haemodynamic studies have explained the superiority of the rapid device in terms of peak
           velocity and the superiority of the slow device in terms of total ejected volume per
           individual stimulus.

      Materials and Methods: 10-15 healthy individuals are planned to be recruited. The subjects
      will be lying in a prone position. A cuff connected with a Calf-IPC device will be wrapped
      around each calf and will be functioning for 120 minutes. Microdialysis catheters will be
      inserted with the tips about 1 mm from the volar side of each Achilles tendon. In addition,
      one adhesive sensor will be applied on each calf just distal to the lower part of the cuff,
      in order to measure tissue oxygen mixed saturation (INVOS). Blood samples will be taken via a
      venous catheter in antecubital fossa just before the application of the IPC, and at 30, 60
      and 120 minutes. From the serum, several systemic coagulation factors will be measured
      (tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 (PAI), tissue
      factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI), D-dimer, von Willebrand factor and factor VIIa). From the
      microdialysis diffusate , two groups of substances will be measured: a) metabolites, such as
      pyruvate and b) collagen macromolecules, such as procollagen type I and III.

      The ultimate goal is to assess the role of different IPC patterns on deep venous thrombosis
      prevention and promotion of tissue healing.
    
  