
    
      The SLAS is the principal longitudinal cohort study in GRP. The SLAS is a community-based
      longitudinal epidemiologic study that aims to increase the understanding of ageing and
      health, and the factors that influence the ageing process. SLAS seeks to identify the
      cognitive, biomedical, lifestyle and behavioral, as well as psychosocial risk and protective
      factors that affect the transition from healthy ageing to functional impairment, illness and
      death.

      Participants recruited into SLAS are community-dwelling seniors, aged 55 and above, from
      various areas in Singapore. Participants are approached door-to-door, are provided detailed
      information regarding their participation, and are required to provide informed consent
      before enrollment into the study. The study procedure includes a baseline survey upon
      enrollment, and participants are revisited on a 3-yearly basis thereafter.

      Enrolled subjects provide baseline data through structured interviews, physician assessments,
      laboratory testing, and self-reports of conditions, symptoms, and risk behaviors. Data in the
      study is collected by trained research staff and nurses. The information to be collected
      include:

      Outcomes:

      Primary Outcomes

      4 Main Primary Outcomes

        1. Mild cognitive impairment and cognitive functioning

        2. Frailty

        3. Depression, anxiety (Mood disorder I)

        4. Successful and healthy ageing

      Basic screening followed by diagnostic tests.

      Cognitive domain functioning. Particpants are screened fro cogntve impairment using global
      cognitive tests (MMSE and MOCA). An exhaustive neuropsychological assessment battery is also
      conducted to assess specific cognitive domain functioning of participants. Selected
      participants that meet screening criteria, thus indicating the presence of possible cognitive
      impairment, undergo further testing to determine their cognitive functioning status
      (cognitively normal, mild cognitive impairment, cognitive decline, or dementia), as diagnosed
      by a panel of geriatricians, in accordance with the DSM-IV-TR criteria for dementia (1), and
      the MCI Working Group of the European Consortium on Alzheimer's disease criteria (2).

      Frailty assessment. A battery of measures, including self-report, physical assessments and
      anthropometric measures, is administered to measure the frailty status of the individuals, in
      accordance with the Fried et al.'s phenotype criteria (3).

      Psychiatric assessment. Several self-reported questionnaires are administered to measure the
      symptomatology of common psychiatric disorders such as depression, among others. Selected
      participants that meet screening criteria, thus indicating the presence of possible
      psychiatric disorders, would undergo further testing to determine their mental health state,
      in accordance with the DSM-IV-TR criteria (1).

      Successful and healthy ageing. Successful and healthy ageing is determined by a number of
      self-reported and objective measurements of health which aim to reflect the overall and
      physical health, cognitive, emotional and social well-functioning (inclusive of life
      engagement and life satisfaction) of the individual.

      Secondary Outcomes

      Physical domain functioning. Self-reported measures as well as physical assessments would be
      conducted to measure physical functioning, disability and independence in activities of daily
      living among participants.

      Health, health services utilization. Data regarding the history of chronic medical conditions
      and falls, medication use, use of hospital and primary care services and self-rated health.

      Quality of Life. Self-reported measures would be conducted to measure the quality of life
      amongst the participants.

      Mortality. The date of death of participants would be recorded, as well as assessing the
      Singapore National Registry of Diseases Office (NRDO).

      Respiratory functioning. Data regarding respiratory functioning would be collected via a
      spirometry test.

      Risk and protective factors:

      Socioeconomic and demographic variables. Information regarding the age, gender, educational
      status and household income would be collected from the participants via self-report.

      Medical history. Information regarding the history of selected medical and mental disorders
      would be collected from the participants via self-report.

      Biological determinants. Biological specimens (blood and urine) will be analyzed for
      constituents of interest (e.g. micronutrients, lipid and glucose levels, among others).

      Pharmacological determinants. The use of pharmacological agents such as anti-inflammatory,
      cholesterol-lowering and other drugs will be recorded via a self-report measure.

      Nutrition. Participants would be assessed on their nutritional status and dietary consumption
      (NSI screening, MNA screening, food frequency, 2-day food diary). The dietary records are
      analyzed for nutrients of interest and phytochemicals such as B12, B6, folate, curcumin, and
      other nutritional supplements.

      Lifestyle and health risk behaviors. Lifestyle behaviors measured would include physical,
      leisure and social activities engagement duration and frequency. Health risk behaviors
      measured include the body mass index and other anthropometric measures, smoking, customary
      physical activity, social and productive activities and alcohol use among participants.

      Psycho-social data. Self-reported questionnaires are administered to measure life
      satisfaction, personality, religiosity, social support and asocial network connections for
      select participants.
    
  