
    
      Relapse is still the main reason of death for patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
      undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), especially for those
      with high risk and refractory disease. Cladribine and fludarabine are both purine analogs
      used in treatment of AML. Two studies by the Polish Adult Leukemia Group (PALG) demonstrated
      that the addition of cladribine to DA (DAC) was associated with an increased complete
      remission (CR) rate and prolonged overall survival (OS) in the general AML population, with
      the most prominent effect in patients with unfavorable cytogenetics. Therefore we presume
      cladribine may more effective in eliminating leukemic cells so that reduce relapse after
      HSCT. Haploidentical HSCT was the main option for those without HLA matched donors and the
      number of haploidentical transplants has covered over fifty percent of all allogeneic
      transplants in China. We designed this study to evaluated if cladribine based conditioning
      (CBA) could decrease relapse after haploidentical HSCT in high risk and refractory AML
      patients as compared with fludarabine based conditioning regimen(FBA).

      Eligible patients in this study should between 18 to 60 years old with confirmed AML and
      fulfilled at least one criteria defining high risk or refractory disease.Patients have no HLA
      matched sibling or unrelated donors but have haploidentical donor. Patients will be excluded
      if they present any contraindication for HSCT, including respiratory failure, heart failure,
      liver or kidney function failure et al.

      To evaluate if CBA could decrease relapse after haploidentical HSCT in high risk and
      refractory AML patients as compared with FBA, 120 eligible patients will be randomized to two
      groups, the CBA group and the FBA group. Patients in the CBA group receive conditioning
      including cladribine 5mg/m2 day -6 to day -2 , busulfan(iv) 3.2mg/kg day-6 to day -3 and
      cytarabine 2g/m2 day-6 to day -2. While patients in the FBA group receive conditioning
      including fludarabine 30mg/m2 day -6 to day -2 , busulfan(iv) 3.2mg/kg day-6 to day-3 and
      cytarabine 2g/m2 day-6 to day -2. Graft versus host disease(GVHD) prophylactic regimen
      include ATG 2.5mg/kg d-4 to d-1, cyclosporine A and short term MTX.

      Patients will be followed up for 2 years and the primary end point is the cumulative relapse
      rate at 2 years. The second end points of the study include the overall survival, disease
      free survival and non-relapse mortality at 2 years.
    
  