
    
      Patients being treated for metal on metal acetabular revision surgery by a physician at
      OrthoCarolina, PA will be screened for eligibility. These patients will be approached by
      their surgeon and asked to volunteer their participation in the study. Potential subjects
      will meet with a research coordinator to discuss details of the study and those you volunteer
      participation will be asked to sign an informed consent prior to the collection of study
      data. . Basic demographic information (initials, age, gender, height, weight, BMI), dates of
      original index surgery, reason for revision, type of implant being removed, and standard of
      care cobalt and chromium metal ion levels will be collected via chart review.

      Patients who meet all eligibility criteria will have three biopsies performed at the time of
      their revision surgery. A pathologist will note the presence or absence of bone necrosis and
      will measure the length (mm) of necrosis, acute inflammation, chronic inflammation, normal
      bone, and entire bone specimen in order to obtain a ratio.

      Biopsy Protocol:

      A bone biopsy is a procedure in which bone samples are removed (with a special instrument
      during surgery) and looked at under a microscope for necrosis (tissue death), infection, or
      other bone disorders. Once the acetabular hip replacement implants have been removed the
      following steps will occur:

        -  The biopsy needle will be inserted into the bone (3 locations; 2 from ilium, 1 from
           pubis or ischium = 3 total).

        -  The biopsy needle will be withdrawn and firm pressure will be applied to the biopsy site
           for a few minutes, until the bleeding has stopped.

        -  Each bone biopsy sample will be labeled sequentially and by anatomic location (i.e.,
           ilium #1, ilium #2)

        -  The normal bone will be marked on the bone sample.

        -  The bone biopsy sample will be sent to the lab for examination.

        -  The acetabulum bone will be reamed so the new implant can be seated.
    
  