
    
      Objectives : the investigators aim to study the clinical profile and magnitude of cognitive
      disturbances, measure brain metabolism and assess cerebral atrophy in patients with ALS. The
      relationships between cognitive, metabolic and anatomical data will be determined by the
      correlation method. In addition, pathological studies will be carried out in deceased
      patients having given their consent in advance, in order to quantify the neuronal loss and
      UBIs.

      Methods : the investigators plan to recruit 60 patients with ALS, 10 patients with ALS/FTD
      (the diagnosis of dementia will rest on clinical data and formal neuropsychological testing)
      and 20 normal control subjects. The ALS patients will be divided into 2 subsets on the basis
      of a preliminary neuropsychological work-up, according to the presence or absence of
      "subclinical cognitive impairment" as defined by abnormal scoring on tests not meeting the
      criteria for dementia. In a second testing session carried out at the same time, a
      comprehensive assessment of memory, behaviour and emotional changes will be done. All
      subjects will then undergo morphological magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), resting-state
      functional MRI and 18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18FDG-PET). Whenever
      possible, a second testing session will be carried out 9 to 12 months later in order to
      quantify the cognitive deterioration, if any, and to find early predictors of the evolution
      towards dementia. In deceased patients, the location and extent of neuronal loss will be
      determined, as well as the location and number of UBIs.

      Results and clinical relevance : this study is intended to improve our knowledge of the
      clinical phenotype of ALS, and particularly to learn more about the extent of cognitive,
      behavioural and emotional changes in this disease. This could in turn shed some further light
      on the relationships between ALS and FTD.
    
  