
    
      Helical computed tomography has become the radiologic tool of choice in the assessment and
      treatment of patients with urinary tract calculi (Hubert et al, 1997; Smith et al, 1999).
      However, the full potential of helical CT to differentiate among stone types by structure or
      radiodensity has yet to be realized. Most CT scans for stones are used simply to identify the
      existence of a stone and give some indication of its size and location. These scans are
      viewed using soft tissue windows, in order to look for other possible causes of the patient's
      pain, such as appendicitis, gallstones, and colonic diverticulitis. However, soft tissue
      windows do not show structure within the kidney stone: stones appear as bright white objects
      in these images. The potential for observing structure in stones (using viewing windows
      closer to those used to view bone) has not been assessed in clinical studies. Currently, only
      the average CT attenuation value of urinary tract calculi has been investigated as an
      indicator of stone composition (Nakada et al, 2000; Mostafavi et al, 1998; Kuwahara et al,
      1984). The average CT attenuation value has been shown to be useful for distinguishing some
      stones (such as uric acid from calcium oxalate) but considerable overlap in CT attenuation
      between stone types exist.

      Treatment of urinary tract calculi is influenced by many factors including stone location,
      size and composition. Shock wave lithotripsy (SWL) is an effective, non-invasive method that
      is utilized to treat the majority of renal calculi. However, while some kidney stones are
      easily fragmented by SWL, other stones of similar composition are SW-resistant and must be
      removed by an invasive method following the failed lithotripsy. In addition, SWL is not
      without complications with long-term risks of hypertension and renal insufficiency (Evan et
      al, 1998; Willis et al, 1998). Considerable variation in SWL fragility exists within each
      major stone composition group that is best explained by stone structural heterogeneity (Saw
      et al, 2000). The association of stone structure and SWL fragility is not a new concept as
      Dretler and Polykoff (1996), in a retrospective study of calcium oxalate stones, reported
      four distinct patterns of stone structure on plain abdominal radiographs. Unfortunately, SWL
      fragility was not directly tested with the authors relying on clinical intuition that stones
      that on x-ray are smooth and more radiodense (and usually higher calcium oxalate monohydrate
      content) tend to be harder to fragment with SWL. Finally, the technology for clinical CT
      continues to advance. The latest generation of multidetector helical CT machines have
      considerably improved image resolution over single-detector CT technology. These quad-slice
      scanners have 4 contiguous, parallel rows of x-ray detectors combined with a higher gantry
      rotation speed which increase the speed of data collection by a factor as high as 8 over the
      conventional single-slice spiral CT scanners. The evolution from single-slice to multi-slice
      scanners does not alter image performance in terms of contrast resolution, in-plane spatial
      resolution and radiation dose if irradiating the same volume. However the benefits of
      quad-slice spiral CT compared to single-slice spiral CT are significant. The scans may be
      performed with thinner CT slices, which means higher spatial resolution along the
      longitudinal axis of the patient. The scans can also be performed much faster, which means
      improved temporal resolution and less motion artifacts. Thus, the ability to both predict
      stone composition from kidney stone CT attenuation values and delineate structural features
      necessary to predict stone fragility to lithotripter shock waves-if not now practical with
      present technology-will certainly be possible as this technology progresses.
    
  