
    
      The proposed study is a randomized, double-blinded clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of
      a course of laser therapy on peripheral neuropathic pain in persons with diabetes.
      Participants will be assessed at baseline, post-intervention, and 3-months followup, and the
      study will consist of two treatment arms, including: (a) twice-per-week laser treatment for 4
      weeks and once-per-week laser treatment for 8 weeks or (b) same treatment schedule sham (or
      placebo) for 12 weeks. Additionally, the study will examine inflammatory markers, functional
      status, and quality of life.

      Specific Aim 1. Change from baseline in self-reported pain in a sample of adults with
      diabetes at their last visit and at 3 months. Hypothesis 1: The laser therapy will produce
      significant improvement at post-intervention and three-month followup on measures of
      self-reported pain among adults with diabetes. Specific Aim 2: Decrease biochemical markers
      of inflammation by investigating levels of cytokines. Hypothesis 2: The laser therapy will
      produce significant improvement at post-intervention and three-month followup on levels of
      inflammatory markers.Specific Aim 3: Improve quality of life. Hypothesis 3: The laser therapy
      will produce significant improvement at post-intervention and three-month followup on quality
      of life.No substantial psychological, medical, or social risks exist to the participants,
      other than minor discomfort associated with the venipuncture.

      Although all measures to protect confidentiality will be put in place, the possibility exists
      that electronic data could be jeopardized. In the remote case that such event occurs, it will
      be immediately reported to the IRB.The proper use of the LiteCure LightForce FX Therapy Laser
      class IV laser therapy device should be harmless and presents no different risks than similar
      laser therapy devices currently on the market. At the time of this submission, no serious
      adverse events have been reported to the company or the regulatory authority by consumers.
      All study personnel will complete detailed training in the use of the device and will follow
      the directions of the manufacturer for operating the device; all instructions for use of the
      device will be followed for each subject.

      As reported by LiteCure Medical the LiteCure LightForce FX therapy laser device has been
      cleared by the FDA, tested according IEC electrical safety standards for medical devices, and
      manufactured in an ISO13485 compliant facility. These certifications ensure that LiteCure
      Medical devices are manufactured in state of the art facilities, under strict quality
      control, and environmental protection standards. Participants will incur no additional
      appreciable psychological or social risks by participating in this study. The process of
      interviewing during the assessment may cause discomfort. Discomfort or fatigue may also be
      experienced in completing the assessment battery.

      The information obtained in this study will help in determining the efficacy of using a class
      IV laser therapy device for neuropathic pain, inflammation, and quality of life in persons
      with diabetic distal symmetric peripheral neuropathy. By participating in the study, subjects
      may feel less pain, have lower inflammation, and experience improved quality of life. The
      minimal risk of participating in this study is reasonable because of the potential benefit
      gained in pain status, inflammatory status, and quality of life.
    
  