
    
      1. Subject recruitment and consent: Subject recruitment will take place in the GW MFA
           outpatient clinic for the MIGS surgeons among patients desiring a myomectomy or a
           hysterectomy for a benign gynecologic reason (heavy bleeding, fibroids, pelvic pain)
           without comorbidities that require overnight stay (as decided by their provider).
           Interested subjects will be counseled and consented by a member of the research team. If
           the subjects choose to participate the consent form will be signed at that time or if
           the subjects need more time to consider participation the consent form will be signed at
           the pre-operative visit.

        2. At the pre-operative visit, computer-generated randomization will be used to assign
           patients to

           A) Discharge the day of surgery (before midnight on the day of surgery) OR B) Discharge
           after an overnight stay.

           Patients will be informed about their assigned group during this visit to be able to
           prepare their discharge and recovery period with care-takers at home. Participants will
           complete the health-related quality of life (HrQoL) questionnaire EQ-5D before surgery
           as a baseline measurement and complete a survey including basic demographic information
           (detailed prior).

        3. Study participants will then undergo a minimally invasive hysterectomy or myomectomy by
           one of the highly experienced minimally invasive gynecologists using a standard
           technique. Their approaches to hysterectomy and myomectomy are similar and according to
           the normal standard of care.

        4. In case of protocol deviation by participants,the investigators will record why the
           participants decided to deviate from the protocol to be able to identify factors that
           influence length of hospital stay. The investigators will conduct an intention-to-treat
           analysis to correct for these protocol deviations. The investigators will counsel
           patients thoroughly to try to minimize the number of protocol deviations.

        5. Hospital (operative and pathology reports) and clinical (clinical visit notes) reports
           will be reviewed to compare baseline demographics, preoperative hemoglobin, past
           surgical history, past medical history, comorbidities, operative time, case end time,
           estimated blood loss, uterine weight and complications between the same-day discharge
           and overnight stay group.

        6. Patients will complete the HrQoL questionnaire on days 0, 1, 2, 4 and 7 using the self-
           completed EQ-5D.

        7. Hospital and ED notes will be checked for unexpected postoperative visits,
           re-evaluations and re-admissions.

        8. At their postoperative visit 2 weeks after their surgery patients will be asked to
           complete the surgical satisfaction questionnaire (SSQ-8) and to score feelings of safety
           regarding the timing of their discharge on a scale from 0-10
    
  