
    
      Upper respiratory infections are rather frequent in the population, and their treatment
      consists, in most cases, in the use of symptomatic drugs. Acetaminophen is widely used as an
      analgesic and antipyretic, whereas chlorpheniramine is an antihistaminic and phenylephrine is
      a vasoconstrictor with decongestioning activity. The aim of this study is to assess the
      efficacy and safety of an anti-cold preparation, currently commercialized in Brazil by the
      name Resfenol, compounded by acetaminophen, chlorpheniramine and phenylephrine for the
      treatment of cold and flu symptoms in healthy individuals in a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled clinical trial.

      Healthy volunteers are recruited through panels fixated at Hospital de Clínicas de Porto
      Alegre, in Brazil, and must answer a screening questionnaire at first contact. One hundred
      and forty six patients who met the inclusion criteria were included and, after baseline
      clinical and laboratory evaluation, were randomized to receive either the active intervention
      or placebo, 5 times a day, at 4 hour intervals, during 48 to 72 hours, depending on patient
      availability to show up for re-evaluation. Patients also received acetaminophen as a co
      intervention, to be taken only in case of persisting symptoms.

      Patients answered, during treatment, several symptom questionnaires contained in a diary, and
      followup was performed at days 3 or 4 (clinical and laboratory evaluation) and 10 or 11
      (clinical followup). Axillary temperature was assessed along with every dose with a
      thermometer provided by the study and registered in the diary.

      Primary endpoint consists in the mean symptom scores, assessed through questionnaires in
      patient diary, baseline and followup. Secondary endpoints are global duration of symptoms,
      time of return to usual activities, use of co intervention for symptom relief, improval of
      fever and adverse effect evaluation.
    
  