
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Neurofibromatosis Type 1 (NF1) is an autosomal dominant, progressive genetic disorder
      characterized by diverse clinical manifestations. Patients with NF1 have an increased risk of
      developing tumors of the central and peripheral nervous system including plexiform
      neurofibromas (PN), dermal neurofibromas, optic pathway tumors, brain tumors, malignant
      peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNST), juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia, and
      pheochromocytomas. In addition, NF1 manifests in essentially every organ system, with for
      example, skeletal and vascular abnormalities, and cognitive deficits. Thus, the care for
      individuals with NF1 requires a multidisciplinary approach. The natural history of NF1
      related tumor and other manifestations is poorly understood, and for most NF1 related tumor
      manifestations the only standard treatment option is surgery. The NIH Clinical Center
      provides the ideal infrastructure for evaluation of the natural history of rare diseases. A
      better understanding of the natural history of NF1 related tumor and other manifestations
      will be helpful for the design of treatment studies. The NCI, POB has an active clinical
      trials program for NF1 related tumor manifestations including PN, MPNST, and in collaboration
      with Dr. Douglas Stewart from the NHGRI, dermal neurofibromas. Unlike individuals with
      refractory solid cancers, individuals with NF1 have near normal life expectancy, and their
      benign tumors progress more slowly than solid cancers. Individuals with NF1 may thus
      participate in multiple treatment trials.

      OBJECTIVES:

      The overall purpose of this descriptive NF1 Natural History study is to serve as an umbrella
      protocol for the ongoing NF1 clinical trials program to allow the longitudinal evaluation of
      individuals with NF1 for NF1 related tumor and non tumor manifestations irrespective whether
      they are currently enrolled on a treatment study or not, and to develop a better
      understanding of the biology of NF1 related manifestations. Following these patients
      longitudinally will allow investigators to develop a better understanding of the natural
      history of these manifestations, provide the basis for the development of endpoints for
      clinical trials and to potentially develop more effective treatments. NF1 manifestations,
      which will be followed longitudinally, include PN, MPNST, optic pathway tumors, dermal
      neurofibromas, NF1 associated pain, and neuropsychological, motor, and endocrine function. A
      comprehensive treatment plan and recommendations will be developed and communicated with the
      patient and primary caregivers.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      Children, adolescents, and adults with a confirmed clinical diagnosis of NF1 or a confirmed
      NF1 mutation.

      DESIGN:

      Attempts will be made to have all individuals undergo a comprehensive baseline evaluation
      including clinical phenotyping, genotyping, imaging of tumor manifestations, and pain,
      quality of life, neuropsychological, motor, and endocrine evaluations. The NF1 manifestations
      will be longitudinally monitored with a frequency of every year to every three years, with
      the extent and timing of follow-up evaluations depending on the findings at baseline.
    
  