
    
      This is a single-center prospective study. All gastric adenocarcinoma patients operated on
      between January 2004 and December 2022 who underwent laparoscopic resection with D1-D2
      lymphadenectomy were considered.

      The exclusion criteria were patients who were lost to follow-up, were unfit for surgery,
      underwent palliative surgery or had T4b lesions or gastric neoplasms other than
      adenocarcinoma.

      The preoperative evaluation included laboratory tests, upper digestive endoscopy with biopsy,
      computed tomography scans (chest, abdomen, and pelvis), and endoscopic ultrasound in selected
      cases.

      The tumor node, metastasis (TNM) protocol of the College of American Pathologists was used
      for staging In the preoperative workup, the patients were classified according to the
      American Anesthesiology Association (ASA).

      Perioperative and postoperative complications will be classified according to the
      Clavien-Dindo system.

      Length of hospital stay, age, sex, comorbidities, extent of surgery, pTNM stage, and
      disease-free survival (DFS) will be analyzed.

      The followed-up it is planned at one, three and six months after surgery and every 6 months
      later until the fifth year, then once a year.

      Statistical analyses were performed using SPSS, ver. 25.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago IL, USA). The
      demographics, perioperative data, operation details, length of hospital stay, morbidity,
      mortality and pathologic and oncological outcomes are expressed as numbers and percentages
      for qualitative variables and medians and interquartile ranges (IQRs) for quantitative
      variables.

      Factors associated with recurrence risk at 12, 36 and 60 months will be evaluated using
      univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses. Variables with P < 0.1 in the univariate
      analysis were further introduced into the multivariate analysis using the Wald selection
      method. TNM stage will be analyzed for its impact on DFS using the Kaplan-Meier method and
      the log-rank test at 12, 36 and 60 months.

      To determine the risk factors for the development of serious morbidity (Clavien-Dindo ≥III),
      we first performed univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses. Variables with
      P<0.1 in the univariate analysis will be further introduced into the multivariate analysis
      with the Wald selection method. P values < 0.05 were considered statistically significant.

      This study involved the use of data from clinical records. To guarantee the proper handling
      of the information, the data were treated confidentially and anonymously according to the
      provisions of the Spanish Organic Law 15/1999, of 13 December 1999, on Personal Data
      Protection (LOPD). All methods were performed in accordance with the guidelines and
      regulations established by the Declaration of Helsinki (1964, revised in 1983) on biomedical
      research in humans, the Spanish Royal Decree 1090/2015, of December 4, which regulates
      clinical trials with drugs, the Research Ethics Committees with drugs and the Spanish
      Registry of Clinical Studies.

      Ethical approval from the Clinical Trials and Ethics Committee of Valladolid University was
      granted.
    
  