
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Colorectal cancer is the third most frequent type of cancer in Denmark, with more than 5000
      new cases annually. Colorectal liver metastases (CRLM) develop in nearly one fourth of all
      patients with colorectal cancer, and poses a poor prognostic outlook, with low survival rates
      and short time to disease progression. Surgical resection, either upfront or following
      downstaging with perioperative treatments, confers substantial survival benefit in patients
      with CRLM, and may even comprise a curative treatment modality. However, surgery elicits a
      cascade of biological responses characterized by increased dissemination of tumor cells and
      modulation of neuroendocrine, inflammatory, and immunological factors. These local and
      systemic perturbations typically persist for days to weeks following surgery and may
      independently or in concert drive the onset of long-term disease progression. Under normal
      physiological conditions, exercise training is a potent modulator of immune function,
      systemic inflammation, and the neuroendocrine system, raising the possibility that
      perioperative exercise training may ameliorate the surgical stress response during and after
      surgery. However, in a recent systematic review and meta-analysis (submitted), we found that
      the effects and safety of preoperative and early postoperative exercise are unknown in
      patients with gastrointestinal cancers (including CRLM) due to lack of studies, widespread
      methodological issues, and poor ascertainment and reporting of adverse events. Safety is
      arguably the single most important consideration for the application perioperative exercise,
      and methodological robust trials evaluating the safety and tolerability of perioperative
      exercise training along with preliminary information on treatment efficacy are needed to
      inform the application of exercise in surgical oncology.

      Against this background, we designed the present randomized controlled trial to evaluate the
      therapeutic role of pre- and postoperative exercise training in patients with CRLM undergoing
      open liver resection. The primary trial objective and hypothesis are:

        1. To compare the effect of standard care and perioperative exercise (EX) vs. standard care
           alone (CON) on the incidence of postoperative complications in patients with CRLM
           undergoing surgery. We hypothesize that the incidence of postoperative complications is
           non-inferior in EX vs. CON

           The key secondary study objectives and hypotheses are:

        2. To compare the effect of EX vs. CON on length of postoperative stay and incidence of
           pre- and postoperative hospital admissions in patients with CRLM undergoing surgery. We
           hypothesize that the length of postoperative stay and incidence of pre- and
           postoperative hospital admissions are non-inferior in EX vs. CON

        3. To compare the effect of EX vs. CON on relative dose intensity of adjuvant chemotherapy
           and time from surgery to initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with CRLM
           undergoing surgery. We hypothesize that the relative dose intensity of adjuvant
           chemotherapy and time from surgery to initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy are
           non-inferior in EX vs. CON.

        4. To compare the effect of EX vs. CON on selected patient-reported symptomatic adverse
           events in patients with CRLM undergoing surgery

        5. To compare the effect of EX vs. CON on surgical stress responses (neuroendocrine,
           inflammatory, and immune factors) in patients with CRLM undergoing surgery.

           The secondary study objectives are:

        6. To evaluate the feasibility of EX.

        7. To compare the effect of EX vs. CON on functional capacity, muscle strength, aerobic
           capacity, and body composition in patients with CRLM undergoing surgery.

        8. To compare the effect of EX vs. CON on clinical outcomes in patients with CRLM
           undergoing surgery.

        9. To compare the effect of EX vs. CON on patient-reported outcomes in patients with CRLM
           undergoing surgery.

       10. To compare the effect of EX vs. CON on circulating tumor DNA and DNA methylation in
           patients with CRLM undergoing surgery

       11. To evaluate the effects of acute pre- and postoperative exercise on neuroendocrine,
           immunological, and inflammatory factors in patients with CRLM undergoing surgery.

       12. To conduct explorative preclinical sub-studies.

      TRIAL DESIGN:

      This trial is a single-center, randomized, controlled, parallel-group trial performed at
      Centre for physical Activity (CFAS), Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark, and Department of
      Surgical Gastroenterology, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.

      A total of 60 participants with CRLM will be included and randomly allocated 2:1 to standard
      care and perioperative exercise training (EX) or standard care alone (CON) stratified by
      major (≥3 segments)/minor (<3 segments) surgery. The participants will undergo a total of
      three trial visits at CFAS: Two pre-surgery (after inclusion and 2-3 days before surgery) and
      1 post-surgery (8 weeks after discharge). For each visit, the participants will be assessed
      for body composition and anthropometrics, resting cardiovascular factors, standard blood
      biochemistry, aerobic capacity (VO2peak, ventilatory threshold), maximal muscle strength, and
      functional performance. In addition, blood samples will be taken before, during, and
      immediately after surgery, and on post-operative day 1, 2, 3, and 15 and neuroendocrine,
      inflammatory, and immune factor will be analyzed. Patient-reported outcomes will be collected
      at all trial visits and 1, 2, and 3 years after randomization. Data from medical records
      regarding mortality and disease recurrence will be collected up to 3 years after
      randomization. As an optional procedure, we will collect blood samples before, during, and
      after a pre- and a postoperative supervised exercise training session.
    
  