
    
      Many community-dwelling older adults have a highly sedentary lifestyle, especially those
      receiving homecare services. In the Netherlands 20% of older adults makes use of homecare.
      The prevalence in frail older adults is even twice as high (40%). However, once in care often
      a downward spiral sets in, as professionals tend to meet their clients' needs by task
      completion rather than by stimulating self-management and active engagement in tasks to
      contribute to active ageing. Thereby they deprive older adults of their opportunities to
      engage in a routine range of movements necessary for maintaining underlying capability
      resulting in further deconditioning and functional decline.

      To prevent these negative consequences the behaviour of healthcare professionals has to
      change from 'doing things for older adults' to 'engaging older adults' in daily life in order
      to improve physical activity among older adults by reducing their sedentary time. This
      innovative care philosophy is also known as Function Focused Care (FFC), restorative care or
      reablement. These terms can be used interchangeably, but we will refer to it as FFC
      throughout this project proposal. In the US the research group of Resnick and colleagues
      conducted various studies in inpatient and residential care facilities. They have shown that
      FFC succeeds in increasing physical activity. Furthermore, FFC has shown to result in
      physical (e.g. daily functioning, muscle strength, balance) and psychological benefits (e.g.
      mood, behavioural symptoms) and reduces the risk for adverse outcomes (e.g. falls, delirium).
      Resnick et al. have little experience in homecare settings, but there is an emerging body of
      evidence, especially in Norway, New Zealand and Australia, that FFC has also potential for
      community-based care showing beneficial effects with regard to daily functioning,
      self-perceived activity performance and satisfaction, health-related quality of life,
      healthcare utilisation/costs, and even mortality. Experiences and results of FFC in Dutch
      community-dwelling older adults are lacking.

      Promising programmes in one particular care setting are not automatically replicable in other
      settings due to cultural or organisational differences. Consequently, available programmes
      need to be adapted to the local circumstances before they can be successfully implemented in
      another setting. However, making changes requires careful planning and execution to prevent a
      loss of effectiveness by affecting the original programme's theory or removing core
      components of the programme. Therefore, the investigators have followed so far the first two
      phases of the framework of the Medical Research Council in preparing the use of FFC in Dutch
      community-dwelling older adults receiving homecare services:

        -  Phase I (2013- first half of 2016): The investigators systematically adapted in
           co-creation with international FFC experts and a Dutch panel of relevant stakeholders
           the initial FFC philosophy and conducted a pilot study. Throughout the adaptation
           process healthcare professionals, policy makers, managers and scientists were involved
           at various times to ensure that all interests are considered and respected. Although not
           the primary target population (i.e. homecare professionals), the project idea was also
           intensively discussed with a panel of older adults. The final result of this adaptation
           process was the 'Stay Active at Home' programme (in Dutch: 'Blijf Actief Thuis'). During
           the pilot, data about its feasibility was collected from healthcare professionals and
           older adults.

        -  Phase II (second half of 2016 - first half of 2017): The investigators conducted a
           second pilot study, a so-called 'early trial' prior to the currently proposed trial, as
           part of the ZonMw project BASIC CARE REVISITED (ZonMw #520002003). This early trial
           provided relevant information regarding: a) the implementation of specific intervention
           components; b) key components of the chosen methodology (e.g. outcome measures); c)
           rates of recruitment and retention; and d) the expected effect size. This information is
           highly relevant with regard to finalising the intervention and designing a subsequent
           main trial.

      In conclusion, 'Stay Active at Home' is systematically developed for the Dutch homecare
      setting based on international evidence in close collaboration with Dutch stakeholders (i.e.
      older adults, healthcare professionals, policy makers and managers). The initial feasibility
      of the programme and the proposed study design are evaluated in two pilot studies prior to
      the grant period. In order to determine the (cost-) effectiveness of 'Stay Active at Home'
      prior to dissemination and implementation of the programme in the Dutch homecare setting this
      cluster randomised controlled trial has to be conducted. Alongside the trial an extensive
      process evaluation will be conducted.
    
  