
    
      Patient's demographic details such as age, gender, body mass index, education level,
      language, and occupation will be captured. Clinical details such as significant
      comorbidities, date of liver transplant, type of transplant (cadaveric or living related),
      underlying liver disease, type of immunosuppressants, and history of rejection with its
      details will also be recorded.

      Participants will be asked to fill in a Questionnaire aimed to capture socioeconomic and
      clinical background, as well as the number, type, and dosing schedule of their
      immunosuppressants. Details and frequency of missed doses, the reason for 'missed doses', and
      patient's dosing preferences will be the questionnaire to access patient's compliance to
      medication. A liver transplant coordinator trained to administer the questionnaire will
      assist patients if required.

      The participant will be approached either during their clinic visit or through phone call.
      For participants who are approached during their clinic session, informed consent process
      will be conducted in the clinic by the assigned study team member(s). Participants will then
      complete the questionnaire. Some participants may be on 6-monthly or annual follow-up. For
      this group of participants, a phone call will be made to ask if they would be keen to
      participate in this questionnaire study. If they are agreeable, 2 copies of DSRB approved
      version of informed consent forms together with the questionnaire form will be posted to
      participants for their completion. Participant will sign the informed consent forms, complete
      the questionnaire and post the completed documents back to study team members.

      The primary and secondary outcome is patient compliance and patient preference, respectively.
      Besides the type of immunosuppressants, factors associated with outcomes will also be
      analyzed. Data entry and analysis will be conducted using SAS 9.2. Differences in categorical
      variables will be analyzed with chi-square test and Fisher's-exact test where appropriate and
      differences in continuous variables will be analyzed with student T-test. A two-sided
      analysis will be used and a p value of <0.5 will be considered significant.
    
  