
    
      Primary Objective:

      To assess the effect of diltiazem on coronary microvascular function in patients with chronic
      angina and evidence of coronary microvascular dysfunction.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To assess the effect of 6 weeks of treatment with diltiazem on the individual coronary
      function parameters in patients with coronary microvascular dysfunction.

      Safety objective:

      To assess the safety of coronary function testing in patients with chronic angina in the
      absence of obstructive CAD.

      To assess the safety of treatment with diltiazem in patients with coronary microvascular
      dysfunction.

      Exploratory objectives:

      To assess the effect of 6 weeks of treatment with diltiazem on angina frequency and severity
      in patients with coronary microvascular dysfunction.

      To assess the difference in major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in symptomatic
      patients with and without coronary microvascular dysfunction at 1 and 5 year follow-up.

      Sample size calculation:

      There are little data available about the effect of oral diltiazem on coronary
      non-endothelium dependent and endothelium dependent vasoreactivity.

      The effect of CCBs on non-endothelium dependent vasoreactivity: one randomized
      placebo-controlled study shows oral treatment with diltiazem improves TIMI frame count on
      repeat coronary angiography (1) In current practice, CFR and IMR quantitative measurements
      have replaced the TIMI frame count. Another non-placebo controlled study shows an improvement
      of echocardiography-measured CFR in CMD patients treated with 90mg diltiazem.(2) The effect
      of CCBs on endothelium dependent vasoreactivity: patients who are treated with ultra
      long-acting CCBs (i.e. amlodipine) show less vasoconstriction on baseline coronary
      angiography and have a lower rate of positive acetylcholine provocation testing compared to
      patients who don't (41% vs. 64%) if all of them stop all CCBs 48 hours before the procedure.
      (3) We find a 25% success rate of treatment with diltiazem clinically relevant. Based on the
      previous literature, that kind of treatment effect is expected to be feasible we anticipate a
      30% success rate in the patients treated with diltiazem compared to a 5% success rate in
      those treated with placebo. To detect this difference with type I error rate of 5% and type
      II error rate of 80% we need a total of 72 subjects (36 in each group) in the study. Based on
      prior research, (2, 3) we estimate that at least 60% of the screened patients will have an
      abnormal coronary reactivity test. We estimate that 15% of the randomized patients will
      discontinue the IMP during the treatment phase due to side effects of diltiazem
      (gastro-intestinal side effects, peripheral oedema, see section 6.4) or inability to undergo
      the second coronary reactivity test. Therefore, a total of 142 patients needs to be screened
      to reach intended sample size of 72 patients that complete the study protocol, as shown in
      figure 2.

      An interim analysis will be performed for futility when half of the patients has been
      recruited in both arms. The boundary for futility consideration will be a conditional power
      of <20% under the alternative hypothesis (4). At conditional power of <20% under original
      design effect assumption, a single assessment of futility when half of the patients has been
      recruited in both arms, we expect very limited inflation in type II error rate. (5, 6)

      Statistical analysis:

      For summarizing patient characteristics, continuous variables with a Gaussian distribution
      will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation (SD), and continuous variables with a
      non-Gaussian distribution as median ± interquartile range (IQR). Categorical variables will
      be summarized with number (percentage).

      Analysis Populations:

      The full analysis population will consist of all patients who signed informed consent from
      both the intervention arm and the registration arm.

      All patients who are enrolled in the intervention arm of the study and are randomly allocated
      to treatment or placebo group will be included in the primary analysis of efficacy
      (intention-to-treat treat analysis, ITT).

      In a supportive analysis, the Per Protocol (PP) group will consist of all patients from the
      ITT group without major protocol violations. Major protocol violations are:

        -  In- or exclusion criteria are not met

        -  Inadequate informed consent

        -  Serious non-compliance of the IMP: a drug-compliance < 80%

        -  Missing data: subject who misses primary outcome data from the first and/or second CFT
           (acetylcholine testing outcome, CFR and IMR data).

      The safety population will be the as-treated population, which will consist of all patients
      from the intervention group who had at least one dose of trial medication.

      Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB):

      A DSMB will be formed for two analyses: one interim look after half of the patients (as
      calculated in the original power analysis) completed visit 104 (the second coronary
      reactivity test), and one analysis after all 72 patients completed visit 104. The full
      procedure is described in the DSMB Charter.

      The DSMB would be responsible for the execution of the interim analysis and for making
      recommendations to the executive committee based on a clearly defined written charter. The
      objective of the interim analysis will be to assess the following:

        -  Safety issue: is there any difference in the safety profile between treatment groups? If
           yes, are these associated with drug administration?

        -  Futility: is it unlikely that a relevant treatment difference will be demonstrated?

        -  Efficacy: do the data show an overt efficacy of diltiazem compared to placebo?

        -  Are there any other observations in the accumulated data that should be communicated to
           the sponsor? The advice(s) of the DSMB will be sent to the sponsor of the study. Should
           the sponsor decide not to fully implement the advice of the DSMB, the sponsor will send
           the advice to the reviewing METC, including a note to substantiate why (part of) the
           advice of the DSMB will not be followed.

      Regulation statement:

      The study will be performed in accordance with ethical principles that have their origin in
      the Declaration of Helsinki and are consistent with ICH/GCP and in accordance with the
      Medical Research Involving Human Subjects Act (WMO) and other guidelines, regulations and
      Acts

      Recruitment and consent:

      The Principal Investigator(s) will:

        -  Ensure each patient is given full and adequate oral and written information about the
           nature, purpose, possible risk and benefit of the study.

        -  Ensure each patient is notified that they are free to discontinue from the study at any
           time.

        -  Ensure that each patient is given the opportunity to ask questions and allowed time to
           consider the information provided.

        -  Ensure each patient provides signed and dated informed consent before conducting any
           procedure specifically for the study.

        -  Ensure the original, signed Informed Consent Form(s) is/are stored in the Investigator's
           Study File.

        -  Ensure a copy of the signed Informed Consent Form is given to the patient.

        -  Ensure that any incentives for patients who participate in the study as well as any
           provisions for patients harmed as a consequence of study participation are described in
           the informed consent form that is approved by an Ethics Committee.

      Patients with angina in the absence of obstructive CAD will be screened for participation in
      the study according to the the Inclusion criteria and Exclusion criteria. Most of these
      patients will be identified from the waiting list for a CFT. Patients will only be eligible
      if the treating physician has already agreed with the patient to perform a CFT for his/her
      angina. After the patient has agreed to be informed about the study he/she will be contacted
      by one of the members of the study team and will receive the patient information. Preferably,
      a face-to-face information visit will be planned 1-2 weeks after the patient information was
      provided (but before the coronary reactivity test). The alternative would be a telephone
      visit to explain the patient information. Only after the patient is well informed, all
      questions are answered and he/she agrees to participate, the screening visit will be planned
      where the informed consent form will be signed. If the patient does not want to participate
      in the study, the coronary reactivity test will still take place.

      Benefits and risks assessment, group relatedness:

      It is essential to only include patients with properly diagnosed CMD patients without current
      obstructive CAD and an abnormal coronary reactivity. To assess both endothelial-dependent and
      endothelial-independent coronary vasoreactivity, invasive CFT is currently the only
      diagnostic option.

      Wei et al., report on the safety of invasive CFT in women to diagnose CMD.(7) Among 293
      symptomatic women without obstructive CAD who underwent testing, four total adverse events
      occurred - two of which were deemed serious: a coronary dissection and an episode of coronary
      spasm leading to acute myocardial infarction. Over the course of > 5 year follow-up, the
      overall rate of major adverse cardiac events in the population was 8.2%. The investigators
      rightly conclude that the immediate risk of testing is relatively low in comparison to the
      overall event rate in this population. Ong et al. also report low risk of coronary function
      testing using ACH testing in 124 patients without obstructive CAD.(28) There were no serious
      complications (e.g., myocardial infarction, refractory spasm, sustained ventricular
      arrhythmias, or need for resuscitation). Transient atrioventricular block was frequently
      observed and occurred mostly during provocation of the RCA; it always resolved within seconds
      after reducing the speed of the ACH injection, due to the short half-life of ACH. We will not
      include testing of the RCA in our protocol.

      In our clinical experience, diltiazem relieves angina in patients with CMD. To justify the
      use of this agent in the treatment of CMD it is essential to prove its effect on coronary
      reactivity (besides its effect on symptoms). Diltiazem is widely used, cheap and safe. Its
      characteristics are promising with regard to it's potential to improve coronary
      vasoreactivity.

      Handling and storage of data and documents:

      The data generated will be encoded and a separate patient identification log will be created.
      The key to the code will only be available to the principal investigator and delegated
      investigators. The acquired encoded data imputed in the eCRF will be accessible with
      passwords to the researchers involved. Personal data will comply to the Dutch Personal Data
      Protection Act.

      Monitoring and Quality Assurance:

      During the study, the study sites will be monitored to review study progress, Investigator
      and patient compliance with clinical protocol requirements and any emergent problems. The
      monitor visit will include: patient informed consent, patient recruitment and follow-up, SAE
      documentation and reporting, AE documentation, IMP allocation, IMP accountability and quality
      of the data. Details will be specified in a monitoring plan.
    
  