
    
      The aim of the study is to assess the efficacy of a liposomal ozone-based solution (OZODROP®)
      in the preparation of the patient for cataract surgery, by evaluating the reduction of
      bacterial colonization of the conjunctiva.

      The study will be carried out at 18 surgical centers located throughout the national
      territory and will be conducted in accordance with the recommendations of Italian ethics
      committees.

      An informed consent will be provided to all study participants. 400 eyes of 200 patients
      undergoing cataract surgery by phacoemulsification will be included in the study. The
      clinical sample is divided into two groups, study group which will include treated and (GS)
      and control group (GC) eyes. The study group will be treated with OZODROP®, an isotonic
      ophthalmic solution composed of 0.5% ozonized oil in liposomes and hypromellose, while the GC
      will receive saline solution.

      At the time of recruitment, all eyes will undergo a complete examination, as usual, and the
      patient enrolled in the study will be shown how to proceed.

      The study includes 2 times, (T0) and (T3), equal for both groups in the study. 3 days before
      the cataract surgery (T0), two conjunctival swabs will be taken from the patients enrolled in
      the study, one in the eye to be operated and one in the control eye, who will be kept at a
      controlled temperature (+ 2 / + 7 ° C) and sent to the laboratory within 24 hours. Than,
      starting on the day of collection, the patients will instill the OZODROP® eye drops in the
      eye to be used (2 drops 4 times a day, 1 drop every 4 hours: 9:00 am, 1:00 pm, 5:00 pm: 00,
      h21: 00), while the untreated contralateral eye will serve as a control.Immediately before
      the cataract surgery (T3), the patients enrolled in the study will again receive two
      conjunctival swabs, one in the eye to be operated and one in the control eye. The last
      OZODROP® instillation will be carried out 10 minutes before the withdrawal. For the
      microbiological evaluation, the conjunctival swabs taken at T0 and T3 will be sent to the
      Microbiology laboratory. The reduction of conjunctival microbial flora, expressed as CFU,
      will be evaluated.

      Through the analysis of the parameters in the study, a significant reduction in the microbial
      flora of the conjunctiva is expected in patients undergoing treatment with OZODROP®.
    
  