
    
      Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) decreases the quality of life of patients
      and can lead to a decrease and/or interruption of chemotherapy treatment-limiting its
      effectiveness. The therapeutic measures for the CIPN are very limited in its number and
      efficacy.

      Main Objectives: 1) To evaluate the clinical effect and on the health-related quality of life
      (HRQOL) of adding ozone to the usual patient´s treatment with persistent pain because of
      CIPN. 2) Estimate the additional costs and evaluate the cost-effectiveness ratio.

      Secondary Objectives: To evaluate the evolution of: 3) oxidative stress and chronic
      inflammation through biochemical measurements; 4) anxiety and depression of patients; 5) the
      diagnostic and predictive value of hyperspectral imaging in the assessment of pain; 6) the
      acceptability of patients to a shared decision-making (SDM) tool.

      METHODOLOGY: Randomized controlled trial (RCT) phase II-III, randomized, triple-blind; 42
      patients with cancer of the colon and rectum, treated with oxaliplatin, with CIPN of grade >
      = 2 for > = 3 months.

      TREATMENT: All patients will receive: usual treatment + 40 rectal insufflation sessions of
      O3/O2 in 16 weeks:

        -  Ozone-Arm (n = 21): concentration of O3/O2 increasing from 10 to 30 μg/ml.

        -  Control-placebo- Arm (n = 21): concentration of O3/O2 = 0 μg/ml.

      Main Variables: At the end of treatment with O3/O2 the following variables will be analyzed:
      1) "average pain" secondary to CIPN following the Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (BPI-SF);
      2) health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and utilities using EQ-5D-5L and SF-36 quality of
      life questionnaires; 3) Direct costs.

      Secondary Variables: 3) biochemical parameters of oxidative stress and inflammation; 4)
      Hamilton scale for anxiety and depression; 5) hyperspectral images; 6) acceptability of
      patients to a shared decision-making (SDM) tool.

      Assessments at weeks: 0 (baseline), 16 (end of O3/O2 insufflations, objective) and 28 (end of
      follow-up, control).

      Length of treatment: 16 weeks.

      Follow-up: 12 weeks after finishing O3/O2 insufflations.

      Planned length of the clinical trial: 36 months.
    
  