
    
      Infant Massage has been known for a long time, almost as far back as the first time it was
      recorded around 1800 BC. This was one of the original forms of medicine before the medical
      revolution broke out in the 1940s.

      To date, more than 600 studies have been published on the effects of weight gain on massaged
      infants, primarily in preterm infants. In addition, the latest research also helps identify
      other effects such as shortening hospital time, better sleep, reducing pain, crying less,
      strengthen immunity, reducing bilirubin in neonates with jaundice.

      On the other hand, the effect of the "parent direct massage for children" is also determined,
      the reports show an improvement in the parent-child interaction, increase breastfeeding, and
      reduce breastfeeding. The rate of postpartum depression reduced significantly.

      Steps to proceed

        -  Step 1: Randomly select 2 groups of mother- term neonate pairs by letting every mother,
           who matching with eligibility criteria, draw 1 of 120 same color and size lotteries in
           which include 1 to 120 numbers randomly drawn from a web page
           https://stattrek.com/statistics/random-number-generator.aspx .

      There are 2 groups of mother - term neonate pairs (60 pairs each):

        -  Group M: neonates are massaged by their mothers during the first 2 months after birth.
           Mothers in this group will be given instructions on breastfeeding, and massage therapy
           (by principal investigator as International Association of Infant Massage Certified
           Instructor) in 2 days before discharge, and mothers will record "Parenting Dairy" form
           (The diary includes the number of defecation times, the number of spitting up times, the
           number of crying times over 15 minutes, the number of massage times, and the sleep time
           during the day)

        -  Group X: neonates are not massaged. Mothers in this group will be given instructions on
           breastfeeding only, and they will record "Dairy of taking care baby" form like the other
           group.

             -  Step 2: At 1 day after discharge, the investigator make a phone call with mothers
                of group M to track and remind them massage for their babies.

             -  Step 3: At the time of 10 days before the baby turn 1 month - old and 2 month -
                old, the investigator make a phone call with mothers in both groups to track and
                remind massage for children (group M), as well as the record "Parenting Dairy"
                (both groups)

             -  Step 4: At the time the child turn 1 month - old and 2 month - old, the
                investigator make a home visit to both groups, let mothers perform Edinburgh
                Postnatal Depression Scale, collect data from "Parenting Dairy", assess the height
                - weight - head circle of the babies.
    
  