
    
      Patients with advanced cirrhosis frequently develop dilutional hyponatremia due to impairment
      of their renal ability to eliminate solute-free water. Although the pathophysiology of this
      disorder is multifactorial, an increased hypersecretion of arginine vasopressin (AVP) is a
      major factor. The prevalence of hyponatremia in cirrhosis, as defined by a serum sodium level
      of 130 mmol/L is reported to be about 20%, and there are several lines of evidence that
      hyponatremia is a risk factor for the development of hepatic encephalopathy, and that it
      predicts a poor quality of life independent of liver function. Hyponatremia also predicts
      short-term mortality in cirrhotic patients awaiting liver transplantation. The principle of
      the management of hypervolemic hypona- tremia is to induce a negative water balance, with the
      aim of normalizing the increased total body water, which would result in an improvement in
      serum sodium concentration. Fluid restriction is the most widely accepted nonpharmacological
      therapy, but its efficacy is very limited. The administration of hypertonic sodium chloride
      has been common in severe hypervolemic hyponatremia, but its effect is only partial and short
      lived; moreover, additional expansion of fluid can worsen ascites and edema. Therefore, the
      pathophysiologically oriented treatment of hyponatremia focuses on inhibiting the actions of
      AVP. Recently, antagonists of the V2 receptors of vasopressin has been proposed to manage
      hyponatremic patients, such as heart fauilure, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone
      or liver cirrhosis. Especially, a lot of hyponatremic patients with cirrhosis had ascites,
      and some of them had intractable ascites. In these patients, antagonists of the V2 receptors
      of vasopressin including tolvaptan might have beneficial effect in enhancing not only
      hyponatremia , but also ascites
    
  