
    
      Background: Indirect fixed prosthodontic restorations are widely used for the restoration of
      teeth. The fabrication of a well-fitting indirect restoration requires an accurate impression
      which captures the cervical finish line. Dentists have a hard time making proper impressions,
      with a reported 56% of impressions sent to labs being inadequate. The most common deficiency
      is inadequate recording of the cervical finish line. The primary reason for this inadequacy
      is deficient gingival displacement technique. More effective and efficient gingival
      displacement procedure can lead to clinically improved fixed restorations, less patient chair
      time, and less patient discomfort.

      Materials and Methods: Sixty (60) patients will be recruited from the University of North
      Carolina (UNC) School of Dentistry (SOD), and they will be randomly split into 2 equal sized
      groups: 30 patients cordless gingival displacement procedure (Aquasil Ultra Cordless,
      Dentsply International); 30 patients traditional corded technique using Aquasil Ultra
      Polyvinyl siloxane (PVS) impression material, Dentsply International, gingival displacement
      cord (Ultrapak, Ultradent Products International) hydrated with aluminum chloride hexahydrate
      (Hemodent, Premier Dental Products Company). Patient inclusion criteria include: 1) requires
      indirect restoration/s. 2) probing depths 4mm or less. 3) No bleeding on probing. 4) finish
      line 0-1mm sub-gingival.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To examine if a cordless gingival displacement procedure can properly displace gingival
           tissue to facilitate acceptable impressions that accurately capture the prepared
           cervical finish line for the fabrication of indirect fixed prosthodontic restorations.
           These impressions will be digitally scanned, and then all of the impression scans will
           be evaluated for acceptability based on a set of criteria (evaluation form). The
           evaluations will be conducted by 2 standardized individuals.

        2. To determine if a cordless gingival displacement procedure facilitates impressions that
           area at least as good as the traditional corded gingival displacement procedure. The
           impression scans will be evaluated and then a comparison will be made between the 2
           groups of impressions.

        3. To determine if a cordless gingival displacement procedure is more time efficient than
           the traditional corded procedure. All procedures will be timed, starting when the
           gingival displacement procedure is commenced and ending when the impression is removed
           from the patient's mouth.

        4. To determine if a cordless gingival displacement procedure causes less trauma and
           discomfort to the patient than the traditional corded procedure. Patient discomfort will
           be evaluated with a 3 question written survey (0-10 scale answers).

      The hypothesis contemplated in this proposal explores if a cordless gingival displacement
      procedure can properly displace gingival tissues to facilitate an acceptable impression that
      accurately captures the prepared cervical finish line for the fabrication of indirect fixed
      prosthodontic restorations. Our objective is to identify if a new procedure can improve the
      efficiency of a traditionally technique-sensitive procedure in dentistry.

      Materials and Methods:

      A total of sixty participants will be recruited from the University of North Carolina (UNC)
      School of Dentistry (SOD) Graduate Prosthodontics clinic, Graduate Operative clinic, and the
      Dental Faculty Practice. There will be two (2) randomly assigned groups; thirty (30) patients
      who will receive a cordless gingival displacement procedure (Aquasil Ultra Cordless, Dentsply
      International) and thirty (30) patients who will receive the traditional gingival
      displacement technique with retraction cord (UltraPak, Ultradent Products International)
      hydrated with aluminum chloride hexahydrate (Hemodent, Premier Dental Products Company), and
      impression made with Polyvinyl siloxane (PVS) impression material (Aquasil Ultra, Dentsply
      International).

      Any indirect restoration requires an accurate impression of the prepared margins and the
      tooth. To obtain an accurate impression, the gingiva has to be displaced or retracted
      temporarily to allow for the impression material to flow into the gingival sulcus and capture
      the margins of the preparation. Traditionally this is accomplished by packing two knitted
      cords. The cordless technique does not require this step but uses a pneumatic hand piece
      through which the light body impression material is injected in the sulcus displacing the
      gingival tissue in order to capture the margins of the prepared tooth. Both techniques are
      described in detail below.

      Traditional Corded Impression Procedure:

        1. The prepared tooth is rinsed and dried, and assure hemostasis.

        2. Small diameter retraction cord, after it has been hydrated with Hemodent (hemostatic
           agent) for 10 minutes, is tucked around the tooth in the space between it and its
           surrounding gum tissue. A second larger diameter retraction cord, also hydrated with
           Hemodent, will be placed over the first cord and tucked around the tooth. These cords
           will be left in place for a minimum of 8 minutes. These cords temporarily push the gum
           tissue away from the tooth.

        3. After a minimum of 8 minutes, the larger 2nd cord will be removed, and the tooth dried.
           Quickly, after confirmation of a dry field, the light body consistence impression
           material is dispensed using a plastic syringe around the prepared tooth and across the
           occlusal surfaces of adjacent teeth.

        4. An impression tray that has been filled with the heavy body consistency impression
           material is then placed over the arch of teeth, and gently pressed into place to ensure
           the teeth are completely covered with a uniform thickness of impression material. As the
           different impression material consistencies set, they fuse together into a single unit.

        5. When removed from the mouth, the impression should contain a negative copy of both the
           prepared tooth and the teeth of that jaw.

      Cordless Impression Procedure:

        1. The prepared tooth is rinsed and dried, and assure hemostasis.

        2. Apply B4 + surface optimizer (manufacturer recommended for increasing the wettability of
           the prepared tooth).

        3. Using the digit power dispenser (pneumatic hand piece that connects to the dental
           chair), unit dose cartridge, and intrasulcular plastic mixing tip, depress foot pedal
           and gently insert the plastic tip into the gingival sulcus of the prepared tooth,
           slightly apical to the preparation finish line. Material should flow into the gingival
           sulcus making sure to have impression material ahead of the intrasulcular tip as you
           move around the tooth and the prepared finish line.

        4. An impression tray that has been filled with the heavy body consistency impression
           material is then placed over the arch of teeth, and gently pressed into place to ensure
           the teeth are completely covered with a uniform thickness of impression material. As the
           different impression material consistencies set, they fuse together into a single unit.

        5. When removed from the mouth, the impression should contain a negative copy of both the
           prepared tooth and the teeth of that jaw.

      Post Impression:

      Once the impressions are made, the clinician will record the type of impression material
      used; whether tray adhesive was used; the tray material; the type of tray used; and the
      number of units requested. The impressions will be photographed and digitally scanned and
      then collectively evaluated at a later time, based on a criteria evaluation form by two
      calibrated evaluators. The evaluator will assess each impression for errors in the finish
      line; in the tray/material; and errors with gingival displacement/hemostasis as primary
      outcomes. The number of errors can range from 0 to 13.

      Two secondary outcomes will also be analyzed. First, the time required to perform the
      impression procedure will be recorded using a timer. Second, patient discomfort will be
      assessed using the FACES visual picture pain scale rated from 1-10 based on the following
      question posed at 3 points during treatment; "How much discomfort are you experiencing at
      this point in treatment?" This question will be asked before the impression procedure is
      initiated, immediately after the impression procedure is completed, and again at the
      completion of the treatment appointment. Each question will be rated on a scale of 1 to 10.
      The total score indicated by the sum of the 3 questions will be analyzed.

      As part of this study, the participant might be seen one or two times, one for consenting to
      participate in the study and another time for treatment and impression; we may be able to
      complete both during the same appointment. The consent appointment will ideally occur
      simultaneously with their consultation/treatment planning appointment prior to treatment.

      The proposed research study will approximately include a total of 60 participants.
      Recruitment of the patient population will rely on referrals from UNC School of Dentistry
      (UNC SOD) Faculty Practice, UNC SOD dental student's clinic (DDS student clinics, graduate
      student clinics and DFP). Apart from participating in the study, the patient may seek other
      dental treatments in the above mentioned clinics.

      Study clinicians will be calibrated on both the cordless and the corded gingival displacement
      procedures and impression procedures in a practice session. Clinical instruction protocols
      will be printed on laminated forms for all study clinicians to follow, for both the cordless
      and the corded procedures. These clinical protocol forms will be in the clinicians operatory
      during actual study treatment, and this protocol must be followed for the impression to be
      included in the study.

      On the day of the appointment, participants will be requested to sign a consent form. The
      study subject will be asked to complete the standard adult medical and dental health history
      questionnaire provided by the UNC SOD and will be provided with the UNC Chapel Hill Notice of
      Privacy Practices and the Consent for Purposes of Treatment, payment and health care
      operation. Other than the screening consent, these are standard practices followed by UNC SOD
      for all patients. The study is mandated to adhere to theses protocols prior to treating a
      patient at the UNC SOD. An oral examination will be performed by the research dentist to
      evaluate if the patient meets inclusion criteria, after the subject has signed all documents.
      Upon consent to participate, appointments will be made for treatment at UNC SOD, as it would
      happen as part of their regular treatment.

      Second appointment - during this scheduled time, a clinical re-evaluation will be completed,
      and if appropriate, treatment will be completed. Clinical data will be collected prior to
      starting the treatment; we will collect soft tissue response [Bleeding on Probing (BoP) and
      Probing Pocket Depth (PPD)]. Customary anesthesia and tooth preparation will be performed by
      the clinician as necessary for the particular indirect restoration, and when completed, the
      finish line will be evaluated for inclusion criteria by the clinician. If all inclusion
      criteria are met, a coin toss will determine which gingival displacement procedure will be
      performed, and the gingival displacement procedure and impression will be made as described
      in this study protocol and as followed on the laminated clinical protocol sheet. If the
      clinician finds that the first impression is inadequate and chooses to make an additional
      impression, only the first impression will be evaluated for the study and a note will be
      indicated to record the number of impressions the clinician made to achieve an acceptable
      impression. If the inclusion criteria are not met, a clinically appropriate impression method
      will be performed at the clinician's judgment and will be made per case by the treating
      clinician, following standard of care for the treatment that the patient receives.

      Patients will be given appropriate verbal and written post-procedure instructions; and
      appointments will be made for restoration try-in and delivery, as would happen as part of
      their regular treatment. There are no potential direct benefits to the participant besides
      the fact that particularly close attention will be paid to the gingival displacement and
      impression procedures, and there will be close evaluation of impressions.

      All of the impressions will be photographed and digitally scanned, and also given a number
      which will be recorded on a master sheet with the type of gingival displacement procedure
      indicated. No other patient identifiers will be included. These scans will be evaluated
      collectively on a later day, and will be critiqued based on a criteria form. This evaluation
      will be performed by 2 investigators, and will be completed independently. Impressions will
      be deemed acceptable or not acceptable, and the reasons for not acceptable impressions will
      be indicated. The evaluation criteria are listed in Appendix B.

      The scientific knowledge to be gained will be the efficacy of a new gingival displacement
      procedure, and if it can be adopted to improve patient treatment and treatment outcomes. The
      risks of the study are consistent with the current standard of care. Standard treatment
      protocols will be observed for the treatment of teeth which require indirect restorations.
      The risks will be minimized by treatment evaluation and proper treatment technique.

      Data monitoring Research data management will involve collection, entry, processing, storage,
      retrieval, archival, distribution and documentation of information. Data collection will
      adhere to precise written forms. Data will be stored in a series of Microsoft Access data
      files, which will be accessible to the Investigators and their staff. Only project-related
      personnel will be able to access these files. Data collection forms will be kept in locked
      files. Quality assurance (QA) will occur as data is entered in order to check for data
      completeness and consistency prior to entry.
    
  