
    
      The main objective of the research project is to fundamentally investigate spatial and
      binaural hearing in a group of children with a normal hearing ear (NH) and a cochlear implant
      (CI) longitudinally in order to understand the relationship between sensory experience and
      auditory cortex plasticity. This relationship is most striking during infancy when changes in
      sensory input can have profound effects on the functional organization of the developing
      cortex. Recent studies in the auditory system have revealed the remarkably adaptive nature of
      sensory processing and provided important insights into the way in which cortical circuits
      are shaped by experience and learning. The binaural system processes and integrates
      differences in phase (low frequencies) or intensity (high frequencies) between sounds
      arriving at the left and right ear and this process goes on from birth up to adulthood. It is
      expected that cochlear implantation will promote normal or near-normal spatial-hearing skills
      in children with UHL and that intervention at 2 years of age yields the best conditions for
      (near-) normal development of cognition, spoken language, balance, and psychopathology,
      outcomes which will be monitored annually too.

      Fifteen NH-CI children, aged 2 or younger, will receive a cochlear implant. This device has
      already been provided to over 400.000 bilaterally profoundly deaf persons worldwide and is
      considered a standard treatment. The novelty of the present studies lies in the treatment of
      unilaterally deaf children with a cochlear implant. Because of the cost of this device, the
      Belgian government does not reimburse a CI for children with unilateral hearing impairment,
      which is why a study is done to demonstrate its effectiveness. The 15 devices are provided by
      Cochlear. While the sample size may seem small, providing the device (25.000€ a piece) and
      some follow-up (mapping and/or remediation) are a large investment for Cochlear Ltd. The
      children will act as their own control (tested with and without CI) when possible. In
      addition, at the start of the research project the NH-CI children will be age-matched with 15
      normal hearing children (NH-NH), and with 15 children with unilateral hearing loss without a
      CI (NH - x). Care will be taken to control for as many other factors as possible (e.g. other
      disabilities, parental and socioeconomic characteristics, ..).

      It is hypothesized that the children with UHL and a CI (NH-CI) will outperform children
      without intervention (NH-x) because of access to bilateral input, and that provision at a
      very young age will result in near-normal binaural processing in the following years and
      hence better auditory/neuro/cognitive processing and learning in general. After cochlear
      implantation, the children will be followed up in terms of language development, cognitive
      development, binaural hearing, and academic achievements.
    
  