
    
      In this study, our specific aims are to conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with
      one-year follow-up that can be fully completed within the NIH Challenge Grant two-year
      period. The goal of the RCT is to improve cognitive performance among older adults to enhance
      their quality of life now and into the future. We will randomize 600 participants to four
      treatment arms separately within two age strata (50-64, and 65 and older).

      The four groups include: G1, basic on-site SOPT; G2, on-site basic SOPT plus subsequent
      booster-training group; G3, basic at-home SOPT; or G4, basic attention-control group. Basic
      training involves 10 hours of either the SOPT or attention-control training during the first
      6 weeks of participation. Booster-training involves 4 additional hours of SOPT training at 11
      months of participation.

      Our primary outcome measure is speed of processing, and we will use several reliable and
      valid instruments to provide a multidimensional assessment, including the Useful Field of
      View Test, the Symbol Digit Modalities Test, the Trail Making Test, the Controlled Oral Word
      Association Test, the Digit Vigilance Test, and the Stroop Color and Word Test.

      There are seven key hypotheses (Hn). H1 involves a replication of ACTIVE (i.e., on-site SOPT
      delivery, with or without booster-training) in which groups G1 and G2 are combined vs. the
      attention control group and hypothesizes statistically significant evidence to support the
      benefit of being assigned to on-site training vs. the attention control group.

      H2 and H3 are designed to separate the basic training effect (H2) from the basic plus
      booster-training effect (H3) among the on-site delivery groups (G1 and G2) vs. the attention
      control group (G4), and hypothesizes benefits of SOPT training vs. attention control
      regardless of booster-training.

      H4 represents the test of the at-home delivery of SOPT training (G3) vs. the attention
      control group (G4). H4 hypothesizes that there will be statistically significant evidence
      indicating the benefit of being assigned to G3 (at-home training) vs. the attention control
      group (G4).

      H5 and H6 evaluate the different modes of implementing the speed of processing intervention.
      H5 represents a head-to-head comparison of the basic on-site delivery vs. the at-home
      delivery of the SOPT intervention. H5 hypothesizes that the effect of at-home SOPT training
      (G3) will be greater than the effect of on-site SOPT training (G1).

      H6 represents a head-to-head comparison of the on-site basic plus booster SOPT training (G2)
      vs. the at-home delivery of the SOPT intervention. H6 hypothesizes that the effect for
      at-home SOPT (G3) will be larger than that for the on-site SOPT with booster-training group
      (G2).

      Finally, H7 represents the head-to-head test of on-site basic SOPT (G1) to on-site basic plus
      booster training SOPT group (G2) . H7 hypothesizes that the difference between the two will
      reflect the value of booster training.

      The investigators will replicate all of the above analyses within each age strata (50-64 vs.
      > 65) and compare effect sizes across strata.
    
  