
    
      A variety of psychological approaches have been developed in order to support this
      population. One of the most popular approaches to working psychologically with this
      population is through the use of Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT). However, research
      suggests that the use of CBT in this population has varying levels of effectiveness with some
      evidence of negative outcomes (Lincoln and Flannagan, 2003). Therefore, it would be
      worthwhile investigating other models of working with this population, such as Acceptance and
      Commitment Therapy (ACT). ACT which has been gaining popularity and is a growing area in
      supporting those with neurological conditions.

      Contrary to widespread symptom reduction approaches such as CBT, the use of ACT is based on
      emotional acceptance and supporting individuals to live a valued life, despite ongoing
      symptoms. It appears under the umbrella of "third-wave" approaches and focuses on altering an
      individual's relationship with their thoughts and feelings, rather than focusing on altering
      the content of such experiences. In addition to this, ACT aims to support people to
      experience their internal processes in a non-judgemental and mindful manner, which enables
      them to participate in meaningful action. In order to do this, the ACT model focuses on six
      core concepts which each contribute to helping an individual to develop their Psychological
      Flexibility. Psychological Flexibility is defined by the ability to connect with the present
      moment and act according to one's set of values. In a move away from experiential avoidance
      (ie. avoiding ones thoughts and feelings), the ability to be flexible offers individuals the
      choice to commit to their values and change their actions or persist with those which are
      working for them.

      It has been suggested that ACT may be particularly helpful for those adjusting to
      neurological conditions as it works to enable emotional acceptance and an integration of an
      individual's impairments into their new self-concept. This has been supported by research
      investigating the effectiveness of ACT in working with those with adjustment difficulties
      following traumatic and acquired brain injury. One such study investigated the use of ACT in
      the promotion of psychological adjustment following Traumatic Brain Injury. Findings
      indicated reduced psychological distress and increased Psychological Flexibility following
      the ACT intervention. One reason ACT is more desirable for this population is through the use
      of more experiential methods and less reliance on verbal expression, as verbal abilities can
      sometimes be compromised by a neurological condition. Rather than attempt to reduce
      symptomatology, techniques such as mindfulness encourage the individual to notice their
      difficulties and experience these with curiosity and openness. In addition to this, there is
      evidence that the use of acceptance based techniques support individuals to adapt their
      behaviour and reintegrate socially in a way that is meaningful to them. As a result, this may
      enable the individual to adjust to their new circumstances and enable them to reconnect with
      their values and commit to moving their life in a direction they value.

      Overall, the use of ACT is a promising intervention for individuals adjusting following a
      diagnosis of a neurological disorder. However, with a limited number of studies investigating
      the topic, further research is required into the effectiveness of ACT within
      neuro-rehabilitation.
    
  