
    
      A recent metanalysis reports that over 40% of people with cancer being treated with
      palliative intent have at least 1 unplanned hospital admission during treatment. Furthermore,
      up to 83% of people undergoing cancer treatment are likely to attend the Emergency
      Departments (ED). The 2019 NHS long-term plan has an emphasis on the use of digital
      technologies, remote monitoring to support patients, and acute ambulatory care as an
      alternative to ED attendance.

      In observational studies of people with cancer, reductions in steps counts correlate with
      increased symptoms and risk of hospitalisation.

      Therefore, the main aim of this study is to determine whether monitoring of activity and
      subsequent ambulatory review triggered by detecting a reduction in steps is feasible in a
      timely fashion within an NHS oncology centre.

      People with advanced lung cancer (NSCLC, SCLC) or upper gastrointestinal cancers (gastric,
      oesophageal or pancreatic) starting a new line of systemic anti-cancer treatment (SACT) will
      be recruited at The Royal Marsden Hospital (Chelsea and Sutton sites). Eligible patients will
      be approached by clinical teams in the lung and gastrointestinal cancer outpatient clinics.

      Participants who are due to start a new line of SACT will be asked to wear a FitBit activity
      tracker (resembling a watch). Baseline median daily steps count will be calculated prior
      starting SACT for those patients who wear the device for ideally 7 consecutive days, which
      must include both weekend and week days.

      The device can measure step counts and heart rate. The FitBit will be monitored remotely by
      the study team once a day (week days only) using a web-based platform called Fitabase and
      will document cases where the step count reduction is >1000 from baseline. Step count and
      average heart rate data will be downloaded at the beginning of each treatment cycle and a
      summary reported in the MACRO database. Fitabase is a cloud-based data management platform,
      which is able to access data which has been synchronised from individual FitBits. Data can be
      collected anonymously by associating the device data with a study identification number.
      Fitabase does not collect personally identifiable data. No global positioning system (GPS)
      data or other data is collected. Passwords are encrypted.

      For this feasibility study, activity tracking will take place on working week days only.

      A reduction in >1000 steps from the baseline median step count will trigger a telephone call
      by a member of the study team. If the fall in steps was not due to non-compliance/malfunction
      of the device, the participant will be invited to attend the Clinical Assessment Unit for an
      ambulatory review. Participants' acceptance of advice to attend for a review will be
      documented. The diagnosis (and clinical necessity as assessed by a clinician), need for
      hospitalisation or not, and length of stay will be collected. Further investigations or
      management will be determined by clinical need following assessment by a member of the study
      team.

      If no abnormality is noted the trigger for subsequent phone calls will be adjusted by 500
      steps for that patient ie >1500 steps. If no abnormality is found after a second review,
      further reviews will only take place after a phone call if there is clinical concern.

      Participants will be informed at the beginning of the study to use usual processes if they
      feel unwell at any time eg calling the Royal Marsden Macmillan Hotline (RMMH).

      Participants will be reviewed at the start of each new cycle of treatment (+/- 7 days) by a
      member of the study team to find out if they have been hospitalised and for how long.

      Physician-assessed PS, C reactive protein (CRP), albumin, handgrip strength (HGS), Timed Up
      and Go (TUaG) will be measured at the first study visit, and skeletal muscle area (SMA),
      skeletal muscle index (SMI) and muscle radiation attenuation (MRA) will be measured from the
      standard of care baseline CT scan. In addition the investigators will also collect height and
      weight demographics, and perform questionnaire-based nutritional (PG-SGA) and quality of life
      (QoL) (FACT-G, EORTC-q30C) assessments.

      To assess changes in muscle quality and function, HGS, PS, and TUaG will be measured +/- 14
      days from each standard of care CT scan. The participant will also undertake QoL and
      nutrition questionnaires as per baseline investigation. Weight will be recorded. The CT scan
      will be used to calculate SMA, SMI and MRA.

      At the end of the study, 5-8 participants will be invited for a focus group to understand
      their acceptance and experience of remote activity monitoring while undertaking cancer
      treatment.
    
  