
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the complete response rate in patients with previously untreated primary
           effusion lymphoma treated with effusion drainage and bevacizumab in combination with
           chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and etoposide.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the overall survival, disease-free survival, and progression-free survival of
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in previously treated or untreated patients.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the biologic effects of targeted oncolytic virotherapy
           comprising bortezomib, zidovudine, and valganciclovir in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a 2-part, pilot study.

      Patients who are HIV-positive receive highly-active antiretroviral therapy during study
      treatment.

        -  Part 1 (targeted oncolytic virotherapy)*: Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5
           seconds on days 1, 4, and 8, zidovudine IV over 1 hour twice daily on days 1-10, and
           oral valganciclovir (or ganciclovir IV) twice daily on days 1-14. One day after
           completion of zidovudine, patients begin treatment in part 2.

      NOTE: *Part 1 treatment may be omitted in patients who are acutely ill with primary effusion
      lymphoma at study entry AND a 10- to 14-day delay of starting part 2 treatment may pose a
      hazard to the patient.

        -  Part 2

             -  Effusion drainage: Patients undergo effusion drainage prior to each course of
                bevacizumab* and chemotherapy. The drainage tube may remain in place to allow for
                continuous drainage of effusion during treatment with bevacizumab* and
                chemotherapy.

             -  Bevacizumab* plus cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and etoposide (iCDE): Patients
                receive bevacizumab* IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 6, cyclophosphamide,
                doxorubicin, and etoposide IV continuously over 96 hours beginning on day 1 and
                continuing until day 5, and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) daily beginning
                on day 6 and continuing until day 19 or until blood counts recover OR pegfilgrastim
                SC on day 6.

      NOTE: *Patients may receive iCDE without bevacizumab if they meet any exclusion criteria for
      receiving bevacizumab.

      Treatment with bevacizumab and iCDE repeats every 21 days for 4-8 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving complete response (CR)
      receive 2 additional courses beyond CR.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed monthly for 6 months, every 2
      months for 6 months, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15 patients will be accrued for this study within 2.5 years.
    
  