
    
      The Dartmouth-Hitchcock Norris Cotton Cancer Center's Community Outreach and Engagement Team
      will implement Screen to Save 2 in two formats-traditional outreach using in-person fairs and
      an online format. The education in both formats will be based on a set of key messages that
      cover information about colorectal cancer, including risk factors, prevention, screening
      recommendations, and screening options. Key messages provided by the National Cancer
      Institute will be tailored to the local context of NH and VT, including information about
      local options for getting screened for colorectal cancer. A third arm will receive education
      about lung cancer screening. This third arm will serve as the control arm for the first two
      arms (the arms receiving in-person or online colorectal cancer screening education) to assess
      study Aim 1. This third arm will also serve as an intervention arm for assessing Study Aim 2.

      Using online or telephone surveys, some participants will be contacted approximately three
      months after their initial participation. Some of the participants contacted after three
      months will again be contacted another three months later (six months after initial
      participation). The three- and six-month surveys will assess knowledge, attitudes, beliefs,
      and behaviors related to cancer screening, including outcomes from cancer screening.

      The primary aims of the study are as follows:

      Aim 1: Implement and evaluate Screen to Save 2 outreach and educational activities to improve
      knowledge of colorectal cancer screening methods, to increase intent to get screened for
      colorectal cancer, and connect screening services to the target population.

      Aim 1a: Conduct cancer screening fairs in Rural Urban Continuum Code (RUCC) 7-9 counties,
      using the Screen to Save 2 framework and materials and, where feasible, coordinate with local
      service providers to make colorectal cancer screening services available to event attendees.

      Aim 1b: Utilize web-based module to conduct targeted outreach about colorectal cancer
      screening using the Screen to Save 2 framework and materials and refer them to
      locally-available screenings, healthcare provider systems, and/or healthcare coverage
      systems.

      The secondary aim of the study is:

      Aim 2: Evaluate online educational activities' ability to reach 50-74 year old current and
      former tobacco users from rural (RUCC 7-9) counties, increase lung cancer screening knowledge
      among that demographic, and encourage engagement with local tobacco treatment resources and
      lung cancer screening.
    
  