
    
      Cerebral palsy (CP) is the most common neurodisability in children. It has been defined as a
      disorder of movement and posture due to a defect or lesion of the immature brain and as a
      group of non-progressive, but often changing motor impairment syndromes secondary to lesions
      or anomalies of the brain arising in the early stages of development.

      Characteristically, children with unilateral cerebral palsy (CP) have one well-functioning
      hand and one impaired hand.Common features of the hemiplegic hand are slowness, abnormal
      muscle tone, decreased strength, and coordination difficulties, which occur to a varying
      extent in children independently of age. Many children also have impaired sensibility and
      mirror movements. Perhaps most importantly, children with unilateral CP hav e varying degrees
      of limitation in their ability to handle objects in daily life. This limitation is most
      obvious insituations where two hands are needed. However, knowledge about bimanual ability in
      chil dren with unilateral CP and its development over time is scarce at present.

      To improve upper extremity function in children with unilateral CP, the mirror therapy is a
      promising approach. Mirror therapy for the first time, Ramachandran et al. has described for
      the treatment of phantom pain in amputee. Also in unilateral spastic CP mirror therapy have
      indicated that visual illusion of functional limb provided by mirror can support healing. By
      means of visual feedback, modified vision and perception is stimulated plasticity the
      premotor cortex and developed re-organization. In the current studies, mirror therapy in
      hemiplegic patients, have been shown that improve the function and reduce the sensitivity of
      the hemi neglect. Gygax et al. have investigated the effects of mirror therapy on upper
      extremity function 10 children with unilateral spastic CP between 6-14 years. Consequently,
      the spontaneous use affected hand, the maximum grip force increase of 15% and is demonstrated
      that improve the upper extremity motor function.
    
  