
    
      Thiamine (vitamin B1) is a water-soluble vitamin. It is absorbed from the gastrointestinal
      tract and taken up into tissues by transport proteins and converted to thiamine pyrophosphate
      (TPP) by thiamine pyrophosphokinase (TPPK). TPP is a co-factor of pyruvate dehydrogenase
      (PDH), α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase and transketolase (TKT)-enzymes involved in the
      metabolism of glucose.

      Various transport proteins are involved in the transport of thiamine monophosphate (TMP) and
      TPP across membranes. These include thiamine transported isoform-1 (THTR1) and thiamine
      transporter isoform-2 (THTR2), reduced folate carrier-1 (RFC-1), which transports TMP and TPP
      across cell plasma membranes and the mitochondrial TPP transporter (mTHTR). Thiamine and
      TMP/TPP transporters may have abnormal expression in diabetes. Increased THTR1 levels are
      found in red blood cells (RBCs) and mononuclear leucocytes of patients with diabetes compared
      to those of healthy subjects. RBC precursors and leucocytes appeared to up-regulate THTR1
      expression in response to decreased thiamine availability. In the presence of hyperglycemia,
      renal tubular epithelial cells, by contrast, have decreased expression. In both experimental
      models of diabetes and in human diabetics increased clearance of thiamine has been
      demonstrated. This precedes the development of microalbuminuria. Patients with
      microalbuminuria and early decline in glomerular filtration rate had higher fractional
      excretion of thiamine compared to patients with stable renal function.

      Thiamine supplementation in STZ- diabetic mice prevented the development of microalbuminuria,
      decreasing urinary albumin excretion (UAE) by approximately 80%. In addition thiamine
      supplementation prevented diuresis and glycosuria. Human studies are limited but in one
      placebo controlled study the thiamine group showed a significant decrease in microalbuminuria
      in diabetic patients on thiamine.
    
  