
    
      _A growing body of evidence has shown that the Vagus Nerve (VN) is not only the main
      anatomical structure responsible for the brain and guts communication but is also a target
      for many interventions in which drugs or classic treatments have failed. The VN cervical
      tract stimulation has reported positive results for high social burden problems like acute
      and chronic pain, psychiatric diseases, disturbs of consciousness and epilepsy. Also, it is
      well known that the selective tension of the Peripheral Nervous System, or neurodynamic test
      (NDT), is useful for diagnosis and treatment of neuropathic diseases and pain. Over the last
      30 years NDTs were validated for upper and lower limb nerves but nowadays a VN-NDT is lacking
      and could be a potential alternative in diagnosis and treatment for critical or neglected
      conditions. Methods_ An estimated sample of 30 healthy participants will complete a
      questionnaire on vagal symptoms and perceived health status. A neurological assessment of the
      cervical tract will be performed before the test. The VN-NDT will be administered through a
      standardized sequence of physiological neck movements. Symptoms and heart rate (HR) will be
      monitored. Validity of NDT will be tested with ultrasonography assessment (C6-VN distance)
      during the tests administered by an expert and a novice. Motion of both assessors and
      subjects will be tracked through an infra-red optoelectronic system. Inter-examiner
      accordance will be obtained and comparisons between assessors' positive and negative tests
      due to symptoms provocation and reduction (Cohen's Kappa) will be performed. A two-way
      analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be performed with factors experience and side tested (2 ×
      2). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves will be adopted to define the accuracy,
      sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative likelihood ratios of the VN-NDT in autonomic
      dysfunction symptoms detection and on perceived health status.Results_ It is expected to
      determine the inter-examiner accordance and to not detect significant assessors effects on
      test results. It is also expected to detect a change of the C6-VN distance and HR during the
      test and to estimate the accuracy of the test for autonomic dysfunctions
      detection.Conclusions_ Normative physiological values parameter variations at the
      administration of the VN-NDT are fundamental to determine the hallmarks needed to screen
      clinical and preclinical conditions involving autonomic dysfunctions_
    
  