
    
      Once the eligibility is confirmed, approximately 1-3 after the screening/baseline visit, the
      subject will return for the first infusions. Subsequent treatments will occur 2 weeks apart
      for two infusions and then monthly for 6 additional infusions. Total number of infusions will
      be eight.

      On each of these visits, the subject will receive one autologous HB-adMSC infusion of 200
      million (2 x 10^8 cells) total cells suspended in 250 mL normal saline for IV infusion. Every
      infusion visit will include the following procedures:

        1. Interval H&P and concomitant medications update,

        2. Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale exam (UPDRS),

        3. Hoehn and Yahr score

        4. Schwab and England Activities of Daily Living Scale

        5. Subject will complete a quality of life survey "Social Roles and Activities"

        6. A video documenting subject walking, standing from sitting, writing a paragraph of 3
           lines and drawing a spiral will be recorded at each visit beginning with the first
           infusion visit.

        7. Vital signs monitoring will be initiated (Heart Rate, BP, Resp., Temp., SpO2),

        8. A peripheral IV line will be inserted,

        9. *A blood and urine sample for clinical labs (CBC with Platelets, CMP, PT, PTT, complete
           Urinalysis as well as baseline TNF-a, IL6 and CRP)

      11. A "time out" verification of patient/consent/procedure/cell product will be performed,
      12. The HB-adMSC infusion will be given by through the peripheral IV, infused over 1 hour at
      a rate of 250ml/hr (83gtts/minute) 13. Assessment for Infusion Related AE/SAEs

      Follow-up Visits Week 4, 32, 36, 40, 44, 48, and 52

      The subject will undergo the following procedures at each follow-up visit without infusion:

        1. Interval H&P and concomitant medications update,

        2. Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale exam (UPDRS),

        3. Hoehn and Yahr score

        4. Schwab and England Activities of Daily Living Scale

        5. Subject will complete a quality of life survey "Social Roles and Activities"

        6. A video documenting subject walking, standing from sitting, a handwriting sample of one
           sentence and drawing a spiral will be recorded at each visit beginning with the first
           infusion visit.

        7. Vital signs monitoring will be initiated (Heart Rate, BP, Resp., Temp., SpO2),

        8. A blood and urine sample for clinical labs (CBC with Platelets, CMP, PT, PTT, complete
           Urinalysis as well as baseline TNFa, IL6 and CRP)

        9. Assessment for Infusion Related AE/SAEs
    
  