
    
      Vascular cognitive impairment is one of the most frequent causes of cognitive impairment
      associated with aging. Vascular cognitive impairment includes clinical deficits due to
      vascular subclinical brain injury, silent lesions or due to clinically overt stroke, and
      appears frequently associated with Alzheimer disease. Vascular cognitive impairment has a
      spectrum of manifestations, from mild to extreme manifestation (Vascular Dementia) that
      represents the second most frequent cause of dementia. There is no approved treatment for
      vascular cognitive impairment, and pharmacological trials have generated disappointing
      results. As a result, nowadays, treatment is solely based on the control of vascular risk
      factors.

      Walking is a physical activity recommended for the prevention of coronary disease. Besides,
      it is a physical activity without additional costs, easily accessible to the general
      population, and can be used in the whole population. Physical activity can potentially
      prevent functional decline associated with aging and promote global health status. In recent
      years, a growing interest has been given to the impact of physical activity as a protective
      factor for cognitive decline and for the progression for dementia There are several
      explanations for the protective effect in cognition: physical activity can implicate a better
      physical and global mental status, but can also be mediated through metabolic,
      physiopathological effects, as the increase cerebral inflow, the reduction of vascular risk
      factors, the decrease of production of stress hormones or still better endothelial function,
      among others.

      However, there is no consensus in this field.

      Some studies showed a protective effect of physical activity in Alzheimer disease. Protective
      effect of physical activity on vascular cognitive impairment (including dementia) has still
      to be proved. There are small studies with short follow-up, that do not take in consideration
      relevant confounding factors or imaging data (e.g. evidence of small vessel disease) with
      controversial results.

      Recently a large observational study showed the beneficial impact of physical activity
      (defined according to the American Heart Association as at least 30 minutes of physical
      activity at least 3 times a week) in the reduction of the risk of progression for vascular
      dementia, in a cohort of subjects older than 65 years old, living independently, with
      cerebral white matter changes, and controlling for confounding factors. Additionally, in
      subjects with evidence of small vessel disease and no cognitive decline, physical activity
      was associated with better executive performance overtime.

      The existing studies do not come from adequate randomized and double-blind designs, so there
      is no evidence-based data to sustain a recommendation for the type, intensity or frequency of
      physical activity, and the long-term gain. Given these contradictory findings, it becomes
      relevant to have an evidence-base to recommend physical activity in vascular cognitive
      impairment and in what concerns the type, intensity, and frequency of activity which would be
      necessary to achieve longterm gains.
    
  