
    
      This research study aims to investigate changes inside kidney cancers, and in normal kidney
      surrounding the tumour, when patients are treated with systemic therapy. Systemic treatment
      is widely used as routine treatment for patients who have kidney cancer that has spread to
      other organs. It is also used sometimes before surgery to try to shrink kidney cancers to
      make surgery easier and less risky. Recent research has shown that kidney cancers consist of
      many different cells in addition to the cancer cells (including immune, structural and blood
      vessel cells). However, doctors know very little about what changes systemic therapy causes
      to cells other than cancer cells.

      Researchers now think that these other cells may influence how the tumour cells behave during
      cancer treatment and how well the cancer responds to treatment.

      The NeoSUN clinical trial was run at Cambridge University Hospitals between 2006 and 2015.18
      patients were treated with a TKI called sunitinib for 12 days before they had their kidney
      surgically removed. MRI and CT scans were performed before and after the treatment. Samples
      of tumour and normal kidney were also taken before and after treatment. All patients
      consented to use of their tissue and data for future research projects. The investigators
      would like to analyse the effects that sunitinib had on the tumour and other cells using
      techniques called immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and CyTOF. These mark the
      different cells so they can easily be identified and the effects on each one analysed. The
      investigators would also like to re-analyse the scans performed and use artificial
      intelligence (AI) to see try to detect new trends. The information may help to guide which
      drugs might be best used in future to treat kidney cancer more effectively whilst keeping
      side effects low.
    
  