
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the safety/feasibility of combining a total marrow and lymphoid irradiation
      (TMLI) transplant conditioning regimen with a post-transplant high dose cyclophosphamide
      (PTCy)-based graft versus host disease (GvHD) prophylaxis strategy, through the assessment
      of: adverse events: type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course, duration and
      complications: including acute GvHD, infection and delayed neutrophil/platelet engraftment.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the cumulative incidence (CI) of acute GvHD at 100 days post allogeneic
      hematopoietic cell transplantation (alloHCT).

      II. To estimate the CI of chronic GvHD at 6 months, 1- and 2-years post alloHCT.

      III. To estimate GVHD-free relapse-free survival (GRFS) at 1- and 2-years post alloHCT.

      IV. To describe the kinetics of immune reconstitution and T cell repertoire in the first year
      post alloHCT.

      V. To estimate overall survival (OS), relapse-free survival (RFS) and CI of relapse, and
      non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100 days, 1- and 2-years post alloHCT.

      VI. To characterize quality of life using 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36),
      Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Bone Marrow Transplant (FACT-BMT), and M. D. Anderson
      Symptom Inventory (MDASI) or Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL) at 100 days, 6
      months, 1- and 2-years post alloHCT.

      VII. To assess bone marrow cellularity from bone marrow samples. VIII. To assess the
      clonogenic potential of cells from bone marrow samples. IX. To assess stromal damage from
      bone marrow samples. X. To evaluate cytokines and oxidative stress markers.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of TMLI.

      Patients undergo TMLI twice daily (BID) on days -4 to 0, then undergo bone marrow or
      peripheral blood stem cell transplant on day 0. Patients receive cyclophosphamide
      intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 3 and 4, tacrolimus given by continuous intravenous
      infusion (CIV) on days 5-90, and filgrastim beginning on day 5 until absolute neutrophil
      count (ANC) is at least 1,500/mm^3 for 3 consecutive days.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for up to 24 months.
    
  