
    
      Chronic stress in early childhood, the result of living in poverty, exposure to violence,
      and/or experiencing abuse or neglect, undermines a child's development in ways that may have
      lasting consequences for well-being later in life. High quality parenting (i.e., responding
      sensitively when children are distressed, and following children's lead) appears to protect
      against the negative effects of chronic stress, likely by supporting the development of
      secure attachments and good self-regulation. Unfortunately, many caregivers living in
      poverty, through no fault of their own, are unable to parent in ways that provide this
      protection.

      Children who face early adversity especially need nurturing, synchronous, and non-frightening
      care. The ABC intervention was developed to target these three parenting behaviors, with the
      goal of enhancing attachment relationships and regulatory capacities (Dozier et al., 2011).
      The ABC intervention is a manualized 10-session program delivered in the parent's home or
      other place of residence (e.g., homeless shelter). Sessions are videotaped for purposes of
      video feedback (i.e., showing brief clips back to parents for review of target behaviors),
      supervision, and fidelity monitoring.

      Power of Two is a new non-profit organization in Brooklyn, NY that is implementing the ABC
      intervention for vulnerable families living in poverty. The purpose of the present study is
      to examine the effectiveness of ABC in the context of Power of Two's community-based
      implementation efforts. Using a short-term randomized control design, the investigators aim
      to replicate and extend previous findings regarding the efficacy of ABC. Participants will
      include 120 families with infants between 6 months and 20 months of age. Upon referral to the
      project, families will be randomly assigned to receive the ABC intervention immediately, or
      be put on a waitlist to receive the ABC intervention after approximately 3 months. Outcome
      assessments will include: (1) parent sensitivity (assessed at pre-intervention and
      follow-up), (2) attachment quality (assessed at follow-up), and (3) cortisol regulation
      (assessed at pre-intervention and follow-up). Additional variables will be included as
      moderators and covariates.
    
  