
    
      According to the EuroPeristat 2014 report, 1% of births are very preterm infants. Very
      premature birth and the necessary hospitalization expose to a risk of morbidity and mortality
      which impacts the neurodevelopmental prognosis. Sleep and behavior monitoring have not been
      developed in the neonatal units. This has to be improved since it is known from clinical and
      animal studies that the quality, organization and quantity of sleep in very preterm infants
      impact neurological development and brain plasticity. The publications suggest that
      alterations in sleep could have a significant impact on acquisitions in the areas of
      learning, memory, sensory development and behavior, as well as in the area of
      cardiorespiratory regulation. It has been shown that the implementation of developmental care
      practices (taking into account lighting, noise, the position of newborns and their rhythms)
      could have short-term beneficial effects on the sleep of very preterm infants. However,
      studies remain very limited in number. The investigators propose to build on the
      infrastructure developed as part of the H2020 DigiNewB project (http://www.digi-newb.eu/),
      which can provide neonatal care providers with access to motion curves (evaluated by signal
      processing of live video) and real-time infrared video (also available in low-light
      conditions).The collection system is functional, allows continuous analysis of videos to
      quantify movement and is suitable for incubators and neonatal beds. This new non-invasive
      technology allows an evaluation of the activity cycles of the newborn by the caregivers which
      until now was only accessible occasionally by short recordings of actigraphy or
      polysomnography. The investigators wish to demonstrate that this can contribute to an
      organization of care that respects the sleep patterns of the newborn, which they know to
      condition the neurodevelopmental prognosis.
    
  