
    
      Primary Hypothesis: Risk factors can be determined for large (>1 cm) adenomas, precursor
      lesions for colorectal cancer.

      Secondary Hypothesis: Determine long-term rates for development or recurrence of polyps;
      determine sensitivity/specificity of current colon cancer screening strategies; determine
      relationship of dietary factors and biomarkers of cell proliferation; determine the efficacy
      and safety of long-term (5 years) repeat colonoscopy in patients with small polyps.

      Intervention: Phase I: All patients undergo full colonoscopy. Phase II: Randomization to
      repeat colonoscopy at 2-3 years and 5 years after baseline, or, repeat colonoscopy at 5 years
      only. Phase III: Ten-year follow-up on all Phase I patients for medical outcomes. Repeat
      colonoscopy at 10 years on polyp-free patients (Phase I) aged 50-64.

      Primary Outcomes: Presence of risk factors and adenomatous polyps including prevalence,
      descriptive characteristics, and long-term occurrence/recurrence rates.

      Study Abstract: Phase I is a cross-sectional study designed to identify risk factors for
      large (>1 cm) adenomatous polyps. Approximately 3200 asymptomatic subjects (age 50-75) have
      completed risk factor assessment, medical and dietary histories, and have undergone complete
      colonoscopy examination. This will identify for comparison purposes a polyp-free control
      group and is the first large prospective study to include such a group. Data at colonoscopy
      will characterize the prevalence, size and distribution of adenomatous polyps. This will
      permit an assessment of sensitivity of sigmoidoscopy in this population. In addition, tissue
      from normal rectal mucosa will be analyzed for evidence of cell proliferation activity. The
      primary focus of Phase I is a risk factor analysis. A multivariate analysis will be performed
      to determine the relationship of historical and environmental factors as well as cell
      proliferation activity with the presence of adenomatous polyps. A cohort consisting of a
      subgroup of polyp patients (large and small) and matched polyp-free controls will be tracked
      longitudinally to determine polyp occurrence/recurrence rates.

      Phase II of the study is a long-term follow-up study designed to evaluate the relative risk
      of two repeat colonoscopy schedules for patients with small polyps identified in Phase I of
      the study. Recruitment is complete with 615 patients eligible (of the target 808) assigned at
      random to either repeat colonoscopy at 2-3 years and 5 years, or to repeat colonoscopy at 5
      years only. This phase will also provide preliminary longitudinal risk factor information
      related to occurrence/recurrence of polyps.

      Phase III was a 5-year extension of follow-up period. All Phase I patients were to be
      reconsented to provide medical outcome data for a period of 10 years from baseline exam.
      Phase I patients polyp-free, aged 50-64 will be offered repeat colonoscopy at 10 years to
      evaluate long-term risk.

      Results (Phase I): 3121 patients had complete colonoscopy which revealed high rates of
      neoplasia: 37.5% had one or more neoplastic lesions; 10.5% had advanced neoplasia including
      30 cases of invasive cancer (1%). There were 3.7% of patients with no lesions in the rectum
      or sigmoid colon who had advanced neoplasia elsewhere in the colon: 32% of all patients with
      advanced neoplasia would not be detected with an exam of the rectum or sigmoid colon
      (distal); 62% of patients with proximal advanced neoplasia would not be detected with an exam
      of the rectum and sigmoid colon. There were few serious complications (0.3%).

      The one-time fecal occult blood test (FOBT) was evaluated as a diagnostic test for advanced
      neoplasia. A positive FOBT indicated an increased likelihood (3-4x) of advanced neoplasia.
      However, one-time FOBT failed to detect 75% of patients with advanced neoplasia.

      The primary analysis of risk factors (Phase I) found positive associations (for advanced
      neoplasia) for history of a first degree relative with colorectal cancer (OR, 1.66; 95% CI,
      1.16-2.35), current smoking (OR, 1.85; 95% CI, 1.33-2.58), and current moderate to heavy
      alcohol use (OR, 1.02, 95% CI, 1.01-1.03). Inverse associations were found for cereal fiber
      intake (OR, 0.95, 95% CI, 0.91-0.99), vitamin D intake (OR, 0.94, 95% CI, 0.90-0.99), and use
      of NSAIDs (OR, 0.66, 95% CI, 0.48-0.91). Results appeared in JAMA (2003;290:2959-2967).

      Phase III is completed with patients completing their scheduled follow-ups. A major
      manuscript on the sensitivity/specificity of digital rectal exam appeared in Annals of
      Internal Medicine January, 2005. The Phase II results manuscript appeared in Gastroenterology
      in October 2007.
    
  