
    
      The investigators are proposing a study that will focus on testing the efficacy of a Positive
      Psychology-Motivational Interviewing (PP-MI) intervention, with additional twice weekly PP
      and health behavior text messages for a total of 24 weeks (with interactive,
      algorithm-driven, goal-focused text messages in the final 12 weeks) in patients with New York
      Heart Association class I-III HF. The investigators will enroll 280 HF patients, who will
      take part in a 12-week (with 24 weeks of supplemental text messages) health behavior
      intervention.

      In this project, the investigators hope to do the following:

        1. Examine the efficacy of a 12-week, phone-delivered PP-MI intervention for individuals
           with heart failure (HF) on health behavior adherence at 12 weeks (primary time point),
           24 weeks, and 48 weeks.

        2. Assess the intervention's impact on psychological outcomes, health-related quality of
           life (HRQoL), HF-specific quality of life, HF symptoms, and function.

        3. Explore the intervention's impact on markers of cardiovascular health (e.g., blood
           pressure), as well as major adverse cardiac events, HF hospitalizations, and mortality.

      Participants will undergo two visits during which they will meet with study staff. During the
      first visit, participants will provide informed consent, answer questionnaires related to
      psychological and physical health and functioning, have their blood pressure and weight
      measured, and be asked to monitor their physical activity (using an accelerometer) for one
      week and medication adherence (using an electronic pill bottle) for two weeks. At the second
      in-person visit, upon confirmation of adequate physical activity and medication adherence
      data, participants will be randomized to receive the PP-MI intervention or the MI-alone
      intervention.

      Following randomization, all participants will be provided a treatment manual corresponding
      with their treatment condition, a Fitbit activity tracker, and other treatment materials. The
      appropriate intervention will be introduced, and the first exercise will be assigned.

      Following the second in-person visit, participants in both treatment conditions will complete
      twelve weekly phone sessions with a study trainer. The phone sessions primarily will include
      a review of the prior week's session content and a discussion of the rationale and assignment
      of the next week's exercise/assignment.

      Participants in both treatment conditions will receive twice weekly text messages throughout
      the intervention (Weeks 1-12) and initial follow-up period (Weeks 13-24). During the
      intervention, these messages will provide information about the PP activity (PP-MI group) and
      health behavior goal (both groups) discussed that week. During Weeks 13-24, participants in
      the PP-MI condition will engage with twice weekly, automated, interactive text messages
      related to PP and health behavior goals. Individuals in the MI-alone group will receive
      identical messages related to setting health behavior goals as the PP-MI participants and
      will additionally receive a fixed test message providing education about health behavior
      adherence.

      At Weeks 12, 24, and 48, participants will complete follow-up visits. One week prior to these
      visits, participants will be mailed an accelerometer and will wear it until their study
      visit. During these study visits, participants will be asked to answer questionnaires related
      to psychological and physical health and functioning, have their blood pressure and weight
      measured, and be asked about cardiovascular outcomes, including hospitalizations,
      cardiovascular procedures, and cardiac-specific hospitalizations.

      Finally, participants will complete phone sessions every 6 months until study end to inquire
      about hospitalizations and adverse cardiac events.
    
  