
    
      More than 90% of women in sub-Saharan Africa use antenatal care (ANC) at least once in
      pregnancy. To leverage high attendance rates, most facilities bundle HIV prevention and
      prevention of maternal-to-child transmission (PMTCT) with ANC. Unfortunately, the quality of
      ANC in sub-Saharan Africa is sharply constrained by severe resource and staffing shortages,
      as reflected in numerous "missed opportunities" for PMTCT, clinical service delivery, and
      health education. Moreover, job satisfaction among the overburdened providers is low. To
      improve ANC quality, the investigators will adapt and pilot an innovative, evidence-based
      model of group ANC, an approach that restructures provider time, allowing health facilities
      to offer respectful, woman-centered and high quality ANC given the limitations.

      In CenteringPregnancy (CP), the only evidence-based model of group ANC, 12 women meet jointly
      for two hour antenatal visits, assessing their own weights and blood pressures, meeting
      briefly with the provider for individual consultations, and engaging in facilitated health
      discussions. Randomized controlled trial (RCT) data from ethnically and socioeconomically
      diverse populations in the US demonstrated that CP is highly effective at improving ANC
      adherence, provider and client satisfaction, and maternal and child outcomes. In the US, the
      successful integration of HIV prevention into the CP model reduced sexually transmitted
      infections and increased condom use.

      CP has not been implemented with fidelity and tested for efficacy in a low-resource country.
      With funding from the Chicago Developmental Center for AIDS Research, the investigators
      conducted preliminary work in Malawi and Tanzania which suggested that a CP-based model of
      group ANC was feasible and acceptable; both women and providers were excited and energized by
      the model. The purpose of this study is to build on this work and: 1) conduct the
      developmental work to collaboratively adapt CP materials for use in both countries (sessions,
      training guides, and implementation and evaluation strategies); 2) train providers and
      pretest activities; and 3) conduct a full-scale randomized pilot. Investigators will work
      directly with the Centering Healthcare Institute to implement this CP-based model of group
      ANC with fidelity. This study will result in a feasible, acceptable, and sustainable CP-based
      model of group ANC adapted for the constraints posed by poorly resourced health systems and
      those of the clients they serve. These pilot data will be used to generate retention rates
      and effect sizes for an RCT to test the efficacy of a CP-based group ANC model.

      Group antenatal care is an innovative paradigm shift in ANC, and this rigorous evaluation of
      its impact will expand the limited scientific assessments of reconfigured ANC models and
      mother and infant health outcomes in low-resource countries in sub-Saharan Africa. Because
      this model was developed and tested in target countries with high HIV prevalence and poor
      maternal and neonatal outcomes, it has the potential for broad impacts on maternal and child
      health, including PMTCT, in other low resource settings.
    
  