
    
      Although liver transplantation (LTx) is now well-established as a means of restoring health
      in patients with liver failure, there remain opportunities to further optimize its outcome.
      One of the major sources of mortality and morbidity in LTx recipients is renal insufficiency
      associated with nephrotoxicity of immunosuppressant agents, particularly calcineurin
      inhibitors (i.e., cyclosporine and tacrolimus). These agents are also associated with
      hypertension and diabetes among LTx recipients, contributing to further reduction in renal
      function. In a report based on nationwide data, 18% of LTx recipients developed renal failure
      within 5 years.

      Most of the decline in renal function after LTx occurs in the first few months. This is in
      part because patients are exposed to the highest levels of calcineurin inhibitors in the
      early post-LTx period, when the risk of acute cellular rejection is the greatest. Calcineurin
      inhibitors produce intense renal vasoconstriction, which may be reversible early on. Over
      time, however, irreversible changes, such as vascular angiopathy, tubular atrophy and
      eventually interstitial fibrosis, contribute to permanent reduction in renal perfusion and
      glomerular filtration. Thus, interventions to preserve renal function after LTx would be most
      effective in the early post-LTx period, when most reduction in renal function occurs and when
      renal vascular changes are potentially reversible.

      Existing evidence and our preliminary data indicate that impairment of vasodilatory response
      mediated by nitric oxide (NO) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of calcineurin
      inhibitor nephrotoxicity. Our overall hypothesis is that L-arginine supplement provides
      protection against calcineurin inhibitor nephrotoxicity. L-arginine, a naturally occurring
      amino acid, is the main substrate of the NO synthase enzyme and exogenous supplementation of
      L-arginine may improve renal perfusion by inducing renal vasodilation via increased NO
      production. Although L-arginine has been shown to prevent renal damage from calcineurin
      inhibitors in experimental animals, its efficacy in preserving renal function has not been
      studied in human LTx recipients.

      In this application, we propose to conduct a pilot, randomized, double-blinded,
      placebo-controlled trial to explore the use of prophylactic L-arginine supplement in
      preserving renal function in LTx recipients. Twenty-four (24) LTx recipients recovering
      uneventfully from the procedure will be recruited for the study. Subjects will be randomized
      1:1 to receive 9g per day of L-arginine or placebo given orally for 7 days between 14 and 21
      days after LTx, followed by open-label maintenance with L-arginine. The aims of the study are
      as follows:

      AIM 1. To determine the effect of oral L-arginine supplement on glomerular filtration rate in
      LTx recipients. We will compare changes in GFR, as estimated by the eGFRcys equation, before
      and after a 7-day trial of L-arginine versus placebo. The eGFRcys equation has recently been
      shown to be the most accurate GFR estimator incorporating serum cystatin-C and creatinine
      concentrations, age, gender and race.

      AIM 2. To determine the effect of L-arginine supplement on secondary efficacy endpoints. We
      will compare plasma L-arginine concentrations and urinary cyclic-GMP, the latter being a key
      metabolite of renal NO, between the L-arginine and placebo groups.

      AIM 3. To evaluate the safety of oral L-arginine supplement in liver transplant recipients.
      We will compare the frequency and severity of adverse events between the L-arginine and
      placebo groups.

      AIM 4. To determine the effect of maintenance open label L-arginine on GFR. After the 7-day
      trial, participants will be offered an open label L-arginine for 13 additional weeks. We will
      compare their GFR determined by iothalamate clearance before and after the maintenance use of
      L-arginine supplement.

      Our hypothesis is that L-arginine will promote the release of NO in the renal vascular bed,
      increasing renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate (AIM 1). We believe it is critical
      that we test this in patients early after LTx before irreversible vascular and glomerular
      damage is established. Once this proof of concept is attained, we would like to link the
      observation with plasma L-arginine concentration and urinary c-GMP excretion (AIM 2). Based
      on extensive experience at Mayo Clinic of using oral L-arginine, we expect to demonstrate no
      clinically significant adverse events with L-arginine (AIM 3). The data from the open label
      maintenance phase (AIM 4) will help gauge whether the short term benefit shown in AIM 1 is
      sustainable for a longer time frame.

      The significance of these studies is based on several factors: (1) Calcineurin
      inhibitor-induced renal insufficiency is a major source of morbidity and mortality among LTx
      recipients; (2) Once it is established, there is no effective treatment for calcineurin
      inhibitor-induced renal insufficiency; and (3) If the results of this study support our
      hypothesis, we will be able to embark upon a full scale, randomized trial of long-term oral
      L-arginine supplement using GFR as the end point. Such a study will be able to answer whether
      a simple amino acid supplement may prevent calcineurin inhibitor nephrotoxicity, making a
      fundamental difference in morbidity, mortality and quality of life of our patients, who have
      undergone a life-changing procedure, namely liver transplantation.
    
  