
    
      Background:

        -  Diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCL) have been molecularly sub-classified into
           germinal center like B-cell (GCB) and activated B-cell like (ABC) DLBCL.

        -  Clinically, the ABC subtype has a significantly higher rate of drug resistance and lower
           survival. The ABC subtype has constitutive activation of the NF-KappaB pathway which may
           account for the drug resistance.

        -  The ability of NF-KappaB to inhibit responses to cancer therapeutic agents may also
           contribute to the refractory clinical behavior of ABC subtype, and inhibition of
           NF-KappaB can synergize with chemotherapy to kill tumor cells.

        -  Because a phase II randomized design is not clinically or technically practical at this
           early stage to address the scientific endpoints, we have designed a novel endpoint based
           on relative efficacy of DA-EPOCH-R + MLN 4924 (DA-EPOCH-RN) in ABC and GCB DLBCL. Based
           on our study that shows that survival of relapsed ABC and GCB DLBCL are comparable and
           poor following initial R-CHOP, we hypothesize that significantly improved survival of
           ABC compared to GCB DLBCL after DA-EPOCH-RN is strongly indicative of preferential
           activity of MLN4924 in ABC DLBCL.

      Objectives:

        -  Assess response of MLN4924 in relapsed/refractory DLBCL

        -  Assess toxicity and safe tolerated dose of MLN4924 and DA-EPOCH-R

        -  Assess difference in response (CR/PR) and OS in ABC and GCB DLBCL

      Eligibility:

        -  Relapsed/refractory de novo DLBCL greater than or equal to 18 years.

        -  No PMBL DLBCL

        -  No patients with active CNS lymphoma.

        -  No pregnant or breast-feeding women.

        -  Adequate organ function (as defined in protocol).

      Study Design:

        -  This is a single center with a sequential treatment design. The study is divided into
           two parts (A and B). Clinical end points are to assess the activity of MLN4924 alone
           (Part A) and in combination with DA-EPOCH-R (Part B), and to assess the toxicity and MTD
           of DA-EPOCH-RN.

        -  In Part A, MLN4924 will be given alone for 6 cycles.

        -  In Part B, MLN4924 will be initially escalated to determine the maximum tolerated dose
           (MTD) in combination with DA-EPOCH-R at dose levels (to be determined) and schedule
           every 21 days. Responding or stable patients may receive up to 6 cycles of DAEPOCH-RN.

        -  Patients will be restaged every 2 cycles during treatment, and every 3, 4 and 6 months
           during years one, two and three respectively, thereafter. Standard response criteria
           will be applied.

        -  A total of 56 patients will be enrolled depending on the relative differences in
           response observed between the ABC and GCB subtypes to MLN4924.
    
  