
    
      High resolution oesophageal manometry (HRM) is the gold standard for the diagnosis of
      oesophageal motility disorder.

      Standard esophageal manometry has been replaced since 2000 by high resolution manometry. This
      one allows a more precise study with a spatio-temporal representation of the esophageal
      pressure values as well as an easier realization with in particular a better tolerance of the
      examination which is important in pediatrics.

      Over a period of 10 years only a dozen studies were conducted in children. They focused on
      the technical aspects of the realization but especially of the interpretation of the
      examination or on specific pathologies well described: the atresia of the esophagus and
      achalasia. As a result, no study to date has evaluated the global place of MHR in current
      practice in children across all indications.

      The indications that lead to the realization of a manometry in children are given by some
      experts but there is currently no clinical study to define the sensitivities, specificity and
      predictive values of clinical symptoms leading to the completion of this examination and
      endoscopic signs found upstream.

      In addition, the link between certain underlying conditions and the manometric result has
      never been evaluated.

      II / Objective: The objective of our study is to calculate the sensitivity, the specificity
      and the predictive values of each clinical and endoscopic sign according to the manometric
      result found and this by age group. The goal is to better define the predictive signs of the
      selected manometric diagnoses and therefore the indications to remember in the child.

      III / Methodology:

      Bi-centric retrospective collection of data on patient records in Marseille and Lille.
      Collection dates: from 2012 (beginning of high resolution manometry in Marseille and Lille)
      to December 2016.

      The clinical and endoscopic signs selected will be decided a priori by an expert committee
      consisting of 2 adult gastroenterologists specializing in manometry, 1 pediatrician
      specialist in manometry, and 3 gastro-pediatricians.

      Inclusion Criteria: All minor patients (<18 years old) referred for 1 st high-resolution
      manometry (or 2 nd or more examination if performed in the presence of a new symptom).

      Number of subjects planned: all the patients who had a manometry (about 300 patients) over
      the given period
    
  