
    
      Medtronic Spine LLC is sponsoring the KAVIAR study, a randomized clinical trial comparing
      balloon kyphoplasty to vertebroplasty for the treatment of osteoporotic vertebral body
      compression fractures (VCFs). Up to 1,234 subjects at up to 75 study centers with one to
      three VCFs and VB morphologies suitable for both balloon kyphoplasty and vertebroplasty will
      be randomly assigned to receive one or the other procedure. Study visits will occur at
      baseline, 30 days postoperatively, and at 3, 12 and 24 months postoperatively. At all visits,
      adverse events, back pain, back function and quality of life will be assessed. In addition, a
      7-day phone call will be conducted, which will include assessment of back pain, narcotic use
      and adverse events. At baseline, pre-discharge, 3-, 12- and 24-month visits, lateral spine
      x-rays will be taken. The primary endpoint will be the proportion of patients with one or
      more subsequent fractures at 12 and 24 months, detected radiographically as determined by a
      core radiology laboratory. Secondary clinical endpoints include changes from baseline in back
      pain, back function and quality of life, and adverse events. Secondary radiographic
      comparisons include the restoration and maintenance of VB height and angulation, and sagittal
      vertical axis, a measure of global sagittal balance. A postoperative CT scan will be
      evaluated to detect cement extravasation and to examine the relationship between cement
      distribution and clinical outcomes. Another important feature of the study is a detailed
      healthcare utilization data assessment. Combined with a costing methodology based on Medicare
      cost data and other sources, cumulative two-year healthcare costs related to VCF will be
      estimated. Combined with quality of life measurements, the cost analysis will allow a
      calculation of the relative cost-effectiveness of balloon kyphoplasty and vertebroplasty.
      Sample size is based on the primary endpoint, the proportion with subsequent fractures at 12
      and 24 months.
    
  