
    
      Obesity has become a global epidemic and is a major health challenge for children and
      ado-lescents in industrialised countries, with a high and steadily increasing prevalence.
      Individual obesity risk is strongly influenced by genetic disposition and lifestyle factors.
      But in addition, there are clear indications that metabolic events during pre- and postnatal
      development mark-edly modulate obesity risk in later life, known as metabolic programming.
      Epidemiological studies and animal experiments suggest a causal relationship between
      nutrition early in life and the risk of later obesity, e.g. breast feeding seems to reduce
      the risk of obesity.

      One factor clearly different between breast and formula fed infants is the protein intake,
      and thus in CHOPIN the influence of this factor will be tested by feeding in double blind
      random-ised clinical trial two formulas with different protein content (7.3 % vs. 12 % of
      energy) to infants from five European countries (Belgium, Germany, Italy, Poland, Spain).
      Protein supply via formula is defined for the first year of life, while additional food is
      only recorded. Until the age of 2 years the growth and development of the infants is followed
      by frequent stand-ardised measurements and data on socio-economic status, parental attitudes
      and medical his-tory are collected. The available data will be evaluated in respect to the
      influence of protein intake and all the other factors on anthropometric markers for later
      obesity. This seems justi-fied as the weight and length growth until the age of 2 years have
      been shown to predict the body mass index with 14 years, suggesting that this is a suitable
      and very early indicator for overweight later in life.

      Furthermore, differences between the participating countries will be studied with the aim to
      identify further environmental factors influencing obesity risk. On a long term base it is
      planned to follow the study participants via mailed questionnaires until the age of eight
      years to validate the risk estimators in a huge well defined population.

      Primary objectives:

        -  To test the influence of the protein content of the infant formula fed during the first
           year of life on growth until the age of two years (main outcome measures: length and
           weight velocity).

        -  First year protein intake predicts later risk of childhood obesity ('Early protein
           hypothe-sis'). Primary outcome measure: BMI at the age of 8 years.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Evaluation of the effects of different habitual protein intakes with traditional
           complemen-tary feeding regimes in infants in 5 European countries.

        -  Examination of the relationship between different types of infant feeding regimes with
           respect to Beikost on an early anthropometric markers of later obesity development.

        -  Investigation of effects of these infant feeding regimes on body composition, energy
           ex-penditure, protein metabolism, renal function and size, leptin and its binding
           protein and on IGF-1.

        -  Exploration of consumer attitudes and infant feeding practices in relation to parental
           obe-sity status.

        -  Investigation of the mediation of the relationship between diet and later growth via
           bio-chemical parameters, which might become detectable by the plasma concentrations of
           the corresponding compounds at the age of 6 months.

        -  Investigation of the effects of infant behaviour (esp. crying, sleeping and feeding
           behav-iour) on development of obesity.

        -  Comparison of the weight and length development to a non randomised cohort of breast-fed
           infants.

        -  Measurement of the effects of dietary regimes on body composition measured by stable
           dilution techniques (subgroup only).

        -  Measurement of the effects of dietary regimes on total energy expenditure and
           exploration of relationships between TEE, body composition and obesity risk (subgroup
           only).
    
  