
    
      Accumulation of uremic toxins is associated morbidity and mortality in patients with
      end-stage renal disease, but the pathogenic mechanisms how they lead to various clinical
      complications remain elusive. Conventional hemodialysis is effective in removing small
      molecular solutes (in the range of 50-15,000 Da), but the removal of protein-bound and middle
      to larger molecular toxins (up to 50,000 Da) remains unsatisfactory even with augmented
      hemodialysis frequency or duration. The notion that dialysis adequacy is no longer a simple
      quantitative measure of small molecular removal has led to the clinical application of
      intensive hemodialysis and the search for novel strategies to reduce uremic toxin burden.

      Recently, a new class of membrane with molecular weight cut off (MWCO) close to the molecular
      weight of albumin was introduced. The focus of this new therapy, known as expanded dialysis
      using the medium cut off (MCO) dialysis membrane, is to provide the potential for more
      efficient removal of middle molecules and protein bound uremic toxins without excessive loss
      of albumin. To date, MCO dialysis has been associated with a reduction in transcription of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines (i.e. interleukin 6 and tumor necrosis factor-α) and middle
      molecules especially free lambda light chains.

      Protein-energy wasting and cardiovascular diseases are prevalent in chronic kidney disease
      and is related to inflammation and increased mortality. Despite growing data on the clearance
      of individual uremic toxins and biochemical parameters, the impact of MCO dialysis on
      clinical outcomes and mechanistic parameters related to nutrition and inflammation remains to
      be investigated.

      The objective of the study is to compare MCO dialysis with conventional high-flux HD, on
      nutritional parameters, inflammation and cardiovascular biomarkers and related clinical
      outcomes.

      Since twice-weekly HD is commonly practiced in Hong Kong, this study provides a distinct
      opportunity to investigate whether MCO dialysis might be particularly advantageous in
      patients receiving a relatively lower dialysis dose through the removal of a broader spectrum
      of uremic toxins.

      The investigators hypothesize that MCO dialysis with Theranova Dialyzer (HDx) improves
      parameters related to nutrition and inflammation compared with high-flux HD.

      This will be a prospective single-blinded, randomized, controlled trial with stable HD
      patients randomized at 1:1 ratio to either one of the following - A. to continue with HD
      using the same high-flux dialyzer as in the previous 6 weeks (high-flux HD arm) B. change to
      HDx using Theranova Dialyzer (MCO dialysis arm)
    
  