
    
      Cognitive impairments are prominent features of aging and are mostly characterized by memory
      difficulties. Neuroplasticity based computerized cognitive trainings have been emerging for
      the last two decades and are an attempt to help the elderly population with their
      impairments.

      The aim of this study is to perform a computerized cognitive training to improve attention,
      concentration, learning, and quality of life in elderly participants. The investigators are
      interested in testing the differential efficacy between a bottom-up to top-down versus a
      top-down to bottom-up computerized cognitive training.

      The investigators will conduct a 40 hours computerized, adaptable, cognitive training program
      in participants 60 years of age and above. Participants will come for 1 hour, daily, and
      perform a bottom-up to top-down or top-down to bottom-up training, or control games for about
      2 months. Bottom-up to top-down and top-down to bottom-up exercises are chosen to target
      cognitive domains such as divided and selective attention, short-term and working memory,
      orientation skills and social cognition. Cognitive and emotional data will be collected
      before the training, half way through, and after the training, to assess progress in several
      aspects of their functioning.

      The investigators hypothesize bottom-up to top-down and top-down to bottom-up trainings will
      be effective as compared to the control games. They also expect that bottom-up to top-down
      training to be more efficient compared to top-down to bottom-up training because the first
      targets more basic cognitive functions which then allows triggering higher cognitive
      functions, reaching optimal cognitive performance levels more rapidly, where as the second
      may start with a too high demand on cognitive functions, which may compromise participants
      ability to reach optimal levels of cognitive performance as fast as the first type of
      training, if they do not have the "bottom-up lever" first. The investigators also hypothesize
      that both trainings will improve quality of life.
    
  