
    
      Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer（NSCLC）is one of the malignancies with high incidence and
      mortality. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is implicated in NSCLC pathogenesis.
      Certain patient subgroups with NSCLC (ie, women, never-smokers, East Asians,adenocarcinoma)
      have higher rates of EGFR mutations, rendering them more responsive to EGFR tyrosine kinase
      inhibitors (TKIs; eg, gefitinib, erlotinib, Icotinib). Among patients with advanced
      EGFR-mutated NSCLC, treatment with EGFR-TKIs is associated with response rates of 56 to 74%
      and a median progression-free survival(mPFS) of 10 to 14 months;both outcomes are superior to
      those with platinum-based chemotherapy. Despite initial responses to EGFR-TKIs, the majority
      of patients will have disease progression within 1 to 2 years after treatment initiation
      (acquired resistance). In approximately 60% of patients, the mechanism of acquired resistance
      is the development of an additional EGFR mutation, EGFR T790M. Although AZD9291
      (AstraZeneca), a third-generation EGFR-TKI is reported with a response rate of 61% in NSCLC
      patients with EGFR T790M and a mPFS of 9.6 months, resistance to third-generation inhibitors
      mediated by EGFR C797S mutation is inevitable. Therefore, optimizing the effect of each
      generation of EGFR-TKI is essential for long-term survival of NSCLC.The investigators'
      preliminary studies have shown that combining Yiqi-yangyin-jiedu decoction (YYJD) with
      gefitinib can prolong PFS and improve QOL, but high-level evidences are needed.

      The investigators performed a multi-centered, randomized, double blinded, placebo-controlled,
      prospective clinical trial on the effect of YYJD, a chinese herbal medicine (CHM) formula
      combined with gefitinib in advanced pulmonary adenocarcinoma patients with activating EGFR
      mutation (exon19del or exon21L858R) that choose gefitinib as first-line or second line
      therapy. Patients are randomized into observational group (YYJD plus gefitinib),and control
      group (placebo plus gefitinib). The treatment should be continued until evidence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity, and after that regular follow-up will be arranged. The
      primary efficacy assessments are: PFS (progression-free survival); Secondary efficacy
      assessments are: (1) OS (overall survival); (2) Objective response rate; (3) QOL (Functional
      Assessment of Cancer therapy-lung, FACT-L4.0 scales; Lung Cancer Symptom Scale, LCSS); (4)
      other efficacy assessments are: 1) TCM symptoms changes; 2) Toxicity, side effects and
      security of the treatments will be assessed at the same time. The investigators plan to
      enroll 198 cases in 3 years (99 cases for gefitinib, 99 cases for gefitinib plus YYJD),
      expecting that combination therapy has a better efficacy on prolonging PFS, overall survival,
      improving quality of life(QOL). Therefore the study can provide evidences for optimizing and
      promoting the efficacy of gefitinib.
    
  