
    
      Introduction: the Tailored Breast Screening Trial (TBST) is a population-based,
      non-inferiority randomised trial aimed at evaluating the impact of a change in the screening
      protocol in a service screening practice. "Tailored" means that the use of a breast density
      classification allocates women to a longer interval, decreasing the number of screening
      rounds in the 45-50-year age range. Density of the breast at the baseline is considered as an
      indicator of risk and also as a masking factor. The aim of this study is to assess the impact
      of a longer interval and the reduction of side effects for women allocated to the
      intervention group. In this study, any further intervention is offered to high-density women
      who are followed-up according to the usual care interval, since the study aimed at decreasing
      the screening burden.

      Methods 44- 45 years old women resident in the screening centre catchment area will be
      invited to attend for mammography screening and will be asked for informed consent in order
      to be included in the study. After the enrolment, they will receive a high quality digital
      mammography; two views and breast density will be classified according with the BI-RADS
      classification. Women are randomly allocated either to an usual care group or to the
      intervention group. In the intervention group, women with a dense breast (3-4 categories in
      BI-RADS) will be invited again after 1 year, while the lower-density group in the
      intervention arm will be invited after 2 years. After the age of 50, all women will continue
      to be screened in the usual service screening programme. Density of the breast will be read
      by 2 readers, and controversies will be solved by a consensus. Allocation of women is blinded
      to the mammography readers.

      EXPECTED RESULTS: the outcomes are: 1. cumulative incidence of interval-cancer cases by
      intention to treat grouping and by density group, aimed at assessing the non inferiority of
      screening performance; 2. cumulative incidence of T2+/node-positive status breast cancer
      cases between arms and by protocol. Screening performance parameters will be evaluated at
      each screening round. Interim and outcome analysis are expected at 3 and 6 years average
      follow-up, respectively, starting from the beginning of the screening.

      SAMPLE SIZE: the non-inferiority limit is derived from the accepted level of interval cancers
      in women 50-69 years, which was considered acceptable by the European Community Guidelines.
      Assuming a 70%BI-RADS 1-2 at the baseline on the basis of the digital mammography experience,
      the estimated sample size with a power of 90% is 16,596 women per arm.
    
  