
    
      There is growing evidence that psychosocial interventions from mindfulness to yoga to the
      arts can reduce symptoms of depression and anxiety, increase social support networks, improve
      quality of life and raise perceptions of care in people affected by cancer 1,2. These
      positive states have, in turn, been linked with optimised immune responses including reduced
      stress hormones and enhanced cellular activity 1,3,4. However, despite growing numbers of
      music interventions for cancer care, there is little research into their psychobiological
      impact.

      'Sing With Us' choirs are an initiative established in Wales by Tenovus Cancer Care to
      provide social support and improve mental wellbeing amongst those affected by cancer, whether
      patients, carers or staff. Research has already demonstrated that these choirs can reduce
      depression and anxiety amongst participants and improve social support networks and quality
      of life as well as preliminary evidence that they can reduce levels of stress hormones and
      enhance immune activity 5,6. The aim of this study is to establish more about the
      psychological benefits of regular choir singing and explore whether the biological changes
      noted in pilot studies can be sustained over time. This could identify whether choirs have
      the potential to optimise health in people affected by cancer, helping to put patients in the
      best position to receive treatment or maintain re mission and supporting those who care for
      someone with cancer, whether professionally or informally.

      As part of this project, and in addition to the choirs already run by Tenovus Cancer Care,
      Tenovus will fund two choirs, one at each of the Royal Marsden sites. These will run on a
      weekly basis for 18 months and will consist of a session lasting 1 hour led by a professional
      choir leader who is a member of the Tenovus Cancer Care staff. The choirs will be open to
      anybody affected by cancer at the Royal Marsden Hospital or in the local area. However, there
      will be three cohorts of patients involved in the research running alongside the choir:
      cohorts A and B involving active recruitment of participants and Cohort C in which people who
      join the choir of their own volition but are not eligible for the first 3 cohorts will be
      invited to participate:

      Cohort A: breast, prostate and colorectal cancer patients will be invited to join the study
      for a period of 12 weeks. If they are able to make the dates and times of the choir sessions
      they will become part of the experimental group. If they are unable to make the dates and
      times or live too far away but fulfil all the same criteria (including expressing an interest
      in singing) they will become part of the control group. Data collection for all participants
      will include (a) completing psychological scales which will be available in hard copy or as
      online versions; (b) providing saliva samples before 4 choir rehearsals: week 1, week 6 and
      week 12 with a three month follow-up (week 24). Experimental participants will be expected to
      attend as many of the first 12 choir sessions in the time period as possible but will then
      select whether they continue involvement in the choir for the following 12 weeks.

      Cohort B: hospital staff, carers of somebody affected by cancer and bereaved carers will be
      invited to join the study for a period of 12 weeks. Recruitment and participation for this
      Cohort (including the presence of a control group) will be as in Cohort A except there will
      be no biological component. Participants will merely complete the online psychological
      questionnaires.

      Cohort C: all other participants who decide to join the choirs (whether patients, carers or
      staff) will be invited to take part in the psychological part of the study, completing the
      anonymous questionnaires at weeks 0, 6, 12 and 24. This will be an uncontrolled Cohort. But
      it may identify additional participant groups for whom the choirs provide support.
    
  