
    
      Health Promoting Schools intervention including pilot-tested teacher professional
      development, student-defined enhanced environment, and parent-defined enhanced
      community/family connection. The Coalition will finalize the intervention using a phased
      intervention map that integrates community perspectives with theoretical approaches to
      evidence based practices. The study aims will be accomplished through a group randomized
      trial in 10 urban schools with diverse populations representing approximately 1,900 students.

      Aim 1: Assess the effects of a school-based multi-component intervention on school
      connectedness, school engagement, and developmental assets through a group randomized,
      participatory trial.

      Hypothesis 1a: Students in the intervention schools will experience improved school
      connectedness, engagement and developmental assets compared to the control group.

      Aim 2: Assess the effects of a school-based multi-component intervention on emotional
      well-being, tobacco and other substance use, and academic outcomes through a group
      randomized, participatory trial.

      Hypothesis 2a: Students in the intervention schools will experience improved emotional
      well-being, course completion, attendance, and decreased disciplinary action and substance
      use compared to the control group.

      Aim 3: Evaluate the relationships between participatory factors , school intervention
      implementation, and study outcomes.

      Exploratory hypothesis 3a: Perceptions of quality of collaborative processes will be
      associated with degree of school intervention implementation and study outcomes.

      Exploratory hypothesis 3b: School capacities and context will be associated with school
      intervention implementation and study outcomes.

      Exploratory hypothesis 3c: School capacities and context will mediate the relationship
      between quality of collaborative processes and school intervention implementation.
    
  