
    
      Preeclampsia complicates approximately 5-8% of all pregnancies and is a major cause of
      maternal morbidity and mortality worldwide.Its progress differs among patients; most cases
      are diagnosed pre-term. Preeclampsia may also occur up to six weeks post-partum. The present
      study included 1200 primigravidae who attended the outpatient clinic of Ain Shams University
      maternity Hospital in Cairo, Egypt, for routine antenatal care between July 2016 and
      September 2017. The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Ain Shams University
      Maternity Hospital in accordance with local research governance requirements. All
      participating women signed an informed consent form inclusion criteria were a primigravida,
      singleton pregnancy, maternal age 18-35 years, and pregnancy duration 16-20 weeks at the time
      of study inclusion. Exclusion criteria were Women with multi-fetal pregnancy, diabetes
      mellitus, chronic hypertension, or chronic renal disease.Computer based Randomization codes
      were placed in sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes by an observer, to be opened
      at time of enrollment by a pharmacist in Ain Shams University Hospital who prepared the study
      drug and had no further involvement with the patient's care. All data were analyzed before it
      was determined which group was received azithromycin and which was received placebo.

        -  Azithromycin 1Gm orally, single dose (Xithrone 500 mg two tablets, Amoun, Inc, Cairo,
           Egypt) Group (A) OR

        -  Matching placebo orally, single dose Group (B). Preeclampsia was defined in the terms of
           hypertension and proteinuria. The International Society for the Study of Hypertension
           (ISSH) defined preeclampsia as new hypertension and new proteinuria developing after 20
           weeks of gestation and regressing remotely after delivery. Hypertension is defined as
           diastolic arterial blood pressure ≥90 mmHg on two or more consecutive occasions, at
           least 4 hours apart. Proteinuria is defined as ≥ +1 on dipstick test on 2 midstream
           urine collections more than 4 hours apart or 24-hour urinary protein ≥ 300mg. Severe
           preeclampsia was defined as follows: blood pressure >160/110 mmHg on two occasions at
           least 6 hours apart, proteinuria >5 gm/24 hours, oliguria < 500 ml/24 hours,
           thrombocytopenia < 100.000/ml, cerebral visual disturbances, epigastric pain, nausea and
           vomiting, impaired liver function of unclear etiology or the occurrence of complications
           as pulmonary edema, accidental hemorrhage or fetal compromise.
    
  