
    
      Patients aged 50 years or older admitted to the ICU for traumatic brain injury (TBI) and/or
      polytrauma between January 2021 and October 2021 will be screened for study enrollment
      according to inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Research hypothesis :

        -  Critically ill trauma patients aged 50 years or older admitted to the ICU present an
           augmented renal clearance;

        -  A set of factors could predict, to a certain extent, the risk of developing ARC in
           critically ill trauma patients aged 50 years or older admitted to the ICU.

      ARC will be assessed for every patient based on daily 8-hour urine collections started within
      the first 24 hours of ICU admission and daily serum creatinine concentrations. The first
      seven days will consist of daily urinary collection while only biweekly samples (days 10 and
      14) will be collected for the second week. Since ARC is a time-sensitive event, the use of a
      deferred consent will allow for urine collection to begin as soon as possible after
      admission. All other data required for the study (demographic and other clinically relevant
      data) will be collected retrospectively once consent from surrogate or patient has been
      obtained. Data will be collected from study enrollment up until one of the following events :
      1) Day 14 of ICU stay ; 2) ICU discharge; 3) AKI onset; 4) institution of RRT; 5) Removal of
      urinary catheter; 6) Withdrawal of informed consent; 7) Death; whichever occurs first.

      Data regarding demographic variables including age, gender, anthropometric measurements,
      admission diagnosis, nature of injuries, comorbidities, and length of stay (LOS) will be
      obtained through the patient's medical records as well as the clinical information system.
      Data concerning ventilation and 24-hour fluid balance will be obtained through nursing
      records. Information regarding drug therapy (e.g., vasopressor and antibiotic use) will be
      obtained through the MUHC software. The Injury Severity Score (ISS) score will be compiled
      from the local Trauma Registry, while the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score
      will be calculated directly.
    
  