
    
      This study is a single-arm, single-center, clinical investigation in subjects with type 1
      diabetes on AHCL insulin pump in a period of 3 months.

      The study will include an 9-month extension phase, to which participants may voluntarily
      decide to take part in, cumulating a total of one-year period duration. Visits wil be
      scheduled every 3 months, as per routine practice. TIR, HbA1c, demographics and clinical data
      will be analyzed on 3 months period.

      A total of 33 subjects (age 7-17 years) will be enrolled in order to reach 30 subjects who
      will complete the 3 months study.

      After reviewing the patient's eligibility and interest, the investigators will obtain
      informed consent and assent as appropriate. The investigators will start the clinical process
      for initiating an insulin pump, which is typically done with pre-pump classes. A clinically
      obtained HbA1c assessment will be performed via fingerstick and DCA 2000 at baseline and 3
      months during the study.

      Collection of demographics and medical history, data for diabetes devices (eg meters,
      sensors, pumps) and brief clinical physical exam including vital signs and skin assessment
      will be obtained via Hospital Electronic Medical File (Cerner Millennium) and will be kept as
      electronic data on a separate research server.

      The different continuous baseline values will be checked for normality of distribution using
      the mean-median comparison, skewness and kurtosis (-3 to +3), spread, Kolmogorov-Smirnow and
      Shapiro-Wild tests, outliers, histograms and Q-Q-plots.

      The initiation protocol consisted of four main stages: AHCL system compatibility assessment,
      AHCL system training, Manual Mode and Auto Mode stages.

      Step 1. AHCL system compatibility assessment

      Step 1 will be used to select participants for the study, based on inclusion and exclusion
      criteria (explained below) as well as patients' interest. It consists of 2 sessions:

      AHCL System Introduction session (Clinic visit), one-hour duration (groups of 8-12 patients),
      where the AHCL system will be explained. Individuals' responsibilities (e.g. bolusing before
      meal, calibrating the system 3-4 times per day, responding to alerts and alarms, downloading
      pump data from home) and expectations (e.g. improvements in glycemic control, less glucose
      variability, hypoglycemia minimization, workload of diabetes management) will be discussed.

      AHCL System readiness session, 1-hour duration, where evaluation will be performed on carb
      counting, bolus for carbs and correction, SMBG. Participants will send food log diary and
      phone call consultation will be performed.

      Step 2: AHCL system training

      A similar approach currently used in Sidra for MiniMed 670G system initiation will be used in
      the study. AHCL system training will be performed in groups (three to five individuals and
      their parents/guardians). The program includes three sessions of two to three hours on three
      consecutive days. CGM will be initiated the first day of the training, for education and
      observational purposes and for baseline data collection (no insulin delivery by the pump)
      Details are explained in the table:

      Each session will be provided by two educators from 12pm to 3pm. Timing of the long acting
      insulin injection will be moved two hours ahead each day during training sessions, to reach
      12pm the day before the HCL system initiation in Manual Mode, to avoid the use of temporary
      basal at insulin pump initiation.

      Step 3: Manual Mode Participants will initiate the use of the AHCL system in Manual Mode
      (Clinic visit) with suspend before low feature for 72 hours to allow the algorithm to collect
      insulin utilization and CGM data to establish personalized Auto Mode initiation parameters.
      Sidra's validated protocol for SAP initiation (Auto-Generator app), also used in 10-day
      initiation protocol, with review of CGM data (step 2) will be used: in short, the protocol
      inputs the current insulin program (MDI), calculates a 10 to 20% reduction of total daily
      dose, with a 40/60 basal/bolus distribution in four or five basal rates. Insulin to
      carbohydrate ratio (ICR) settings utilizes the formula of 300-450/Total Daily dose (TDD) and,
      the formula of 90-110/TDD (mmol/l) with two CF settings, the nighttime CF factor is set
      10-20% higher than the daytime CF. Active insulin is set time (3 hours), suspend before low
      feature is turned on with a threshold of 3.0-3.8 mmol/l (55-70 mg/dl) and glucose target
      range from 5.0 mmol/l to 7.2 mmol/l (90-130 mg/dl).

      Step 4: Auto Mode The Auto Mode feature of the AHCL system will be activated 72 hours after
      manual mode initiation (virtual visit, using Skype Meet) and will be used continuously for 84
      days.

      The patient/family will upload data into the CareLink system, and the data will be reviewed
      by a member of the clinical team. Adjustments to system settings will be suggested to the
      family as clinically appropriate. The rationale for system setting adjustments will be
      documented.

      Follow up visits will be performed on 7, 14, 28 days of aHCL initiation. After the first
      month of aHCL system, visits will be every three months during the study.

      HbA1c will be obtained using point of care DCA Vantage Analyzer (Siemens, Erlangen, Germany)
      at baseline and at the end of the study.

      The study will submit the proposal to Local and National Ethics Committee in Qatar to get
      Ethical approval before commencing the study.
    
  