
    
      Background and Significance

      Currently there are no consensus guidelines for the best approach to patient with severe
      hematochezia. One strategy is to perform an urgent colonoscopy (following a colon purge)
      within 12-15 hours. Although this strategy has been associated with a decreased length of
      hospitalization and an improved diagnostic and therapeutic yields, it has drawbacks. A major
      disadvantage of performing an urgent colonoscopy is that the endoscopist can evaluate only
      the colon and the distal ileum, while more proximal sources of bleeding are not evaluated.
      Another limitation is that thorough cleansing of the colon is required to facilitate complete
      evaluation, identification of stigmata of recent hemorrhage and lesion diagnosis. Urgent
      colonoscopy is labor intense and relies on a dedicated bleeding team with expertise in both
      diagnosis and hemostasis. Another option for patients with persistent or recurrent
      hematochezia is to perform either a tagged RBC scan or an angiogram to identify the bleeding
      location. However, these techniques also have major disadvantages, including low diagnostic
      yields for severe hematochezia, requiring additional tests for diagnosis, and cannot visually
      detect non-bleeding stigmata of hemorrhage on lesions that can be seen during colonoscopy or
      by capsule endoscopy.

      Research Design and Methods

      This is a study of patients who being admitted to the hospital for severe hematochezia or
      inpatients who developed hematochezia after hospitalization for an unrelated non-GI bleeding
      reason. Those who meet entry criteria and lack exclusions on screening before will being
      asked to participate in this study.

      After informed consent, patients will be a colon preparation prior to ingestion of the colon
      capsule. The capsule recording system will be activated once patients swallow the capsule.
      Once the capsule has been excreted or if the capsule stops recording images (usually 10 hours
      after activation), the video recorder will then be taken to a workstation and the video will
      be downloaded for reading.

      In addition to having the capsule endoscopy, all consented patients will undergo standard
      tests for the initial diagnosis and management of severe hematochezia: tagged RBC scan and/or
      computerized tomographic angiography (CTA), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) angiogram, or
      conventional angiography. Because of contra indication, MRI angiography will not be performed
      until the capsule has been excreted, nor will CT angiography because the capsule may
      interfere with interpretation. All patients will also have urgent colonoscopy after clearing
      the colon of blood and stool with the purge. All of these diagnostic procedures will be
      performed within 48 hours of GI consultation, but ideally as soon as possible.

      If a bleeding site is not identified by colonoscopy, further diagnostic workup are usually
      performed as part of the standard of care, including anoscopy, esophagogastroduodenoscopy,
      push enteroscopy, or deep enteroscopy. If bleeding continues or worsens, surgery may be
      necessary to control the bleeding.

      The GI endoscopist, nuclear medicine physician, and radiologist will be blinded to the
      results of the capsule endoscopy until 24 hours after the other diagnostic tests (i.e. tagged
      RBC scan, angiography, and endoscopy/colonoscopy) have been performed. Then the results of
      all tests will be unblinded. This will be done for the purpose of not delaying clinical
      management, but also to avoid biasing the interpretations of these diagnostic studies.

      Data Collection and Monitoring Demographic data and medical history including details of
      co-morbid illnesses, risk factors, and characteristics of the GI bleeding will be recorded.
      Reasons for exclusion will be documented. Baseline physical examinations, American Society of
      Anesthesiology (ASA) classification, laboratory results, Blatchford-Glasgow score, units of
      blood products transfused, and results of the real-time viewer will also be recorded. Results
      of RBC scanning, angiography, capsule endoscopy, endoscopy, pathology, and surgery will be
      recorded. The outcomes including rates of re-bleeding or persistent bleeding, treatment of
      bleeding at endoscopy or radiology, need for surgery, major complications, transfusions after
      initial resuscitation, hospital and intensive care unit days, and death will be prospectively
      recorded up to the time of hospital discharge and 30 days following discharge. Subgroup
      analysis regarding results of urgent colonoscopy/enteroscopy will be performed to assess for
      differences in diagnostic yield and therapeutic interventions between different endoscopists.
      The number of patients who experience any difficulties in capsule swallowing will be
      recorded, including inability to swallow the capsule, incomplete examination of small bowel
      or colon, and capsule retention.

      Sample size calculation Based on prior retrospective data in the CURE hemostasis database,
      the investigators estimate that a sample of 46 patients would be required. Four additional
      patients will be enrolled in case of failure of the capsule to pass through the colon or
      other problems with the capsule recording arise. The investigators will therefore perform the
      study with a sample of 50 patients in two years.

      Statistical analysis methods

      The primary end point of the study will be the diagnostic yield (defined as the frequency of
      detection and percentage of positive results) for capsule endoscopy, tagged red blood cell
      scan/angiography, and endoscopy for the localization of the bleeding site and/or etiologic
      diagnosis (e.g. definitive if stigmata of recent hemorrhage are found or presumptive if a
      clean lesion is diagnosed and no other lesions are found by complete evaluation). The
      diagnostic yield of each technique will be calculated and compared by the McNemar test for
      paired data using exact methods. The final diagnosis by endoscopy, angiography, pathology,
      and surgery will be considered the gold standard. Concordance between each diagnostic
      strategy will be calculated and reported with the kappa index. A P-value of less than 0.05
      will be considered statistically significant.

      As secondary outcomes, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy which will be also
      determined for each technique for lesion localization; absence of lesions in the foregut,
      small bowel, or colon; and etiologic diagnosis (definitive or presumptive).

      Confidentiality:

      Study data will be physically and electronically secured. All personal information will be
      replaced with a code de-identifying subject's information. The researchers will do their best
      to make sure that all subject's private information is kept confidential as possible.

      Data Management Records will be labelled with a code number and then only de-identified
      information will be entered into our encrypted Statistical Analysis System (SAS) electronic
      database located at the VA West Los Angeles. No identifiable information about them will be
      kept in the electronic research data files. All personal information will be replaced with a
      code. A list linking the code and their identifiable information will be kept separate from
      the research data files in a locked file in the research team's office located at VA West Los
      Angeles. (VA CURE GI Hemostasis Research Unit). This list will be protected by the Principal
      Investigator (Dennis Jensen, MD) and the research team. At the end of the study, the
      investigators will destroy this link and no one - not even the researchers - will be able to
      connect their identity to the research data.

      Future Use of Data After the study finishes, the research team will continue to use the
      patient's de-identified medical data from their medical history, laboratory results, labs,
      radiological, surgical, and pathology results, and colonoscopy results and information on
      their medical progress to continue to analyze and to report new GI research results.

      Data and Safety Monitoring Plan

      Adverse events The following adverse event information will be prospectively collected:
      capsule retention rates and those requiring endoscopic removal, perforations, aspiration,
      myocardial infarctions, strokes, and deaths within 30 days of enrollment.

      Frequency Safety data will be collected daily while hospitalized and weekly after discharge
      from the hospital, up to 30 days after enrollment. Data collection will start as soon as the
      patient enrolls in the study and swallows the capsule.

      Review Cumulative safety data will be reviewed every 30 days.

      All serious adverse events (SAE's) will be reported to the IRB as mandated by the VA research
      service.

      The safety data will be overseen by the PI and the biostatistician. All results will be
      reported to the IRB, who will review all SAE's.

      Based upon widespread utilization and safety of capsule endoscopy for small bowel bleeding
      since 2001 in the U.S. and many other countries worldwide, the investigators do not expect
      any clinical condition which would trigger an immediate suspension of this research study.
    
  