
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

      * To compare the effects of IV iron, oral iron, or placebo in combination with darbepoetin
      alfa on the hematopoietic response rate, defined as a hemoglobin increment of ≥ 2.0 g/dL from
      baseline or achievement of hemoglobin of ≥ 11 g/dL in the absence of red blood cell
      transfusions (RBC) in the preceding 28 days of the treatment period, in cancer patients with
      chemotherapy-associated anemia.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the effects of these regimens on the mean hemoglobin increment from baseline
           to weeks 7 and 16 in these patients.

        -  To compare the effects of these regimens on the percentage of patients maintaining an
           average hemoglobin level within the American Society of Hematology/American Society of
           Clinical Oncology (ASH/ASCO)and National Comprehensive Cancer Network(NCCN)
           guideline-based target hemoglobin range (11-13 g/dL), once achieving a hemoglobin of ≥
           11 g/dL from week 1 to week 16 in the absence of RBC transfusions in the preceding 28
           days of the treatment period.

        -  To compare the effects of intravenously (IV) iron, oral iron, or placebo on the response
           to darbepoetin alfa, in terms of time to achieving hemoglobin levels of ≥ 11g/dL.

        -  To compare the effects of these regimens on the percentage of patients who require RBC
           transfusions and the total transfusion needs.

        -  To compare the effects of these regimens on the change in hemoglobin week by week.

        -  To compare the effects of these regimens on quality-of-life changes from baseline to
           weeks 7 and 16.

        -  To identify if patients with inflammation (as indicated by elevated C-reactive protein
           (CRP) and serum hepcidin levels or low soluble transferrin receptor (sTfR)/log ferritin
           ratios) respond differently to darbepoetin alfa and iron therapy than patients without
           inflammation.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to severity of anemia (mild [hemoglobin ≥ 9.5
      g/dL] vs severe [hemoglobin < 9.5 g/dL]), treatment with a platinum-containing regimen (yes
      vs no), and gender. Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive darbepoetin alfa subcutaneously and sodium ferric gluconate
           complex IV over 90 minutes on day 1.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive darbepoetin alfa as in arm I and oral ferrous sulfate once
           daily on days 1-21.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive darbepoetin alfa as in arm I and oral placebo once daily on
           days 1-21.

      In all arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 15 weeks in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients complete quality-of-life (QOL) questionnaires in weeks 1, 7, and 16.
    
  