
    
      Torticollis is a clinical sign or symptom that could be the result of a variety of underlying
      disorders. Among the etiologies, Congenital muscular torticollis (CMT) with impairment of the
      sternocleidomastoid (SCM) is the most frequent cause of torticollis in infants. CMT is a
      postural deformity detected at birth or shortly after birth, primarily resulting from
      unilateral shortening and fibrosis of the SCM muscle. Infants with CMT display head tilt to
      one side, which is often combined with rotation of the head to the opposite side. CMT is
      estimated to occur in one infant of every 300 live births. Plagiocephaly is reported as a
      coexisting impairment in 80% to 90.1% of children with CMT.

      The pathophysiology and etiology of SCM impairment in CMT is still unknown. Prominent
      theories related to the cause of SCM impairment in CMT include intrauterine crowding, muscle
      trauma during a difficult delivery, soft tissue compression leading to compartment syndrome,
      and congenital abnormalities of soft tissue differentiation within the SCM muscle.

      Children with CMT can be assigned to one of three clinical subgroups: 1) children with a
      palpable swelling or pseudotumor of the sternocleidomastoid, 2) children with SCM tightness
      but no tumor, and 3) children with all the features of muscular torticollis without muscle
      tightness or tumor.

      In 2002, Chih-Chin Hsu et al. reported that CMT could be classified into four types. Type I
      denoted a heteroechoic mass in the affected muscles; Type II represented diffuse echogenic
      dots and lines against the hypoechoic background with no detectable mass. The alignment of
      perimysium appeared irregular instead of parallel on longitudinal sonograms; Type III
      indicated diffuse hyperechoic echogenicity along the entire muscle and almost no hypoechoic
      background could be seen; and Type IV had a hyperechoic band in the involved muscles. The
      study also evaluated the histology of each type of fibrosis. Type I and II fibrosis revealed
      hyperplastic fibrous tissue mingled with muscle fiber. Mature fibroblasts with complete
      absence of normal muscle tissue could be found in Type III fibrosis and the fibrotic bands in
      Type IV fibrosis. The majority of Type I and II fibrosis improved after conservative
      treatment. However, Type III and Type IV had more probability in need of surgical correction.
      However, this categorization lacks of objective and quantitative measurement and can be
      different by subjective judgement of different physicians. The purpose of this study is tried
      to perform digital analysis of ultrasonography images to establish an objective, quantitative
      method and to assess its relevance with clinical symptoms and prognosis.

      General Design:

      This study is planned to quantify ultrasonography image of wry neck patients by digital
      analysis.

      Subjects:

      This study will collect the children younger than 1 y/o who were impressed or suspected to
      have torticollis in physical medicine and rehabilitation clinic. The case number is estimated
      around 60 in a 3-year-period enrollment. . Exclusion criteria include torticollis by other
      known causes like strabismus, trauma, neurogenic problems, congenital malformation or bony
      deformity (e.g. hemivertebrae of cervical spine). Informed consent will be given to the
      parents before enrollment.

      Investigation Steps:

        1. Ultrasonography examination and digital analysis:

           Ultrasonography which contains both sides of the sternocleidomastoid muscle in
           transverse and longitudinal view for comparison of lesion side and sound side will be
           performed by expert physicians using a 14-megahertz linear-array transducer after the
           initial enrollment and every six months later. Digital analysis of the images will be
           carried by a member expert in computer science.

        2. Evaluation of clinical manifestations:

           Evaluation of clinical manifestations includes measurement of side difference of angles
           in bilateral neck lateral flexion, rotation and habitual head position will performed
           using an arthrodial protractor by a trained member at the beginning of physical therapy
           and one month later, then every 2-3 months. Each measurement will be repeated 3 times to
           get the mean value. All cases will be followed for 1 and a half years, however, if the
           symptoms got completely recovery (the neck range of motion and position completely equal
           to sound side) or any complications resulting from the evaluation, the evaluation will
           be stopped.

        3. Evaluation of influence of rehabilitation effect:

      The parents will be inquired by a questionnaire one month later and then every 2-3 months to
      realize the treatment effect of the wry neck. The duration and frequency of massage and
      stretch programs by the therapist or the family or the other methods to treat the problem
      like wearing a neck collar, proper positioning… etc will be included in the semi-quantitative
      questionnaire.

      Data Analysis:

      Some representative image features will be expected to be computed from the SCM ultrasonic
      images. These features include area, both max and min Feret's diameters, and brightness of
      echogenicity in the region of interest. The ultrasonic image of the affected side would be
      compared with that of the sound side from their corresponding texture features. The Pearson's
      correlation will be performed to analyze the relevance of quantitative side differences of
      texture features in ultrasonography and clinical manifestations including side differences of
      neck rotation, lateral flexion and habitual head position between lesion sides and sound
      sides. Linear regression will be also used to adjust the influence of the treatment effect.
    
  