
    
      Project Grow Smart has two phases: an infant phase and a preschool phase. The design of the
      two phases differs, although both evaluate the impact of fortification with multiple
      micronutrient powders (MNP) vs. placebo on child development.

      In the infant phase, 6-14 month old infants are recruited and randomized into one of four
      cells to receive: placebo, placebo plus early learning, MNP alone, and MNP plus early
      learning (integrated intervention). Interventions are delivered through biweekly
      (twice/month) home visits by Village Level Workers. Families of all infants receive
      information on iron rich foods.

      The preschool phase is conducted in 22 Anganwadi Centers (AWC) (i.e., preschools). AWC
      quality is assessed, based on a 109-item observation scale, organized into 18 categories,
      based on two validated scales: Early Childhood Environment Rating Scale-Revised (ECERS-R) and
      HOME Inventory, modified to rate the quality of learning opportunities and teacher-child
      interactions. After training and establishing inter-rater reliability, two psychologists
      spend four hours in each preschool and independently complete the observation. Scores are
      summed and averaged. Based on a median split, preschools are categorized into
      high/low-quality with random assignment of MNP/placebo nested within high/low-quality
      preschools. Classifications are unknown by investigators, study team, or preschools.

      The preschool protocol has been modified to ensure that the trial coincides with the academic
      term (September-May) to avoid losing the oldest children who transfer to private or primary
      schools. Baseline evaluations are conducted in September and end-line evaluations are
      conducted prior to May. Mid-line evaluations have been eliminated. The intervention is
      delivered over 8 months. The MNP/placebo was supplied to preschools in identical packets of
      200 grams, including two measuring spoons of 1 and 0.5 grams. Each packet includes a
      manufacturer-assigned alphabetic code. AWC workers mix the MNP/placebo into the first bites
      of the preschoolers' mid-day meal. Mothers receive information on iron-rich food.
    
  