
    
      Therapeutic interventions were made according to a titration protocol in stable optimal
      medical therapy. Therapy with sacubitril/valsartan was introduced after a 48-hour wash-out of
      an ACE inhibitor or after a 24-hour wash-out of an angiotensin receptor antagonist. Doses of
      sacubitril/valsartan were optimized to individual tolerability.

      Echocardiography was performed at baseline and after 12 months. LV end-diastolic and
      end-systolic volumes were calculated according to the biplane Simpson's method according to
      the recommendations of the American Society of Echocardiography and European Association of
      Cardiovascular Imaging. Doppler examinations included assessment of early diastolic filling
      velocity and early diastolic mitral annular velocity, an averaged E/e' ≥ 13 was considered a
      surrogate marker of increased filling pressure.

      The LV stroke volume was calculated as the product of the LV outflow tract area and the
      time-velocity integral of the aortic flow velocity or was evaluated as the difference between
      LVEDV and LVESV. The LVSV index was estimated as LVSV divided by body surface area. Cardiac
      output (CO) was measured as stroke volume times heart rate, and the cardiac index was
      estimated by dividing CO by body surface area.

      Patients who presented reverse remodeling were considered those exhibiting a ≥ 10% increase
      in ejection fraction and ≥15% reduction in end-systolic volume compared to baseline.

      The accuracy of the sources data was verified by using in-hospital medical records,
      computerized or paper, by checking data from ultrasound images, laboratory reports or
      ambulatory cardiological tests.

      Detailed information on patients' medical history, including medications and loop diuretic
      doses, was recorded for each patient. Patients' functional status was determined according to
      the classification of the New York Heart Association. Creatinine, B-type natriuretic peptide
      and amino-terminal pro-type B-natriuretic peptide levels were measured using standard
      laboratory methods. The estimated glomerular filtration rate was calculated by the
      Modification of Diet in Renal Disease formula.

      Patients were removed from therapy with sacubitril/valsartan or assessment for non-adherence
      to treatment or persistent drug-related adverse event with his/her willingness to discontinue
      treatment.

      Continuous measures were expressed as the mean value ± SD or median and interquartile range
      (IRQ) for normally and non-normally distributed variables, respectively. Continuous data were
      compared using paired and independent samples Student t-test or ANOVA when appropriate.
      Categorical variables were presented as percentages and were compared using Chi-square or
      McNemar test. Mann-Whitney, Kruskal-Wallis and Wilcoxon tests were used to analyze
      non-normally distributed variables. All differences were considered significant at the p =
      0.05 level. Data were analyzed with SPSS version 23.0 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY).
    
  