
    
      Background: In randomized phase III cancer clinical trials, the validated and most
      objectively defined evaluation criterion is overall survival (OS). Therapeutic progress,
      which in certain contexts has significantly reduced overall mortality, the development of new
      types of cytostatic treatments (as opposed to cytotoxic treatments), the current context of
      strategic trials and the multiplication of lines of treatment have resulted in the necessity
      of creating new evaluation criteria measuring treatment efficacy sooner and more precisely:
      for example, progression-free survival in second line treatment, duration of local control,
      and time until treatment failure. These types of surrogate endpoints are commonly used in
      phase II trials but are increasingly being used to replace overall survival in phase III
      trials. Their development is strongly influenced by the necessity of reducing clinical trial
      duration, cost and number of patients.

      However while these survival endpoints are frequently used, they are often poorly defined and
      when they are, the definition can vary between trials. The lack of standardized definitions
      constitutes a clear limitation to their use as primary endpoints. Furthermore, this
      variability of definitions can have an important impact on trials' results by affecting power
      and estimation.

      The ongoing DATECAN-1 project is aimed at providing guidelines for the definitions of
      survival endpoints in cancer trials (2009-2011 grant from the French League Against Cancer).
      Standardized recommendations will be available for survival endpoints commonly used for
      various cancer sites including pancreas, sarcomas and GIST (gastro-intestinal stromal
      tumors), breast, stomach.

      Objectives: Following these guidelines, one can wonder how sensitive are these definitions?
      Or similarly, how do survival endpoints' definitions impact the conclusions of clinical
      trials? The objective of the DATECAN-2 study is to assess the impact of survival endpoints'
      definitions, as defined by the consensus guidelines, on trials' results and conclusions. The
      second objective is to study the surrogate properties for OS of these survival endpoints.

      Methods: The evaluation of the impact of the variability of the definitions of survival
      endpoints on the results of clinical trials will be evaluated using individual data from
      datasets collected in the context of published (academic) clinical trials, as well as
      simulated datasets.

      After approval by the sponsors, data will be analyzed using various endpoints' definitions
      including (i) the definition provided in the publication and (ii) the definition provided by
      the guidelines. We will identify which survival endpoint, as defined by the guidelines, was
      reported in the publication. Next, realistic data sets will be simulated that mimic data that
      could be observed in randomized cancer trials. We will generate data sets with varying
      proportions of events (number of deaths, progression, etc) depending on the survival
      endpoints of interest. Survival endpoints will be compared across treatment arms using the
      definition provided by the guidelines, and based on various scenarios (different proportions
      of events, length of follow-up, etc).

      Using data from published data sets, we will evaluate survival endpoints in terms of
      surrogate candidates for OS. A hierarchy of the survival endpoints will be proposed according
      to their surrogate properties based on two criteria: the Fleming classification and the R2
      value for validated surrogates. Depending on the number of clinical trials, single-trial or
      multiple-trials method will be employed. Single-trial methodology relies on Prentice criteria
      and Freedman's proportion of treatment effect (PTE) explained by the surrogate. In case of
      multiple trials, and when meta-analysis of clinical trials is feasible, surrogacy of
      candidate endpoints for OS will also be explored using weighted linear regression, which
      jointly estimates the level of association between endpoints and the trial-level association
      (R²) between treatment effects on the candidate surrogate and the final endpoint. Based on
      these results (R² and PTE), survival endpoints will be ranked according to their surrogate
      capabilities for OS.

      Expected results: Analysis of the sensitivity of clinical trials' results to the survival
      endpoints' definitions and surrogacy properties are key features when designing and
      conducting clinical trials. Based on our results, we will be able to anticipate the expected
      impact of the definitions on effect size, sample size and power. We will be able to estimate
      these parameters more precisely and as such provide more efficient estimations. Similarly our
      assessment of the surrogate properties of the survival endpoints should help us for the
      selection of the best surrogate marker for OS, and thus limit biases. Overall, by producing
      less biased results and more efficient designs, our project should have an important role in
      the design and conduct of future randomized trials.
    
  