
    
      Intraoperative hypotension development might increase myocardial damage, acute kidney damage,
      and septic complications, and have an effect on mortality increase. For this reason,
      prevention of an unwanted hypotensive event has an important role in reducing mortality and
      morbidity. The prediction of the risk of hypotension is generally based on the evaluation of
      the comorbid status and volume status of patients .It is already known that right ventricular
      systolic dysfunction has prognostic value in various pathological cases. It is quite
      difficult to evaluate the RV function with echocardiography because of the complex geometry
      of RV. Although RV function has been evaluated only visually for many years, guidelines have
      been published as a result of recent studies by the American Society of Echocardiography. In
      this respect, abnormal RV function should be suspected when one of the criteria of S '<10 cm
      /s, TAPSE <16 mm, RVFAC <35%, or R-MPI (Tissue Doppler)> 0.55. Normal and abnormal function
      is distinguished more reliably when combining more than one RV function measures. TAPSE is a
      parameter with which the apex-basal shortening can be easily measured, providing specific
      data on global RV function. It depends less on optimal image quality than other RV function
      measurements, and is an easy-to-measure criterion. Low TAPSE is not very common; however, it
      was measured in people with no heart disease due to diagnostic misclassification and
      excessive ends of the normal spectrum. the investigators think that despite the lack of
      cardiac disease, cardiac reserve functions of each patient may have limits in terms of
      development of hypotension in general anesthesia induction. The investigators considered that
      TAPSE, which decreased within normal limits in patients without cardiac disease, could
      predict hypotension development in general anesthesia induction, and planned study for this
      purpose.
    
  