
    
      In this study the amount of drug and frequency of dosing is under investigation.
      Erythropoietin (EPO) will be given by subcutaneous injection (a small needle prick placed
      underneath the skin). The maximum number of injections a patient may receive is 3. The total
      expected length of time of patient participation in the study is about 140 days (about
      5months).

      This study consists of a screening period, treatment period and post treatment period. The
      study doctor will determine whether the patient is suitable for the study. Safety evaluations
      will be performed at specified intervals throughout the study and will consist of laboratory
      tests, vital signs (such as blood pressure), physical examinations and the occurrence and
      severity of adverse events as well as other study specific procedures.

      Eligible patients will be assigned by chance (like flipping a coin) to one of two treatment
      groups; 40,000 units of EPO or Placebo. Unless the need arises, neither the patient nor the
      study staff, will know which treatment the patient receives.

      The patient will receive an injection of study drug on Study Days 1, 8 and 15 as long as they
      remain in the same hospital and their hemoglobin (Hb) level is less than 12g/dL. If the
      patient's hemoglobin level is greater than 12g/dL on any scheduled medication day, study
      medication will not be given. However the patient will remain in the study and a
      re-assessment will be done at the next dosing time point. The patient will also receive iron
      therapy (at least 150 mg) from Study Day 1 (if tolerated) through Study Day 29 or until the
      patient is discharge from the hospital or withdraws from the study (whichever comes first).

      Treatment with study drug will be stopped if the patient become pregnant, or the study doctor
      feels that it is in the patient's best interest. If treatment is stopped before Study Day 15,
      the patient will be required to return for scheduled study assessments through Study Day 140.

      The purpose of the post-treatment period is to monitor the patient's health status. Whether
      or not the patient remains hospitalized, the patient will have two more visits to monitor
      their health (on Study Day 42 and 140). In addition, the study doctor and nurse will contact
      the patient or their caregiver by phone monthly following the Study Day 29 visit until Study
      Day 140. Weekly subcutaneous injections (under the skin) of 40,000 units of EPO or placebo on
      days 1, 8 and 15.
    
  