
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is a relatively frequent condition which may affect
      up to 2-3 percent of school age children. The morbidity of untreated OSAS may include failure
      to thrive, pulmonary and systemic hypertension, and behavioral and neurocognitive
      deficiencies. However, it remains unclear to what extent OSAS impinges on aspects of
      neurocognitive and behavioral function, and whether sleep fragmentation, intermittent
      hypoxemia, and alveolar hypoventilation, which are the three major physiological alterations
      in OSAS, selectively affect particularly vulnerable components of neurocognitive function.
      Furthermore, certain similarities exist between the behavioral alterations occurring in OSAS
      and those seen in children with the Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD).

      The study is in response to a Request for Applications (RFA) on Obstructive Sleep Apnea in
      Children. NHLBI issued the RFA in December, 1997, with co-sponsorship from the National
      Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research and the National Institute of Child Health and
      Human Development.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The cross-sectional study tested the hypothesis that OSAS is detrimental to particular
      aspects of neurocognitive and behavioral functioning. Snoring 6 year-old children attending
      the public elementary school system in New Orleans Parish were prospectively identified by an
      appropriate questionnaire and enrolled in the study. Snoring children underwent overnight
      polysomnographic assessment to determine the presence and severity of OSAS, and their
      neurocognitive and behavioral functions were subsequently evaluated employing the Wechsler
      Intelligence Scale for Children-III, the Conners' Continuous Performance Test, and the
      Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery test. Multivariate regression and
      analyses of variance allowed for determination of aspects of neurocognitive function and
      behavior that were vulnerable to OSAS in general, and to each of OSAS components in
      particular.

      The study also tested the hypothesis that children with ADHD may have increased prevalence of
      snoring and OSAS. Children with this diagnosis were initially confirmed as having ADHD using
      the revised Diagnostic Interview for Children and Adolescents, the Conners' Parent Rating
      Scale, and the Child Behavior Checklist. ADHD children then underwent polysomnographic
      evaluation as well as extensive evaluation of neurocognitive function and behavior as above.
      The prevalence of snoring and OSAS were then calculated.

      The study was extended through June 2007 to test the hypothesis that SDB will induce systemic
      inflammatory responses, and that the magnitude of such inflammatory response will be the
      major determinant of the severity of neurocognitive dysfunction associated with SDB.
    
  