
    
      Standard treatment for stage III Non-Small Cells Lung Cancer (NSCLC) not eligibile for
      surgery is concomitant chemoradiotherapy. However median progression free survival and
      overall survival is still poor with only 15% of patients alive at 5 years. The addition of
      maintenance therapy with durvalumab after chemoradiation showed a significant benefit in PFS
      and OS, with good tolerability and no concerns in terms of safety. However, about 30% of
      patients with stage III are not eligible to concurrent chemoradiotherapy because of large
      volumes of the tumor. To date, these patients are initially treated with chemotherapy with
      the aim of reducing tumor volumes and allowing sequential radiotherapy. Response rate ranges
      between 25-30% and majority of patients will not become suitable for radiotherapy.

      The combination of immunotherapy plus standard chemotherapy in advanced stages doubles
      response rates and provides major tumor shrinkage compared to standard chemotherapy alone.
      For these reasons, the investigators want to exploit the synergistic effect of immunotherapy
      combined with chemotherapy in the induction phase, in order to render suitable for
      radiotherapy a larger number of patients, and in a second phase the synergistic effect with
      radiotherapy.

      Based on these premises the investigators designed a single arm, phase 2 trial to determine
      the efficacy and safety of combining immunotherapy with the drug durvalumab in association
      with standard chemotherapy and subsequently with standard radiotherapy, followed by a
      treatment of maintenance with only durvalumab.

      The study population includes patients with NSCLC not eligible for surgery or concurrent
      chemoradiation at diagnosis because of large tumor volumes.

      The study consists of 3 parts:

        -  Part 1: induction with durvalumab plus chemotherapy.

        -  Part 2: patients responding or stable and eligible for radiotherapy after induction will
           be treated concomitantly with durvalumab and radiotherapy.

        -  Part 3: patients responding or stable after part 2 will be eligible for durvalumab
           maintenance, for up to 2 years or until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      BRIDGE trial aims to evaluate and increase the proportion of patients eligible for
      immunotherapy plus radiotherapy (response) after induction with durvalumab and chemotherapy
      and to increase this proportion in comparison to historical controls.

      This study will last approximately 48 months and will include approximately 65 eligible
      patients in 3 international cancer centres of excellence.
    
  