
    
      This is a randomised, multicentre, open-label phase III study comparing antitumour efficacy
      of vinflunine plus gemcitabine versus paclitaxel plus gemcitabine, as first line treatment
      for patients with unresectable, locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer after prior
      anthracycline-based adjuvant chemotherapy.

      Patients with metastatic breast cancer are incurable using conventional therapy with
      antitumoural hormonal drugs or cytostatic agents. The median survival from diagnosis of
      metastatic disease to death is reported to be approximately 3 years. While newer
      chemotherapeutic agents have been able to achieve tumour shrinkage, no significant increases
      in overall survival have been demonstrated so far. One reason for this result may be that
      breast cancer has a longer disease time span than NSCLC, allowing for administration of
      multiple therapies with different modalities. These therapies confound overall survival
      regardless of whether the treatment is a first-line or a subsequent treatment. The
      combination of gemcitabine plus paclitaxel has demonstrated improvement in overall survival
      over paclitaxel alone as first line therapy in patients with locally recurrent or metastatic
      breast cancer, however, this study compared single agent versus combination chemotherapy.

      Using overall survival as a primary endpoint in a trial Using overall survival as a primary
      endpoint in a trial comparing 2 different cytostatic combinations in the treatment of
      metastatic breast cancer requires a large phase III study to detect a clinically significant
      difference. The advantages with such an endpoint are that it is technically easy to monitor
      and it is not dependent on monitoring tumour status. However, since patients with breast
      cancer typically receive 3 or more lines of chemotherapy, it becomes difficult to assess the
      impact of a first-line therapy on overall survival (as proposed herein) due to the potential
      for confounding effects from later treatments. A more specific instrument -if closely
      monitored- is progression-free survival. This endpoint reflects the impact of a specific
      treatment modality on the disease at a given time period and is probably confounded neither
      by prior treatments nor by subsequent therapies. Progression-free survival also represents an
      important clinical achievement for patients with metastatic breast cancer.
    
  