
    
      Stroke patients clearly benefit from intensive, coordinated, inpatient care. At the same
      time, there is considerable interest in ways to reduce hospital lengths of stay. Early
      discharge rehabilitation programs require coordinated, well-organized home-based
      rehabilitation, and lack of sufficient information about the home setting impedes successful
      rehabilitation. Unfortunately, resources for in-home rehabilitation are limited. The goal of
      TR is to improve functional mobility using a multifaceted rehabilitation intervention via two
      types of telehealth technology. Tele-video is used to carry out an in-home assessment of
      functional mobility, to make treatment recommendations, and to provide periodic goal-oriented
      reassessment, modifying the treatment plan as the patient improves. Tele-video uses a video
      camera with a home health aide in the patient's home to provide visual and audio to a
      therapist located at the base hospital. It is used to carry out an in-home assessment of
      functional mobility, to make treatment recommendations, and to provide periodic goal-oriented
      reassessment, modifying the treatment plan as the patient improves. An interactive, in-home
      messaging device is used to facilitate adherence with treatment recommendations and to screen
      for interval problems (depression, falls, and difficulty with self-care).

      This is a Phase II, 2-arm, 3-site Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT). A total of 120 veterans
      with recent onset of ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke who are discharged to the community will
      be randomly assigned to one of two groups: (a) TR; and (b) Usual Care. Dependent variables
      (physical function, disability, falls-related self-efficacy, and patient satisfaction) will
      be measured at baseline, 3-, and 6-months via telephone interviews by the study coordinator
      located at the CIEBP who will be blinded to the study group assignment of the patient.
    
  