
    
      Primary Hypothesis:

      Immunization with live, attenuated (Oka/Merck) varicella-zoster vaccine will significantly
      reduce the burden of illness associated with herpes zoster (HZ).

      Secondary Hypotheses:

      Immunization with live, attenuated (Oka/Merck) varicella-zoster vaccine will reduce the
      incidence of postherpetic neuralgia (PHN).

      Primary Outcomes:

      The primary outcome is the burden of illness due to HZ defined by the area under the worst
      pain versus time curve measured during the 6 month period following HZ rash onset in subjects
      who develop of HZ. The burden of illness outcome is sensitive to the incidence, severity, and
      duration of HZ-associated pain. The secondary outcome is the incidence of PHN, where PHN is
      defined as HZ-associated pain rated as greater than or equal to 3 (on a 0 to 10 scale)
      persisting or appearing more than 30 days after the onset of the HZ rash.

      Interventions:

      Immunization with 0.5 ml, live, attenuated (Oka/Merck) varicella-zoster vaccine versus
      vaccine placebo.

      Study Abstract:

      The incidence and severity of HZ (or shingles), as well as the frequency and severity of its
      complications, increases markedly with increasing age. More than half of all cases occur in
      persons over the age of 60. Even without complications, HZ can interfere with an elderly
      patient's ability to perform essential activities of daily living, resulting in a loss of
      independence that is emotionally devastating and frequently irreversible. The most common
      complication of HZ in elderly persons is postherpetic neuralgia (PHN), which frequently
      results in disordered sleep, chronic fatigue, anxiety and severe depression. Antiviral
      therapy has a modest impact on the acute phase of HZ. However, it does not appear to prevent
      the development of PHN.

      This study was a 5.5 year randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, efficacy trial to
      determine whether vaccination with live-attenuated Oka/Merck varicella-zoster decreases the
      incidence and/or severity of herpes zoster (HZ) and its complications in adults 60 years of
      age and older; 37,200 subjects over 60 years of age will be randomized at 22 sites to receive
      either vaccine or placebo. At least one third of the subjects were to be 70 years of age or
      older. Subjects were followed actively for HZ until at least 750 cases of HZ and at least 62
      cases of PHN occurred. Subjects who developed HZ were evaluated for severity and duration of
      associated pain, extent and duration of rash, and for changes in quality of life associated
      with the disease for six months after the onset of HZ rash. All adverse events (serious and
      non-serious) occurring within 42 days after vaccination were recorded. Thereafter, serious
      adverse events were recorded if assessed as possibly related to the vaccination. An adverse
      event substudy was to enroll 6000 subjects for recording all adverse events on a vaccination
      Report Card. Substudy participants were also followed for any hospital admissions during the
      study.

      The study was initiated in December 1998. Patient recruitment began in November 1998 at one
      site, at 20 sites between February 1999 and July 1999, and at one site that was added in
      January 2000. On September 26, 2001, enrollment in the study was completed with 38,456
      randomized subjects. The time point for the study definition of PHN was changed by protocol
      amendment from 30 days to 90 days after HZ rash onset. A formal sample size re-estimation was
      performed in June 2003. The Executive Committee and DSMB reviewed these results and approved
      the increase in event size from 400 to 750 evaluable cases of HZ for the primary endpoint. It
      was projected that the number of evaluable cases of HZ for the primary endpoint and the
      number of evaluable cases of PHN for the secondary (co-primary) endpoint would be observed by
      the end of September 2003. Therefore, the Study initiated its closeout plan beginning in
      October 2004. Follow-up of the last suspected case of HZ was completed in March 2004 and
      closeout interviews for the more than 37,000 surviving subjects were completed as of April
      28, 2004.

      The results of the main efficacy and safety analyses were unblinded on December 1, 2004, and
      presented to the DSMB, Executive Committee, and representatives for Merck & Co., Inc. Letters
      were sent to the study subjects informing them of the overall results and the treatment they
      received. The main manuscript was published in the New England Journal of Medicine (June
      2005; 352:2271-84). The vaccine was approved for the prevention of shingles by the FDA on May
      25, 2006. The main efficacy study is closed. Additionally, three substudies have been
      conducted:

      A substudy (CSP#403B) was initiated in November 2005 to offer investigational zoster vaccine
      to the placebo recipients of CSP#403. Vaccination was completed in March 2007 with 13,681
      (75%) of the placebo recipients vaccinated. This substudy is closed. The safety results from
      the substudy were published in the Journal of Infectious Diseases (J Infect Dis. 2013 May 31
      epub).

      A short-term persistence substudy (CSP#403A) was initiated in September 2004 to extend the
      follow-up vaccine and placebo recipients to assess the longer term effectiveness of the
      vaccine. This substudy bridged the period between the end of the efficacy study and the
      vaccination of placebo recipients and the initiation of a long-term persistence study. The
      study enrolled 14,270 subjects and completed follow-up in May 2007. This substudy is closed
      and is in ongoing analysis. The primary results for this study were published in Clinical
      Infectious Diseases (Clin Infect Dis. 2012 Nov 15;55(10):1320-1328)

      CSP#403C, the Long-Term Persistence Substudy, was initiated in March 2006 and enrolled 6867
      vaccine recipients from the main efficacy study. Enrollment was restricted to vaccine
      recipients from the main efficacy study with no history of herpes zoster. This study was
      initiated to complete an additional five-years of follow-up post-vaccination. The objective
      of this study was to estimate the longer-term durability of zoster vaccine efficacy by
      following a cohort of vaccine recipients from the primary efficacy study for three study
      outcomes: 1) the incidence of herpes zoster, 2) the incidence of postherpetic neuralgia
      (PHN), and 3) the burden of illness (BOI) due to herpes zoster. The study completed
      surveillance for new cases of herpes zoster as of December 2010 and completed the follow-up
      of the last case of herpes zoster in February 2011. All study sites have been closed out.
      This substudy has been completed and is in the final analysis phase.
    
  