
    
      Scientific premise for proposed project. Buprenorphine/naloxone-based (BUP) treatment for
      opioid use disorder (OUD). It is known that medication-assisted therapy (MAT) of opioid use
      disorder (OUD) with buprenorphine/naloxone (BUP) is associated with decreased risk of opioid
      overdose, improved engagement in treatment at 30 days, and less self-reported opioid use
      compared with those who receive only a brief negotiated interview (BNI) or referral for
      counselling. As a result of previous research, patients in Yale's Emergency Department (ED)
      who are successfully resuscitated with naloxone following an opioid overdose are routinely
      screened using the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) for OUD. Those who
      screen positive for moderate to severe OUD are offered initiation of BUP treatment in the ED,
      with outpatient primary care clinic referral for ongoing medical monitoring and treatment. At
      the time of the ED visit, however, fewer than half of these patients will consent to
      initiation of BUP. Those who decline are offered overdose education and naloxone (OEN) by ED
      staff. A safety net that includes tailored linkage plans to effectively engage opioid
      overdose survivors with BUP, intensive psychosocial support, and follow-up counseling in the
      community is needed. To gain a better understanding of the motivations of those who decline
      the offer of BUP, research from Yale's Department of Emergency Medicine purposively sampled
      16 opioid overdose survivors who agreed to participate in a qualitative study looking at
      their knowledge and understanding of OUD (unpublished). Predominant themes included the
      following: ambivalence regarding the effectiveness of treatment for OUD, concerns about
      concurrent social supports such as housing and mental health services; lack of appreciation
      for the risks associated with OUD (even with multiple prior overdoses); strong, but abstract,
      desire to discontinue use of opioids, despite refusal of treatment; and limited understanding
      of how to prevent or emergently manage overdoses. These perceptions from the patient
      population with OUD declining treatment directly informed the current study and its proposed
      research strategy.

      Peer support and recovery in OUD. In 2012, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
      Administration (SAMHSA) established a working definition of recovery from mental health and
      substance use disorders: a process of change through which individuals improve their health
      and wellness, live self-directed lives, and strive to reach their full potential. The
      definition identifies 4 dimensions that support recovery: 1) health, including both
      management of the disease and decision making associated with physical and emotional
      wellbeing; 2) home, e.g. a stable place to live; 3) purpose, e.g. meaningful daily
      activities; and 4) community, e.g., supportive relationships and social networks. One of the
      interrelated guiding principles of recovery promulgated by SAMHSA is peer support. Peer
      recovery support services are delivered by persons who have common life experiences with
      those they are serving. Since 1998, SAMHSA has sponsored Recovery Community Services grant
      programs, and in 2002 the program changed its focus to emphasize the use of peers for
      recovery support services. This funding now targets recovery community statewide networks.
      The Connecticut Community for Addiction Recovery (CCAR) was established in 1998, with initial
      funding by the State's Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services and one of the
      original SAMHSA grants. Since then, it has grown to its current size with a staff of 28,
      recovery centers located in major cities, an ED recovery coach program, and 308 volunteers
      who donated 28,841 hours in 2017 alone. CCAR recovery coaches are peer experts; many have
      been in recovery themselves. They have experiential knowledge and training. More
      specifically, CCAR describes a recovery coach as a motivator who exhibits bold faith in an/a
      individual/family's capacity for change, and who encourages and celebrates achievement. The
      recovery coach is an ally and confidant who genuinely cares, listens, and can be trusted with
      confidences, as well as a truth teller who provides a consistent source of honest feedback
      regarding self-destructive patterns of thinking, feeling, and acting. He or she is also a
      role model and mentor who offers his/her life as living proof of the transformative power of
      recovery and provides stage-appropriate recovery education and advice. The recovery coach is
      trained to serve as a problem solver who identifies and helps remove personal and
      environmental obstacles to recovery. He or she serves as a resource broker, linking
      individuals/families to formal and indigenous resources such as sober housing,
      recovery-conducive employment, health and social services, and other recovery support. The
      recovery coach advocates by helping individuals and families navigate service systems for
      access, responsiveness, and protection of rights. The recovery coaches may also be community
      organizers to help develop and expand available recovery support resources, lifestyle
      consultants to assist individuals/families to develop sobriety-based rituals of daily living,
      and friends, providing companionship. Coaches receive training at the CCAR Recovery Coach
      Academy, a 5-day intensive training program that focuses on providing individuals with the
      necessary skills to mentor, support, and guide any person who would like to enter or sustain
      long-term recovery from addiction. At this training, prospective CCAR recovery coaches learn
      about the roles and functions of a recovery coach, core values and guiding principles of
      recovery, relationship enhancement and crafting skills, appropriate attitudes about
      self-disclosure, stages of recovery, addressing stigma, awareness of culture, power, and
      privilege, and addressing ethical and boundary issues. This Academy also teaches how to
      practice newly acquired skills. CCAR recovery coaches' style of treatment is generally
      informal, and they assist the individual affected by OUD in focusing on what he or she can do
      at the present time to facilitate recovery in the future, in addition to helping these
      individuals connect with community resources. Reports suggest that fostering a supportive and
      positive treatment environment is critical. Moreover, data suggest that trained peers with
      shared experiences have a higher success rate at engaging individuals needing help.

      Community treatment of OUD. Some small studies and anecdotal successes have been reported in
      a variety of settings when community health educators were included in programs to assist
      patients with OUD. Most of the available reports are in emergency medical services (EMS)
      trade journals, organization newsletters, public news releases, and other "gray" literature.
      For example, a Fairfield County, Ohio initiative called Project FORT (Fairfield Overdose
      Response Team) dispatches a community paramedic and a law enforcement officer to meet with
      patients after opioid overdoses. This is a community outreach model program that contacts
      patients, within 1-3 days of overdose, and assists them with getting into treatment
      facilities, which are aimed primarily at abstinence. With no reports of formal outcomes, as
      of December, 2017, Project FORT had piloted 12 patients. Of these, 1 was known to be in an
      inpatient treatment program, and another had been admitted to the hospital for opioid
      withdrawal then discharged to inpatient treatment. The Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of
      Public Health is collaborating with Baltimore City Fire Department's paramedics and the
      Behavioral Health System of Baltimore in a program that trains the paramedics to perform a
      screening test for OUD, followed by a BNI after responding to opioid overdoses. At the time
      of their report, patients with OUD were being referred by the paramedics to a community-based
      research center within the Bloomberg School for counseling, motivation, and discussion of
      barriers to treatment. HIV (+) patients were preferentially referred to a medical facility
      for treatment with BUP along with management of their HIV disease. Their longer-term plan was
      to eventually transport clinically stable patients after overdose directly to a sobering
      center, similar to the protocol used in the City of San Francisco. Although the patients
      referred by the paramedics to the community-based research center are randomized to one of 2
      different treatment arms, there have been no reports of the effectiveness of the paramedics
      in this role. In a Palm Beach, FL community paramedicine program loosely based on previous
      work at Yale, consented patients are started on BUP in the ED after an overdose. But
      community paramedics deliver the ensuing daily doses to the patients at home for the first
      week of therapy. These medics are accompanied by peer recovery specialists who work with the
      patient on support systems for longer term recovery. Although no outcomes data are available
      for this program, it involves a rapid taper off of BUP early in the treatment regimen. In
      most other studies, early discontinuation of BUP is associated with poorer short- and
      long-term outcomes, and increased risk of nonfatal and fatal overdoses.

      The Paramedic Referrals for Increased Independence and Decreased Disability in the Elderly
      (PRIDE) program at Yale. Findings from the Department of Emergency Medicine previously
      demonstrated that 1/3 of all seniors who activated the local 9-1-1 system due to inability to
      get up after a fall at home would activate 9-1-1 again within the ensuing 30 days.
      Furthermore, 2/3 of all calls to EMS for a "lift assist" were repeat calls to the same
      address within the previous 30 days. By addressing some of the factors contributing to the
      risk of falling, and by improving access to community medical resources based on individuals'
      needs, many unplanned healthcare encounters likely could be prevented, while keeping
      participants safely in their homes. Thus, a collaborative program between research paramedics
      and home healthcare nurses was established at Yale by one of the co-PIs of the current
      proposal. The program was funded by a Health Care Innovations Award from the Centers for
      Medicare & Medicaid Services in 2014. The overarching goal of Paramedic Referrals for
      Increased Independence and Decreased Disability in the Elderly (PRIDE) was to help older
      individuals to live independently, while decreasing requirements for unplanned utilization of
      EMS, EDs, and hospitalization. To be eligible to participate in PRIDE, seniors must have
      fallen in the past or felt that they were at risk for falling, resided within a 15-town area
      in South-Central Connecticut, and resided at home or in an assisted-living facility. The
      program's intervention involved home visits by the PRIDE Team. Health-educator paramedics, as
      research assistants, and nurses recorded results of balance and other agility tests,
      participants' medications, vital signs, and performed safety assessments of the living space.
      The home healthcare nurses evaluated gait, posture, cardiovascular health and medications,
      requirements for durable medical equipment, and ongoing care needs, such as physical or
      occupational therapy. All participant data were entered into a Health Insurance Portability
      and Accountability (HIPAA)-compliant, encrypted database: Research Electronic Data Capture
      (REDCap). Additionally, if needed, staff set up appointments with the participant's primary
      care provider, and a free ride in a medically appropriate vehicle to and from the appointment
      was included. Subsequent unplanned healthcare utilization was tracked using the electronic
      medical record system at Yale New Haven Hospital (YNHH). PRIDE operated from 2014-2018 and
      enrolled greater than 5,600 participants. Data (currently unpublished) to date demonstrate
      that there are significantly fewer ED visits and less EMS utilization among those who
      received PRIDE services, compared with participants who enrolled but declined visits by PRIDE
      staff. These data suggest that PRIDE's intervention was effective in decreasing unplanned
      healthcare utilization.

      Proposed adaptation of PRIDE to serve persons with OUD. We propose to adapt the PRIDE program
      infrastructure to provide a safety net for patients who 1) have been resuscitated from an
      opioid overdose with naloxone, 2) have screened positive for OUD using the MINI, and 3)
      refused to initiate treatment with BUP in the ED, if offered. We may also include and accept
      referrals from CCAR, Project Alcohol & Substance Abuse Services, Education, and Referral to
      Treatment (ASSERT) (whose recruiters work in the YNHH EDs), staff working in the Yale EDs and
      with American Medical Response (AMR) units, the Community Health Care Van (created by Dr.
      Frederick Altice), and from locations within the Elm City Communities (e.g., The Housing
      Authority of the City of New Haven). For this program, the composition of the field teams
      will be changed, pairing recovery coaches from CCAR with experienced PRIDE research
      paramedics, to form RCP teams. For those affected by moderate-severe OUD, we expect that
      engaging with the RCP teams will create a more robust linkage of care with community
      resources and treatment options. Importantly, these teams will motivate interest in
      treatment, facilitate access to BUP or methadone, assist with other community-based recovery
      strategies, help address acute psychosocial issues, and provide ongoing education and
      counselling. The requirements for these capabilities were derived from our previous
      qualitative studies of persons with OUD who declined ED-initiated treatment.

      Research plan. To date, there is no standard of care for individuals with OUD who have
      overdosed on opioids, have been resuscitated by naloxone, and have refused BUP treatment. As
      noted previously, YNHH typically will send home these individuals with OEN kits. However,
      follow-up care remains variable. Hence, this research seeks to determine whether individuals
      with OUD might benefit significantly from a novel, team-based intervention encouraging
      biopsychosocial and medical interventions. First, this work will assess whether a novel
      biopsychosocial intervention following OD affects 1) the frequency of secondary opioid OD
      events and 2) the proportion of individuals who remain engaged in treatment for OUD or are in
      remission at 30 days and at 180 days post intervention. Remission may be defined as
      engagement in daily medication-assisted therapy-typically buprenorphine/naloxone (BUP) or
      methadone- and/or a recovery capital score of ≥ 27.5. The study's hypothesis is that the
      intervention by the Team will decrease subsequent OD events and increase the likelihood of
      remission. This work also seeks to determine whether the intervention affects 1) the
      frequency of positive-urine tests for opioids and 2) the frequency and proportion of subjects
      self-reporting opioid use. The hypothesis is that the intervention will decrease both. The
      study plan is as follows: To prepare for the intervention, health educators and key study
      staff are required to attend 12 hours of in-person training, which is to take place over 2
      days, to learn about best practices assessing those with OUD. One of the co-principal
      investigators (co-PIs) of this study, along with CCAR staff, will teach. Sessions will
      include training to conduct a BNI and a brief assessment of recovery capital (BARC-10)
      interview. Training also will prepare all staff to respectfully ask questions about potential
      overdose events and the possibility of creating and/or implementing a wellness plan. After
      resuscitation from opioid overdose by naloxone individuals in the EDs at the York St. and
      Chapel St. campuses of YNHH will be screened by ED providers for OUD using a MINI. This is an
      evidence-supported, standard practice at Yale. Upon screening positive for OUD, individuals
      will be offered BUP treatment by staff. Those who screen positive for OUD, but who decline
      BUP, will be offered overdose and naloxone kits. In addition, the study team will approach
      these individuals to ask whether they might be interested in research participation. If the
      patient were to express interest, then the study team members would set up an appointment
      (remotely/electronically and/or by phone) to meet at a time and place of the prospective/
      participant's choosing. Depending on preference informed consent may be obtained in the ED or
      at the first outpatient visit. In addition, individuals from CCAR may refer interested
      individuals to study participation, providing that at some time in the previous 7 days they
      had overdosed on opioids, were resuscitated by naloxone, and screened positive for OUD in a
      YNHH ED. After consent and study initiation, either at the hospital or later, the Team will
      perform a BNI- whose goal is to employ motivational techniques to help those with substance
      misuse consider their reasons for wanting to address dependency. The Team will perform
      psychosocial and medical evaluations. The Team will also enter all data into a secured,
      encrypted database, REDCap. Approximately 30 days after consent, the Team will schedule
      Meeting 1 with participants. During this time, the Team will collect and enter data into
      REDCap based on discussions with and evaluations of participants. During Meeting 2, which
      should occur no more than 180 days after consent, the Team will also collect and enter data
      into REDCap based on discussions with and evaluations of participants. The study team will
      also enter data from participants' medical records at all time intervals. Because of the
      COVID-19 outbreak, at the time of this writing (07/25/2020), all follow-up visits will occur
      remotely/electronically, using HIPAA-compliant software + data bases, and/or by phone.

      Data from the entire cohort will be compared in aggregate with patients who were started on
      BUP in the ED over the same time period and with historic controls.
    
  