
    
      In 2003, the first geriatric diabetes care guidelines were published that encouraged older
      patients and their providers to consider less intensive glucose control goals (HbA1C <8%)
      among frail, older patients with limited life expectancy, while continuing to pursue
      intensive glucose control (HbA1C <7%) among relatively healthy older patients. The guidelines
      also emphasized the importance of cardiovascular prevention, encouraged routine screening for
      geriatric syndromes that can influence treatment decisions (i.e., polypharmacy and falls),
      and advised providers to acknowledge patients' preferences when making treatment decisions.

      These guidelines represent a conceptual advance in the care of older diabetes patients;
      however, there has been little effort to implement and evaluate these recommendations in a
      practice setting. This may be partially due to the fact that many of the recommendations are
      difficult to carry out in busy clinical practices without sophisticated decision support
      tools. Determining whether an older patient will benefit from intensive glucose control is a
      complex cognitive task requiring simultaneous consideration of multiple, sometimes
      contradictory, clinical criteria (e.g. advanced duration of diabetes and limited life
      expectancy). Completing this task accurately may only be possible with computer simulation
      models.

      Along with this barrier to implementing care guidelines, there is also no consensus on how to
      elicit patient preferences in the setting of chronic disease management or how to account for
      these views in the decision-making process. To overcome these challenges, we developed a
      web-based Geriatric Diabetes Decision Aid (GDDA) which combines a decision analytic model of
      diabetes complications with the latest prognostic tools from geriatrics.

      This personalized decision support tool will encourage the individualization of diabetes care
      among older patients by educating patients on diabetes, delivering prognostic information to
      providers, providing personalized data on the risks and benefits of diabetes care to patients
      and providers, and eliciting the treatment preferences of patients. In this proposed set of
      studies, we developed the GDDA with the input of patients and providers and assessed its
      impact through individual interviews.

      The findings from this series of studies will be important for establishing the feasibility
      of using the GDDA in practice, and providing estimates of the intervention's effect on
      processes of care for power calculations for a future large scale randomized controlled
      trial. This pilot randomized controlled trial will be one of the first trials to formally
      examine new care recommendations for the growing population of older patients living with
      diabetes.
    
  