
    
      Objective The overall objective of the project is to evaluate the clinical efficacy of the
      use of a bone substitute material in reconstructive surgical therapy of
      peri-implantitis-associated osseous defects.

      Hypothesis: The use of a bone substitute material in reconstructive therapy of
      peri-implantitis increases the likelihood to achieve treatment success.

      Relevance for clinical practice The project will provide significant contribution to the
      understanding of outcomes using reconstructive procedures in treatment of peri-implantitis.

      Study population, design and treatment procedures The project will be conducted as a
      two-armed randomized controlled clinical trial of 5-year duration in 7 clinical centers. 140
      systemically healthy patients with implants ≥1 year in function and diagnosed with advanced
      peri-implantitis at ≥1 implants will be enrolled.

      Inclusion criteria Age ≥ 18 years

      ≥1 implant (≥1 year of function) presenting with PPD ≥7 mm and BoP/Pus. Confirmed bone loss
      ≥3 mm at same implant(s)

      Exclusion criteria Treated for peri-implantitis during previous 6 months Intake of systemic
      or local antibiotics during previous 6 months Systemic conditions affecting peri-implant
      tissues Systemic conditions impeding surgical intervention

      Surgical procedures Surgical procedures will be performed one month after a baseline
      examination and initiation of plaque control. Three days before surgery a 10-day systemic
      antibiotic regimen will be initiated. Full thickness flaps will be elevated and inflamed
      tissues will be removed. The implant surfaces will be cleaned with mini-gauze soaked in
      saline. The osseous defect should be ≤4 mm wide and >3 mm deep. The defect should in addition
      to the mesial and distal bone walls preferably exhibit at least a lingual or a buccal bone
      wall. The randomly assigned treatment strategy, stratified for smoking, will be revealed
      after debridement. Test procedure: The defect will be filled with Bio-Oss Collagen® and the
      flaps will be sutured to their previous position. Control procedure: Flaps will be sutured to
      their previous position. Sutures will be removed 2 weeks after treatment, followed by a
      6-week control. Clinical examinations will be performed at 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months
      after therapy. Maintenance therapy will be provided based on individual needs.

      Clinical assessments One calibrated examiner in each clinical center will perform the
      assessments. The following variables will be assessed at four sites around the implant:
      Plaque, probing pocket depth (PPD), bleeding on probing (BoP), probing attachment level (PAL)
      and recession (REC).

      Treatment success Treatment success will be defined as the absence of BoP/Pus, PPD ≤5 mm and
      ≤1 mm recession. Peri-implant sites showing BoP and PPD ≥6 mm at re-examination will be
      scheduled for further treatment. Patient-related outcome variables will be assessed at
      baseline and follow-up and include esthetic and functional appreciation, pain or discomfort.

      Radiographic assessments Intra-oral radiographs will be obtained prior to surgery (baseline)
      and at 1-, 3- and 5-year re-examinations. Analysis of radiographs will be performed by
      specialists in oral-maxillofacial radiology. The examiners will be blinded to treatment
      procedures. The assessment will include defect fill and crestal bone support.

      Power calculation A total of 122 patients (61 per group) will provide a power of 80% with
      alpha set at 0.05 to detect a difference of 1 mm in mean PPD change between groups, given a
      SD of 1.97 (Carcuac et al., 2016). 140 individuals will be included to compensate for
      drop-out.

      Data analysis Mean changes for the various variables and the proportion of sites fulfilling
      the criteria for treatment success will be calculated. A multilevel model with the clinical
      center as the highest level and the implant as the lowest will be built to test the influence
      of measured factors on the outcomes and to compensate for potential clustering of data. Data
      analysis including multilevel modeling will be conducted in collaboration with a
      biostatistician.

      Schedule of investigational events

        1. Screening and identification of subjects.

        2. Baseline clinical examination of implants selected for the study. Case presentation and
           reinforcement of self-performed plaque control. Assessment of PROM. Professional
           mechanical infection control.

        3. Radiographic examination prior to surgical therapy (within 4 weeks).

        4. Surgical therapy including test and control treatment procedures at study sites.

        5. 2 weeks - suture removal. Assessment of PROM.

        6. 6 weeks - professional supra-mucosal cleaning and reinforcement of oral hygiene.

        7. 6 months - clinical examination.

        8. 12 months - clinical and radiological examination. Assessment of PROM.

        9. 24 months - clinical examination.

       10. 36 months - clinical and radiological examination. Assessment of PROM.

       11. 48 months - clinical examination.

       12. 60 months - clinical and radiological examination. Assessment of PROM.
    
  