
    
      At Centro Hospitalar do Porto it is routinely used burr hole craniostomy with subdural drains
      and 48 hours of bed rest for the surgical treatment of chronic subdural hematomas. After 48
      hours the subdural drains are removed and the patient is allowed to mobilize for the first
      time.

      The aim of the present study is to conduct a prospective, randomized, controlled trial with
      an early mobilization protocol vs 48 hours bed rest to determine the best strategy to reduce
      postoperative complications and improve functional outcomes.

      There will be 2 groups:

        -  Control group: bed rest 48 hours post-surgery with removal of subdural drains after this
           period.

        -  Intervention group: Early mobilization protocol: as early mobilization as possible,
           within a maximum of 12 hours following surgery, with progressive autonomization in the
           ward as tolerated by the patient. Mobilization time will be recorded. At the time of
           assuming an upright position the drains will be closed and will only be open again when
           the patient is in supine position (8 hours per day of supine position). Subdural drains
           will be removed after 48 hours, similar to the practice in the control group.

      Primary End-Point:

      • Number of medical complications. Medical complication is defined as any occurrence which
      merits additional tests or, preferentially, requires any form of medical treatment. This
      includes respiratory infections, urinary infections, wound infections, meningitis, deep vein
      thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, cerebral infarction or hemorrhage, syncope, among others.

      Secondary End-Points:

        -  Recurrence rates. A recurrence is defined as any chronic subdural hematoma ipsilateral
           to that of the original hematoma if a surgical strategy needs to be pursued.

        -  Functional status (using both GOS-E and mRS). Timeframes considered will be
           pre-operative functional status, functional status at discharge, functional status at 3
           months post-operative.

        -  Mortality rates.

        -  Recurrence free survival.

        -  Time to discharge.
    
  