
    
      Owing to the lots of challenges that facing the use of recombinant growth factors in
      periodontal therapy, it is important to look for an alternative that combine ease of
      preparation and physiologic mode of delivery. Platelet concentrate has been developed for
      this purpose with many debates about the duration of GF availability in the defect area.
      Platelet-rich fibrin (PRF) is a leucocyte- and platelet-rich fibrin biomaterial. This dense
      fibrin membrane was claimed to releases high quantities of three main growth factors
      (Transforming Growth Factor b-1 (TGFβ-1), platelet derived growth factor AB, PDGF-AB;
      vascular endothelial growth factor, VEGF) and an important coagulation matricellular
      glycoprotein (thrombospondin-1, TSP-1). It has a natural fibrin framework that can protect
      growth factors from proteolysis. It is shown that PRF can release growth factors gradually
      and keep their activity to a relatively long period compared with platelet rich plasma (PRP).
      Levels of released TGF-1 and PDGF-AB markedly increased and reached the highest amount at day
      , then decreased mildly. In contrast, PRP experienced uncontrollable and short-term release
      of TGF-1 and PDGF-AB, which reached the highest amount at day 1 and then decreased
      rapidly.Clinically, it was found that PRF can improve clinical parameters associated with
      human intrabony periodontal defects and BPBM (bovine porous bone mineral) has the ability to
      augment effects of PRF in reducing pocket depth, improving clinical attachments levels, and
      promoting defect fill. On the other hand studies reported similar PD (probing depth)
      reduction, CAL (clinical attachment level) gain, and bone fill at sites treated with PRF or
      PRP compared with conventional open flap debridement.

      Preparation rich in growth factors (PRGF-Endoret) technology was claimed to circumvent many
      of the limitations of other reported platelet-rich preparations. Sodium citrate and calcium
      chloride are used as an anticoagulant and a clot activator, respectively. Addition of calcium
      chloride promotes the formation of native thrombin, mimicking the physiological clotting
      process and enabling a more sustained release of growth factors, which might be crucial to
      proper tissue repair and wound healing. Moreover, this procedure obviates immunological
      reactions and the risk of disease transmission associated with the use of exogenous bovine
      thrombin. Anitua et al reported that PRGF contains a moderately elevated platelet
      concentration of ~6x105 platelets, which has been reported to induce the optimal biological
      benefit. Lower platelet concentrations can lead to suboptimal effects, whereas higher
      concentrations might have an inhibitory effect. PRGF application after extraction improved
      the healing process in diabetic patients by accelerating socket closure (epithelialization)
      and tissue maturation, proving the association between PRGF use and improved wound healing in
      diabetic patients.

      In the present study it was proposed that the opened, constantly contaminated nature
      periodontal defects could be a source of continuous catabolic bacterial and tissue enzymes
      and binding proteins that affect platelet concentrate contained GF availability and activity.
      To confirm this assumption, this study was designed to evaluate levels of platelet derived
      growth factor - BB (PDGF-BB) and vascular endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF) in GCF during
      the early stages of healing for sites treated with PRF and PRGF in intrabony periodontal
      defects and to correlate GF levels with the clinical findings. This could figure out the
      potentials of these 2 commonly used platelet concentrate in the periodontal defects ecology.
    
  