
    
      This is a randomised prospective control trial. Patients with these fractures will normally
      first come to the Emergency Department (ED), where they have a foot radiograph confirming a
      fracture, and initial treatment only. This treatment is arbitrary, depends on the assessing
      clinician preference and usually varies from supportive tight bandage or a supportive plaster
      cast with crutches. All of these patients are normally referred to an orthopaedic fracture
      clinic. It is an orthopaedic trauma clinician in the fracture clinic who determines and takes
      the responsibility for the definitive management of patients with this injuries and may
      decide to change the treatment initiated by the ED staff.

      The investigators will inform clinical staff in the ED of the trial.The investigators will
      provide ED clinicians with patient information sheets. Patients who have this information
      sheet provided by the ED will have between a few hours and more than 24 hours "cool off"
      period to consider the information depending on next fracture clinic availability. Then they
      will be recruited in the fracture clinic should they wish to participate. The investigators
      must stress, however, that due to the nature of the ED service - high staff turn around, time
      pressure and other reasons beyond our control it is not possible to guarantee that all
      patients with relevant injuries will receive an information sheet in ED and have this "cool
      off" period to consider participation in. In such situations patients will be offered the
      information sheet, counselled and recruited, if they wish to, on their first presentation to
      the fracture clinic. The investigators believe that due to practical issues related to ED
      service this will be the likely situation for a significant proportion of patients. The
      investigators think this is an unavoidable situation.

      Patients will be recruited on their first presentation to a fracture clinic should they
      consent. Using centralised electronic remote randomisation method patients will be allocated
      either to group A(symptomatic treatment)- double tubigrip and crutches with recommendation to
      weight bear as comfortable in normal footwear, or group B (active treatment) - below knee
      walking plaster cast with crutches and recommendation to weight bear as comfortable. This
      means that for many patients the initial treatment they received in ED will be changed but
      this often happens in normal current practice. Two treatment modes used in our study -
      supportive bandage and walking cast are the ones most commonly used normally. Patients
      declining to participate in the study will be treated and followed up according to patient
      and treating clinician preference and this also reflects the current practice. This study
      therefore deviates little from the current common practice. Patients in group B will be
      evaluated for venous thrombo-embolism (VTE) risk according to Sheffield Teaching Hospitals
      NHS Foundation Trust policy. Those whose risk is high will be offered anti-thrombotic
      prophylaxis according to the Trust policy for the duration of cast immobilization (4 weeks).
      Those patients will be counselled on benefits and risks of anti-thrombotic prophylaxis. On
      the whole we do not anticipate many patients to require anti-thrombotic prophylaxis.

      Outcome measures: Primary outcome - foot functional outcome. We will use a Visual
      -Analogue-Scale Foot and Ankle (VAS FA) score. This is the only validated functional foot and
      ankle score. Secondary outcome - A) Health status and functional outcome, - Euroqol (EQ- 5D)
      - a standardised instrument for use as a measure of a health outcome and B) - foot function -
      American Foot and Ankle Society Foot and Ankle functional (AOFAS) score. This foot and ankle
      score is not validated, but most frequently used in the research literature. Additional
      outcomes will be records of unexpected return with the same problem, change of treatment
      modality, re-injury of the same foot and complications of treatment. The investigators will
      evaluate outcomes at four time points. Firstly, patients will complete baseline VAS FA,
      AOFAS, and EQ-5D questinnaires providing the level of functional impairment/disability prior
      to treatment. Patients in both groups will be seen in clinic at 4 weeks - at this stage cast
      will be removed in group B. At this point VAS FA, AOFAS, and EQ-5D questionnaires will be
      filled by patients in both groups in clinic. To see whether method of treatment has an effect
      in longer prospective the investigators will evaluate outcomes at 3 and 6 months. We
      anticipate that by this time fractures will heal uneventfully in the vast majority of
      patients . We believe that majority of patients is unlikely to return to clinic after such a
      long time. For this reason the investigators will post questionnaires to patients in both
      groups to be filled at home and posted back to us in confidential prepaid envelopes one week
      before their respective 3 and 6 month follow up. If a patient will decide to withdraw, or we
      have no response, - no further attempts to contact will be made. The investigators believe
      that this will save unnecessary follow up appointments, and also yield more results. In case
      of any problems all patients will be able to return to a fracture clinic for a help. The
      investigators will ask all patients in both groups to stop using crutches whenever they feel
      like to.
    
  