
    
      Participants and Clinical Examinations: Unscreened, non-pregnant women 35-65 years of age are
      enrolled at three closely located clinical sites in Khayelitsha, South Africa. All women
      provide informed consent, receive counseling for confidential HIV serotesting, a
      questionnaire, a pregnancy test if not postmenopausal, anonymous HIV serotesting, and a
      vaginal speculum examination by nurses trained in visual inspection of the cervix with acetic
      acid (VIA). Cervical specimens are obtained for testing for N. gonorrhea, Chlamydia
      trachomatis and high-risk types of HPV, and cytology. The cervix is washed with 5% acetic
      acid and inspected for gross abnormalities or areas of acetowhitening and a 35 mm. photograph
      taken. Women with significant cervicitis or vulvovaginitis are treated using the syndromic
      approach. N. gonorrhea or Chlamydia trachomatis positive women receive appropriate therapy. A
      positive VIA examination is defined as any acetowhite lesion and no attempt is made to
      differentiate the acetowhitening of metaplasia from CIN. Women with lesions suspicious for
      cancer, large acetowhite lesions extending over 70% of the cervix or into endocervical canal,
      and 374 unsuitable for cryotherapy due to severe atrophy, polyps, cervix distorted, cervix
      not adequately visualized are excluded. These women are referred to colposcopy.

      Women are asked to return 2-6 days later for randomization to either: (1) HPV arm in which
      all HPV DNA positive women receive cryotherapy; (2) VIA arm in which all VIA positive women
      receive cryotherapy; and (3) a delayed evaluation arm in which women are followed untreated,
      irrespective of HPV or VIA status. Randomization is done at a patient level using a
      computer-generated randomization schedule with arm assignments provided to the clinics in
      sealed envelopes. Cryotherapy is performed by a nurse using N2O and a cryosurgical unit
      (Wallach Surgical Devices, Orange, CT) using two 3-minute freezes. Cytology results are not
      available at the time of cryotherapy. Both treated and untreated women are asked to return at
      4 weeks for a questionnaire.

      At 6 months, colposcopy is done by a physician blinded to arm and clinical information. All
      acetowhite lesions are biopsied and all have an endocervical curettage. Women with CIN 2+ are
      treated with LEEP. Examinations in women who became pregnant during the study are postponed
      until three months post-partum. Blood for anonymous HIV serotesting is obtained. All women
      who were HPV or VIA-positive at enrollment and a subset who were HPV and VIA-negative (all
      women enrolled in 2002) are scheduled for repeat colposcopy at 12 months, 24 months and 36
      months post-randomization. At these visits, cervical samples are collected and colposcopy and
      biopsy if indicated is performed.

      Laboratory Testing: HPV testing is done using the Hybrid Capture 2 HPV DNA assay and
      high-risk probe mixture (Digene Corporation, Gaithersburg, MD) at the University of Cape
      Town. Biopsies are processed at Columbia University and blindly evaluated by a single
      pathologist.
    
  