
    
      PROJECT DESCRIPTION

      Background/introduction:

      Removing all or part of the thyroid gland by surgery, has routinely been used for more than
      100 years for the treatment of patients with benign as well as malignant thyroid disease. It
      is generally accepted that quality of life is improved three-to-six months after surgery
      (Mishra, Sabaretnam et al. 2013) (Sorensen, Watt et al. 2017) (Watt, Cramon et al. 2014).
      However, in the days and weeks following thyroid surgery, patients often experience muscle
      pain and stiffness of the neck and shoulders (Yuuki Takumara 2005). In addition, 2-4 weeks
      postoperatively voice discomfort symptoms can be pronounced, and although short-termed and
      passing, patients experience a decreased quality of life (Sorensen, Printz et al. 2019)
      (Vicente, Solomon et al. 2014) (Ryu, Ryu et al. 2013). The accumulation of such symptoms in
      the weeks just after surgery may reduce quality of live significantly. Therefore, any
      rehabilitative interventions which may reduce discomfort are highly relevant.

      A limited number of randomized trials have investigated the effect of early postoperative
      rehabilitative measures such as neck stretching. Rehabilitation with stretching exercises is
      found to reduce neck pain, neck stiffness, and the need for postoperative pain relief
      medication (Yuuki Takumara 2005) (Hatice Ayhan 2016). No study has examined the effect of
      neck stretching exercises on short term quality of life improvements in relation to voice
      function despite many of the neck muscles are used for voice production. The same goes for
      the impact of neck stretching exercises on short term quality of life improvements in
      relation to neck pain.

      Objective/Purpose The objective is to examine the effect of neck stretching exercises
      performed shortly after hemi- and total thyroidectomy on short term quality of life in
      relation to subjective voice function and neck pain in the first four weeks after surgery.

      Study population In-hospital patients with benign thyroid disease having undergone thyroid
      surgery at the Department of Otorhinolaryngology (ORL) - Head & Neck Surgery, Odense
      University Hospital.

      Study Design and patient recruitment Patients will be recruited for this randomized
      controlled clinical study the day after surgery. Participants are randomized into two groups
      using a randomization scheme according to whether the surgery is performed in a week with an
      even or uneven number (e.g. week number 42 or 43 within a given year). A designated person
      with no impact on the decision of surgical procedure will handle the randomization and
      recruitment (the project owner).

      The patients are randomized to either intervention with nine specific and carefully selected
      neck stretching and mobility exercises or to the control group without any intervention.

      Before discharge, both groups are instructed to perform either stretching exercises or to no
      intervention, respectively, the four postoperative weeks. A follow-up phone call will be made
      approximately one week after discharge to ensure patient adherence.

      Methods The effect will be examined for both the intervention group and control group through
      an electronic questionnaire comprising three parts (see below) with focus on short term
      quality of life, subjective voice function, and neck pain, respectively. A baseline status
      will be made by the patient at enrollment on the first postoperative day, by recalling the
      four weeks prior to surgery.

      The questionnaires will be answered a total of three times during the 4 weeks postoperative
      period. The questionnaires will be delivered by a secure email system one week, two weeks,
      four weeks and three months after surgery. Futhermore, every patient in both groups will take
      a blood sample four weeks postoperative to examine the level of TSH (thyroid-stimulating
      hormone).

      Randomization groups (see "arms")

        1. Intervention Group: Neck stretching

        2. Control group: No intervention

      Questionnaires

        1. Thyroid-Related Patient-Reported Outcome (ThyPRO-39) ThyPRO is a patient-reported
           outcome covering Quality of Life symptoms specifically validated for patients with
           benign thyroid diseases, including patients undergoing thyroidectomy. The ThyPRO
           consists of 39 items and is rated by the patient on a Likert scale from 0-4 with 0 = no
           symptoms/problems and 4 = Severe symptoms/problems (Watt, Bjorner et al. 2015).

        2. Numeric Rating Scale (NRS Pain Score) The Numerical Rating Scale is a pain assessment
           tool by which the patient is asked to rate their pain on a scale between 0 and 10 (0
           represents "no pain" and 10 represents "the worst pain ever possible") (Haefeli and
           Elfering 2006)

        3. Voice handicap Index 10 The Voice Handicap Index-10 (VHI-10) is a scale designed to
           focus on the patients' self-perception of their voice disorders. The VHI-10 is a list of
           ten statements, each of which is evaluated by the patient on a five-point Likert like
           scale (0-4 points) in relation to the frequency of their experienced voice symptoms
           (never, almost never, sometimes, almost always, always) (Michael S. Benninger 1998).

        4. European Quality Of Life (EQ-5D) The EQ-5D is a standardized non-disease specific
           instrument to describe and value health-related quality of life. The questionnaire
           consists of five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and
           anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate
           problems, severe problems and extreme problems. Futhermore, it ends with a vertical
           visual analogue scale, where the endpoints are labelled 'The best health you can
           imagine' and 'The worst health you can imagine from 0 to 100. (Foundation 2020, June 09)
    
  