
    
      -  Postpartum hemorrhage was traditionally defined as blood loss in excess of 500 mL from a
           vaginal delivery or 1000 mL at cesarean section. It can result from uterine atony,
           retained placental tissue including that from abnormal placentation, maternal genital
           tract trauma and coagulopathies. (Almog et al, 2011)

        -  Uterotonic agents (e.g. ergometrine, misoprostol) should be easily accessible. Many
           units of an oxytocin infusion and/or rectal misoprostol during and after cesarean
           deliveries used to reduce the incidence of atony. -Misoprostol has been widely
           recommended for the prevention of post-partum hemorrhage when other methods are not
           available. The most common regimen reported for the treatment of post-partum hemorrhage
           is rectally. (Oladapo et al., 2012)

        -  Misoprostol is a prostaglandin E1 analogue. It has been investigated in the prevention
           of postpartum hemorrhage, using either the oral or rectal route of administration.
           (Hofmeyr et al, 2009)

        -  Carbetocin is a long-acting oxytocin studied by Dansereau et al.; 1999.They found that
           the carbetocin group of patients had a decreased incidence of PPH and of the need for
           therapeutic oxytocics. The recommended dose of carbetocin is 100 mg given either IM or
           slowly (over 1 minute).

        -  Risk factors may present antenatally or intrapartum; care plans must be modified when
           risk factors present. Clinicians must be aware of risk factors for PPH and should take
           these into account for the wellbeing and safety of both the mother and the baby.RCOG
           GUIDLIN Table 1: Risk factors for PPH

             -  Suspected or proven placental abruption

             -  Known placenta praevia

             -  Multiple pregnancy

             -  Pre-eclampsia/gestational hypertension

             -  Previous PPH .

             -  Obesity (BMI >35)

             -  Anaemia (<9 g/dl)

             -  Delivery by elective caesarean section

             -  Induction of labour

             -  Retained placenta Tissue

             -  Prolonged labour (> 12 hours) .

             -  Big baby (> 4 kg) Royal College of Obstetrics and Gynecology.Green-top Guideline
                No. 52 May 2009 Minor revisions November 2009 and April 2011. Prevention and
                Management of Postpartum Hemorrhage. Thus our aim is to compare the effeciency and
                cost effectiveness of Carbitocin and Misoprostol in patients at high risk of PPH
                after C.S. in prevention of PPH.
    
  