
    
      Process The physiotherapist responsible for programs group to treat chronic back pain (
      "Back-pain Protocol") will be contacted. The study will be explained and material and
      training will be provided to carry out the TNE session.

      Subsequently, participants who meet the inclusion criteria will be detected and assigned to
      the intervention group or to the control group after a randomisation process.

      At the end of the first session that is currently taking place in the programs to treat
      chronic back pain in groups, the physiotherapist will explain the study and will ask them to
      collaborate. The information sheet will be provided. Those who decide to participate will
      receive an informed consent and some questionnaires to complete: the Numeric Pain Rating
      Scale (NPRS) to assess their degree of pain, the Central Sensitization Inventory, the Pain
      Catastrophic Scale (Spanish version), the Tampa Kinesiofobia Scale (TSK) "and EuroQol-5D
      Cuetionario.

      Interventions The protocol that is currently carried out consists of five sessions spread
      over a month and a half. Patients come in two groups of 10 people each day, with a duration
      of one hour, in the Rehabilitation classroom.

      The first session, which consists of an informative talk. The physiotherapist provides
      information and explanations about the "back pain protocol". The physiotherapist explains the
      problems of attitude and gestures that can benefit or harm their treatment, their activities
      of daily life, their work and the performance of sports activities.

      In the second, third and fourth sessions, participants learn to do specific exercises for
      back pain. Patients receive a booklet with the exercises and postures to adopt in the habits
      of daily life.

      In the fifth and final session, a final review of everything learned is done and the final
      evaluation is requested (the Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) to assess their degree of pain,
      the Central Sensitization Inventory, the Catastrophism Scale of the Pain (Spanish version),
      the Tampa Kinesiofobia Scale (TSK) "and EuroQol-5D Cuetionario).

      Treatment. This study proposes that only participants assigned to the intervention group will
      also receive an additional session of patient education about Therapeutic Neuroscience
      Education (TNE)

      The duration of this session will be one hour and will be carried out the day after the first
      informative session of the current protocol, in an additional session. In addition, they will
      be provided with information to read and review at home. Only patients who have been randomly
      assigned to the intervention group will attend this session.

      This intervention aims to provide information in a clear and simple way to the participants
      so that through it the patients can modify their attitude towards pain, inviting them to
      assume a more active and less contemplative role. The physiotherapist will explain in a
      simple way to the participants that chronic pain is not always the result of tissue damage.
      Neuroscience has shown that it is possible to have persistent pain without damaging the
      tissues or with damage that justifies the perception of the disproportion of pain. In
      addition, the physiotherapist will explain the difference between acute pain and chronic
      pain, central sensitization processes (CS) and endogenous pain control mechanisms. The
      physiotherapist will talk about how thoughts, beliefs and emotions modify the painful
      experience and how the erroneous information received, and sometimes iatrogenic, modifies the
      mechanisms of pain processing. The contents of talks on education in neuroscience are based
      on the book Explain Pain.
    
  