
    
      Total shoulder arthroplasty is successful in relieving pain and restoring function to the
      joint, but chronic loosening of the glenoid implant remains a common complication. The Zimmer
      Trabecular Metal (TM) Glenoid is a monoblock implant for reconstructive total shoulder
      arthroplasty. To date, no published clinical data is available to confirm evidence on the
      effectiveness of this specific product.

      The purpose of this prospective study is to obtain both short and long-term clinical outcomes
      data on the Zimmer TM Glenoid by analysis of standard scoring systems and radiographic
      analysis. The TM Glenoid Component is intended to function within Zimmer, Inc.'s
      Bigliani/Flatow (B/F) Complete Shoulder Solution. The device is a monoblock glenoid component
      comprised of a Trabecular Metal base, and is designed to interface and articulate with
      Zimmer, Inc.'s B/F humeral components. The Trabecular Metal Glenoid is designed with an
      articular surface that is manufactured from ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene
      (UHMWPE). The base of the implant has a cruciate TM keel that provides stability and initial
      fixation using a press-fit between the implant and the bone. Long-term fixation is provided
      by biological ingrowth into the TM material. Surgical fixation of the trabecular metal device
      will be obtained via press-fit. Surgical fixation of the comparison all-polyethylene glenoid
      component will be with Palacos/CoPal bone cement

      This is a multi-centre, randomized controlled study to evaluate the clinical and radiological
      performance of the TM Glenoid in a series of patients with adequate glenoid bone stock
      receiving a total shoulder replacement. The comparison group will be a consecutive series of
      randomized patients with implanted cemented all-polyethylene glenoid component. This study
      will be descriptive in nature and seeks to demonstrate the superiority (or non-inferiority)
      of the TM Glenoid over cemented all-polyethylene glenoid components.
    
  