
    
      This is a cluster randomized controlled trial. In the long-term care (LTC) setting, more
      research is needed on how health care professionals can be kept up to date on the latest
      medical evidence for providing care to elderly residents. The LTC environment differs from
      other health care settings. We need to examine what types of strategies can be used to
      effectively educate LTC physicians, nurses, and other care professionals about the best care
      practices.

      In this study, we will deliver and evaluate a multi-component educational strategy that
      builds on research in LTC by our team. In order to evaluate its success, 20 homes will
      receive the intervention and 20 homes will receive usual care. In the intervention homes, a
      team of experts will give educational sessions at the LTC home, delivering key messages about
      "best practices", helping LTC professionals to plan changes for delivering better care,
      giving feedback about performance, and providing materials (e.g., DVD, treatment plans). We
      will also train a professional in the home to "champion" the cause after the experts are
      gone.

      The specific "best practices" topic we have chosen to test our model is osteoporosis and
      fractures. These conditions are very common in the elderly living in LTC and negatively
      impact quality of life. For example, an individual with a hip or other fracture may
      experience unnecessary pain and suffering and even pre-mature death. There are effective
      treatments that can be used to reduce fractures, including vitamin D, which is a low-cost,
      well-tolerated and easy treatment to deliver. Unfortunately our previous studies have shown
      that most LTC residents are not receiving effective fracture-prevention treatments. To
      determine our intervention's success, we will examine whether the rate of vitamin D use and
      other treatments increases, and whether fewer LTC residents fall and fracture. We are also
      interested in studying the strategy's format and feasibility and what future changes should
      be made.
    
  