
    
      Aim 1: To recruit 150 subjects with advanced cancer admitted to the inpatient oncology ward
      with an overall prognosis of one year or less and randomly assign these subjects to:

        1. a video visually depicting CPR preferences or

        2. the current standard of care without the use of video (control).

      Hypothesis 1: It is feasible to recruit and randomize 150 hospitalized subjects with advanced
      cancer and an overall prognosis of one year or less.

      Aim 2: To compare the care preferences for CPR and intubation among subjects randomized to
      video and subjects randomized to the current standard of care without the video.

      Hypothesis 2: Subjects randomized to the video intervention will be significantly more likely
      to opt against CPR and intubation compared to those who do not see the video.

      Aim 3: To compare code-status documentation in the electronic medical records between
      subjects randomized to the video and those who are receiving the current standard of care
      without the video.

      Hypothesis 3: Subjects randomized to the video are more likely to have their code status
      documented in the electronic medical records compared to those who do not see the video.

      Aim 4: To compare the decisional conflict of subjects randomized to video and subjects
      randomized to the current standard of care without the video.

      Hypothesis 4: When compared to subjects randomized to the current standard of care, subjects
      in the video intervention group will have lower decisional conflict (lower decisional
      conflict scores) when asked to choose CPR and intubation preferences.

      Aim 5: To compare knowledge assessment of CPR of subjects randomized to video and subjects
      randomized to current standard of care without the video.

      Hypothesis 5: When compared to subjects randomized to the current standard of care, subjects
      in the video intervention group will have higher knowledge assessment scores when asked
      questions regarding their understanding of CPR.

      Aim 6: To compare code-status (CPR, and intubation) preferences in the electronic medical
      record on future hospitalizations up to one year post-hospital discharge of subjects
      randomized to video and subjects randomized to current standard of care without the video.

      Hypothesis 6: Subjects randomized to the video are more likely to opt against CPR and
      intubation in the future compared to those who do not see the video.
    
  