
    
      Design: This is an open-label, observational, prospective, 9-month follow-up study to assess
      the efficacy of ofatumumab on microglia pathology in patients with MS, as measured by changes
      in microglial activation in the lesional and non-lesional, normal appearing white matter,
      cortical and subcortical grey matter, and peri-plaque area of chronic lesions in the brain.

      Initial Visit:

      During the first visit, subjects will be adminsitered the screening questionnaire (if that
      has not already been done over telephone). Subjects will review and eventually sign the
      consent form. They will be administered a physical examination, clinical assessment and
      standardized questionnaires for cognitive testing and/or other co-morbidities. In addition,
      blood samples will be drawn for genotype testing, infection screening, complete blood count
      and liver function test.

      Demographics, physical examinations and neurologic assessments will be conducted at Partners
      MS Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 60 Fenwood Road, Boston, MA 02115.

      Genotype Testing:

      Blood sample drawn on the initial screening visit will be used to obtain genomic DNA for
      genotyping for polymorphism within the TSPO gene on chromosome 22q13.2, using a Taqman assay.
      High affinity and medium affinity binders will be included in the study, whereas low affinity
      binders will be excluded from the study.

      PET Scanning:

      For this study, all subjects will undergo five separate visits for [F-18]PBR06 PET scans, one
      visit before starting Ofatumumab treatment (day 0 baseline) and four more visits at
      approximately 5, 28, 90 and 273 days after initiating treatment. During the PET scan visits,
      all women subjects of child bearing age will undergo a stat quantitative serum hCG pregnancy
      test and only women with a negative test will undergo the radiopharmaceutical injection. The
      radiotracers will be produced using standardized procedures. At the time of imaging, the
      subjects will be positioned in the gantry of a high-resolution PET/CT camera. Head alignment
      will be made, relative to the canthomeatal line, using projected laser lines whose positions
      are known with respect to the slice positions of the scanner. A head support apparatus will
      be used to minimize head motion. Dynamic data over 120 minutes for PET quantification will be
      acquired, according to previously described methods for the tracer.

      MRI Scanning:

      All subjects will undergo five 3T brain MRIs with and without contrast, one before starting
      Ofatumumab treatment (day 0 baseline) and four more at 5, 28, 90 and 273 days after
      initiating treatment. MRI visits may precede or follow the PET scan visits within 2-3 days of
      each other. All women will be queried about their pregnancy status, use of contraception and
      last menstrual period. If a woman is of child bearing potential, she will undergo a urine
      pregnancy test. Subjects will undergo intravenous gadolinium contrast administration, during
      all visits. Hence, all women of child bearing potential will undergo urine pregnancy testing
      for this study.

      Clinical Follow-up Visits:

      Subjects will come in for five clinical visits, one visit before starting Ofatumumab
      treatment (day 0 baseline) and four more visits at 5, 28, 90 and 273 days after initiating
      treatment. However, if the patient meets all inclusion criteria at the screening visit, the
      screening and baseline visits may occur on the same day. During these visits, subjects will
      undergo a physical examination, clinical assessment and cognitive assessment using the
      measures outlined in section e of Study Procedures. A blood sample will be drawn to determine
      levels of sNfL, GFAP and other serum biomarkers. Visits will be conducted under the
      supervision of PI and other board-certified neurologists. Any adverse event reported by the
      patient or observed by the investigator will be recorded and reviewed at each clinical visit.

      Clinical Data:

      The following non-imaging, clinical data will be obtained:

      Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS), Timed 25-feet walk (T25W), 9-Hole Peg Test (9HPT),
      Four component MS Functional Composite (MSFC-4), Symbol-Digit Modality test (SDMT), cognitive
      and symptom questionnaires, vision testing, Levels of serum biomarkers.

      Clinical Safety Monitoring:

      Safety will be assessed at 0, 3, 6, and 9 months of the study including:

        -  Pregnancy Testing: All women of childbearing potential will undergo a serum pregnancy
           test at the screening visit and at each of the following scheduled visits to the
           hospital. The investigator will also review the contraception status of subjects at each
           visit.

        -  Electrocardiogram (ECG): An ECG will be performed either at the screening visit or on
           day 0 clinical visit and at the end of the study.

        -  Routine labs: Blood samples will be collected at the screening visit and at each visit
           time point. Blood samples will be assessed for red blood cell count, hemoglobin,
           hematocrit, platelets, total white blood cell (WBC) count and WBC differential counts
           (neutrophils, lymphocytes, basophils, eosinophils, monocytes) as well as for
           electrolytes (Na, K, Cl, bicarbonate, Ca, Mg, P), random glucose, total protein, blood
           urea nitrogen, albumin, alkaline phosphatase, ALT, AST, GGT, total bilirubin, conjugated
           bilirubin, creatinine, amylase, , C-Reactive protein.

        -  Samples for total IgM and IgG levels at baseline, 3, 6 and 9 months

        -  Patient diary review

        -  Monthly telephone interview

      Drug Administration/Dosing:

      At the end of the baseline clinic visit, subjects will be instructed by one of the
      investigators on proper drug administration technique. The first injection of ofatumumab will
      be performed under the guidance of an appropriately trained healthcare professional in the
      clinical space at the Partners MS Center.
    
  