
    
      Pain continues to be a major problem in patients with cancer, affecting 25% to 30% of
      patients with recently diagnosed cancers. The incidence of pain in advanced stages of cancer
      approaches 70% to 80%. There are a number of reasons that patients with cancer experience
      chronic pain either related to the disease itself or to its treatment.

      Cancer can spread by metastasis or direct invasion, and 90% of patients with metastasis to
      osseous structures report pain. Patients with cancer can have neuropathic pain due to direct
      compression of nerves or plexus or spinal cord involvement.

      Inadequate treatment and undertreatment are associated with increased pain scores, decreased
      functional ability, and increased depression and anxiety.

      Opioid administration though proven to be effective still meets with resistance from both
      healthcare operators, who are seldom willing to prescribe these drugs, and patients, who tend
      to not take them because of many false beliefs still related to opioids.

      It is well demonstrated by the literature that opioids are effective in controlling both
      acute and chronic pain of nociceptive and/or neuropathic origin. Switching type of opioid
      and/or administration routes (e.g., from oral to neuraxial) is also known to be an important
      factor in long-term treatment: appropriate conversion tables elucidating drug equipotence and
      different potency in base of administration route for the different opioids currently
      available have therefore been devised and validated in the clinical setting.

      There have been several attempts to define guidelines for treatment protocols and even recent
      meta-analyses indicate that morphine should remain the gold standard. However, a general
      consensus is still lacking, as opioid management depends not only on the type and cause of
      pain, but also on the patient's history, the pain characteristics and genetic patterns.
      Which, if any, is the best opioid, in relation with previous characters, to start systemic
      treatment remains therefore debated. The different effects that different opioids have on
      spinal cord sensitization as a result of continuous peripheral nociceptive stimulus in long
      term administration have also been partially investigated.

      Current pharmacogenetic publications analyze the pharmacokinetic behavior of opioids in
      short-term administration, but studies are still lacking on how the pharmacokinetics and
      analgesic effect vary after repeated administrations of opioids, especially through direct
      comparison with clinical response. Genetic studies showed differences in the results of
      opioid treatment related to the variability of the genes that have a role in the
      pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetics of opioids. Regardless these studies, the literature has
      not yet investigated how quantitative and qualitative variability of gene products can
      influence the efficacy or the toxicity of a specific opioid treatment.
    
  