
    
      1. Pre-treatment planning:

           The detailed plan of radio frequency ablation (RFA) will be implemented in accordance
           with the routine procedure of image evaluation prior to high frequency implementation.
           In other words, the location of the tumor on the Multiphasic CT or MRI and the RFA
           planning program at the 3D workstation (Philips, Intraportal) before RFA procedure,
           evaluate the tumor volume and the relationship with adjacent blood vessels, and insert
           the electrode for RFA After planning the number of ablation and the like, the location
           of the tumor in the ultrasound image was found in the pre-surgery image by fusion of the
           pre-surgery image and the ultrasound image using US-CT-MR fusion and contrast-enhanced
           ultrasonography, which are recently used. It will evaluate whether the tumors match, and
           also evaluate whether the distribution of the echo bubble and the tumor position
           coincide during the procedure in real time.

           In addition, the degree of stiffness of the parenchyma will be measured by using an
           ultrasound elastic technique. At this time, the ultrasonic fusion device to be used will
           be one of Phillips, GE, or one of the navigation systems of Siemens, Canon, and Samsung,
           available here. The fused image guides the location of the electrodes to be installed in
           the tumor, the number of electrodes, and a safe access route. If the extent of the tumor
           is not clearly visible, or the image before the procedure is too old (> 6 weeks), low
           kVp or DECT will be conducted to evaluate the tumor's extent more accurately.

        2. RFA procedure As the equipment of RFA, the multi-VIVA generator and octopus electrode
           used herein will be used. In the method of treatment, three high-frequency electrode
           needles were placed on the tumor according to the clinical need under the guidance of
           fusion ultrasound, and then the electrodes were cooled with saline, and the two
           electrodes were simultaneously applied with high-frequency waves for approximately 6-30
           minutes depending on the size of the tumor. The temperature is maintained at 90-100
           degrees Celsius. At this time, the high-frequency energy is increased by 10W at 30W
           intervals at 60Watt for the first 3 minutes, and then gradually increased by 10W per
           minute after 100W.

      The location of the tumor on the ultrasound image by fusion of the ultrasound image with the
      pre-procedure using the US-CT-MR fusion tool (Navigator- GE, PercuNav-Phillips, Canon,
      S-fusion: Samsung), which is frequently used in RFA procedures. It will evaluate whether the
      tumors found in the images before the procedure match, and also evaluate whether the
      distribution of the echo bubble and the tumor location coincide during the procedure in real
      time. At this time, the navigation systems used by Samsung, Phillips, GE, and Canon will be
      used as the ultrasonic fusion device to be used. In the Fusion US image, the Octopus
      electrode is safely placed in the tumor through the access path of the electrode already
      planned. Thereafter, while transmitting high-frequency energy, air bubbles are generated in
      the tumor on the ultrasound image, and an echogenic cloud is formed while the procedure is
      stopped when the echogenic cloud becomes larger than 5 mm than the tumor.
    
  