
    
      Study Design:

      A prospective cohort general population study. Three study Waves

      Sample:

      Wave 1: A nationally representative sample of non-institutionalized adults aged 18 years or
      older from the Spanish population was collected (with an over-sampling of people aged 50+
      years). A multi-stage clustered design was employed; four strata based on the number of
      inhabitants of the municipalities were built for each of the 17 Spanish autonomous
      communities. Clusters were selected within the strata with a probability of inclusion
      relative to their size. Within each cluster, households were randomly selected from a list of
      all households. In case there was more than one individual from the corresponding age group
      in the household, a random method was employed to select the individual participant. A total
      of 4,753 respondents were interviewed and signed the written consent.

      Wave 2: Wave 1 sample was re-interviewed (Wave 2) in 2014-2015. The mean follow-up period was
      3.5 years (SD = 0.18). A total of 2,528 individuals were re-interviewed. The response rate in
      the second wave was 69.5%. This cohort will be re-interviewed after 3.5 years (Wave 3).

      Wave 3: Following the same sampling methods than in Wave 1 approximately 3000 participants
      from Madrid and Barcelona will be interviewed for the first time.

      Data collection:

      Face-to-face interviews by Computer-Assisted Personal Interviewing at the respondents' homes
      by trained interviewers. All interviewers receive a standardized training. Data quality
      control is also performed.

      Main objective:

      To assess trajectories of general health, disability and well-being in Spanish ageing
      population.

      Secondary objectives:

      To identify trajectories of healthy ageing (in terms of psychical health, mental health,
      functioning and well-being) in Spanish adult population as well as their determinants To
      analyse prevalence and impact of chronic health conditions, mental health problems,
      well-being and loneliness on mortality in Spanish adult population.

      To determine risk factors for incidence and persistence of mental and physical health
      problems in Spanish ageing population.

      Hypothesis:

      The trajectories of health, functioning and well-being will be encompassed by relevant
      environmental factors such as social support, loneliness and health care utilization,
      personal factors (socio-demographic characteristics, healthy lifestyles, and high cognitive
      reserve among others) and other biological and health-related factors (weight, height, waist
      circumference, executive functions, blood pressure, grip strength, vision acuity, presence of
      mental and physical health problems and quality of life).
    
  