
    
      Optimal use of medications in patients with hypertension prevents adverse outcomes. When
      their blood pressure is carefully controlled, patients with uncomplicated hypertension are
      spared primary events including myocardial infarction, stroke, cognitive impairment, and
      renal insufficiency. Patients who have already experienced complications are spared the
      suffering of subsequent events. Because hypertension is asymptomatic and antihypertensive
      drugs have adverse effects, patients often feel better when they are not taking their
      medication as opposed to when they carefully adhere to their physician's prescribed regimen.
      Therefore, innovative strategies are needed to educate patients and improve patient adherence
      to a complicated regimen often involving many drugs. Doing so can to reduce morbidity,
      mortality, and the costs of patient care. Minority patients often do not have access to the
      resources needed to assist them with their medications and as such they are especially
      vulnerable. Recent studies suggest that blood pressure control of patients with hypertension
      improves when pharmacists provide patients with education and monitoring. However, studies of
      clinical endpoints have not been conducted. This study aims to develop and test, in a
      randomized controlled trial, a multileveled pharmacy-based program to improve adherence in
      minority patients. This program incorporates patient education materials and medication
      packaging designed for patients with low-literacy. A study pharmacist accessed a computer
      database that is integrated into an electronic medical database called the Regenstrief
      Medical Record System (RMRS).

      Patients from Wishard Health Services with uncomplicated or complicated hypertension were
      randomly assigned to a pharmacist intervention or usual care group. Patients in the
      intervention group received verbal education, written education materials, icon-based
      labeling of medication containers, and therapeutic monitoring. The pharmacist educated
      patients about their medications, identified barriers to appropriate drug use, coached
      patients to overcome drug use barriers, and coordinated drug use for these patients in
      conjunction with their primary care providers. Patients in the usual care (control) group did
      not receive pharmacist intervention.

      To objectively measure medication compliance, Medication Event Monitor System (MEMS) lids
      (electronic monitors) were used for all antihypertensive medications. MEMS lids contain a
      computer chip that electronically imprints a time/date stamp each time an opening and closure
      occurs. Such data reveal the temporal pattern of medication adherence. Data concerning
      clinical endpoints, comorbidities, and healthcare costs were extracted from the RMRS. Other
      data included blood pressure measurements, health related quality of life, cognitive
      function, health literacy, and satisfaction with care.

      Study participation for the patients in the intervention group concluded after 12 months of
      active intervention, which be followed by six months of post-intervention follow-up. Primary
      endpoints included medication adherence and systolic and diastolic blood pressures. Secondary
      outcomes included health-related quality of life, symptoms, patient satisfaction, and direct
      healthcare costs.
    
  