
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with newly diagnosed advanced
      stage classical Hodgkin lymphoma randomized to N-AVD (nivolumab, doxorubicin hydrochloride
      [doxorubicin], vinblastine sulfate [vinblastine], dacarbazine) versus that obtained with
      BV-AVD (brentuximab vedotin, doxorubicin, vinblastine, dacarbazine).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival (OS) in patients randomized to N-AVD versus BV-AVD.

      II. To compare event-free survival (EFS) in patients randomized to N-AVD versus BV-AVD.

      III. To compare the metabolic complete response (CR) rate at the end of treatment in patients
      randomized to N-AVD versus BV-AVD.

      IV. To compare the physician-reported treatment-related adverse event rates between arms
      stratified by age groups.

      V. To compare patient-reported symptoms using selected Patient Reported Outcome Common
      Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) items between arms stratified by age groups.

      VI. To compare the safety and tolerability of N-AVD versus that of BV-AVD.

      QUALITY OF LIFE OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare between arms patient-reported fatigue, neuropathy and health-related quality of
      life over time (baseline, beginning of cycle 3, 4-8 weeks after the last dose of protocol
      therapy [following last dose of study drug or radiation therapy, whichever is later], and 1
      and 3 years after randomization) using the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information
      System (PROMIS)-Fatigue, the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology
      Group-Neurotoxicity (FACT/GOG-Ntx), and the PROMIS Global, respectively.

      BANKING OBJECTIVES:

      I. To bank specimens for future correlative studies. II. To bank positron emission tomography
      (PET)-computed tomography (CT) images for future correlative studies.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV), vinblastine sulfate IV,
      dacarbazine IV, and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Patients may receive
      pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on days 2 and 16, or filgrastim SC or IV on days 6-10 and
      21-25. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After completion of cycle 6, patients may receive radiation therapy 5
      days per week for approximately 4 weeks at the discretion of the treating physician.

      ARM II: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, vinblastine sulfate IV, dacarbazine
      IV, and brentuximab vedotin IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Patients may receive
      pegfilgrastim SC on days 2 and 16, or filgrastim SC or IV on days 6-10 and 21-25. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. After completion of cycle 6, patients may receive radiation therapy 5 days per week
      for approximately 4 weeks at the discretion of the treating physician.

      After completion of study treatment and prior to disease progression, patients are followed
      up every 3 months for the first year, every 6 months for years 2 and 3, then annually until
      10 years after registration. Patients are followed up at the time of progression and then
      annually until 10 years after registration. Patients who receive radiation therapy are
      followed up at 8-12 weeks after completion of radiation therapy.
    
  