
    
      Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) is a non-invasive means of brain
      stimulation which can produce changes to brain excitability. Following a series of daily rTMS
      sessions, this modulation of neural circuits and other distant effects may help some of the
      motor and neuropsychiatric symptoms of PD for months at a time. Recently, the FDA approved
      daily rTMS over the prefrontal cortex as a treatment for medication-refractory depression
      after demonstration of efficacy in sham-controlled trials and its safety profile. Among
      several small and pilot studies of rTMS in PD patients, rTMS over either the motor cortex or
      prefrontal cortex has been reported to show beneficial effects on motor and mood (depression)
      symptoms with no serious adverse events. However, the relative effectiveness of rTMS over
      motor, prefrontal, or both regions on both mood and motor symptoms, has yet to be established
      in PD patients.

      We propose to conduct a four-center, blinded, sham-controlled, randomized, parallel-group
      study of fixed-dose, high-frequency rTMS in 160 PD patients who are experiencing depressive
      symptoms despite an adequate trial of at least one antidepressant. Subjects will be
      randomized to receive rTMS over either motor cortex, prefrontal cortex, both, or neither
      (sham-rTMS). Subjects will receive rTMS for 25 minutes over either the prefrontal cortex (the
      brain region associated with mood and depression), and/or primary motor cortex (associated
      with motor control), and/or sham-rTMS. After 10 days of rTMS (or sham) treatment over a
      2-week period, all subjects will undergo a comprehensive assessment of motor, mood, cognition
      and quality of life on the first working day after the last rTMS treatment, and after 1, 3
      and 6 months post-treatment. This study directly addresses the expansion of rTMS as an
      alternative treatment for depression in the PD population and will provide evidence as to
      whether motor cortex stimulation will provide additional and/or separate benefit to motor
      symptoms.
    
  