
    
      Heart Failure (HF) is a challenging condition to manage, with hospital readmission for HF
      exacerbation having negative impacts on patient outcomes and financial burden to both patient
      and health system [Lloyd-Jones, 2010; Yancy, 2017; Ross, 2009; Chaudhry, 2007]. An intuitive
      need for more sensitive predictors of HF exacerbations has led researchers to explore remote
      monitoring as a possible answer. Consumer-owned sensors have become more accurate in their
      recording of vital signs, and thus could hold potential for remote monitoring [Dickinson,
      2018]. The combined measure of heart rate (HR) and respiratory rate (RR) has been shown to
      predict New York Heart Association (NYHA) HF class, an indicator of severity of heart
      disease, in implantable cardiac devices with multi-sensor monitoring capabilities [Auricchio,
      2014; Prasun, 2019; Boehmer, 2015; Boehmer, 2017]. Heart rate variability (HRV), a measure of
      sympathetic autonomic function, has also shown potential in prediction of adverse cardiac
      events [Al-Zaiti, 2019; Shaffer, 2017; Bullinga, 2005; Tsuji, 1996].

      The WHOOP device, a wearable strap similar to a Fitbit, allows for real-time HR monitoring
      and can determine RR using respiratory sinus arrhythmia [www.whoop.com/experience; Berryhill,
      2020]. It is one of the few devices on the market that can accurately track heart rate as
      well as respiratory rate in real-time (during activity) and is equipped with a
      multidirectional accelerometer for activity tracking. The WHOOP device was recently
      externally validated against polysomnography and continuous electroencephalogram (EEG) for
      sleep tracking, and continuous electrocardiogram (ECG) for HR and HRV (with less than 5%
      error) [Berryhill, 2020]. HRV, which represents the balance of the sympathetic and
      parasympathetic nervous systems, is a known predictor of cardiac events. It is especially
      useful in HF, which is a chronically elevated catecholamine state leading to depressed HRV
      and is tied to NYHA HF class, an indicator of severity of disease [Bullinga, 2005; Tsuji,
      1996].

      Data so far regarding the efficacy of remote physiologic monitoring using cardiac implantable
      electronic devices (CIEDs), although promising in theory, has not yet proved sensitive in the
      detection of HF exacerbation. The aim of the CLEPSYDRA study was to use data extracted from
      implanted cardiac resynchronization therapy with defibrillation (CRT-D) devices in HF
      patients to predict heart failure events; although the main variables used in the novel
      algorithm, minute ventilation and patient activity, would intuitively seem to be predictors
      of poor outcome/HF exacerbation, the sensitivity of the algorithm to predict an event was
      only 34% [6]. It would appear that this combination of variables is not sufficient to predict
      adverse HF events. However, the HOME-CARE (HOME Monitoring in CArdiac REsynchronization
      Therapy) study showed more promising results, as their enhanced predictor, utilizing seven
      diagnostic variables from implanted CRT-Ds, boasted a sensitivity of 65.4% [Sack, 2011].
      While the data from these studies is helpful, no study has been able to adequately identify
      and assess accurate predictors of HF class.

      Current efficacious management strategies are limited to hemodynamic or multisensor
      monitoring systems. However, these are only available in implanted cardioverter-defibrillator
      (ICD) or cardiac resynchronization therapy-defibrillator (CRT-D) devices. These are not
      implanted in every HF patient [Al-Zaiti, 2019]. Non-invasive monitoring that provides similar
      data, such as wearable device monitoring, would expand the cohort of patients that would
      benefit from remote monitoring and would avoid the risks of having implanted hardware.
      Furthermore, better prediction of HF severity could help guide follow-up care and predict HF
      events [Boehmer, 2015; Boehmer 2017]. This would lead to more efficient management, less
      hospital readmission, and improve outcomes for HF patients overall [Dickinson, 2018].

      The investigators propose a feasibility study in HF patients to better assess HF disease
      state, which can aid in management and improve outcomes. Subjects will wear the WHOOP device,
      which measures both activity and HR parameters and can derive RR using respiratory sinus
      arrhythmia, for 90 days. During this period, their HR and RR will be recorded at rest, during
      activity and post-activity recovery phases. This combined measure of HR/RR has been shown to
      predict NYHA HF class, an indicator of severity of disease, in implantable devices with
      multi-sensor monitoring capabilities; thus, it represents a useful management strategy in HF
      patients [Bullinga, 2005; Tsuji, 1996]. A continuous external monitoring device worn on the
      wrist, such as the WHOOP device, would provide valuable physiologic data for a cohort of HF
      patients who were previously unable to be monitored in this fashion. Secondary analysis of
      this study will investigate the use of intra- and post-activity HR and RR as predictors of
      hospitalization rates, a common problem in HF patients that correlate with worse mortality
      outcomes.
    
  