
    
      It is hypothesized that participants in the physical therapy group will demonstrate greater
      improvements in pelvic floor muscle (PFM) function after treatment when compared to the
      control group. It is also expected that women in the physical therapy group will show better
      post-surgical outcomes when compared to the control group. The investigators will also
      develop and test a predictive model to identify those women with SUI who will benefit from
      physical therapy.

      Objective 1: to evaluate characteristics predictive of the success or failure of PFM training
      in women with SUI.

      To meet this objective, a cohort study will be used. Women with SUI will be recruited
      prospectively, will provide demographic information, will undergo a clinical evaluation of
      their PFM strength, will fill out the International Consultation on Incontinence
      Questionnaires (ICIQs), and will undergo an extensive evaluation of their continence system
      using ultrasound imaging. Ultrasound imaging will be used to measure muscle morphology (the
      presence and extent of PFM defect, PFM cross sectional area, urethral sphincter cross
      sectional area), fascial support (position of the bladder neck at rest and on Valsalva
      maneuver) and urethral mobility (amount of excursion of the urethra on coughing). A
      predictive multivariate binary logistic regression model will be developed to determine
      whether demographic variables, PFM strength, PFM morphology measures, fascial support or
      urethral mobility measured prior to the intervention can predict which women with SUI are
      cured after a standardized 12-week physical therapy program aimed at improving the strength,
      power, endurance and motor control of the PFMs.

      Objective 2: to determine whether a program of pre- and peri-operative physical therapy aimed
      at improving the strength and motor control of the PFMs improves surgical outcomes relative
      to usual care in women with predominant symptoms of SUI.

      Women who are waiting for surgery to treat symptoms of SUI at two hospital sites will be
      randomized to either a physical therapy group or a control group. Women assigned to the
      physical therapy group will receive a standardized 12 week program of PFM training prior to
      their surgery, will continue with these exercises until they undergo surgery, and will resume
      their exercises after surgery. The control group will receive usual care, which is a handout
      describing PFM exercises. The primary outcome of this study will be reported scores on
      patient-oriented ICIQs, which will be completed on entering the study, twelve weeks later,
      and at surgical follow up visit 12 weeks after surgery. Analysis of variance models will be
      used to compare outcomes between the physiotherapy group and the control group both before
      surgery and at 12 weeks after surgery. Chi Square models will assess whether cure rates are
      higher in women belonging to the physical therapy as compared to the control group.

      Taken together, the results will direct clinical decision making around the delivery of
      appropriate interventions for women with SUI, particularly physical therapy and TVTand TVT-O
      surgery.

      DESCRIPTION OF METHODS AND PROCEDURES

      a) Study Design and Methodology: Subjects and Screening All women above the age of 18 who
      report symptoms of SUI and who have been evaluated by a urogynaecologist (Dr. M.A.Harvey or
      Dr. S. Johnston) at Kingston General Hospital (KGH), (Dr. K. Baker) at the Ottawa Hospital,
      (Dr. Magali Robert) at the Foothills Hospital in Calgary or (Dr. V. della Zazzera) at the
      Montfort Hospital in Ottawa and who have been deemed appropriate for TVT or TVT-O surgery and
      have decided to pursue this option will be asked by their physician if they are willing to be
      contacted by the investigators. For those who agree, they will receive a follow-up phone call
      to determine their interest in participating and, if appropriate, their eligibility. Eligible
      and interested participants will be instructed on how to complete a three-day bladder diary
      to record the number of daily episodes of urine leakage experienced over a typical three day
      period.

      Volunteers will be scheduled to attend a baseline evaluation at the Pelvic Floor Laboratory
      at Queen's University or at the Dr. Linda McLean's Pelvic Floor Laboratory at the University
      of Ottawa. At this first visit, eligibility of the participant will be confirmed based on the
      bladder diary results (they must have experienced at least one episode of urine leakage over
      the three-day diary), a pad test and the absence of evidence of any neurological cause of
      pelvic floor muscle dysfunction.

      Those who are still eligible will have their height and weight recorded, and bladder volume
      will be measured using trans-abdominal ultrasound (US) imaging. If the bladder volume is at
      least 250 ml, then the participant will begin a standardized pad test (i.e., a circuit of
      walking and stair climbing for 30 minutes, which has been shown to be highly sensitive and
      specific to the diagnosis of urinary incontinence. If the bladder volume is less than 250mL,
      the volunteer will be asked to drink 350mL of water and will wait until proper volume is
      attained. In this case, the volunteer will complete the study questionnaires described below
      while waiting for her bladder to fill. Once her bladder has been filled to 250mL, she will
      then begin the test. For the test, an incontinence pad will be weighed and adhered to her
      undergarment. The woman will then perform a standardized circuit of walking and stair
      climbing for 30 minutes, after which time the weight of the pad will be measured again. An
      increase in weight greater than 1g will confirm the presence of urine leakage and will
      confirm the participant's eligibility. If the participant is deemed ineligible at this point,
      she will be thanked for her participation and withdrawn from the remainder of the study.

      At this point, volunteers who meet the bladder diary and pad test requirements will undergo
      an urogynecological screening exam by a research assistant.. This physical screening includes
      palpation to rule out pelvic mass(es), manual muscle testing to evaluate PFM strength, and
      sensory and reflex testing to rule out neurologic causes of incontinence. This will
      constitute the last step to evaluate participant's eligibility. If the participant has no
      evidence of pelvic mass or neurologic defects, all criteria are met, and the woman will enter
      the study.

      At this same session, eligible participants will undergo a three-dimensional (3D) US imaging
      assessment of her pelvic region. Ultrasound imaging will be performed first in the lithotomy
      position using a transvaginal endoprobe to evaluate the urethral sphincter. Next, using a 3D
      curvilinear transducer, the PFMs will be visualized in the axial plane while the participant
      performs three repetitions of a maximal voluntary contraction. A 2D curvilinear transducer
      will then be used to capture video clips in the sagittal plane while the participant performs
      three repetitions of a Valsalva maneuver, and of a cough. The participant will then move to a
      standing position with a wide stance to allow for the curvilinear transducer to be applied
      against her perineum. She will be asked to repeat three repetitions of the Valsalva maneuver,
      and three repetitions of a maximal effort cough. This will conclude the US imaging testing
      section.

      If they have not already been completed, the participant will conclude this session by
      completing the International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaires (ICIQs) to evaluate
      their incontinence symptoms, and each participant will be given a standard educational sheet
      describing how to perform PFM strengthening exercises. They will be advised that they will be
      contacted to inform them whether they have been randomized to the physical therapy or control
      group. The entire baseline testing will take approximately 2.5 hours.

      Randomization: Participants will be randomly assigned (1:1) to either the physical therapy
      group or the control group using a secure web-based computerized randomization system which
      will conceal future randomizations. Randomization will be stratified by site using permuted
      blocks of random size. Participant blinding is not possible in a study of this nature,
      however the research assistant performing the pre- and post-treatment assessments will remain
      blinded to group assignment during all data collection and processing.

      Interventions: A total of 400 volunteers will be randomly assigned to each of the two
      experimental groups: Physical therapy or control group.

      Physical Therapy Group The women in the standardized physical therapy treatment group will
      attend six sessions over a 12-week period. Treatments will be delivered by physical
      therapists with post-graduate training in urinary incontinence management. Physical
      therapists will have been trained on how to deliver the semi-standardized treatment protocol
      at their respective physical therapy clinics in the cities of Ottawa, Kingston or Calgary. In
      the first session, volunteers will learn to perform a proper PFM contraction using manual
      palpation and feedback to optimize PFM contraction quality in which they will learn to
      contract their PFMs before tasks that increase intra-abdominal pressure, such as coughing and
      postural perturbations (i.e., the Knack exercise). The women will be instructed to perform
      their prescribed exercises daily. At each 45-minute visit, the physical therapist will review
      and reinforce a proper PFM contraction technique, will evaluate PFM strength using a modified
      Oxford scale to provide feedback about progress, will review the Knack exercise (a quick
      contraction of the PFM during high intra-abdominal pressure) and will supervise the volunteer
      while she performs each task to ensure correct performance. The exercises will be progressed
      and compliance will be recorded as described below.

      Control Group Participants in the control group will be asked to follow the recommendations
      on their pelvic floor muscle training educational sheet. They will be asked on follow up
      visits to report whether or not they attempted PFM exercises and if so, at what frequency.

      Post-Intervention/Pre-surgical testing Women in both groups will return to the laboratory 12
      weeks after the baseline testing described above. To ensure the evaluators remain blinded to
      group assignment, women will be asked not to reveal to the research assistant whether or not
      they received physical therapy treatment. The pre-surgical testing will repeat the baseline
      testing procedures in the same manner as described above (i.e., bladder diary, pad test, US
      imaging, questionnaires), with the exception that the neurological assessment that was
      initially used to determine eligibility will not be performed. After this pre-surgical
      testing, the women in the physical therapy group will be instructed to continue their
      exercise program and will visit their physical therapist every four weeks until their
      surgery. Women in the control group will be advised to continue their at-home PFM exercises,
      according to the information that was provided on their standard educational sheet.

      Post-surgical intervention Only women in the physical therapy group will be advised to
      continue their exercise program starting the day after their TVT surgery. Each woman will
      visit her physical therapist one week, three weeks and five weeks after her surgery to ensure
      she is performing her PFM exercises correctly and to continue the progression of her PFM
      exercises according to her progress.

      Post-surgical testing All women will return to the laboratory 12 weeks after their surgery
      and will be re-evaluated by the research assistant (still blinded to group assignment) using
      the ICIQs and the pad test. This post-surgical testing will last 45 minutes.

      Long-term follow-up testing All women enrolled in the study will undergo long-term follow up
      using the bladder diary, ICIQs and pad test at 12 months and 2 years post-surgery. The ICIQs
      can be administered by phone, and this will be done by research assistants whenever patients
      cannot attend their follow-up visit(s) in order to reduce the number of participants lost to
      follow-up. This will conclude all participation and all women will be mailed or emailed a
      research study debriefing sheet outlining the study findings
    
  