
    
      6. Background and Rationale: Progesterone is essential for successful implantation and
      maintenance of early pregnancy . Although the oestrogen is not essential, it is important to
      maintain the progesterone level during the pregnancy and promote the transformation of the
      endometrium from the secretory to proliferative phase.

      Compromised granulosa cells luteinisation could cause infertility or early miscarriage. In
      assisted reproductive technologies (ART) cycles, curettage of the granulosa cells during
      oocyte retrieval is thought to reduce corpora lutea function and thus progesterone
      production, resulting in a decrease in pregnancy rate.

      Therefore, luteal support is routinely performed in ART cycles. Consensus has been reached on
      the supplementation of progesterone after the day of oocyte retrieval, which was performed in
      approximately 80% of the cycles and significantly improved clinical outcomes.However, the
      efficacy of oestradiol supplementation in luteal support remains controversial.

      Previous studies have shown that the lower the serum estrogen level was at 4, 7 and 9 days
      following transplantation, the lower the clinical pregnancy rate. Previous studies showed
      that in patients with long or short duration ovulation induction, luteal support with
      oestradiol supplementation led to an increased serum estrogen level and an improved pregnancy
      rate . It was also found that patients having luteal support with estrogen (4 mg per day) had
      a significantly higher clinical pregnancy rate (40.6% vs 21.6%) and a significantly lower
      abortion rate (12.8% vs 38%) than those treated with progesterone alone.

      In contrast, other investigators have failed to show any benefit of oestradiol
      supplementation during the luteal phase and a Cochrane review published in 2015 reported no
      differences in rates of live birth or ongoing pregnancy between the progesterone group and
      progesterone add oestrogen group. Hence, it remains unclear whether the addition of estrogen
      to progesterone for luteal support is associated with higher pregnancy rate and live birth
      rate.

      In this study, the investigators will evaluate outcomes of patients undergoing IVF/ICSI-ET
      with oestradiol supplementation in addition to progesterone for luteal support. The
      investigators also report on the efficacy implications of oestradiol supplementation for
      patients undergoing IVF/ICSI-ET.
    
  