
    
      Background

      Degenerative mitral valve disease is the most common cause of organic mitral regurgitation in
      the Western World. The preferred treatment of organic mitral regurgitation is mitral valve
      repair. Optimally this should be timed so late that it commensurate with the risk of surgery
      and before irreversibly damage of the heart and pulmonary vessels. According to the current
      guidelines mitral valve surgery is indicated in symptomatic patients with severe MR or in
      presence of known risk factors. The optimal timing of surgery is still controversial in the
      asymptomatic patients without risk factors.

      The overall aim of the present study is to obtain a better understanding of the central
      hemodynamics at rest and during physical exercise in both symptomatic and asymptomatic
      patients with organic mitral regurgitation, the relation to neurohormonal activation and
      myocardial fibrosis, and to identify noninvasive echocardiographic measures suitable for
      estimation of this.

      A epidemiologic sub-study aims to asses whether MR is associated with inherence, as familial
      clustering of mitral regurgitation earlier has been suggested based only mainly on small
      observational studies, and case reports.

      Methods

      The study will test

      A: Symptomatic organic MR is characterized by higher filling pressure, and higher stroke work
      during physical strain compared with asymptomatic MR.

      B: The extent of myocardial fibrosis is associated with filling pressure and cardiac index 1
      year after mitral valve repair.

      C: Filling pressure can be estimated non-invasively by echocardiography.

      To test this 40 patients with asymptomatic MR and 40 patients with symptomatic MR will
      undergo a stress echocardiography with simultaneous echocardiography and invasive measurement
      of central hemodynamics. In symptomatic patients that undergo surgery, the examination will
      be repeated 1 year after the surgical mitral valve repair.

      In addition pulmonary function test, maximal oxygen consumption test and cardiac MRI will be
      performed.

      The Danish Twin Registry and The Danish National Patient Registry will be used to identify
      twins with MR. The hypothesis is that the concordance rate is higher in monozygotic twins
      compared to dizygotic twins.
    
  