
    
      Research supports clinical experience that ingestion of food often triggers the emergence or
      exacerbation of symptoms in the majority of patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).
      While IBS remains primarily a symptom driven entity, our understanding of its pathophysiology
      is evolving. However, comparatively little research has focused on the specific role of
      certain foods and how they prompt the development of IBS symptoms.

      Food may be linked to changes in motility, visceral sensation, gut microbiome, intestinal
      permeability, immune activation and brain-gut axis. This study will focus on fructose, which
      is one of the main components of FODMAP (fermentable oligosaccharides, disacharides,
      mono-saccharides and polyols) foods. Fructose is a common part of the Western diet and can be
      consumed as a free monosaccharide, part of sucrose, or in polymers referred to as fructans.
      There are no human gut specific fructose transporters. Rather glucose transporters are used
      (GLUT 2,5) leading some to hypothesize that over ingestion of these agents may trigger some
      of the enteric complaints of patients with IBS. The literature on fructose malabsorption
      gives varying threshold amounts: from 15 to 50 grams in healthy controls, and from 5 to 50
      grams in IBS patients/known malabsorbers (Barrett, 2007; Rao, 2007; Frieling, 2011). Average
      daily fructose consumption in the American diet is approximately 34 grams, with a range of 15
      to 54 grams, which falls well within the threshold levels (Frieling, 2011). FODMAP foods are
      thought to induce gastrointestinal symptoms including gas, bloating, abdominal pain or
      discomfort, and loose stools by increasing small bowel water content and increasing gas
      production by fermentation of foods by gut bacteria. Studies including a recent controlled
      clinical trial demonstrated that a low FODMAP diet can be an effective nutritional therapy.

      There are risks to prolonged use of a low FODMAPs diet. A study from 2012 suggested that
      continued restriction of FODMAPS (longer than 4 weeks) can lead to reduction of luminal
      bifidobacteria in patients with IBS. Bifidobacteria mainly inhabit the large intestine where
      they produce short chain fatty acids (SCFA) as byproducts, including butyrate, shown to be
      important for colorectal cancer prevention and limit enteropathogenic colonization.
      Furthermore the diet is very restrictive and difficult for patients to maintain over time.

      However, important clinical questions include when FODMAPS can be safely reintroduced into
      the diet, how quickly this can be accomplished, and what is a daily threshold of intake that
      is acceptable for IBS patients who respond or do not respond to a low FODMAPs diet. There are
      no evidence based answers to these questions, and it is in this setting that we propose our
      current project.
    
  