
    
      For most children, having to endure a diagnostic or therapeutic procedure in a hospital
      environment is a frightening and distressing experience, especially if it is accompanied by
      pain or discomfort. In an attempt to minimise the trauma and to maximise co-operation from
      the child, administration of a sedative is often requested by either the parent or the
      proceduralist. Some sedative agents may have the side effect reducing the child's efforts in
      breathing, causing inadequate oxygen to be delivered to and carbon dioxide removed from the
      body, a state that can be life threatening if left untreated. Other sedative agents may cause
      unpleasant sensations such as hallucinations or nausea while still others may have a
      paradoxical effect of exciting rather than sedating the child. Among the available agents
      that may be administered without the presence of an attendant anaesthesiologist,
      dexmedetomidine is an agent of choice with minimal incidence of the aforementioned effects.
      However, we have observed in a small proportion of children that dexmedetomidine does not see
      to be able to elicit a sedative response in the expected time and with the usual dose. It is
      possible that there is a genetic bas to this resistance and it would be of great use to be
      able to predict the non-responders ahead of time so an appropriate alternative may be
      selected without a trial and error approach.

      In this project, children who would require Precedex as first-line sedation for radiological
      or pre-anaesthesia sedation are asked to participate by providing a buccal swab sample and
      have their genome (genetic makeup) characterised by target sequencing. They are standardized
      into receiving 3mcg/kg intranasal Precedex and are observed every 5 minutes afterwards for
      their level of sedation. They would be identified as 'fast responder', 'normal responder',
      'slow responder' and 'definite non-responder'.

      A gene panel of 250 relevant genes is chosen and compared between the different groups of
      responders and non-responders. We will then try to look for the differences between these
      groups and we will use this information to build a predictive model. This model will help to
      identify non-responders in the future and this would allow clinicians to prepare for an
      alternative approach to sedation. This would save time, distress to the child and parent and
      ultimately cost to the institution.
    
  