
    
      To compare the effects of 4-weeks of microbursts of moderate-intensity activity to a
      calorically equivalent single bout of 45 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise training,
      both performed 5 days per week for a total of 45 minutes, in free-living sedentary overweight
      adults on:

      Aim 1: plasma inflammatory and cardiometabolic health biomarkers in association with total
      energy expenditure and time spent in sedentary behaviors.

      H1: Microbursts of activity will result in higher daily energy expenditure and lower time
      spent sedentary, as respectively measured with doubly labeled water and accelerometry, than
      traditional exercise training. This will be associated with healthier inflammatory
      Interleukin 1 alpha (IL1a), Interleukin 6 (IL6), Interleukin 10 (IL10), Tumour Necrosis
      Factor alpha (TNFa) and cardiometabolic (triglycerides, cholesterol, C-Reactive Protein
      (CRP), High-density lipoprotein (HDL), and Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) profiles compared to
      those obtained with traditional exercise training program.

      Aim 2: 24-hr total fat and carbohydrate oxidation, exogenous carbohydrate oxidation, dietary
      fat trafficking between oxidation and incorporation into muscle lipid fractions, and
      mitochondrial function.

      H2: Both one single continuous bout and microbouts of activity will increase 24-hr total
      (whole-room calorimetry) and dietary (D9-palmitate) fat oxidation due to greater
      mitochondrial lipid oxidation (high resolution respirometry) and lower incorporation of
      dietary fatty acid into muscle lipid fractions (D9-palmitate), as compared to baseline
      sedentary control condition. Microbouts of activity will further result in greater increases
      in 24-hr total (whole-room calorimetry) and exogenous (U-13C6 glucose) carbohydrate oxidation
      and in mitochondrial carbohydrate-linked oxidation, than traditional isocaloric exercise
      training.

      Aim 3: Whole-body insulin sensitivity. H3: Both one single continuous bout and microbouts of
      activity will improve whole-body insulin sensitivity Intravenous Glucose Tolerance Test
      (IVGTT) compared to the baseline sedentary condition, but the improvement will likely be
      higher with the microbouts of activity.

      Exploratory aim: Self-perceived appetite, hunger, and levels of mood, fatigue and
      vigor/energy.

      H3: Microbursts of activity will result in less appetite, hunger and fatigue but in greater
      feelings of vigor and overall well-being than traditional isocaloric exercise training. As a
      result adherence to microbursts will be better than adherence to single bouts of physical
      activity.
    
  