
    
      • Intervention:

        1. Calibration process: Before beginning the study, outcome assessment will be calibrated.
           Outcome assessment will be performed by Co-investigator-II and Principal investigator.
           The calibration process will be repeated until each investigator has substantial
           correlation as measured by Cohen's Kappa (k ≥ 0.6).

        2. Clinical examination and preoperative evaluation using Cone Beam Computed Tomography
           (CBCT) (Recruitment):

             1. Evaluation of the patient's general condition of the oral cavity, to make sure it
                complies with the criteria required to be enrolled in the study in terms of oral
                hygiene, pathological conditions, occlusion and inter-arch space.

             2. Evaluation of the soft tissue biotype by trans-gingival piercing using a
                periodontal probe.

             3. Width of keratinized gingiva in millimeters (measured by a periodontal probe from
                the gingival margin to the mucogingival junction). It is measured at three areas
                (mesial, mid buccal and distal)

             4. A preoperative CBCT will be performed for all patients before enrollment as a
                standard procedure. Evaluation and recording of the periapical condition, crestal
                bone level, available buccal bone thickness (not less than one millimeter),
                bucco-palatal bone width, height and density. Suitable implant length and diameter
                will be determined as well.

           Patients with all inclusion criteria will be offered to participate in the study and
           sign a consent form.

        3. Random allocation: After consenting, each patient will be allocated in one of the two
           study groups randomly using random numbers generated by rand.org created and kept by a
           teaching assistant not participating in the study. Grouping will be as follows:

             -  Group A (test group): Immediate implants placed with simultaneous immediate
                temporization (Immediate Implants + Immediate Temporization).

             -  Group B (control group): Immediate implants only

        4. Allocation concealment: It will achieved using a sealed coded opaque envelopes
           containing treatment of the subject. They will be kept by the teaching assistant. The
           envelope will be handed to the principal investigator and opened just before performing
           the surgical procedure.

        5. Blinding: blinding of investigators, outcome assessors and participants cannot be
           achieved due to the presence of a temporary crown in test group immediately after
           implant placement while being absent in the control group.

        6. Surgical procedure:

           Surgical procedures will be carried out by Co-invesigator-I. Following the
           administration of local anesthesia, atraumatic extraction will be done using a remaining
           root or anterior forceps.

           After proper curettage of the socket wall using a small bone curette to remove any
           granulation tissue, implant insertion is performed according to manufacturer's
           instructions as follows:

             -  A point of entrance for the drills will be created using a surgical round bur.

             -  Drills will be used sequentially until the required implant diameter is reached.

             -  Implant insertion will be done in the osteotomy site using a torque wrench by
                self-tapping fashion till the implant is leveled about two mm apical to the
                alveolar bone crest with adequate primary stability (torque above 35N).

             -  After implant placement, a periapical radiograph using a radiographic holder and a
                radiographic stent will be taken to determine the crestal bone level. The parallel
                technique in combination with the acrylic stent will be used to ensure
                reproducibility.

           As regards the control Group (Group B), no temporization is needed. Implant exposure and
           subsequent prosthetic placement of the final restoration (loading) will be performed 3
           months postsurgical. As for the test group (Gp A), temporization procedures will be done
           immediately after implant placement utilizing a temporary abutment supplied by the
           manufacturer which will be scanned once placed using an intraoral scanner [Dentsply blue
           cam]. Designing will be performed using Inlab premium 4.4 software. Milling of the
           provisional crowns will done using CEREC [Dentsply] with estimated milling time of 25
           minutes per crown. Polymethylmethaacrylate (PMMA) blanks will be used to fabricate the
           provisional crowns. Crowns will be finished and polished by Soflex finishing and
           polishing kits. Adequate emergence profile, marginal fit, occlusion and esthetics will
           be confirmed and the occlusion will refined using medium then fine articulating paper.
           Final repolishing is mandatory to ensure absence of gingival inflammation.

        7. Postoperative Care:

             1. Antibiotics (Amoxicillin 1g orally- twice daily for 5 days).

             2. Anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS; Ibuprofen 600mg three times daily after meals for
                5 days).

             3. Antiseptic mouthwash (0.12% Chlorhexidine) will be prescribed for 60 seconds, 15 ml
                each time, two times a day for 14 days.

             4. Patient self-care instructions:

                  -  Application of an ice bag to the treated area for the first 24 hours.

                  -  Gently brushing the operated area starting from the second day with a soft
                     brush using roll technique.

        8. Follow-up: Patients' recall visits will be scheduled every month for supportive
           periodontal therapy and recording of outcome variables at three, six and nine months.
    
  