
    
      Context:

      Pediatric cardiac arrests result in poor outcomes. Effective chest compressions improve
      survival in such patients. Unfortunately, compressions are generally inadequately performed
      and the quality of compressions given deteriorates rapidly with time. Current American Heart
      Association (AHA) guidelines call for faster and deeper chest compressions with minimization
      of interruptions. The effect of fatigue on operational performance while adhering strictly to
      these AHA guidelines is unknown. In addition, there is little pediatric data on rescuer
      fatigue and chest compression deterioration. Also, the use of a stepstool may affect the
      quality of chest compressions and may also have an impact on the fatigue of the rescuer.
      Understanding the biomechanics during optimal chest compression performance may prove useful
      in the recommendations of conditions and equipment for execution of more effective chest
      compressions during a cardiac arrest. We will aim to observe and understand the biomechanical
      qualities that allow for the most effective compressions.

      Objectives:

        1. To determine whether the quality of chest compressions deteriorates at the same rate in
           pediatric models as compared to adult models. To determine the relationship between
           physiologic/metabolic markers of work in rescuers and chest compression deterioration.

        2. To determine the effect of stepstool use on the quality of chest compressions and
           metabolic demand. To determine whether the quality of chest compressions deteriorates at
           the same rate in participants using a stepstool compared to those not using a stepstool.

      Study Design/Setting/Participants:

      This prospective, randomized experimental trial will be performed at the Children's Hospital
      of Philadelphia. Participants will be healthcare practitioners who routinely provide chest
      compressions in the course of their work. Lay practitioners will be excluded.

      Study Measures:

      Participants will be asked to perform continuous chest compressions on pediatric and adult
      sized manikins. Compression rate, depth, applied force as well as participant physiologic
      work efficiency and anaerobic threshold will be recorded. To evaluate the second objective, a
      new cohort of participants will perform continuous chest compressions on an adult sized
      manikin with and without a stepstool.. Compression rate, depth, applied force as well as
      participant physiologic work efficiency and anaerobic threshold will also be recorded.
      Videotaping of each subject will also be used for comparison of subjective assessment of
      chest compression quality and objective chest compression quality data.
    
  