
    
      CHD is the leading cause of death in the United States. Preliminary research has shown that
      CHD is associated with oxidative and inflammatory changes in high-density lipoprotein (HDL)
      cholesterol, which is considered the "good" cholesterol. The inflammatory changes can impair
      HDL cholesterol's normal function, which is to remove excess cholesterol from the arteries
      and thereby slow the build-up of atherosclerotic plaque. Statins are cholesterol-lowering
      medications that are used to treat people with CHD. Taking niacin, a type of B vitamin, in
      combination with statins may stabilize atherosclerotic plaques better than statins alone, but
      more research is needed to examine how niacin may do this. By improving the ability of HDL
      cholesterol to repair inflammatory damage to atherosclerotic plaques, niacin may assist in
      preventing the inflammation that leads to plaque breakdown.

      The AIM-HIGH study (NCT00120289) is examining the use of niacin plus statins in people with
      vascular disease. Participants in the AIM-HIGH study are randomly assigned to receive either
      niacin plus simvastatin, which is a type of statin medication, or simvastatin alone. The
      purpose of this substudy is to determine whether niacin in combination with statins reduces
      atherosclerotic plaque inflammation and dysfunctional HDL cholesterol more than statins
      alone. The substudy will enroll participants who are participating in the AIM-HIGH study. At
      the AIM-HIGH baseline and Year 2 study visits, study researchers for this substudy will
      collect an additional blood sample from participants to examine the changes in HDL oxidation
      levels and protein composition at both time points. Study researchers will also analyze
      participants' MRI scans to examine changes in plaque inflammation during the study period;
      these MRI scans will be completed as part of another AIM-HIGH substudy, conducted by Dr.
      Xue-Qiao Zhao. There will be no additional study procedures or visits for participants in
      this substudy.
    
  