
    
      Alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency (AAT deficiency) is a frequently overlooked metabolic disorder.
      Apart from lung disease, AAT deficiency also leads to liver disease. This can affect people
      of all ages and all ethnic groups. Although involvement of the liver is the second most
      common cause of decreased quality of life and life expectancy in Alpha1 patients, no
      preventative care plan, like that one implemented to avoid lung involvement, has yet been
      drawn up.

      Chronic liver involvement therefore often remains undetected until a very late stage in
      diagnosed cases of AAT deficiency. This is compounded by the fact that the patients affected
      generally have only unspecific symptoms if any at all. Moreover, routine diagnostic
      measurements (e.g. liver function tests) often reveal no abnormalities. In the case of a late
      diagnosis, the diverse complications of liver disease can no longer be effectively prevented.

      Liver involvement in AAT deficiency can lead to liver cirrhosis or liver cancer. Liver
      cirrhosis is the life-threatening consequence of many liver disorders and carries a poor
      prognosis. Besides AAT deficiency, many other - potentially treatable - conditions, such as
      viral hepatitis, excessive alcohol consumption and diabetes, can cause liver damage. Liver
      cirrhosis itself leads to many, often life-threatening secondary disorders such as heavy
      bleeding or liver cancer. It is therefore crucial that liver disorders such as AAT deficiency
      are diagnosed at an early stage, so as to prevent complications and to treat concomitant risk
      factors.

      The investigators collaborate with various patient support groups and other hospitals
      specialising in AAT deficiency-associated lung disease. Together with their collaborators,
      the investigators hope to improve the care of affected patients and help to bring about
      therapeutic advances.

      The aim of this study is to clarify how liver function is modified in patients with AAT
      deficiency. For this, among other things, the investigators use:

      (i) modern ultrasound-based scanners for non-invasive measurement of the degree of liver
      scarring.

      (ii) Specialized liver parameters in blood samples, which also provide information on any
      existing liver disorders (iii) Questionnaire.

      Study participants receive a full, cost-free analysis of their individual liver involvement
      and are given appropriate recommendations for disease prevention. The examinations provide a
      relief to many and to everybody,the investigators are able to offer an individual liver
      damage prevention plan.

      All adult patients (of every genotype) as well as any family members interested will be
      studied and advised. Besides the specialist clinic in Aachen (Germany), free examinations
      throughout and even outside of Germany will be offered.
    
  