
    
      Colorectal cancer is the second commonest cause of cancer death. Some people have an
      inherited defect in the genes which repair DNA which results in a very high risk of
      colorectal (bowel) cancer at a young age. This syndrome is called hereditary non-polyposis
      colorectal cancer (HNPCC) or Lynch syndrome. Colonoscopic surveillance of HNPCC patients has
      been shown to reduce the risk of colorectal cancer and allow detection at an earlier stage,
      but even with meticulous examination, some precancerous lesions or cancers are missed.

      Precancerous lesions in HNPCC are difficult to see and may be advanced even if as small as a
      few millimeters. Endoscopists have used spraying dye on the lining of bowel (Chromoendoscopy)
      successfully to improve detection of abnormal areas; however this is time consuming and
      requires extra time and equipment and despite the benefits seen in two studies is not widely
      used in routine clinical practice in the UK.

      Narrow Band Imaging (NBI) is a technique that relies on light to improve contrast for the
      smallest blood vessels in the bowel lining which shows up precancerous areas as they have a
      richer vascular network. It is sometimes described as "digital chromoendoscopy" as the images
      produced are similar to chromoendoscopy, but it is much simpler and quicker to use. With
      magnification it allows assessment of the fine mucosal surace pattern (pit pattern) of lesion
      which allows an assessment of their likelihood of being precancerous. Autofluorescence
      endoscopy uses short wavelength light and light filters to produce a false colour image of
      the bowel lining where polyps stand out. These techniques have been used with some success in
      the oesophagus and stomach but little work is available for the colon.

      We aim to see if NBI with magnification is better than standard colonoscopy for detecting
      precancerous areas. This is likely as it produces images similar to chromoendoscopy which is
      already shown to help. If a potentially precancerous area is found we will use other types of
      endoscopy, in particular NBI and autofluorescence to see if these techniques are helpful for
      discriminating between pre-cancerous and non-cancerous areas.
    
  