
    
      Fifty patients presenting for evaluation of ACS (acute coronary syndrome) in the hospital
      emergency department (ED) will be studied and 50 control subjects without known cardiac
      disease that are age ± 5years and sex matched. Pregnant women, children and prisoners as well
      as individuals with hemoglobin less than 9 g/dL will be excluded. Blood will be drawn to
      analyze for the biomarkers inosine, and hypoxanthine at the time standard of care biomarker
      troponin is sampled. The levels of the biomarkers inosine and hypoxanthine will be measured
      by our research laboratory, using LC/mass spectrometry(MS) and luminescence methodologies.
      Troponin levels will be measured as standard of care in the routine fashion by the hospital
      laboratory (CLIA accredited) at Virginia Commonwealth University Medical Center. Demographic
      and clinical information will be obtained and the clinical course followed. EKG data, cardiac
      angiography and other cardiac assessment data (e.g. ECHO, rest and stress myocardial
      perfusion imaging) that is performed as part of the standard of care evaluation will be
      collected and evaluated. A maximum of (6) 10 ml blood samples (heparin anticoagulant) for
      analysis will be drawn throughout the hospitalization.

      Twenty Five patients presenting with ACS not requiring an immediate (PCI) Percutaneous
      Coronary Intervention: will have samples drawn at 0, 3 and 6 hours after vascular access has
      been acquired. Blood samples for analysis as standard of care for troponin are at 0, 3 and 6
      hours.

      Twenty Five patients presenting with ACS requiring an immediate PCI Percutaneous Coronary
      Intervention will have blood samples drawn at time 0, immediately after intervention, 1, 3
      and 6 hours. Troponin samples will be acquired and analyzed as per routine practice (time 0,
      3, 6 hour) and (2) additional troponin samples will be collected (after reperfusion and 1
      hour). The analytical costs of these (2) samples will be charged to the department of
      Nephrology.

      Fifty age ± 5years and sex matched control subjects without known cardiac disease will have
      timed blood samples drawn at 0, 3 and 6 hours. These samples will be analyzed for troponin,
      inosine and hypoxanthine.

      These patient samples will serve as the control group. Control subjects will be recruited
      from the Virginia Commonwealth University Health Systems.

      Due to the acute nature of the patients presenting with chest pain, a 10 ml sample of blood
      will be drawn at the time of the first routine blood draw for clinical purposes and the
      samples reserved until patient consent can be discussed. If patient consents to participate
      the sample will be retained and added to other study samples. If declined the sample will be
      discarded.

      Hypoxanthine and Inosine levels will be measured by LC/MS (mass spectrometry) methods.
      Luminescence technology used will be utilizing Lumistar Optima Microplate Reader. Analysis of
      samples will be completed in batches throughout the study.
    
  