
    
      SPECIFIC AIM I: TO DEVELOP A TOXICITY DATABASE ON A COHORT OF 20,000 WOMEN WITH STAGE I-III
      (NON METASTATIC) BREAST CANCER

      Selection criteria The cohort will include female patients with non-metastatic breast cancer
      (stage I-III) without any selection based on their characteristics (except stage) or
      treatment. They may be included in other concomitant clinical studies.

      Patients will have to sign informed consent and will have to benefit from social security.

      The lack of selection criteria is related to the fact that the cohort aims at investigating
      toxicity in the whole population of breast cancer from a public health perspective.

      Sample size The cohort plans to include 13250 women in 13 years. A cohort of 13250 patients
      will allow to detect a two fold increased in the risk of a specific toxicity in a homogenous
      subgroup.

      As illustration, the study present a 90% power to detect whether a variable (age as example)
      observed in 50% of patients is associated with an increased risk of toxicity (heart toxicity)
      in a specific subgroup (Her2+++).

      Development of the cohort The13250 patients will be recruited in 20 cancer centers, maximum
      in France. The project will start with 14 centers and will further be expanded to 6
      additional centers. These patients will be followed for at least 5 years in the context of
      the cohort. After 5 years, additional specific data will then be captured each year.

      Patients will be included at the time of diagnosis, before any cancer specific treatment.
      After having signed informed consent, the patient will fill a first questionnaire for
      demographics (adapted from French DREES reference study) and living conditions, and a set of
      validated questionnaires related to QoL (BR 23) and special psychological dimensions. In
      addition, blood samples will be collected at baseline.

      The toxicities (events) will start to be collected 3 months after the end of "acute"
      treatment (surgery/adjuvant/chemotherapy/radiation therapy). Toxicity data will also be
      collected at the time of the last chemotherapy. Toxicities will be collected each 6 months,
      alternatively by a dedicated nurse and by the patient herself. Three sets of toxicities will
      be collected.

        -  First, predefined and previously described toxicities will be collected on dedicated
           items in the case report form.

        -  Second, unknown toxicities will be captured by the use of a patient's notebook where
           each patient will collect events and doctor' visits (general practitioner or organ
           specialist). This will allow capturing events that have not previously been associated
           with cancer treatment toxicities.

        -  Finally, objective measurements by paraclinic exams will be done. This includes yearly
           blood tests and a heart ultrasonography at 1 and 5 years.

      In addition to the data collection, a baseline blood sample for genetic analyses will be
      done, and serum samples will be collected at baseline and yearly during 5 years (serum).

      Outcome data will also be collected and will include metastatic relapse (+ site),
      locoregional relapse (+ site) and death.

      SPECIFIC AIM II: TO DESCRIBE INCIDENCE, CLINICAL PRESENTATION, BIOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS AND
      OUTCOME OF CHRONIC TOXIC EVENTS

      This specific aim will follow three goals :

        -  First, the investigators will describe the incidence of predefined chronic toxicities
           according to the treatment received.

        -  Second, the investigators will aim at identifying new treatment-related toxicities. This
           information will be captured through a dedicated notebook where each patient will report
           all health and social related events.

        -  Finally, the investigators will also assess the outcome of each adverse event, and try
           to develop some hypotheses to be addressed in further clinical trials.

      SPECIFIC AIM III: TO DESCRIBE THE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND THE SOCIAL IMPACTS OF TOXIC EVENTS This
      specific aim will be split in two parts: a. to describe the psychological and the social
      impact to the patient, b. to describe the impact at the population level.

      To describe psychological and social impact for the patient

      Using robust well validated methods, subjective and objective dimensions of wellbeing will be
      investigated, that is: a. Quality of life b. Living conditions c. Psychosocial issues.

      Quality of life Global perception of quality of life will be assessed through both SF-36,
      QLQ-C30 and BR 23.

      Social impact Living conditions will be assessed through a questionnaire derived from the
      French DRESS reference study on living conditions. The initial questionnaire was designed by
      DRESS to investigate the social, economical, professional condition two years after the
      diagnosis of cancer: back or abandonment of the initial professional/social activity,
      conversion, income trends, etc.

      Psychological impact This part will focus on psychological functioning, including
      psychological impact of chronic toxicities and psychological impact of cancer itself.
      Psychological impact is mainly expected on emotional issues, cognitive disorders, body image
      and sexual disorders.

      To describe the impact on the society This sub-aim will mainly focus on medico-economics and
      will assess the global impact of treatment toxicity on health economy. The quantification of
      costs related to toxicities is a major challenge since it could allow to identify avoidable
      major source of expenses and could allow better tailoring treatment accordingly. Specific
      partnerships are being developed with the French social security and other public/private
      partners in order to accurately quantify toxicity-related cost.

      SPECIFIC AIM IV TO DEVELOP PREDICTORS FOR CHRONIC TOXICITIES In the present specific aim, the
      goal will be to develop molecular/biologic predictors for toxic events. In as many cases as
      possible, the investigators will split the cohort into a discovery set and a test set, or
      will identify a cross-validating series before doing analyses.

      Ultimately, the goal is to develop multiparametric scores to predict the occurrence of
      toxicity.

      Regarding molecular predictors, it is planned that 20 ml blood will be collected yearly. One
      sample at baseline will be dedicated to single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) arrays and
      validation of candidate genetic variants.

      A number of tests are already planned. First, we will investigate conventional biological
      parameters including endocrine tests (cortisolemia, TSH, estradiol levels, mullerian
      hormone…), metabolic test (including lipidemia), hematologic tests, liver function, immune
      function (assessed by lymphocyte counts). Second, more recent and under investigation tests
      will be added including troponin (heart failure), mullerian hormone, bone resorption markers
      (bone loss), RANK / RANKL, osteoprotegerin (bone loss).

      Finally, it is planned to use the baseline sample for the discovery of genetic tests and to
      use the serum for the discovery of biochemical predictors.
    
  