
    
      A. Screening of young children and implementation of treatment The screening will consist of
      self-report questionnaires and a clinical interview with parents, conducted by trained
      professional about exposure to traumatic events and resulting post-traumatic specific
      symptoms among the toddlers and their parents. The screening procedure is bases on the
      accumulated clinical experience and empirical data gained in the ongoing similar project in
      Sderot. The level of cooperation by parents and teachers in the ongoing project has been
      exceptionally high, indicating a tremendous need for knowledge, skills and support. Based
      upon our previous experience, it is anticipated well-baby clinic nurses will also be
      extremely interested participation.

      B. Workshops for parents, teachers, nurses The knowledge and skills of preschool teachers and
      nurses working in all our projects sights (well baby clinics, day care centers and
      kindergartens) as well as parents will be increased by providing training regarding the
      impact of war related trauma on preschool children. Workshops will better equip teachers,
      nurses and parents with knowledge about the emotional impact of trauma on young children and
      will increase the skills to help preschool children contain emotional distress as well as to
      help them in coping with the emotional consequences of trauma exposure.

      C. Treatment Interventions All toddlers identified with posttraumatic distress will receive
      dyadic treatment focused on dealing with posttrauma. Dyadic treatment involving parents and
      children is aimed at increasing the attunement of parents to their toddlers and their needs
      in times of crises. Local practitioners in Sderot implementing this cutting-edge treatment
      received specialized training adjusted to the context of terror and trauma by a child trauma
      specialist from Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York.

      D. Evaluation of treatment Evaluation of treatment efficacy (dyadic treatment) will be
      assessed by pre and post interviews that will be conducted by trained professionals with all
      parents participating in the dyadic treatments in each of the three cities
    
  