
    
      Absolute myocardial blood flow (MBF) and myocardial flow reserve (MFR) are calculated
      measurements that are obtained using positron emission tomography (PET) nuclear imaging, from
      a myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) stress test, due to the advanced capabilities of the PET
      camera technology. These calculations provide more diagnostic and prognostic information for
      patients. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) nuclear imaging is more widely
      done due to the availability and lower costs, but in the past has not been able to provide
      the additional information needed to perform the MBF and MFR calculations. SPECT cameras have
      now been developed and are in use, as well as software for the cameras that have shown that
      these measurements can be obtained from SPECT. The goal of this study is to compare SPECT and
      PET measurement of MBF and MFR and determine the reproducibility of SPECT MFR measurements.

      The study will be done in 3 Phases, with recruitment done over 3 years. Phase 1 and 2 will be
      done over the first 2 years, with Phase 3 planned following Phases 1 and 2, in the 3rd year
      of recruitment.

      Phase 1: patients with coronary artery disease, who are coming to the University of Ottawa
      Heart Institute (UOHI) for MPI stress testing will have both a PET and SPECT MPI for
      comparison of the measurements of MBF and MFR. The PET scan will be done as the clinical,
      reportable test.

      Phase 2: patients with coronary artery disease, who are coming to UOHI for SPECT MPI testing
      will have the SPECT repeated to see how reproducible the measurements are.

      Phase 3: normal, healthy volunteers will have both a PET and SPECT scan for the comparison of
      the measurements of MBF and MFR.

      No change to any patient care will be done in Phases 1 and 2. Phase 1 and Phase 2
      participants will have 1 research scan and Phase 3 participants will have 2 research scans.

      Rubidium (Rb-82) Elution System Performance Data will be collected on the elution pump
      system, used to deliver the Rb-82 isotope, to support the system performance documentation
      for Health Canada Authorization.
    
  