
    
      Oral precancerous lesions (OPL) represent a valuable model for clinical trials for tobacco
      related cancers. However, due to the relatively low prevalence of this condition in the
      United States, subject accrual to such trials is slow. Conversely, in India, the prevalence
      of oral leukoplakia is among the highest in the world. Indeed oral cancer, caused by exposure
      to tobacco smoke, alcohol and betel nut quid, is the leading cause of cancer deaths in India.

      To date, there are no effective treatments documented in randomized controlled clinical
      trials to prevent malignant transformation of leukoplakia. However, evidence that
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) prevent experimental and animal head and neck
      cancer, and colon and breast cancer in humans lends support to the promise of NSAIDs in the
      chemoprevention of oral cancer.

      The purpose of this protocol is to pilot a multi-center chemoprevention trial of sulindac, a
      pan-cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor, for oral leukoplakia through an international
      collaboration between Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC), New York, Regional
      Cancer Centre (RCC) in Trivandrum, India and the Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS),
      Kerala, India. Specifically, we will conduct a 66 subject, 2-arm, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled randomized study of sulindac 150 mg bid to test the clinical efficacy,
      safety and molecular effects of sulindac against OPL and OPL tissue. Oral leukoplakia
      subjects will be enrolled from both RCC, AIMS and MSKCC, however, we expect that most
      subjects will be recruited from AIMS due to the substantially higher prevalence of this
      condition among the Indian compared to the US population.

      MSKCC will be the coordinating center for this trial, and will thus be responsible for all
      aspects of clinical trial design and management. Our study team, in collaboration with the
      Office of Clinical Research and the Office of the Physician-in-Chief, has spent a
      considerable amount of time and effort in developing a comprehensive data and safety
      monitoring (DSM) plan.
    
  