
    
      Although there is epidemiological support for health benefits of metformin in patient
      populations, it is not clear if these protective effects extend to those free of disease.
      Therefore, there is a need to perform human studies determining which subjects free of
      chronic disease benefit from metformin treatment. Retrospective analysis of a randomized,
      double-blinded clinical trial in our lab revealed that subjects who were insulin sensitive
      had no effect or negative effects on insulin sensitivity when taking metformin during an
      exercise training program. These data suggest that in some subjects, metformin has
      detrimental metabolic outcomes that could accelerate aging. There are data both in support of
      and refuting that metformin inhibits mitochondrial complex I action and/or mitochondrial
      remodeling. The overall objective of this trial is to determine if subjects currently free of
      disease benefit from metformin treatment. There are two critical questions that remain
      unanswered in human subjects: 1) does antecedent metabolic health influence responses to
      metformin, and 2) does long-term treatment with metformin lead to mitochondrial remodeling
      and changes in function. To better understand the translational potential of a clinically
      relevant dose of metformin for the prevention of chronic conditions, this proposal aims to
      determine how antecedent metabolic health affects the response to metformin treatment, and
      identify the relationship between skeletal muscle mitochondrial remodeling and mitochondrial
      function with metformin treatment. The hypotheses are that: 1) metformin treatment in
      subjects free of Type 2 diabetes will improve insulin sensitivity and glucoregulation in
      insulin resistant individuals, but will decrease insulin sensitivity and glucoregulation in
      insulin sensitive subjects, and 2) long-term metformin treatment will remodel mitochondria in
      a way that decreases mitochondrial function in subjects that are insulin sensitive, but
      improves mitochondrial function in subjects that are insulin resistant. To test these
      hypotheses, a 12-week randomized, double-blind clinical trial will be performed in subjects
      40-75 yrs of age, free of disease, and stratified by insulin sensitivity (insulin sensitive
      and insulin resistant). Pre- and post-training assessments include the hyperinsulinemic-
      euglycemic clamp to measure hepatic and peripheral insulin sensitivity, continuous glucose
      monitoring to determine glucoregulation, and proposed blood-based biomarkers of aging.
      Further, the use of novel stable isotope labeling with proteomic analysis will determine
      individual and complex-specific mitochondrial remodeling. This approach will be combined with
      analysis of protein modification and turnover to comprehensively analyze mitochondrial
      effects of metformin treatment in skeletal muscle. By completion of this project, it is
      expected that there will be evidence that helps further delineate who may benefit from
      metformin treatment to slow aging.
    
  