
    
      Background:

        -  We have constructed a single retroviral vector that contains a chimeric T cell receptor
           (CAR) that recognizes mesothelin, which can be used to mediate genetic transfer of this
           CAR with high efficiency (> 50%) without the need to perform any selection.

        -  In co-cultures with mesothelin expressing cells, anti-mesothelin transduced T cells
           secreted significant amounts of interferon (IFN)-gamma with high specificity.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objectives:

        -  To evaluate the safety of the administration of anti-mesothelin CAR engineered
           peripheral blood lymphocytes in patients receiving a non- myeloablative conditioning
           regimen, and aldesleukin.

        -  Determine if the administration anti-mesothelin CAR engineered peripheral blood
           lymphocytes and aldesleukin to patients following a nonmyeloablative but lymphoid
           depleting preparative regimen will result in clinical tumor regression in patients with
           metastatic cancer.

      Eligibility:

      Patients who are 18 years of age or older must have

        -  Metastatic or unresectable cancer that expresses mesothelin;

        -  Previously received and have been a non-responder to or recurred after standard care;

      Patients may not have:

      -Contraindications for low dose aldesleukin administration.

      Design:

        -  Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) obtained by leukapheresis will be cultured in
           order to stimulate T-cell growth.

        -  Transduction is initiated by exposure of approximately 10^8 to 5 X 10^8 cells to
           retroviral vector supernatant containing the anti-mesothelin CAR.

        -  Patients will receive a nonmyeloablative but lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
           consisting of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by intravenous infusion of ex
           vivo CAR gene-transduced PBMC plus low dose intravenous (IV) aldesleukin

        -  Patients will undergo complete evaluation of tumor with physical examination, Computed
           tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen and pelvis and clinical laboratory evaluation four
           to six weeks after treatment. If the patient has stable disease (SD) or tumor shrinkage,
           repeat complete evaluations will be performed every 1-3 months. After the first year,
           patients continuing to respond will continue to be followed with this evaluation every
           3-4 months until off study criteria are met.

        -  The study will be conducted using a Phase I/II optimal design. The protocol will proceed
           in a phase 1 dose escalation design. Once the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has been
           determined, the study then would proceed to the phase II portion. Patients will be
           entered into two cohorts based on histology: cohort 1 will include patients with
           mesothelioma, and cohort 2 will include patients with other types of cancer that express
           mesothelin.

        -  For each of the 2 strata evaluated, the study will be conducted using a phase II optimal
           design where initially 21 evaluable patients will be enrolled. For each of these two
           arms of the trial, if 0 or 1 of the 21 patients experiences a clinical response, then no
           further patients will be enrolled but if 2 or more of the first 21 evaluable patients
           enrolled have a clinical response, then accrual will continue until a total of 41
           evaluable patients have been enrolled in that stratum.
    
  