
    
      Development stages:

      Stage I: Identification of integrated HBV DNA sites in HBV-related HCC tissues. the
      investigators will develop either HBV-specific inverse PCRs or capture-sequencing protocols
      to identify HBV integrations sites in the tumor chromosomes. The viral-host junction
      sequences of individual HCC identified and used as the template for developing assays for
      detecting the same HBV-host chimera DNA fragment in the circulation.

      Stage II: New platforms to accurately detect or even quantitate the circulating vh-chimera
      DNA fragment.

      These tumor-specific vh-chimera DNA will only represent a tiny fraction of total cfDNAs.
      However, as these sequences of the tumor-specific vh-chimera DNA have been known from stage
      1, the investigators may develop better and more specific assays for quantitation.

      Stage III: Assays for cell-free tumor specific vh-chimera DNA applied to the blood samples
      from post-curative HCC patients.

      To demonstrate the efficacy of these assays, blood samples obtained at 4 weeks after curative
      therapies from 50 HBV-related HCC patients, and tested for the presence of cf tumor-specific
      vh-chimera DNAs. The presence or absence of such vh-chimera DNA will be correlated with the
      early HCC recurrence within the first year to determine any clinical significance. There will
      be one blood sampling at the time of HCC recurrence.

      Sample collection In stage I and II, the investigators will set up methods for chimera DNA
      identification and quantification, which need tumor samples to support the development and
      evaluation of the feasibility for each assay. Therefore, the investigators will apply the
      approval for use the tissues from the Taiwan Liver Cancer Network (TLCN), including 20 pairs
      of HBV-related male HCC, 20 pairs of HBV-related female HCC (for positive control), 20 pairs
      of HCV related male HCC, 20 pairs of HCV related female HCC (for negative control), 20 pairs
      of HBV- and HCV-related male HCC, and 20 pairs of HBV- and HCV-related female HCC (to see if
      vh-chimera DNA is also applicable for HBV- and HCV-related HCC). Both the genomic DNA and RNA
      will be applied for these 120 patients in total. Genomic DNA will be used in assay
      development, including identification, detection and quantification; whereas RNA will be used
      in validation of the insertional mutagenic RNA transcripts, which will provide supporting
      evidence for tumor specific integration from transcription level.

      In stage III, the investigators will investigate whether there is any correlation between
      tumor-specific vh-chimera DNA level and recurrence-free survival using the assays the
      investigators developed in stage I and II. Therefore, the investigators will collect the
      Tumor (T) and non-Tumor (NT) tissue pairs from 50 HBV-related HCC patients that receive
      surgical removal of tumor, and also the peripheral blood at 4w after surgery. T and NT
      tissues are for vh-chimera DNA identification, peripheral blood will be used for vh-chimera
      DNA detection and quantification. On the other hand, clinical information including tumor
      size, tumor grade, serum markers from routine liver function test (ALT, AST), current HCC
      marker (AFP), and recurrence-free survival time will be collected for correlation study. All
      data will be stored in computer with password protection.
    
  