
    
      World Health Organization (WHO) defines anemia as hemoglobin (Hgb) concentration less than
      12.0 g/dL in pre-menopausal women, and lower than 13.0 g/dL in adult males and
      post-menopausal women .Diagnosis of anemia is of high significance, as it might be the first
      manifestation of a serious illness. Some chronic diseases which also can lead to anemia:
      autoimmune disorders, liver cirrhosis, cancer, and chronic renal disease Anemia is associated
      with poor prognosis of patients with chronic renal disease, especially those undergoing
      long-term hemodialysis. In patients with Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) less than 25 to 30
      mL/min , anemia is observed within 90 percent of patients .

      Among patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), there is association between anemia and
      increased mortality secondary to cardiovascular diseases Ascorbic acid level is conflicted in
      under dialysis patients with different ranges of low, normal, and even above normal. In most
      hemodialysis patients, administration of 150 to 200 mg of vitamin C per day is recommended to
      maintain its levels. Ascorbic acid or vitamin C increases the delivery of iron from ferritin
      and the reticuloendothelial system and therefore elevates iron use during heme synthesis.

      Vitamin deficiency is one of the cause of increased mortality among hemodialysis patients.
      During the dialysis process, vitamins are eliminated through hemodialyzer membranes, thus
      affect red blood cell production .Vitamin C deficiency may play an important role in
      increased inflammatory status of the dialysis patients . This vitamin has anti-inflammatory
      effects due to its electron transfer ability.

      Several studies have shown the role of vitamins such as vitamin D and B12 in treatment of
      anemia in patients undergoing hemodialysis .The infusion of ascorbate supplementation might
      reduce oxidative stress. In addition, vitamin C plays an important role in iron metabolism
      and application in red blood cell formation . Permeable membrane is highly associated with a
      significant loss of vitamin C, and this vitamin improve oxidative stress in hemodialysis
      patients .

      We aimed to assess the effect of vitamin C on patients with continuous ambulatory peritoneal
      dialysis (CAPD).
    
  