
    
      Background:

      T-cell lymphomas (TCLs) are a heterogeneous group of lymphoid malignancies defined by clonal
      proliferation of post-thymic T lymphocytes.

      Patients with newly diagnosed TCLs are most commonly treated with a CHOP (cyclophosphamide,
      doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone)-like regimen, with less than 30% having durable
      complete responses (CRs). Of the chemotherapy agents used, doxorubicin is the one which was
      consistently associated with prolonged progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival
      (OS) in retrospective studies.

      Treatment options for the 70% of patients with TCL who relapse are limited and of minimal
      efficacy; novel treatment strategies are urgently needed.

      Many TCL have mutations in epigenetic modifier genes, and histone deacetylase inhibitors such
      as romidepsin are approved for treatment of peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL); however, the
      overall response rate (ORR) with single-agent treatment is only 20-30%, and improvement in OS
      was not shown.

      Romidepsin and the hypomethylating agent CC-486 (5-azacitidine) acted synergistically in
      vitro, and showed high clinical activity, with an ORR of up to 79% in some types of TCL.

      Many TCLs rely on the PI3K pathway, whether through activation of CD28 through fusions or
      gain-of-function mutations or by interruptions of the CD28-inhibiting PD-1/PD-L1 immune
      checkpoint.

      Duvelisib is an inhibitor of the PI3K gamma and delta isoforms; in phase I trials it has
      shown both single-agent activity and synergy with romidepsin for patients with TCL.

      As combinations of both CC-486 (5-azacitidine)/romidepsin and duvelisib/romidepsin have
      demonstrated both adequate safety and clinical efficacy, safety and efficacy of the triplet
      combination should be explored.

      Objectives:

      To determine the safety and toxicity profile, maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and the
      recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of the four-drug combination of CC-486 (5-azacitidine),
      romidepsin and duvelisib, and doxorubicin, in patients with TCL.

      Eligibility:

      Patients with histologically or cytologically confirmed newly diagnosed or
      relapsed/refractory T-cell lymphoma (TCL) defined as follows:

      Cohort 2: Untreated patients with any peripheral TCL, not including anaplastic large cell
      lymphoma (ALCL), but including acute and lymphoma subtypes of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma
      (ATLL).

      Cohorts 1 and 3: Any relapsed/refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma including ATLL and ALCL
      who have disease after receiving at least one line of systemic therapy, which must include
      brentuximab vedotin if the disease is ALCL.

      Age >= 18 years of age

      ECOG performance status of <= 2

      Adequate organ and marrow function

      Design:

      Open-label, single-center, non-randomized Phase 1 study

      "3 + 3" design will be used to determine the RP2D of dose-escalated duvelisib with fixed dose
      romidepsin CC-486 (5-azacitidine) and doxorubicin with two expansion cohorts at the RP2D

      Maximum 8 cycles (21-day cycles) of combination therapy

      To explore all dose levels, including further evaluation in two dose expansion cohorts, the
      accrual ceiling will be set at 60 patients
    
  