
    
      The incidence of Congenital Heart Disease (CHD) in live new-borns is estimated to vary from
      4.1/1000 to 12.3/1000. The improvement in survival of CHD patients has led to burgeoning
      numbers of grown-up CHD.The majority of these CHD patients face a lifetime of problems
      including RV dilation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden cardiac death.Considering
      inflation to visit costs and added image technology for diagnosis, the cost of each patient
      is expected to increase .In contrast to adult patients with acquired heart disease,
      abnormalities of the RV are ubiquitous in children and adults with CHD.

      Currently, clinical evaluation includes ECG and pulse oximetry alongside clinical
      examination. Investigation of RV anatomy and physiology is evolving from a reliance on
      invasive studies (right heart catheterization or RHC) to non-invasive imaging techniques such
      as echocardiography, nuclear scintigraphy, computed tomography, and CMR .2D echocardiography
      is largely operator dependent and suffers from poor inter-study reproducibility.The complex
      geometry of the RV makes it difficult to accurately quantify remodelling before and after
      intervention. Nuclear scintigraphy and computed tomography (CT) are constrained by the need
      for ionizing radiation as well as the poor temporal resolution of the technique.Importantly,
      existing CMR analytics fail to exploit the full potential of the rich CMR image dataset, and
      do not yield information on regional RV remodelling, muscle stiffness and blood flow
      characterization.

      Due to the challenges mentioned above, other than RV volumes and ejection fraction, other
      changes in RV shape and haemodynamics have yet to be considered in the official guidelines
      used to define eligibility for surgery and to quantify risk of operation. It is plausible
      that incorporation of additional variables that more comprehensively characterizes fine
      alterations in RV structure, function and haemodynamics in large risk-stratification models,
      such as the EuroSCORE and the Society of Thoracic Surgeons' Risk Calculator, may enhance risk
      stratification and prognostication.

      Incorporating novel exploratory RV functional indices (e.g. curvedness, area strain) and
      computational methods (e.g. CFD, FSI simulations), and then correlating these with clinical
      and cardiopulmonary exercise test outcomes will allow investigators to have established an
      unprecedentedly sizeable and rich clinical imaging database that serves both as a touchstone
      for clinical reference, as well as a repository for future exploratory research.

      Investigators tend to develop a comprehensive (BME) Research and Development platform for
      in-depth study of RV mechanics, blood flow and function in Congenital Heart Disease.
    
  