
    
      Photodynamic Therapy (PDT) has gained popularity as an effective, non-scarring treatment for
      thin, non-hyperkeratotic actinic keratoses (AKs). Similar to the topical agents
      5-fluorouracil and imiquimod, PDT is particularly useful when utilized as a field-directed
      therapy for the treatment of areas with multiple AKs and extensive sun damage. PDT consists
      of two steps: 1) the topical application of a photosensitizer agent aminolevulinic acid
      (ALA), which is preferentially converted to the photosensitive protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) in
      precancerous and neoplastic cells, and 2) controlled exposure to a visible wavelength light
      source. Current methodologies utilize a "one-size-fits-all" approach with regard to duration
      of incubation with photosensitizing agents and illumination. Moreover, patients frequently
      experience pain after long PDT prodrug incubation. Better characterization of
      photosensitization in PDT can help tailor incubation and overall treatment time to minimize
      treatment duration and discomfort while maximizing clearance of the target lesions. The
      direct measurement of PpIX is a promising, yet rarely performed test that may help determine
      the appropriate PDT treatment time, the need for re-treatment or adjuvant therapy, and
      potential efficacy of treatment. Point-probe measurements have shown extreme heterogeneity
      between PPIx levels in different patients and among different lesions in the same patient9.
      However, these point-probe measurements are unable to account for the variance in PpIX
      production in different parts of the skin because of their relatively limited field of view.
      The recent development of a low-cost, smart phone-based, wide-field fluorescence dosimetry
      imaging system to map PpIX concentration onto a 2D image allows for handheld, real-time
      analysis of PpIX levels in human skin. Initial unpublished clinical results have shown its
      utility in human subjects. However, a more extensive characterization of the factors that
      influence changes in PpIX during photosensitization has yet to be performed. This study
      intends to elaborate these inter-and intra-individual variances in photosensitization,
      including analysis of changes in PpIX concentrations based on anatomical location, skin
      temperature, pigmentation, and previous skin damage.
    
  