
    
      Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDGs) are a group of diseases characterized by an
      abnormal glycosylation of proteins, but that can also result from an abnormal synthesis of
      glycosaminoglycans, glycophospholipids or glycosylphosphatidylinositol or the abnormal
      synthesis or utilization of dolichols. CDGs were first described in 1980, but the initial
      description of mutations in a gene underlying CDGs did not occur until 1997. Since then,
      there has been a rapid discovery phase of new CDGs, with more than 80 different types,
      reflecting defined mutations in 80 different genes in glycobiologic pathways affecting about
      1000 patients worldwide. The clinical manifestations of CDGs are quite variable both within
      and among different types, and physicians from every specialty will likely encounter patients
      affected by glycosylation defects. The diagnosis of CDGs should be suspected in cases with
      neurological signs and symptoms of unknown etiology, or in any patient with multisystemic
      disease even in the absence of neurological features. Other potential clinical presentations
      include tissuespecific disorders such as anemia or ichthyosis, when common disorders have
      been ruled out. Diagnostic screening for many of the disorders is performed by analyzing the
      glycosylation on serum transferrin, initially by isoelectric focusing, now by mass
      spectrometry, in specialized clinical diagnostic laboratories both in the United States and
      abroad. The pattern of transferring glycoforms allows the differentiation between defects of
      Nglycosylation assembly in the ER (type I) and defects of Nglycan trimming and elongation,
      occurring mainly in the Golgi apparatus (type II). Most recently, wholeexome sequencing has
      led to the elucidation of the underlying mutation in patients with unknown CDGs. Treatment is
      available for only three CDG subtypes. In this protocol, we propose to clinically evaluate up
      to 100 patients of all ethnicities with known or suspected CDGs, obtain cells, plasma, and
      urine for future studies, perform mutation analysis for known CDGcausing genes, and search
      for other genes responsible for CDGs. Routine admissions of 3-5 days will occur annually or
      as required by changes in clinical symptomatology.
    
  