
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2 parallel arms (1:1 ratio), adjuvant
      trial to assess the efficacy of 2-hydroxyoleic acid (2-OHOA) versus placebo in patients with
      newly diagnosed, IDH wildtype, GBM. In all arms, patients will receive the SoC and will be
      randomized to receive either placebo or 2-OHOA dose.

      The primary endpoint of the study is PFS. The study is planned to initially enrol 180
      patients and collect a total of 124 PFS events. After 62 events for PFS are observed, a
      formal interim analysis will be performed and the data reviewed by an Independent Data
      Monitoring Committee (IDMC) or may be activated by the IDMC 12 months after the inclusion of
      the last patient if follow up is sufficient to identify an overall PFS or OS significant
      deviation from the literature. After reviewing the interim results, the iDMC will make
      recommendations regarding: the sample size and the continuation of the trial overall.

      At interim analysis, if molecular data permit to identify a subpopulation of patients who
      respond better to the combination treatment, this signature will be applied to the patients
      entering in the second stage of the trial and the treatment effect will be estimated in the
      corresponding subgroup (Adaptive signaturedesign according to Freidlin and Simon, Clin Cancer
      Res 2005).

      Further, the sample size and events will be re-estimated to ensure that the statistical power
      is maintained given the estimated treatment effect at interim analysis. The events/sample
      size increase will be based on the considerations of the success probability in the full
      population and the subpopulation.

      For that purpose, based on the conditional power, the interim results will be classified into
      the following zones: favourable, unfavourable or promising with a planned enrolment of 60
      additional patients or 114 additional patients.

      If the interim results fall in the promising zone, then it is planned to increase the total
      number of events both for PFS and OS by up to 50%, with up to 186 events for PFS and up to
      186 events for OS. The total sample size will also be increased to up to 234 patients to
      ensure the desired number of events within a realistic time. If the interim results are
      favourable or unfavourable, the study size will remain as initially planned with 124 events
      for PFS and for OS, collected from 180 patients. Depending on prevalence and strength of
      treatment effect in the subpopulation, it may also be decided to enlarge the subpopulation
      beyond those to be expected by prevalence in the second cohort, up to a maximum of 275
      patients.
    
  