
    
      Closed-loop control of oxygen therapy is described in the literature used for preterm
      infants, trauma patients, medical emergency use and patients with COPD. For the latter,
      closed-loop therapy has been used for patients admitted to hospital with an exacerbation, for
      domiciliary oxygen use and during exercise. O2matic is a closed-loop system that is based on
      continuous and non-invasive measurement of pulse and oxygen-saturation (SpO2). The algorithm
      in O2matic controls oxygen delivery with the aim of keeping the SpO2 within the desired
      interval, which could be 88-92 % for COPD-patients in accordance with international
      guidelines on this topic. SpO2-interval can be set for the individual patients, as can the
      range of acceptable oxygen-flow. If SpO2 or oxygen-flow cannot be maintained within the
      desired intervals an alarm will sound.

      All studies on closed-loop systems have shown that this method is better than manually
      control by nurse to maintain saturation within the desired interval. Furthermore, some
      studies have indicated that closed-loop has the possibility to reduce admission time and to
      reduce time spent with oxygen therapy, due to more efficient and fast withdrawal from oxygen
      supplementation.

      In the present study O2matic will be tested versus manual control, for patients admitted with
      an exacerbation in COPD, and in need of supplemental oxygen. During the study the patients
      will either have oxygen controlled with O2matic or manually by nursing staff for 3
      consecutive days. All patients will have continuous logging of pulse, oxygen-saturation and
      oxygen-flow with O2matic, but only in the O2matic active group, the algorithm will control
      oxygen-delivery.

      The primary hypothesis is that O2matic compared to manual control allows for faster weaning
      from oxygen supplementation, and that more patients will be weaned from oxygen
      supplementation within a time frame of 3 days. Furthermore it will be tested if O2matic
      compared to manual control leads to faster achieved respiratory stability, allowing for
      hospital discharge. It will be tested if O2matic is better than manual control in maintaining
      oxygen-saturation within the desired interval and reducing time with unintended hypoxia and
      hyperoxia. Patients sense of security and feeling of anxiety and dyspnea will be evaluated by
      questionnaires.

      No safety issues has been reported in the literature. O2matic is approved for clinical
      testing by The Danish Medicines Agency, The Ethics Committee in the Capital Region of Denmark
      and by the regional Data Protection Board. The study will be conducted according to Good
      Clinical Practice (GCP) standards with independent monitoring. All adverse events and serious
      adverse events will be monitored and serious adverse events will be reported to Danish
      Medicines Agency.
    
  