
    
      The vBloc is a neuromodulation system that consists of the following implantable and external
      components:

        -  Implantable components: Two leads (including one electrode each for the anterior and
           posterior intra-abdominal vagal nerve trunks) are implanted laparoscopically on the
           intra-abdominal trunks of the vagus nerve and connected to a neuroregulator, which is
           implanted subcutaneously on the thoracic sidewall.

        -  External components: A mobile charger (MC) is connected to a non-invasive transmit coil,
           positioned over the implanted neuroregulator and secured in place using a transmit coil
           belt to charge and perform status checks on the neuroregulator. The MC is charged using
           an AC recharger. A laptop computer (CP) with proprietary software is used to control and
           upload data from the neuroregulator through the MC via the programmer cable. The CP is
           used by the clinician to change treatment parameters and assess battery recharging
           compliance. A torque wrench is used during the implant procedure to secure the leads
           into the neuroregulator.

      Schedule of events following the baseline study visit include: implant, 2 week follow up, and
      1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 month follow up visits. Enrolled subjects will also use the vBloc Achieve
      weight management program, which is a remote weight management counseling sessions with a
      registered dietitian to discuss healthy diet and exercise habits and weight loss goals.

      The vBloc Now registry, together with vBloc Therapy and the vBloc Achieve weight management
      program, incorporates specific diets after the implant, routine remote counseling by an
      experienced registered dietitian, recommendations for physical activity, and tracking of
      weight, food intake, and fitness. The expectation is that patients participating in the vBloc
      Now registry, who comply with the diet and behavioral recommendations in combination with use
      of the Maestro device, will see an improvement in their overall health, whether it's related
      to weight loss, improvements in co-morbidities, or a better quality of life.
    
  