
    
      Two quality assurance investigations are performed in the The Back Research Center Clinic,
      where one is published in The Spine. The systematics of Health Technology Assessment was used
      to throw light on important indicators in relation to Health Technology aspects, patient
      aspects, organisational aspects and economical aspects. At 12 months follow up in 1999,
      approximately one third of the patients stated that their low back pain was unchanged or
      worse. In 2004 in a new investigation this fraction was larger. Therefore it seems relevant
      to be able to identify the patients early in their course in the back ambulatory.

      A Norwegian project has shown that when one divides the patients into 3 levels of severity,
      then the interdisciplinary biopsychosocial intervention had best effect in the intermediary
      and severe groups. Conversely the mono disciplinary intervention had best effect on the least
      severe patient group.

      Therefore we would like to combine elements from the typical clinical investigation with a
      screening for psychosocial factors in order to sort patients according to their individual
      needs.

      Even though the bio-psycho-social elements are a coherent continuum one can arbitrarily
      combine them in 4 groups of increasing complexity.

        -  mainly biological

        -  both biological and psychological

        -  both biological and social

        -  both biological, psychological and social It is probably not good enough to give more or
           less the same type of somatic treatment to all unspecific low back pain patients. It is
           important to take into account all three elements, the severity of the elements, and the
           combination of elements. To be able to do this it is important to use a combination of
           screening instruments that can isolate and quantify the manifestations of the three
           elements in the patients.
    
  