
    
      In this double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled study of prazosin and naltrexone, we
      will evaluate the combination of naltrexone and the noradrenergic medication prazosin
      (Nal/Praz) relative to naltrexone and placebo (Nal/Pl), prazosin and placebo (Praz/Pl), and
      double-placebo (Pl/Pl). Participants will undergo two craving inductions, one oriented
      towards relief craving and the other towards reward craving. Daily IVR (Interactive Voice
      Recording System) data on craving and consumption and PTSD symptomatology will be collected
      during the 7 days immediately following the initial assessment visit to establish a
      pre-medication baseline. One hundred twenty individuals with adequate IVR compliance and
      whose screening lab tests indicate it is safe for them to take the study medications will
      enter the medication phase of the study within 14 days of the initial assessment initiating
      prazosin/placebo as well as 50mg naltrexone/placebo treatment. Randomization will be blocked
      by gender, PTSD status, and desire to abstain vs. desire to cut down. Prazosin will be
      titrated to three times daily dosing (9 am: 4mg; 3pm: 4 mg; 9pm: 8mg) at the end of two
      weeks. Naltrexone will be taken once daily 50 mg/day with no titration schedule. The stable
      dose of both medications will continue for four more weeks and medication compliance will be
      evaluated through pill counts, the IVR daily monitoring, and riboflavin trace in urine
      analysis. On approximately day 42 participants will come into the lab for the craving
      inductions (there will be a two week window after day 42 in which participants may still be
      seen if scheduling issues arise). The order of the craving inductions will be
      counterbalanced, and their administration will be separated in time by 30 minutes to minimize
      carry over between them. Subjective responses to the craving inductions will be obtained via
      relief oriented craving items and reward oriented craving items from the Desire for Alcohol
      Questionnaire. Participants will then be assisted in returning their craving levels to
      baseline prior to debriefing. They will all be offered treatment referrals within the
      Veterans Affairs (VA) or in the community. Both prazosin and naltrexone can be safely
      discontinued without tapering.
    
  