
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Pawtucket Heart Health Program arose from a concern that the needs of society could not
      be met through palliative treatment of coronary heart disease. In 1977, a program designed to
      facilitate rehabilitation and, hopefully, to provide possible secondary preventive measures
      for patients with symptomatic coronary heart disease was begun. Simultaneously, the
      conviction grew that the national interest would be served by careful research into whether
      or not coronary heart disease was preventable through modification of those aspects of
      individual and group behavior which influenced the major cardiovascular risk factors in free
      living populations.

      The Pawtucket Heart Health Program was designed to foster community ownership and active
      participation in a culture change process. A population-wide atherosclerosis risk factor
      reduction was anticipated as a result of applying an independent variable based upon Social
      Learning Theory. Emphases on individual factors, on physical environmental factors, and on
      sociocultural influences on behavior were designed to produce persisting risk factor change
      followed by morbidity - mortality rate reduction for the population of the city.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Selection of an intervention community and a control community was carried out early in the
      design of the Pawtucket Heart Health Program. Census data, as updated through 1975, were used
      to identify two communities with between 40,000 and 100,000 people and with stability of
      in-migration and out-migration necessary for long-term follow-up. The two communities were
      carefully matched for socio-demographic variables.

      Both communities underwent baseline random-sample surveys which demonstrated similar levels
      of cardiovascular risk factors in the populations of each city. Effective community
      intervention began in 1983. Total intervention was 7.5 years. Specific objectives of the
      intervention included a six percent reduction in total cholesterol, a 6 mm Hg reduction in
      systolic blood pressure, a 30 percent relative reduction in active smokers, a two percent
      reduction in body weight and body mass index, a 2 ml/kg/minute increase in estimated maximal
      oxygen uptake, and a 15 percent reduction in fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular disease event
      rates. Educational techniques used by the program included: print, radio and televised
      messages; small group behavior change programs delivered by trained lay volunteers; community
      and worksite-based blood pressure reduction, cholesterol and multiple-risk factor screening,
      counseling and referral events; self-help programs; school curricula; smoking prevention
      programs; risk behavior change competitions; shelf-labeling in grocery stores and
      menu-labeling in restaurants to indicate low sodium and low fat foods.

      The effectiveness of the program was evaluated by biennial random household risk factor
      surveys, a morbidity and mortality surveillance system and other methods. In the risk factor
      survey, households were randomly selected. Within each sampled household, a single respondent
      was selected from eligible adults. A household interview and testing protocol was
      administered in the home and includes questions about diet, exercise, smoking, behavior and
      knowledge of cardiovascular disease. Physiological measures included height, weight, blood
      pressure, total cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density-lipoprotein bound cholesterol and
      serum cotinine. A subsample was given a step test to estimate maximum oxygen uptake as a
      measure of fitness. A second subset completed a Willett diet questionnaire. There were five
      cross-sectional household surveys of approximately 2,800 individuals per survey. The initial
      cross-sectional survey was converted to a cohort survey for measurement again in 1986-1987
      and in 1988-1989. The third cross-sectional survey was also converted to a cohort survey for
      simultaneous measurement with the 1987-1988 and 1989-1990 cross-sectional samples.

      Both communities were screened for morbidity and case-fatality rates for coronary heart
      disease and stroke. Morbidity and mortality data were obtained from seven area hospitals and
      the State Health Departments of Rhode Island and Massachusetts. Outcome criteria were
      developed collaboratively by the Pawtucket Heart Health Program, the Stanford Five-City
      Multifactor Risk Reduction Study, and the Minnesota Heart Health Program, to maximize the
      scientific value of the conclusions drawn from the three studies and to allow pooling of
      final data. Surveillance was complete for 1980 to 1983 and continued through 1993.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  