
    
      The infantile and juvenile forms of GM1 and GM2 gangliosidoses are neurodegenerative
      conditions that are lethal during childhood. There are no known effective therapies available
      for treatment of infantile and juvenile gangliosidoses. Studies of monotherapy with miglustat
      for treatment of these conditions have demonstrated safety, but have not demonstrated notable
      clinical improvement. To date, combination therapy for the infantile and juvenile
      gangliosidoses has not been explored. This study will evaluate a multi-targeted combination
      therapy for treatment of the gangliosidoses, using FDA approved therapies that have
      demonstrated safety in children. It is the aim of this study to learn if combination therapy
      using the "Syner-G" regimen (that is, synergistic enteral regimen for treatment of the
      gangliosidoses) will show improvement in overall survival and clinical benefits in
      neurodevelopmental abilities in children with gangliosidosis diseases.

      This study is planned as a 5-year longitudinal treatment study. Subjects will be started on
      the treatment regimen when they are enrolled in the study. Data will be collected during
      yearly evaluations and at completion of study. Investigators may choose to stop therapy at
      any time, as clinically indicated for individual patients.

      The Ketogenic Diet is a special diet that contains higher amounts of fat and lower amounts of
      carbohydrate compared to an average diet. The purpose of this is to help reduce
      food-miglustat interactions. The ketogenic diet may also help in management of seizures in
      these patients. (The ketogenic diet has been used as an anti-seizure treatment in a variety
      of medical conditions for many decades.) A study in Sandhoff disease mice has shown that the
      ketogenic diet may also help miglustat be more effective in the central nervous system (see
      Denny in "Citations" list below).

      Miglustat will be used to reduce the amount of ganglioside accumulation in the child's cells.
      Miglustat is not FDA approved for treatment of the gangliosidoses. It is FDA approved for a
      different inherited metabolic disease called Gaucher disease type I.

      This study has been issued Investigational New Drug (IND) # 127636 by the U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA).
    
  