
    
      Objective: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of blindness in people
      over age 55 in the United States, is a heterogeneous clinical entity in which retinal
      degeneration occurs predominantly in the macula in the context of aging and leads to
      impairment of central visual acuity. AMD occurs in two general forms, one of which involves
      choroidal neovascularization (CNV) with subsequent formation of a disciform scar. This is
      often referred to as the neovascular or "wet" form. A second form, the subject of this study,
      is termed "dry" or atrophic macular degeneration and involves a constellation of clinical
      features that can include drusen, pigment clumping and/or retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)
      dropout and geographic atrophy (GA). GA can begin as a thinning of the RPE with involvement
      of the underlying choriocapillaris and lead subsequently to an atrophic change in the macula.
      Inflammation may play a role in the pathogenesis of GA. Sirolimus inhibits the production,
      signaling and activity of many inflammatory factors relevant to the development of GA.
      Therefore, the objective of this study is to investigate the safety and possible efficacy of
      multiple sirolimus subconjunctival injections in participants with bilateral GA.

      Study Population: Ten participants with bilateral GA associated with AMD, with the potential
      to replace up to five participants if some fail to reach one year of follow-up.

      Design: In this controlled, unmasked, Phase I/II study, one eye of eligible participants will
      be randomized to treatment while the fellow eye will be observed. Participants will receive a
      20 μL (440 μg) subconjunctival injection of sirolimus in the study eye at baseline and every
      three months thereafter. The study will be completed once all participants have received two
      years of study medication and follow-up.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome is the rate of change in area of GA, based on masked
      grading by an external Reading Center, of fundus photography in the study eye and fellow eye
      at two years compared with baseline. Secondary outcomes will include worsening of
      best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) of three or more lines (15 or more letters), changes in
      area of GA as measured on autofluorescence, changes in drusen volume as measured by optical
      coherence tomography, changes in photoreceptor outer segment (PROS) thickness as measured by
      optical coherence tomography, as well as changes in drusen area based on masked digital
      grading of fundus photographs. Safety outcomes will include the number and severity of
      systemic and ocular toxicities, adverse events and infections.
    
  