
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the rate of overall complete response (CR)/complete response with incomplete
      hematologic recovery (CRi) with liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine (CPX-351) +
      pomalidomide versus CPX-351 alone in newly diagnosed scute myeloid leukemia (AML) with
      preexisting myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), or
      myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN); therapy-related AML (t-AML); or AML with
      myelodysplasia-related changes (MRC) based on cytogenetics or morphologic dysplasia.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate and compare toxicities (including treatment-related mortality) of CPX-351 +
      pomalidomide versus CPX-351 alone in newly diagnosed AML with preexisting MDS, CMML or MPN,
      t-AML, or AML with MRC based on cytogenetics or morphologic dysplasia.

      II. To detect and compare the presence of minimal residual disease (MRD) by flow cytometry in
      those who achieve CR/CRi with CPX-351 + pomalidomide versus CPX-351 alone in newly diagnosed
      AML with preexisting MDS, CMML or MPN, t-AML, or AML with MRC based on cytogenetics or
      morphologic dysplasia.

      III. To compare median event-free survival (EFS) of CPX-351 + pomalidomide versus CPX-351
      alone in newly diagnosed AML with preexisting MDS, CMML or MPN, t-AML, or AML with MRC based
      on cytogenetics or morphologic dysplasia.

      IV. To compare median overall survival (OS) of CPX-351 + pomalidomide versus CPX-351 alone in
      newly diagnosed AML with preexisting MDS, CMML or MPN, t-AML, or AML with MRC based on
      cytogenetics or morphologic dysplasia.

      V. To compare median and 2-year disease-free survival (DFS) after CR/CRi with CPX-351 +
      pomalidomide versus CPX-351 alone in newly diagnosed AML with preexisting MDS, CMML or MPN,
      t-AML, or AML with MRC based on cytogenetics or morphologic dysplasia.

      VI. To compare rates of allogeneic stem cell transplant (SCT) after CPX-351 + pomalidomide
      versus CPX-351 alone in newly diagnosed AML with preexisting MDS, CMML or MPN, t-AML, or AML
      with MRC based on cytogenetics or morphologic dysplasia.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess for molecular biomarkers, Aiolos expression, and immune correlates of response
      with CPX-351 + pomalidomide versus CPX-351 alone in newly diagnosed AML with preexisting MDS,
      CMML or MPN, t-AML, or AML with MRC based on cytogenetics or morphologic dysplasia.

      II. To assess for differences in MRD by molecular based platforms in CPX-351 + pomalidomide
      versus CPX-351 alone in newly diagnosed AML with preexisting MDS, CMML or MPN, t-AML, or AML
      with MRC based on cytogenetics or morphologic dysplasia.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine intravenously (IV)
      over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5 and then pomalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD)
      beginning between days 21-30 for 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients who do not respond, may receive a second cycle of
      liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3 in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients who achieve CR/CRi receive liposome-encapsulated
      daunorubicin-cytarabine IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine intravenously (IV)
      over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients who do not respond, may receive a second cycle of liposome-encapsulated
      daunorubicin-cytarabine IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3 in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients who achieve CR/CRi receive liposome-encapsulated
      daunorubicin-cytarabine IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 5 years.
    
  