
    
      The pre-operative evaluation included a clinical interview, a barium swallow study, an upper
      gastro-intestinal (GI) endoscopy, and standard manometry. The type and severity of symptoms
      and the grade of reflux esophagitis were determined using a questionnaire with
      semi-quantitative scales.

      The barium swallow study was performed to define the position of the E-G junction with
      respect to the diaphragm with the patient in the upright position, as well as the morphology
      and the type of HH. The migration of the E-G junction was radiologically diagnosed in three
      steps using the following differential diagnoses: hiatal insufficiency, concentric HH, and
      acquired short esophagus. Reflux esophagitis was classified according to the Los Angeles
      classification. In the absence of grade A esophagitis or a more severe type of esophagitis,
      patients underwent 24-h pH recording or intraluminal impedance/pH monitoring. The need for
      surgical therapy was determined according to defined parameters and to the current guidelines
      for GERD therapy.

      The patient is placed in the lithotomic position; the pelvis and left chest are lifted 45° to
      the right to facilitate access for a left thoracostomy along the posterior axillary line.

      Surgery begins via five laparoscopic ports: the camera port is placed 5 to 10 cm above the
      umbilicus, depending on the patient's body size, to enable access to the upper portion of the
      mediastinum. After the opening of the phreno-esophageal membrane, the E-G junction is
      isolated and the sac and fat pad (with the exception of the fat near the lesser curvature to
      preserve the integrity of the vagus nerves) are resected. A fiber endoscope is inserted
      trans-orally to determine the position of the upper margins of the gastric folds, which
      correspond to the E-G junction. The tip of the endoscope is placed at this level, which the
      surgeon marks with two clips. The intra-thoracic esophagus is mobilized by 9-12 centimeters
      to the level at which the left vagus nerve travels along the anterior aspect of the
      esophagus.

      The distance between the E-G junction and the apex of the hiatus is measured after completely
      releasing the stomach, using an L-shaped instrument, which prevents errors associated with
      the two-dimensional video image. The upper arm of the L (90° based on the axis of the
      measurer) is placed at the apex of the diaphragm, and the distance between the base of the
      arm and the clip is measured in centimeters; the measurement is positive if the junction is
      above and negative if the junction is below the diaphragm. The length of the intra-abdominal
      portion of the esophagus that is suitable for the performance of a tension-free
      fundoplication is approximately 2.5 cm. If the E-G junction, with the stomach completely
      released, is still fixed above or astride the hiatus, the Collis technique is adopted. If the
      E-G junction is positioned below the hiatus by only 1-1.5 cm, a scenario in which even the
      application of slight downward traction on the stomach makes it possible to obtain the 2-3 cm
      of esophagus necessary to perform the fundoplication, its position creates a condition in
      which the decision of whether to perform a Collis gastroplasty becomes subjective. In such
      cases, the investigators generally perform the lengthening procedure if reflux symptoms have
      been present for many years, if the patient is obese, or if the patient is younger than 60
      years. To perform the esophagus lengthening procedure, it is necessary to divide at least two
      short vessels. By turning the operating table toward the right side of the patient, the
      surgeon may simultaneously operate through the aforementioned 5 standard laparoscopic ports,
      as well as a left thoracoscopic port through which the instrument used to lengthen the
      esophagus is inserted. A thoracostomy is performed at the posterior axillary line at the
      V-VI-VII intercostal spaces, depending on the patient's body shape and size. A 12-mm valvular
      trocar may be used to prevent loss of pneumoperitoneum and to control intra-thoracic
      pressures.

      The anesthesiologist passes a Maloney bougie 46 ch. into the esophagus and into the proximal
      stomach.

      A no. 45 Endo GIA is inserted through the thoracic port; the tip of the instrument is
      delicately pressed against the left diaphragm to visually control the progression of the
      stapler from the port to the mediastinum. The stapler is fully visible through the hiatus as
      it penetrates the left mediastinal pleura. When it enters the abdominal cavity, the jaws are
      rotated toward the patient's left side.

      The stapler is opened and positioned at the angle of His with its arms parallel but not too
      close to the Maloney bougie. To facilitate this maneuver and prevent the formation of a pouch
      between the suture lines and the angle of His, it may be necessary to pull the gastric fundus
      to the left when using the stapler.

      The neo-esophagus is approximately 3 cm long. The mechanical suture line is covered with a
      sero- muscular running suture. A hiatoplasty is routinely performed; in the event of a type
      II-IV HH, the sutures applied to the diaphragmatic crura are reinforced with
      polytetrafluoroethylene-pledgeted sutures (two for each stitch, placed laterally at the edges
      of the crura and over the peritoneum). A floppy Nissen fundoplication (one 1.5-cm U stitch
      reinforced with pledgets) is performed. The superior edges of the fundoplication are placed
      above the clips, which mark the native E-G junction, to fully wrap the neo-esophagus. Two
      vertical U stitches intended to grab the inner, circular, muscular layer are applied
      laterally between the fundus and the esophagus to prevent slippage.

      Follow-Up

      Post-operatively, each of the patients participated in a free-of-charge outpatient follow-up
      program that entailed visits at 6 months, 12 months, and 2, 3, 4, and 5 years following
      surgery. At 1, 3, and 5 years, patients participated in a clinical interview and underwent
      both an upper GI endoscopy and a barium swallow study. The methodologies of these tests were
      the same as those used for the pre-operative work-up. Following the initial five-year
      follow-up period, patients were offered the opportunity to attend an outpatient clinical
      consultation every 3 years, as well as to undergo an endoscopy and a radiological examination
      of the esophagus and stomach. The follow-up procedures were established according to the
      "good practice criteria" accepted by the Italian Health Service. Patients voluntarily agreed
      to participate in the program. The length of the follow-up was calculated based on the amount
      of time that elapsed between the date of each patient's surgery and the day on which each
      patient appeared for the final follow-up visit.

      An evaluation scale for the surgical results, from "excellent" to "poor" was used.

      The results of cases in which a recurring HH was diagnosed by barium swallow, even an HH
      smaller than two centimeters, as well as those of cases in which medical therapy (H2 blockers
      or proton pump inhibitors) was necessary to control reflux symptoms or esophagitis, were
      classified as "poor".
    
  