
    
      Group 1 (PAO+usual+PRT):

      PAO will be performed as the trans-sartorial approach or the anterior pelvic approach.
      Patients commence post-operative rehabilitation as usual and follow the rehabilitation
      program guided by a physiotherapist specialized in hip problems until 4 months after the
      operation. 4 months postoperative the patients complete usual care and continue with the same
      PRT intervention program as the PRT group, with 4 months of supervised sessions (see
      description below).

      Group 2 (PRT):

      The PRT group receives 4 months of supervised PRT 2 times per week. A physiotherapist or
      students will supervise all training sessions the first 4 weeks. The following 4 weeks, 6 out
      of 8 training sessions are supervised and from week 9-16, half of the training sessions (8
      out of 16) are supervised. After these 4 months (16 weeks), patients receive a free
      membership to a fitness center near their home address and are encouraged to train on their
      own 2 times per week until 12 months follow-up with one supervised session per month. The PRT
      program involves 10-min of warm up followed by 50-min of bilateral resistance exercises
      including sets of loaded squats, hip extension, hip flexion, and hip abduction. The absolute
      training load will be individually adjusted on a set-by-set basis, using the plus two
      principle (if the patient is able to perform two or more repetitions than required, the load
      is increased). Hip related pain levels up to 5 on the VAS is considered acceptable during
      exercise.

      The study is a multicentre randomised controlled and assessor blinded trial. Primary endpoint
      will be 12 months after initiation of surgical/non-surgical treatment. Secondary endpoints
      will be measured at 4 months after the start of the treatment (surgical/non-surgical). In
      addition, 5-year and 10-year follow-up with questionnaires is planned.
    
  