
    
      Renal cell cancer, also referred to as kidney cancer, is diagnosed in approximately 170,000
      people worldwide annually, resulting in 82,000 deaths. Treatment for metastatic kidney cancer
      is difficult. Almost all of the patients die from their disease.

      In 2006 a new drug called sunitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, transformed treatment
      options. It targets the development of new blood vessels within the cancer. Although the
      results with this drug are impressive, patients develop resistance a median after 11 months
      to the drug, relapse and die of renal cancer. It is currently standard practice to switch to
      everolimus when resistance to sunitinib occurs; this is associated with clear clinical
      benefit. However the median time to progression with everolimus is 4 months in previously
      treated patients, therefore further improvement in treating patients is required. The optimal
      way of achieving this is to increase the efficacy of everolimus by adding agents which
      directly target the cause of resistance to sunitinib.

      dovitnib is a promising new drug the pharmacology data from a variety of in vitro and in vivo
      studies with dovitnib provided preclinical rationale for clinical evaluation of dovitinib in
      patients with metastatic clear cell renal cancer.

      The combination of everolimus with dovitnib will target 3 major protagonists associated with
      tumour growth The main risks and burdens to the patients participating in the study are the
      potential for side effects of the trial medicines, these two drugs have not been used in
      combination together and although there is safety data on each drug, there is no known safety
      data on the drugs when used in combination. The first cohort of patients will receive 200mg
      of dovitnib and 5mg of everolimus. In previous studies these drugs have been administered
      separately and at higher doses. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of dovitnib for the 5-day
      on/ 2-day off dosing schedule has been defined as 500mg/day in a previous Phase I studies. In
      the RECORD-1 study (a Phase III double blind randomised trial investigating everolimus) a
      dose of 10mg was used.

      Cohorts of three patients will be treated in each dose level. A minimum of 14 days will
      elapse between the first patient being treated in each cohort and entering the next patient.
      Further patients may be entered concurrently. Toxicity will be assessed according to NCI
      CTCAE v4.0; if no dose limiting toxicity (DLT) occurs dose escalation will be undertaken for
      the next cohort of patients.

      In the event of DLT in 1out of the 3 patients the cohort will be expanded to a maximum of 6
      patients. If more than or equal to 2 out of 6 patients experience DLT dose escalation will be
      halted and the maximum administered dose (MAD) has been reached. If less than or equal to 1
      out of 6 patients had DLT dose escalation may continue.

      Patients may not personally benefit from being in this study. However the information we gain
      from this study might help to treat future patients who have metastatic kidney cancer.
    
  