
    
      Background:

      -Non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLC) esophageal carcinomas (EsC) and malignant

      pleural mesotheliomas (MPM) account for approximately 185,000 deaths annually in the United
      States, with over two thirds of patients presenting with advanced, incurable disease.
      1st-line platinum-based chemotherapy for advanced NSCLC, EsC or MPM produces transient
      responses at best, with most patients succumbing to disease within 12-16 months following
      diagnosis.

        -  Recent randomized clinical trials have demonstrated response rates approximating 20% in
           unselected patients with advanced NSCLC or EsC, and nearly 45% in patients with tumors
           exhibiting high level expression of programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) following
           administration of pembrolizumab, a humanized monoclonal anti- PD-1 antibody.

        -  Approximately 17% of unselected MPM patients have exhibited objective responses

      following administration of pembrolizumab or other PD-1 inhibitors.

        -  Preclinical studies have demonstrated that epigenetic drugs such as DNA demethylating
           agents and histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors can prime cancer cells and tumor
           microenvironments thereby enhancing efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors.

        -  Although a potent DNA demethylating agent, Decitabine has poor bioavailability and
           inconsistent distribution in solid tumors due to rapid inactivation by cytidine
           deaminase (CDA) which is present in high levels in many organs.

        -  Recent studies in rodents and nonhuman primates, as well as a Phase 1 clinical trial
           (NCT#01685515) in patients with sickle cell disease have demonstrated that oral
           tetrahydrouridine (THU), an inhibitor of CDA, significantly enhances
           bioavailability/solid-tissue-distribution of low dose oral DAC, thereby enhancing
           systemic DNA demethylation with acceptable toxicities.

        -  Preliminary results of recent clinical trial suggest that oral DAC-THU can increase the
           frequency and magnitude of responses to immune checkpoint inhibitors in lung cancer
           patients with low or absent intra-tumoral PD-L1 expression.

        -  These data support further evaluation of oral DAC-THU in combination with immune
           checkpoint inhibitors for therapy of thoracic malignancies.

      Objectives:

      Phase I

      -To define pharmacokinetics, toxicities and maximum tolerated dose of oral DAC-THU in
      combination with pembrolizumab in patients with inoperable, or unresectable locally advanced
      or metastatic NSCLC, EsC, or MPM.

      Phase II

      -To determine clinical response by RECIST criteria to oral DAC-THU in combination with
      pembrolizumab in patients with inoperable, or unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic
      NSCLC, EsC, or MPM.

      Eligibility:

      Inclusion Criteria

        -  Male or female, 18 years or older with histologically or cytologically-proven,
           inoperable, or unresectable locally advanced, or metastatic NSCLC, EsC, or MPM.

        -  Measurable disease.

        -  Patients with high PD-L1 expression ( (Bullet) 50%) and low PD-L1 expression (0-49%) in
           cancer cells by immunohistochemistry are eligible.

        -  NSCLC patients with no prior systemic treatment, or those with prior first line
           treatment including an immune checkpoint inhibitor are eligible for study.

        -  MPM patients who have received, refused, or are ineligible for first line chemotherapy
           are eligible.

        -  Patients with EsC including Seiwert-Stein Type I and Type II gastro-esophageal junction
           (GEJ) carcinomas who have received or refused standard of care first line therapy and/or
           targeted therapy are eligible.

        -  Patients who received DNA demethylating agents or PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors for another
           malignancy may be eligible for study if there were no dose-limiting immune related
           events, and there has been either no clinical evidence of disease or minimal residual
           disease that has been stable for at least three years.

        -  Willingness to undergo tumor biopsies if safely accessible per PI discretion before and
           after treatment.

        -  ECOG performance status 0 2.

        -  No evidence of unstable or decompensated myocardial disease; adequate pulmonary reserve.

        -  Adequate renal, hepatic and hematopoietic function.

      Exclusion Criteria

        -  Patients with any targetable mutation for which there is approved first or second line
           therapy.

        -  Serious cardiovascular conditions.

        -  Active Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B or Hepatitis C.

        -  Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related
           illness.

        -  Other active infection requiring systemic therapy.

        -  Pregnant or breastfeeding women.

        -  Patients who are receiving systemic corticosteroids.

        -  Patients receiving another investigational agent.

        -  Another malignancy.

      Design:

        -  The Phase I component will be a standard 3+3 design combining high and low PD-L1
           expressers with incremental dose escalation of oral DAC-THU to define MTD.

        -  Simon 2-stage design for Phase II studies will be used to determine clinical response at
           the MTD.

        -  Patients will receive oral DAC-THU- on T-W for two weeks out of every 3 for 9 weeks

        -  Pembrolizumab will be administered on Wednesday, Thursday or Friday at a fixed
           intravenous dose of 200 mg every 3 weeks.

        -  One cycle is three weeks; one course is 9 weeks. Treatment evaluation using RECIST 1.1
           every 10 +/- 1 weeks.

        -  Those patients exhibiting disease progression or unacceptable toxicities will be removed
           from study. Patients exhibiting stable disease or disease regression will be offered an
           additional course of therapy followed by treatment evaluation. Treatment will continue
           in this manner until off-study criteria have been met.

        -  Once the MTD for DAC/THU has been identified, the MTD dose level will be expanded by 4
           patients to confirm its safety. Then, including these 10 patients at the MTD, a total of
           10 NSCLC patients with high (50% or greater) intratumoral PD-L1 expression and 10 NSCLC
           patients with low (0-49%) intratumoral PL-L1 expression will be accrued to the first
           stage of each of two separate Phase II cohorts using individual Simon optimal designs.
           If 5 or more patients of the 10 first stage NSCLC patients in the high PD-L1 cohort
           respond to treatment, the cohort will be expanded to 23 patients. If 11 of 23 of these
           patients respond to treatment, the trial will be deemed positive for NSCLC with high
           PD-L1 expression. If 2 or more of the 10 first stage NSCLC patients in the low PD-L1
           expression cohort respond to treatment, the cohort will be expanded to 29 patients. If 6
           or more of these 29 patients experience a response, the trial will be deemed positive
           for NSCLC with low PD-L1 expression. Up to 10 EsC patients, including those considered
           to be part of the Phase I component after the MTD has been identified, will be enrolled
           into a separate cohort to examine responses to DAC-THU/pembrolizumab at the MTD. If 2 or
           more of these 10 EsC patients respond to treatment, these findings may warrant an
           amendment or a separate Phase II trial to determine response rates to
           DAC-THU/pembrolizumab in EsC patients. Similarly, if 2 or more of 10 MPM patients
           respond to treatment, these findings may warrant an amendment or a separate Phase II
           trial to determine response rates to DACTHU/pembrolizumab in MPM.

        -  Biopsies of index lesions will be obtained at baseline and at treatment evaluation
           following the first course of therapy for analysis of pharmacodynamic endpoints.

        -  Patients will be followed for toxicity for at least 30 days after treatment has been
           discontinued, start of new anti-cancer treatment or until death, whichever occurs first.
    
  