
    
      Breast cancer (BC) is the most common cancer among women and approximately 45% of breast
      cancer patients develop metastatic disease that generally remains incurable with a median
      survival of approximately 18 to 24 months. A subpopulation emerging as having particularly
      poor prognosis is patients who have disease that is receptor negative for oestrogen,
      progestin and HER2/neu (triple receptor negative). Since no effective therapy is available in
      this setting of patients, the investigators propose allogeneic haematopoietic cell
      transplantation.

      Recent advances in allogeneic haematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) have led to reduced
      intensity preparative regimens that are non-myeloablative and permit the development of
      sustained donor chimerism. As a result, regimen related organ toxicities (RROT), and
      consequently non-relapse mortality has been reduced. However, the incidence of acute and
      chronic graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD and cGVHD, respectively) has remained a major
      complication. Pre-clinical data, developed by the Stanford group, established that
      nonmyeloablative conditioning with total lymphoid irradiation (TLI) combined with depletive
      anti-T cell antibodies protects against GVHD by skewing peripheral T cell subsets to favour
      suppressive regulatory T cells. The current proposal is a Phase II study evaluating safety
      and activity of the allogeneic peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) transplantation using
      TLI/ATG conditioning regimen, the kinetics of donor haematopoietic cell engraftment and
      chimerism, the incidence and severity of acute GVHD following allogeneic transplantation
      using the novel preparative regimen of TLI combined with antithymocyte globulin (ATG).
      Patients with triple negative breast cancer will be considered for transplantation using
      donor grafts from HLA-matched related donors. The preparative regimen of TLI combined with
      ATG is expected to result in high levels of sustained donor haematopoietic cell engraftment
      with a significantly reduced incidence of acute GVHD.
    
  