
    
      The overall goal of this project is to determine whether polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (P
      AHs) or acetaldehyde are contributing to the high rate of esophageal cancer in Linxian,
      China.

      Esophageal cancer is one of the most fatal cancers worldwide and Linxian, China has some of
      the highest rates of this cancer in the world. In the United States esophageal cancer causes
      approximately 14,000 deaths each year. It is the fourth most common cause of cancer death in
      black males and the eighth leading cause of cancer death in men of all races. The prevention
      and treatment of esophageal cancer within high risk groups continues to be limited by our
      inability to identify specific etiologic agents.

      Human exposure to PAHs, including benzo[a]pyrene (B [a]P) is associated with increased rates
      of skin, lung, esophageal and gastric tumors and also with an increased mortality from causes
      related to atherosclerosis. Preliminary results from histologic and food analysis pilot
      studies supports the possibility that the high rates of esophageal cancer in Linxian may be
      related to long-term, high level exposure to PAHs via inhalation of air-borne pollution and
      ingestion of food cooked with soft coal.

      Exposure to acetaldehyde could also be an etiologically significant exposure in Linxian.
      Acetaldehyde is a carcinogenic metabolite, and small quantities of ethanol where recently
      found in homogenized Linxian food samples. The Salaspuro laboratory at the University of
      Helsinki has demonstrated that oral bacteria can produce acetaldehyde from food containing
      similar small concentrations of ethanol, so such acetaldehyde exposure could be etiologically
      significant in Linxian. Genetic polymorphisms, particularly those involving alcohol and
      acetaldehyde dehydrogenases, may also influence the effect of this exposure.

      To assess the association of PAHs and acetaldehyde with the high rate of esophageal cancer in
      Linxian, China, we plant o analyze samples of food for the presence of PAHs, ethanol and
      acetaldehyde, samples of blood for Hb and DNA adducts( markers of long-term PAH or
      acetaldehyde exposure), samples of urine for 1-OH-Pyrene glucuronide (a marker of short term
      PAH exposure) samples of saliva for acetaldehyde and samples of coal for characteristics that
      may be associated with increased carcinogenesis. We will also administer environmental
      questionnaires that will include questions about the type of fuel used for cooking and
      heating, the location and types of stove and/or heating units, and the time spent cooking.
    
  