
    
      -  The investigators will study all adult (>18 years old) patients going through surgery at
           the site during a defined period of time. Before induction of anesthesia participants
           will be asked to assess (in VAS units) the pain intensity associated with peripheral
           venous cannulation. The maximum level of postoperative pain intensity will be recorded
           in the post-anesthesia care unit.

        -  After the endpoint of the study, the patient records will be reviewed, and de-identified
           relevant data be recorded and analyzed in the Statistical Package for the Social
           Sciences (SPSS) software.

        -  Sample size assessment: In a previous study patients scoring ≥ 2.0 on venous cannulation
           assessed their median pain postoperatively at 5.8 VAS units compared with 2.9 in those
           scoring < 2.0 - corresponding to a difference in maximum postoperative pain intensity of
           almost three VAS units. To statistically confirm, with unpaired non-parametric tests, 80
           % power (β), and 95% probability (1- α), half of that difference (1.5 VAS units) in pain
           intensity level between patients scoring above or below 2.0 VAS units, respectively,
           would require 55 patients in each group subjected to the same kind of surgery. With 4
           groups of cases and controls 440 patients would need to be included. As the study is
           strictly observational, 600 patients will be included to make up for possible missing
           data.

        -  Statistics: The Mann-Whitney U- test will be used to compare differences in
           postoperative pain intensity levels, and the Pearson Chi-square test to compare
           proportions of patients with moderate or severe postoperative pain, in patients
           differing in pain scores (above or below 2.0 VAS units) on venous cannulation. Logistic
           regression analysis will be used to adjust for gender and age and to evaluate the
           predictive ability of proposed method.
    
  