
    
      MiP remains a major public health issue in Burkina Faso, which would compromise the
      achievement of Sustainable Development Goals for maternal and child health (22). Malaria
      control program have been implemented by the Burkinabe Ministry of Health (MoH) since 2000;
      nevertheless, lower coverage and delays in implementation of these programs may have reduced
      their effectiveness.

      In Burkina Faso, recommended preventions strategies for malaria imply the administration of
      at least 3 doses of IPTp during ANCs and before delivery (23). IPTp have been proven to have
      a great impact on PM, LBW and peripheral malaria infection at delivery so increasing the
      number of IPTp doses given is a priority. Strategies to increase the number of IPTp doses and
      the coverage using reminders could improve this health intervention effectiveness. This can
      be considered as follow up of the Cosmic study (24) recommendations.

      However with increasing drug resistance, there is a progressively diminished efficacy of
      IPTp-SP in clearing existing infections and a shortening of the post-treatment prophylaxis
      period (25). Moreover, pregnant women can generally be infected with low parasites densities
      between ANCs compromising the outcome of the pregnancy (26). Therefore, additional screening
      with HS-RDTs between ANCs and treatment using ACTs with long Post-treatment prophylaxis
      effect in addition to IPTp-SP could have a great impact both for the mothers and their
      offspring's.

      This proposal aims to determine the operational feasibility and the impact of additional
      screening with HS-RDTs and treatment with DP on placental malaria (PM) and low birth weight
      (LBW) in a context of IPTp-SP, in rural central Burkina Faso. The findings obtained from this
      study will help to assist the MoH in the implementation of the appropriate interventions in
      this group at risk.

      Objectives

      General objective

      - To determine the operational feasibility and the impact of additional screening with
      HS-RDTs and treatment with DP on PM, LBW and peripheral malaria infection at delivery in in
      Burkina Faso

      Specific objectives are the following:

        -  To determine the gain of additional screening with HS-RDTs and treatment with DP against
           PM, LBW and peripheral malaria infection at delivery

        -  To assess the determinants of the poor coverage and improve the number of IPTp doses
           received using phone call or SMS as a reminder
    
  