
    
      The purpose of this research is to study the effectiveness of the Bonny Method of Guided
      Imagery and Music (GIM) as a treatment approach for depression. Specifically, this study will
      examine the treatment outcomes of a series of individual GIM sessions for persons with mild
      or moderate depression. It is guided by the following three research questions: In
      individuals with depression, does a series of GIM sessions 1) reduce severity of depression,
      2) reduce severity of anxiety, and 3) improve mental well-being in comparison to a control
      group? The hypothesis is that a series of individual GIM sessions will be associated with
      improvement in depression, anxiety, and mental well-being that is greater than the waitlist
      control group.

      Background: The Bonny Method of Guided Imagery and Music is a music-centered depth approach
      to exploring the self. In GIM, therapist-selected programs of music from the Western
      classical tradition are used to evoke and develop a client's spontaneously generated imagery
      in a highly focused non-ordinary state of consciousness. In dialogue with the therapist, the
      client explores this imagery in a transformative process.

      Preliminary evidence suggests that the Bonny Method of Guided Imagery and Music may be an
      appropriate therapeutic approach for persons with depression. Used in psychotherapy, it has
      been documented as treatment for depression in qualitative research, case studies and
      clinical practice. There is quantitative evidence that GIM may be effective at reducing
      depression and related symptoms in a variety of clinical and nonclinical populations. A
      systematic review examined the evidence of psychological and physiological change associated
      with a series of individual GIM sessions and found a cluster of positive treatment effects
      related to mood including improvements in depression and depressed mood, mood disturbance,
      and anxiety. There is also evidence that these treatment effects may persist over time.

      Design: This quantitative research will use a split-plot factorial, or mixed, design with two
      conditions: (a) an experimental group who receive a series of individual GIM sessions and (b)
      a waitlist control group who receive a series of group GIM sessions after completing a
      waitlist period. The research is utilizing a waitlist control condition to meet the ethical
      demand of providing a degree of parity between experimental and control condition, improve
      feasibility of the research, and to mitigate bias produced by the inability to fully mask
      participants to their group assignment. The research will be conducted in a naturalistic
      setting in a private office in a psychology and counseling practice that has been retained
      for the length of the research study. This research is studying intervention effectiveness
      rather than efficacy, and therefore the design allows for a degree of flexibility with the
      provision of the intervention as is normal in a real-world clinical setting.

      Recruitment: Adults seeking treatment for depression will be recruited from outpatient mental
      health care providers and from the community. At the time of enrollment in the study,
      participants will be asked to provide the name and contact information of their most recent
      mental health care provider. In the event that a participant requires more intensive
      treatment while participating in the research study, the participant will be referred to that
      mental health care provider for a formal assessment. If a participant does not provide
      information for a mental health care provider, they will be referred to a mental health
      assessment and referral center in the community.

      Randomization: After providing informed consent and verifying that they meet all eligibility
      requirements, participants are randomly assigned to either a treatment condition or waitlist
      control condition. The study will use block randomization to ensure even group allocation at
      both clinical sites, and will be conducted by a member of the research team who is not
      involved in recruitment, screening, or providing the intervention.

      Clinical Sites: Clinical sessions for the study will take place at two research sites in the
      United States: one metropolitan area in the Midwest and one in the mid-Atlantic. The
      individual and group GIM sessions will be conducted by board-certified music therapists
      (MT-BC) who have completed training in the Bonny Method of Guided Imagery and Music as
      endorsed by the Association for Music and Imagery, and have the credential Fellow of the
      Association for Music and Imagery (FAMI).

      Quality Assurance: To ensure consistent and high-quality treatment and maximize internal and
      external validity, the research team will monitor fidelity to the GIM approach in each
      session with a GIM Treatment Fidelity Assessment, created for the purposes of this research.
      This assessment will be completed by the therapist immediately following each GIM session.
      Any signs of variation, drift, or bias will be discussed with the research team. The
      therapists will also receive clinical supervision from an experienced GIM supervisor
      throughout the course of the study. All sessions will be audio-recorded for reference related
      to quality assurance.

      Data Collection: All participants complete data collection packets at pre-test, midpoint
      (week 10), posttest (week 20), 6-week follow-up, and 12-week follow-up. Based on power
      calculations using effect size estimates (d = 0.5) from previous research, the study is
      seeking a total of 30 participants, adjusted to include an additional 20% to account for
      attrition. At each time point, participants will complete self-report measures related to
      depression, anxiety, and mental well-being, and give information about changes in other
      therapies or medical treatment. Because this is the first randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      examining GIM in the treatment of depression, the study is not controlling access to other
      therapies or medical care while participants are involved in the study. However, information
      on other therapies or medical care will be collected at all data points to allow the
      researchers to assess the degree to which these factors may have biased the results in the
      final analysis.

      Data Analysis: In the case of attrition or missing data, statistical analysis will utilize
      the intent-to-treat principle. Data analysis will be conducted using Statistical Package for
      the Social Sciences (SPSS) and analyzed according to the split-plot factorial design. The
      factors are 1) treatment group and 2) time. Factor 1 has two levels: GIM and waitlist
      control. Factor 2 has four levels: pretest, midpoint, posttest, and 6-week follow-up. Note
      that the 12-week follow-up will not be included in the main data analysis because the
      waitlist control group will have received Group GIM during that period. A secondary repeated
      measures analysis of the experimental group will be undertaken to examine the 12-week
      follow-up data.

      The data will first be examined to test the assumptions for parametric statistics with
      split-plot factorial ANOVA. If the data do not meet these assumptions, the data will be
      analyzed using aligned rank-transformation. Once aligned and rank-transformed, the data will
      be analyzed using split-plot factorial ANOVA.

      If the data do meet the assumptions for parametric statistics, the data will be analyzed
      using split-plot factorial ANOVA. In the case of a nonsignificant or ordinal interaction,
      main effects will be examined. In the case of a significant disordinal interaction, a simple
      effects analysis will be completed for time within-subjects. In the case of significant
      change in any of the dependent variables over time, post hoc analyses will be conducted to
      determine between which time points the significant change occurred. Effect sizes (Cohen's d)
      and confidence intervals will be calculated and reported for all outcomes, as appropriate.
    
  