
    
      Somatoform disorders [SD] are defined as physiological function or organ disturbances
      unexplained by a specific diagnosis criterion. Some approaches have recently defended the
      idea of common factors of vulnerability behind the large variability of the clinical symptoms
      regarding the SD. In this context, the lead of the neurovegetative disturbances started
      receiving attention following some studies that suggested the autonomic nervous system [ANS]
      disturbances concerning a somatoform disorder, independently of its form. Two different
      neurovegetative endophenotypes (individual autonomic profiles) were highlighted: a functional
      neurovegetative profile (high vagal tone) and a dysfunctional neurovegetative profile (low
      vagal tone).

      A dysfunctional neurovegetative profile could be accompanied by a chronic decoupling in the
      brain-visceral axis according as the ANS is considered as a bidirectional communication
      system linked the central nervous system [CNS] and the viscera. Depending on the types of the
      neurovegetative profiles, different degrees of cognitive-emotional vulnerability and a higher
      or a lower level of acceptance of the illness could be supposed. Finally, recent findings
      defend the idea of the traumatic experiences as a determining factor to develop a SD.

      In accordance to the last notions regarding the SD, some therapeutic approaches could be
      interesting specifically techniques focusing on the vagal nerve. In this context, biofeedback
      [BFB] could provide a powerful method to restore the clinical and physiological impairments.

      As a consequence, the main objective is to evaluate the physiological and clinical effects of
      the BFB training with patients suffering from SD: Irritable Bowel Syndrome [IBS] or
      Psychogenic Non Epileptic Seizure [PNES]. The investigators make the prediction that the
      patients will be more or less responding to the biofeedback depending on their
      neurovegetative profile. A clustering will be performed in advance to identify the patients
      having a dysfunctional neurovegetative profile and patients having a functional
      neurovegetative profile. It will also permit to the investigators to confirm the hypothesis
      about the existence of two neurovegetative profiles related to a visceral-brain decoupling
      concerning the SD, independently of its form. To attest to it, 2 types of somatoform
      disorders will be analyzed: the irritable bowel syndrome manifesting by peripheral symptoms
      and the psychogenic non-epileptic seizures manifesting by central symptoms. Then the
      investigators will carry out a psycho-social exploration to demonstrate a higher
      cognitive-emotional vulnerability and a higher traumatic event incidence in this particular
      population, depending on their autonomic profiles.
    
  