
    
      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection remains one of the most common complications affecting organ
      transplant recipients, with significant morbidity and occasional mortality. The adverse
      impact of CMV infection on graft function underscores the importance of CMV on transplant
      outcomes.

      CMV prevention strategies have resulted in significant reductions in CMV disease and
      CMV-related mortality. The reduction in the incidence of "indirect effects" of CMV infection
      has also been attributed to the use of CMV prevention. Nevertheless, management of CMV
      infection varies considerably among transplant centers. Two major strategies are commonly
      used for prevention of CMV: universal prophylaxis and preemptive therapy. Within each of
      these strategies, significant variation in clinical practice exists, including type of
      cellular or molecular diagnostics, antiviral therapies, monitoring and criteria for stopping
      treatment.

      Although the use of universal prophylaxis has increased since the availability of
      valganciclovir, there is still a debate regarding the superiority of this strategy over the
      preemptive approach. Furthermore, this costly therapy or any other CMV prophylaxis is
      currently not reimbursed by our unified public health system. Therefore our strategy has been
      to use preemptive therapy. Additionally, because we consider different immunosuppressive
      regimens according to pretransplant stratified evaluation of risk of rejection, only kidney
      transplant recipients at high risk to develop CMV infection or disease, i.e., negative
      recipients of positive organ donors, patients receiving induction therapy with thymoglobulin
      and patients treated for acute rejection undergo preemptive strategy. Using this strategy,
      our currently overall incidence of CMV infection or disease is currently 25%. This incidence
      is higher among recipients who received thymoglobulin induction, tacrolimus and mycophenolate
      maintenance combination or treatment for acute rejection with either high dose of
      corticosteroids or thymoglobulin.

      Because none of the kidney transplant recipients at our institution receive any prophylaxis
      for CMV infection and because immunosuppressive regimens are selected according to
      immunological rejection risk, this is the ideal population to investigate the natural history
      of CMV infection and disease using more recent, sensitive and specific molecular tolls.
    
  