
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the change in the populations of tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIICs)
      induced by neoadjuvant pembrolizumab following leucovorin calcium (calcium folinate),
      5-fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the safety/toxicity profile of pembrolizumab following FOLFOX in the
      preoperative setting for patients with CRC with resectable hepatic metastases.

      II. To estimate the clinical efficacy of neoadjuvant pembrolizumab following FOLFOX in
      patients with CRC with resectable hepatic metastases.

      III. Pathologic response in resected tumor. IV. Objective response rate (ORR) by Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.

      V. Landmark progression-free survival (PFS) at 12 months.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the impact of neoadjuvant pembrolizumab following FOLFOX on PD-L1 expression
      in tumor cells and TIICs, in patients with metastatic (m)CRC.

      II. To determine the change in T cell repertoire within the tumor and blood induced by
      neoadjuvant pembrolizumab following FOLFOX in patients with metastatic CRC.

      III. To explore molecular profiles to identify potentially predictive biomarkers for patients
      with metastatic CRC treated with immunotherapy (including but not limited to microsatellite
      instability (MSI) testing).

      IV. To correlate change in TIICs, PDL-1 expression, and T cell repertoires as well as
      molecular profiles with response/resistance and toxicity.

      V. To establish human immune system patient-derived xenografts (HIS PDX) models from
      pre-treatment liver biopsy specimens and to correlate treatment effects in HIS PDX and
      corresponding patients.

      VI. To correlate contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) imaging metrics, such as
      quantitative enhancement characteristics, with change in TIICs in patients with CRC liver
      metastases treated with pembrolizumab preceded by FOLFOX.

      VII. To identify immune response messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression analysis to
      derive signatures associated with tumor response.

      VIII. To identify genomic mutations and gene copy aberrations associated with response and
      resistance to therapy.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive between 4 and 8 FOLFOX treatments, based on the treating physician's
      opinion. Approximately 2 weeks after the last dose of FOLFOX, patients receive pembrolizumab
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. About 2 weeks later, patients undergo hepatic
      resection.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and every 90 days
      for 1 year.
    
  