
    
      This study is a pragmatic clinic-randomized controlled trial of a diabetes dashboard
      integrated with the electronic health record (EHR). The diabetes dashboard is available as a
      tab in the EHR and enables clinicians to confirm relevant patient parameters, select
      treatment goals, and review likely outcomes from alternative treatment strategies through an
      interactive graphical user interface. In the review process, it enables providers and
      patients to compare up to three potential therapies side-by side including weight-loss in
      terms of a) personalized-predicted probability of achieving treatment goals; b) general
      potential risks, benefits, and medication costs; and c) relevant financial information
      specific to the patient's insurance. The personalized prediction is performed by a predictive
      model developed by analyzing a data set of primary care clinic patients with diabetes
      mellitus. The diabetes dashboard is seamlessly integrated with the EHR using an
      interoperability standard known as SMART on FHIR (short for Substitutable Medical Apps
      Reusable Technologies on Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources).

      The study is being conducted at University of Utah primary care clinics. In the intervention
      group clinics, providers will be introduced to the tool and supported using targeted
      implementation techniques including education feedback and tailored facilitation. Iterative
      enhancements will be made to the tool if warranted based on the results of a formative
      evaluation during the 1-year trial. Use of the tool and associated suggestions will be
      optional and up to the discretion of the clinician. When patients are seen at clinics
      randomized to the control arm, clinical providers will not have access to the tool. Following
      introduction of the tool across intervention clinics, a 1-year trial will be conducted. Use
      of the tool will be encouraged and supported through targeted implementation strategies. Use
      of the tool will be regularly monitored, and a mixed-methods evaluation will be conducted of
      the tool and its impact. The primary outcome measure will be hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) levels,
      which are an important physiological marker of diabetes control. Secondary measures will
      include body mass index (BMI) and the cost of diabetes medications prescribed. Other measures
      will include usage of the tool and clinical users' opinions of the tool.

      The evaluation period will start once all intervention clinics have been educated/trained on
      use of the tool. The primary study analyses will be limited to adult patients who were seen
      at least twice in the intervention or control clinics during the evaluation period for office
      visits with a visit diagnosis of diabetes mellitus, who are known to have diabetes mellitus
      (but not type-1 diabetes mellitus), who had at least one HbA1c of >= 7.5% during the
      evaluation period, and who are not already on maximal diabetes therapy (as defined by the use
      of short-acting insulin) at the start of the study. Secondary study analyses will be
      conducted on patient subsets, including a per protocol analysis of cases where the tool was
      used.
    
  