
    
      Up to 10% of newborns (79K/yr in United Kingdom, 13 million/yr worldwide) require some form
      of resuscitation at birth. It is estimated that approximately 7 million babies worldwide,
      especially the premature group, will require more advanced resuscitation. The correct,
      structured management of the resuscitation in the few 'golden' minutes after birth is
      critical to prevent significant morbidity (e.g. cerebral palsy due to asphyxiation) or death.
      There is strong evidence that standardised resuscitation training and algorithms
      significantly improve newborn outcomes and could reduce mortality by 30% in certain
      healthcare institution. International newborn resuscitation guidelines state that "a prompt
      increase in heart rate remains the most sensitive indicator of resuscitation efficacy" and
      that the stethoscope should be the primary means of assessing heart rate (HR). Provision of
      an accurate and timely HR value is essential if the best care outcomes are to be achieved.
      Establishing the HR category allows the resuscitator to decide if the HR is >100 bpm
      (suggests the baby is well or resuscitation is effective), between 60-100bpm (resuscitation
      required initially focusing on the airway) or <60bpm (requires much more intensive
      resuscitation which could include CPR). International guidelines recommend assessing the HR
      every 30 seconds with a stethoscope to track changes and hence efficacy of resuscitation.
      However, a number of studies demonstrate that newborn healthcare providers estimate the HR
      category incorrectly in about 1 in 3 cases, potentially resulting in the incorrect management
      of the baby. There is now strong evidence linking the need for resuscitation and a poor
      neurodevelopmental outcome in later childhood. Indeed, a number of large cohort studies have
      demonstrated that even if a baby requires initial resuscitation, and no further need for
      on-going care, they are at an increased risk of low intelligence quotient in childhood and
      are less likely to have paid employment or go to University when adults.

      More recently electronic stethoscopes (ES) have been used to determine heart rate
      variability. Several studies have shown that an ES can reliably evaluate the heart rate in
      adults, but only one recently published study has demonstrated its use in the neonatal
      patient. The advantage of using an ES over ECG and pulse oximetry is fast acquisition of HR
      (<5 sec) and ease of application, both attributes are beneficial in the delivery suite
      scenario. Furthermore, assessment of HR by auscultation (using a stethoscope) is still the
      primary technique used in many settings.

      ECG, an established and accurate method of monitoring HR, is rarely used in the delivery room
      for a number of reasons including difficulty ensuring adhesion to the skin (the baby is
      wet/covered in vernix) and skin damage in premature babies caused by stripping of the
      electrodes. Current ECG systems also require 3 electrodes to be positioned which can delay
      resuscitation further. To improve HR assessment at birth we aim to tackle this problem
      through a variety of means. ECG is not routinely used for delivery room resuscitations mainly
      due to the impracticalities of attaching the electrodes and setting up the system. Current
      NICU practice is to place the ECG electrodes onto the baby's chest. It is also possible for
      the electrodes to be placed on the baby's which is a method commonly adopted on the NICU.
      Preterm babies are routinely delivered into a plastic bags/wraps to minimise heat loss. By
      pre-placing the ECG electrodes onto the back of the bag/wrap with small conducting holes in,
      it should be possible to place the baby onto the bag and connect with the ECG electrodes with
      a routinely used clinical conducting gel. The baby could be placed onto them and time would
      be saved by not needing to stick the electrodes on individually and utilising the baby's
      weight to establish the electrode connections. This would avoid the need to place them
      individually, which is often time consuming and challenging as they don't still well to wet
      skin, and avoid skin stripping when removed later.

      This study will initially assess the accuracy and reliability of an electronic stethoscopes
      to evaluate heart rate on stable patients on the neonatal unit compared to routine ECG and
      pulse oximetry measurements. This will allow comparison of the pre placed ECG system in the
      second phase of the study.
    
  