
    
      Background and Significance Infusion of propofol during the process of inducing anesthesia
      can cause a fair amount of transient discomfort to patients while the are on the operating
      table and of intact faculties. It is not uncommon for patients to cry out in pain. The
      investigators have noticed this first hand on numerous occasions and have wondered if there
      is a risk-free way to lesson the pain associated with propofol infusion.

      This study will focus on the use of vibration analgesia to potentially reduce the pain
      associated with propofol infusion. Vibration is proposed to stimulate A-beta nerve fibers,
      which transmit information from vibration and touch which, according to the Gate Control
      Theory of Pain (Melzack and Wall 1965), inhibits signal transduction by A-delta and C fibers
      (Kakigi and Shibasaki 1992). Vibration has been demonstrated to be effective to decrease pain
      during vaccinations, phlebotomy, and dental anesthesia (Baxter et al. 2011; Nanitsos et al.
      2009).

      In this study, the investigators seek to evaluate the role of vibration in the reduction of
      discomfort associated with painful stimulus associated with anesthesia induction. Through
      this study, the investigators hope to develop a comprehensive and cost-effective approach to
      minimize patient discomfort during anesthesia induction.

      Study Design

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of vibration as a analgesic
      during induction of anesthesia. It is the investigators hypothesis that both vibration will
      lessen the pain of propofol infusion.

      Patients set to receive a propofol infusion as part of induction of anesthesia during surgery
      will be recruited to participate in this study. All participating patients will be randomized
      following acquisition of consent for study participation to one of two intervention groups:
      1) normal standard of care infusion of propofol without analgesia 2) infusion of propofol
      with application of vibration analgesia. Patients will then be asked to place a mark on a
      100-mm visual analogue scale corresponding to the level of pain that they experienced during
      the digital block. Additionally, Please see the next section for specific details regarding
      the intervention.

      Due to constraints regarding the validity of the linear visual analogue scale in very young
      patients (Stinson et al. 2006), only those aged 8 years or older will be eligible for
      participation in the study. Parents or guardians will provide consent for minors or for
      individuals who are otherwise unable to provide consent themselves.
    
  