
    
      Individuals from the study's recruitment sources with the diagnoses listed above will be
      contacted by research staff via telephone and invited to be screened for participation. In
      addition, individuals interested in participating may contact research staff upon learning
      about the study through a description listed on an approved website or a referral. Research
      staff will use a recruitment script for purposes of screening subjects and explaining the
      study. In addition, the initial screening process will also include conducting a cognitive
      screening known as the 6-item cognitive screener.

      Research staff will verify the diagnoses (MS, SCI, AMP, MD or LBP) of prospective subjects
      who have not been 'pre-verified' in one of three ways during the recruitment process:

        1. Research staff will attempt to determine whether a subject from has a University of
           Washington Medical Center (UWMC)/Harborview Medical Center (HMC) medical record by
           conducting a simple search using a secure application.

           If research staff are unable to locate a medical record for the prospective subject from
           recruitment strategy #1, or if the individual is part of recruitment strategy #4 (i.e.
           if individual sees description of study on clinicaltrials.gov and contacts research
           staff), then one of two options will be pursued:

        2. Subjects will be asked during the initial screening process if staff may review their
           medical records if they have received services at the UWMC/HMC since their diagnosis;

        3. Subjects will be asked during the initial screening process if staff may contact a
           physician of their choice to verify their diagnosis if (a) they have not received
           services at the UWMC/HMC since their diagnosis; (b) they refuse to give staff permission
           to review their UWMC/HMC medical records; or (c) staff for some reason cannot find a
           UWMC/HMC medical record despite the subject attesting to being a patient at one time at
           the UWMC/HMC and giving staff permission to review his/her records.

      Only individuals whose diagnosis has been verified (either via medical record review prior
      to/during screening or through verification via the subject's physician depending on
      recruitment source) will proceed with the psychological screening assessment.

      Once a prospective subject has been screened and deemed eligible to participate, research
      staff will arrange a time and date for all subjects recruited into the study to participate
      in a telephone psychological screening assessment with one of the study's licensed clinicians
      (Drs. Jensen, Ehde, Molton, or Dillworth) or senior fellow (Elena Mendoza, a clinical
      psychologist). The study clinician will ask potential subjects some questions to assess the
      presence of active suicidal ideation or paranoid thoughts using an assessment sheet.
      Individuals who do have these types of thoughts will not be eligible for the study.
      Individuals will be referred to a mental health professional if he or she needs immediate
      attention.

      Research staff will then arrange a time with the subject to attend in person what we call the
      initial intake session. At the beginning of the initial intake session, research staff will
      review a consent form with the subject and answer any questions he/she may have. The subject
      will complete and sign the consent form if he/she would like to participate. If the subject
      decides to enroll in the study, he/she will then be asked to complete a set of tasks testing
      memory and processing speed, participate in a relaxation and hypnotic exercise, and provide
      basic demographic information, as well as information about diagnosis and pain problem(s)
      he/she experiences. The initial intake session will last about 1.5 hours depending on the
      subject's answers.

      The subject will then participate in a brain activity assessment at the Integrated Brain
      Imaging Center (IBIC) at the University of Washington that will take about one hour to
      complete. The brain activity assessment consists of an electroencephalogram (EEG), which
      measures the electrical activity in the brain through electrodes placed on the scalp. There
      is no risk of electrical shock. Research staff will place a damp electrode net on the
      subject's head that contains the electrodes that will measure the subject's brain activity.
      EEG activity will be collected with the subject's eyes closed. The research staff member will
      collect the data and ask the subject to remain as still as possible during the assessment. A
      research staff member will ask the subject his/her pain intensity during and after the
      assessment.

      Subjects will be randomly assigned (by chance, like flipping a coin) to one of four treatment
      interventions. All four treatment interventions involve educating subjects about pain,
      discussing the impact of pain, and discussing different ways to manage it in hopes of
      decreasing subjects' pain and its impact on their lives. Two treatment interventions will
      also involve self-hypnosis. During self-hypnosis, subjects learn to enter a state of focused
      attention, and then change how they experience pain. All four treatment interventions are
      called "self-management" approaches to pain management. All of these treatments are commonly
      used in pain clinics and have been used to treat pain in persons with MS and SCI. We are
      interested in comparing the four different approaches to treating chronic pain.

      A research staff member will also contact each subject six times by telephone during his/her
      participation in the study to complete three short interviews or assessments, 3-5 minutes
      long, and one longer assessment, about 30-40 minutes long, in a period of one week. These
      assessments will be completed one week prior to treatment, about halfway through the
      treatment period, after the completion of treatment, and 3-, 6- and 12-months after the
      subject completes treatment. The three shorter assessments will include questions about pain
      intensity. The fourth longer assessment will include questions about such things as how the
      subject thinks about pain, treatments for pain the subject has received, medications or drugs
      the subject has used, and any depressive symptoms the subject may have experienced.

      We will also ask each subject to participate in a brain activity assessment following the end
      of treatment. The brain activity will be done the same way as described earlier and will take
      place at the Integrated Brain Imaging Center at the University of Washington.
    
  