
    
      The specific aims of this multi-center randomized trial include:

        1. To evaluate the feasibility of conducting a multinational trial in terms of

             1. the ability to identify and recruit T. cruzi-infected individuals without clinical
                disease in a relatively short period

             2. the standardization of procedures to test the parasitic load using polymerase chain
                reaction (PCR)

        2. To evaluate, in the study population, the efficacy of a treatment with NFX using
           conventional (full) dose (8/mg/Kg/day) or half-dose for a variable duration (full-dose
           for 60 days versus half-dose for 120 days) in terms of the presence of positive PCR
           tests one year after treatment, as compared with placebo.

        3. To evaluate the equivalence (in terms of non-inferiority of its impact over the PCR
           testing) of two treatment schedules with NFX: a full-dose treatment for 60 days and a
           half-dose treatment for 120 days.

        4. To evaluate the equivalence of two treatment schedules with BZN: A conventional (full)
           dose of 5 mg/Kg/day) for 60 days, as compared with half-dose treatment for 120 days.

        5. To evaluate the equivalence of the treatment schedules with NFX as compared with those
           with BZN 5

        6. To evaluate the safety (in terms of reporting of mild symptoms, limitation of daily
           activities or hospitalizations, biochemical or blood abnormalities commonly reported by
           individuals taking these treatments) and adherence to the allocated treatments among
           individuals receiving NFX or BZN for varying duration and dose, as compared with placebo

        7. To explore differences in the impact of active treatments on the PCR among four
           subgroups of interest (geographical origin, T. cruzi discrete type unit found, parasitic
           load at baseline and age of participants).

        8. To explore, among individuals treated with placebo, the level of agreement in the tests
           of parasitic load at baseline and during the follow up.
    
  