
    
      Brief Background:

      Approximately 440,000 Irish people suffer from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
      (Health Service Executive (HSE), 2018) and it is the fourth most common cause of death, after
      lung cancer, heart disease and stroke. In addition to many physical issues, patients lack the
      physical endurance or confidence to participate fully in their lives, leading to isolation,
      social exclusion and co-morbid depression and anxiety. Addressing the management of people
      with COPD was highlighted as an urgent priority in the Government's 2017 National Healthcare
      Quality Reporting System annual report. This application proposes a community-based singing
      intervention replicating that successfully delivered by the British Lung Foundation (BLF)
      (https://www.blf.org.uk/support-for-you/singing-for-lung-health). This project is unique in
      Ireland, and builds on established ties between the (Principal Investigator) PI and the local
      COPD community. It is supported by COPD Support Ireland.

      Study design:

        -  This study is a pre-post intervention study involving a cohort of COPD patients who are
           members of regional COPD support groups in Limerick, Ennis and Nenagh.

        -  Pre-intervention testing will involve self-reported measures wellness using standardised
           tools as well as a walking test (6-minute walking test (6MWT) and spirometry to asses
           lung function.

        -  The intervention is an eight-week singing intervention led by an experienced singing
           instructor who will be provided with relevant training on singing with lung impairment.
           Participants will also be provided with a compact disk (CD) for between intervention
           practice at their own discretion.

        -  Post-intervention testing will repeat tests done at baseline. Testing will be carried
           out in both instances by the PI and clinical staff from the geographical area.

      Focus groups will be conducted with a sample from each group to support a qualitative
      evaluation of the intervention.

      Participants:

      Approximately 30 participants from each region will be invited to participate. Participants
      must have a diagnosis of COPD, must be clinically stable, and not have suffered an
      exacerbation in the 2 weeks prior to testing.

      Participants have been sourced through the clinicians involved in this study, and the
      teaching contacts of the PI.

      Procedures/Methods :

      Planing stage: April/May 2019

        -  Community singing leader will attend United Kingdom (UK) training course delivered by
           BLF "Singing for Lung Health" leaders. - Liaise with three regional COPD patient groups
           (Limerick, Ennis, Nenagh) to gather informed consent, and finalise intervention details.

        -  Design and record CD featuring exercises and songs for home practice for participants.
           These will be provided freely to participants and based on song preference of
           patient-partners, and informed by disease limiting factors.

        -  Baseline testing of participants as discussed will take place in a community setting
           where the groups normally meet for other exercise and social activities.

      Intervention stage: June/July 2019

        -  The intervention will comprise eight weekly one-hour singing sessions. Sessions will be
           comprised of physical warm-ups, breathing exercises, and vocal exercises such as rhythm
           and pitch games.

        -  The intervention will be delivered by the community singing leader and the PI will
           attend the first session to explain the clinical relevance of exercises.
    
  