
    
      Background and objectives. So-called prediction rules (risk scores) have become increasingly
      popular in all medical disciplines. This will only rise with the introduction of electronic
      patient records as these will enhance their use. However, effects of implementation of such
      rules in daily care has hardly been studied. Also not in anesthesiology. We developed and
      validated an accurate rule to preoperatively predict the risk of postoperative nausea and
      vomiting (PONV) in surgical inpatients. PONV causes extreme patient discomfort and occurs in
      even 30%-50% of all surgical inpatients. As routine administration of PONV prophylaxis is not
      cost-effective, a risk-tailored approach using an accurate prediction rule is widely
      advocated. Before large-scale implementation, we aim to study whether such implementation
      indeed changes physician behavior and improves patient outcome. Given the increase interest
      in prediction rules, another aim is to study general causes of successful/poor implementation
      of prediction rules in health care. Design. Cluster, randomized study in which 60
      anesthesiologists and senior residents of the UMC Utrecht will be randomized to either the
      intervention or usual care group.

      Study population. Adult,elective,non-ambulatory,surgical patients undergoing general
      anesthesia of UMC Utrecht.

      Intervention. Implementation of risk-tailored PONV strategy (use of the PONV prediction rule
      with suggested anti-emetic strategies per risk group) in current care.

      Outcomes. Primary:incidence of PONV in first 24 hours. Secondary:change in anesthesiologists'
      behavior in terms of administered anti-emetic management, cost-effectiveness of intervention,
      attitudes of physicians towards prediction rules in general.

      Sample size. 11,000

      Economic evaluation. Estimation of incremental costs per prevented PONV case.
    
  