
    
      The central framework for the project is a double-blind, sham-controlled, crossover study in
      which subjects with the non-fluent/agrammatic and logopenic variants of primary progressive
      aphasia (naPPA and lvPPA, respectively) will undergo language testing and structural and
      functional brain imaging before and after receiving 10 semi-consecutive daily sessions of
      real or sham high definition transcranial direct current stimulation (HD-tDCS) paired with
      modified constraint-induced language therapy (mCILT). Language testing and brain imaging will
      be repeated immediately after completion of and 3 months following completion of treatment.

      Subjects with naPPA and lvPPA will be randomized to one of two study arms: HD-tDCS+mCILT or
      sham stimulation+mCILT paired with pre- and post-stimulation imaging and behavioral measures.
      Equal numbers of subjects with naPPA and lvPPA will be randomized to the HD-tDCS + mCILT and
      sham + mCILT study arms. The study is double-blinded, in that neither the subject nor the
      study personnel administering HD-tDCS or sham stimulation will know which arm of the study
      the subject has been randomized into. Study coordinators will administer HD-tDCS by entering
      a pre-determined code that has been programmed into the device by another member of the study
      team. Data will be digitally audio-recorded and analyzed off-line, such that study team
      members performing data coding and analysis will likewise be blinded to the treatment
      condition of each subject.

      Subject participation in this protocol will occur during 27 planned visits that will span
      approximately 8 months. The events of the study visits are described below:

      VISIT 1:

      a Informed consent and screening b. Baseline language assessment #1 c. Baseline MRI scanning

      VISIT 2:

      Baseline language assessment #2

      VISITS 3-11:

      HD-tDCS+mCILT OR sham stimulation+mCILT, depending on the study arm to which they had been
      randomized.

      VISIT 12:

        1. Final session of HD-tDCS+mCILT or sham stimulation+mCILT

        2. Follow-up language assessment

        3. Follow-up MRI

      VISIT 13:

      6-Week follow-up language assessment

      VISIT 14:

        1. 12-week follow-up language assessment

        2. 12-week follow-up MRI

      **CROSSOVER**

      VISIT 15:

      Crossover baseline language assessment #2

      VISITS 16-24:

      HD-tDCS+mCILT or sham stimulation+mCILT

      VISIT 25:

        1. 10th session of HD-tDCS+mCILT or sham stimulation+mCILT

        2. Follow-up language assessment

        3. Follow-up MRI

      VISIT 26:

      6 Week follow-up language assessment:

      VISIT 27:

        1. 12-week follow-up language assessment

        2. 12-week follow-up MRI
    
  