
    
      Spinal Cord Stimulation (SCS) has been a well-established treatment for chronic neuropathic
      pain for decades. One of the most general indication for SCS is Failed Back Surgery Syndrome
      with associated legs and/or low back pain.

      Conventional low frequency neurostimulation is applied with a tonic wave shape (pulse width
      is usually 300 to 500 μsec, amplitude 2 to 5 mA, and frequency 40 to 50 Hz); this kind of
      stimulation produces a perceptible paraesthesias in the area of stimulation "covering" the
      region of pain. Further development in waves of stimulation during the recent years led to
      new paradigms of sub-perception stimulation like "Burst" stimulation that has characteristics
      of a cluster of waves with higher frequency.

      The efficacy of these two wave forms has been demonstrated by different authors. Both Tonic
      and Burst stimulation offer neuropathic pain suppression, with slightly superiority of the
      Burst wave for the FBSS.

      Recent advances in technology of the implantable devices for spinal cord stimulation led to
      the possibility to combine the two stimulation waves described allowing the design of a
      possible new paradigm of stimulation. The Tonic and Burst wave can be combined to stimulate
      the same pain area using the same configuration otherwise they can be programmed to stimulate
      two different pain areas with two different configurations. Both burst and tonic waveforms
      paradigms can be customized according to patients' need. The characteristics of this combined
      stimulation wave in terms of efficacy, non inferiority, energy consumption, and patient
      satisfaction are unknown.

      The primary objective of this trial is to compare pain suppressive effect of Low Frequency
      "Tonic Wave" versus Low Frequency Combined "Burst and Tonic Wave" for Spinal Cord Stimulation
      in subjects with refractory neuropathic leg and low back pain as result of FBSS.

      Patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria will be enrolled in the study and receive
      electrocatheter implant. Then, they will be observed for a two-weeks trial period in which
      the efficacy of the stimulation and the compliance of the patient is evaluated. During this
      trial a Tonic wave stimulation is administered by the external generator. After this trial,
      the definitive generator will be implanted. Two weeks of Tonic stimulation will follow the
      surgery to avoid any interference of the pain measurement with the surgical pain. After this
      two weeks period, the stimulation will be switched into the combined waveform for 15 days. At
      the end of the study period, the final waveform setting of the SCS will be in accord with the
      patient's stimulation preference.
    
  