
    
      Cesarean section (CS) is one of the most common operative procedures performed in modern
      obstetrics. Despite being that, common, surgical techniques and steps do widely vary. These
      variations depend on many factors including surgeons preferences, patient s characteristics
      and available facilities and circumstances .

      The most common complications of Cesarean section are superficial surgical site complications
      including sepsis, seroma formation and breakdown.

      One of the common, yet debatable, practices in Cesarean section is to use a subcutaneous
      drain for the wound .The advantage of such a practice is to drain any blood or serous fluid
      that may accumulate in the subcutaneous space, which cause post-operative pain or provide a
      good medium for microbial growth and infection.

      Thus, it is assumed that drains can reduce the burden of surgical site infection. Some
      surgeons, however, have raised much argument about the value of subcutaneous drains and
      emerging evidence raised concerns about its effectiveness. Despite this, it is evident that
      it is still widely used in the clinical practice.

      Most randomized controlled trials on this issue, from which we draw the current evidence,
      were conducted in the developed countries, mainly the United States, with readily available
      facilities and optimum level of care. This fact raises concerns about how this evidence can
      be applicable in developing countries with weak health care systems and low level of
      awareness. In addition, Cesarean section rates are greatly higher in developing countries due
      to its abuse, which emphasize how the current evidence can't be applicable and in need for
      further updates .

      The current gap between the current practice and lack of evidence has to be filled. In this
      study, investigators aim at providing answers for this critical issue, thus investigators can
      ensure women's health and provide the best quality of care following Cesarean section.
    
  