
    
      The acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is an inflammatory disease process of the
      lungs as a response to both direct and indirect insults, characterized clinically by severe
      hypoxemia, reduced lung compliance, and bilateral radiographic infiltrates. ARDS is caused by
      an insult to the alveolar-capillary membrane that results in increased permeability and
      subsequent interstitial and alveolar edema. The mechanisms by which a wide variety of insults
      can lead to this syndrome are not clear. It is useful to think of the pathogenesis of ARDS as
      a result of two different pathways: a direct insult on lung cells and an indirect insult as a
      result of an acute systemic inflammatory response.

      Like any form of inflammation, acute lung injury during ARDS represents a complex process in
      which multiple cellular signalling pathways can propagate or inhibit lung injury. Death has
      traditionally been attributed to the underlying disease, the presence of sepsis and the
      failure of vital organ systems other than the lung. The association of ARDS with multiple
      system organ dysfunctions is not inevitable, but it certainly is common. It is postulated
      that local injury to the lungs (pneumonia, trauma, aspiration, gas inhalation) could set up a
      secondary diffuse inflammatory response resulting in damage to other organs.

      Although much has evolved in our understanding of its pathogenesis and factors affecting
      patient outcome, still there is no specific pharmacologic treatment for ARDS. Despite
      advances in supportive measures and antibiotics, ARDS has a mortality rate of about 40-50% in
      most series and it is associated with significant health care costs. Patients with ARDS
      invariably require endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation (MV) to decrease the
      work of breathing and to improve oxygen transport. To date the only proven, widely accepted
      method of MV for ARDS is what is called "lung protective ventilation" using a low tidal
      volume strategy plus positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP).

      Corticoids seemed to be an ideal therapy for the acute lung injury in ARDS, given their
      potent anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic properties. They switch off genes that encode
      pro-inflammatory cytokines and switch on genes that encode anti-inflammatory cytokines. It
      has been reported that low doses of corticosteroids prevent an extended cytokine response and
      might accelerate the resolution of pulmonary and systemic inflammation in pneumonia.

      Dexamethasone has never been evaluated in ARDS in a randomized controlled fashion. However,
      dexametasone has potent anti-inflammatory effects and weak mineralocorticoid effects compared
      with other corticosteroids. Dexamethasone has a long-lasting effect, allowing for a
      once-a-day regimen. Whether addition of dexamethasone to conventional supportive treatment
      benefits ARDS patients is unknown, it has been used in patients with sepsis, septic shock,
      pneumonia, trauma, and meningitis, all of them causes of ARDS.

      The investigators justify the need of our study based on the positive results of two recent
      clinical trials: (i) Meijvis et al (Lancet 2011) showed that dexamethasone (5 mg/day) for 4
      days was able to reduce length of hospital stay in 304 patients with bacterial pneumonia when
      added to the conventional treatment; (ii) Azoulay et al (Eur Respir J 2011) showed that
      dexamethasone (10 mg/6h), when added to chemotherapy and conventional ICU management, caused
      less respiratory deterioration and lower ICU mortality in 40 patients with acute lung injury
      resulting from leukaemia.
    
  