
    
      Study Background Lower limb amputation is an emerging global health concern. Currently, there
      are over 1.6 million amputees in the U.S. and around 6000 new amputations are recorded per
      annum in the UK. These numbers are expected to double by 2050 due to the increasing aging
      population and the adverse health issues such as diabetes, representing a significant,
      growing problem in western society. A lower limb amputation results in the loss of the
      biological joint structures such as the ankle and knee, along with the associated
      musculature. In order to overcome these physical losses, many lower limb amputees are
      provided with a prosthetic limb that enable them to participate in activities of daily
      living. The design and function of these prosthetic limbs varies widely, with some being very
      basic non-articulating semi-rigid structures while other more advanced components are
      computer controlled and function robotically. Advanced ankle components have been shown to
      provide lower limb amputees with a number of benefits including increased walking speed,
      improved symmetry between legs and increased forward progression. In addition,
      micro-processor controlled knee components, recently made available through the NHS via NHS
      England Clinical commissioning, have shown a number of benefits. These benefits are stated as
      being '…enhanced stability and stumble recovery, which improves fall management and reduces
      the incidence of falls. This supports the increases in self-reported improved individual
      mobility and independence. MPKs also improve controlled sitting and standing, walking gait
      symmetry, stair decent, controlled step over step descent down a slope, reduced energy
      expenditure, and given different modes for different activities an ability to manage
      obstacles more easily'. Given that the prosthetic limb provided and their functional
      capability is a large component of how well a lower limb amputee is able to walk, it is
      important to understand what the effects of and potential benefits are from using more
      advanced prosthetic devices, such as micro-processor controlled knee joints. Also, as these
      components are used in conjunction with ankle-foot devices, it is important to know what the
      optimal combination may be to gain the most benefits from both prosthetic components.

      Study Aim The aim of the current study is to investigate the effects of combining more
      advanced prosthetic ankle-foot and knee components on the biomechanics of activities of daily
      living in individuals with above knee amputation.
    
  