
    
      HCV infection is the most common chronic blood-borne infection in the U.S., with the
      overwhelming majority of new HCV infections occurring among people who inject drugs (PWID).
      Sharing syringes and other injection equipment is the primary risk factor for HCV
      transmission. HCV prevalence is extremely high in most U.S. PWID populations (typically
      ranging from ~40-70%). Research shows that young PWID (under age 30) engage in particularly
      high rates of risky injection, and that HCV incidence is highest in the first 3-5 years of an
      individual's injection career. The national significance of this public health problem is
      heightened by the recent epidemic of prescription opioid (PO) misuse in youth which has
      evolved into widespread heroin use and injection drug use, creating a new generation of young
      injectors at risk for HCV (and HIV). These trends demonstrate the urgent need for innovative
      new approaches to HCV prevention tailored to the growing population of young PWID.

      To date, no behavioral intervention has been sufficiently potent to produce significant
      reductions in HCV incidence in at-risk groups of PWID. To address this critical gap, our team
      developed Staying Safe (Ssafe), an innovative, strengths-based, socio-behavioral HCV
      prevention intervention for young PWID. Ssafe addresses multi-level "upstream" determinants
      of risk that occur relatively early in the causal chain of risk, including eco-social
      conditions, social relations and risk situations, in addition to directly targeting risky
      injection practices. Ssafe trains and motivates PWID to better manage drug use in order to
      avoid situations and practices that promote risky injection (e.g., "binging" on drugs), and
      to implement health-protective behaviors (e.g., promoting risk-reduction norms in injection
      networks). In preliminary research we found Ssafe to be highly acceptable and feasible, with
      strong indications of efficacy.

      In this study we propose to conduct a randomized controlled trial to assess the effectiveness
      of the Ssafe intervention (with a mobile phone-delivered booster application) in reducing
      injection-related risk behavior and HCV incidence among 18-29 year-olds (n=456) who inject
      opioids (heroin and/or POs) and test HCV and HIV antibody-negative at baseline. We
      hypothesize that Ssafe will significantly reduce injection risk behaviors and HCV infections
      relative to a time- and attention-matched control intervention. We will also examine whether
      Ssafe's effects are mediated by (a) drug use management practices (injection frequency,
      overdose, opioid intake, withdrawal episodes); (b) individual-level mechanisms of behavior
      change (motivation/self-efficacy, planning skills); and (c) key upstream socio-structural and
      network-level determinants of risk (social support, skills to avoid PWID-associated stigma,
      drug treatment and SEP utilization, injection network size and risk norms). The proposed
      trial promises to significantly advance our ability to prevent HCV infection in the growing
      population of young, PO-initiated injectors.
    
  