
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) culminates in dementia, immobility, and death at a huge societal
      cost. Even early in the course, motor and cognitive dysfunction impairs instrumental
      activities of daily living (IADL). Non-motor symptoms due to fatigue, mood, sleep, and
      autonomic disorders further reduce quality of life (QoL). DTI shows progressive decline in
      brain tissue integrity. Usual care of PD centers on medical and surgical treatments relieve
      motor symptoms, but these cause side effects and lose efficacy over time. Usual treatment for
      non motor manifestations with pharmaceuticals (e.g., antidepressants) is symptomatic and not
      specific for PD. Acetylcholine esterase inhibitors exert modest symptomatic benefits on
      dementia, but there is no approved treatment for mild cognitive impairment. Physical Therapy
      is usually prescribed in later stages when mobility impairment ensues. There is no approved
      standard exercise regimen for PD. There is no cure or disease modifying treatment. Thus,
      there is a critical need for treatments that provide broad spectrum of benefits and slow PD.

      Preliminary research suggests that aerobic exercise has potential to meet this need. However,
      aerobic exercise is demanding and carries some risks. It is unknown if aerobic exercise is
      more beneficial than usual care in PD in long term due to gaps in the investigators knowledge
      about the effects of cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) on brain tissue integrity, motor
      function, cognition, IADL, QoL, and disease progression. Limitations of current studies
      include short duration, small sample size, lack or inadequacy of controls, lack of outcome
      measures for cognition and IADL, and lack of biological markers to measure progression. The
      objective in this application is to fill the translational gap by determining the biological,
      clinical, and functional effects of long term aerobic exercise (LTAE) in PD.

      The overall hypothesis is that LTAE improves brain tissue integrity and slows down PD. The
      FIRST AIM is to determine the effects of LTAE on clinical features and functional abilities
      in PD. The investigators' prior 6-month, uncontrolled trial showed preliminary evidence that
      aerobic exercise improves aspects of motor function, cognition, and QoL in PD, but long term
      outcomes and implication for functional abilities are unknown. The investigators hypothesize
      that LTAE will provide sustained improvement in motor function, cognition, and non-motor
      symptoms with translation of benefits to QoL and IADL. The investigators will test this with
      a one-year randomized controlled trial (RCT) that compares the effects of moderate aerobic
      exercise vs usual care. The investigators will use driving as the outcome for IADL. Driving
      represents an important symbol for independence, and depends on integrity of cognitive and
      motor systems. The SECOND AIM is to determine the mechanism of LTAE effects in PD. CRF
      reflects complex improvements in vascular, cardiac, and metabolic health from aerobic
      exercise. There is preliminary evidence that higher CRF is associated with better brain
      health and motor/cognitive function, and that aerobic exercise improves these outcomes. For
      example, the investigators' preliminary study showed improvement of microtissue integrity in
      the striatum and white matter on DTI, but it is unclear how these changes counteract PD
      progression over long term. The hypotheses are: 1) LTAE will improve brain tissue integrity
      as indexed by DTI, 2) LTAE effects on motor and cognitive function are mediated by changes in
      brain tissue integrity on DTI, and 3) physiological processes leading to improved CRF from AE
      are critical to the benefits on the brain tissue integrity and motor/cognitive function. The
      investigators will test these hypotheses determining the effects of LTAE on CRF and DTI, and
      the association between individual differences in training related changes in motor and
      cognitive function, DTI, and CRF.

      In summary, the investigators' proposal leverages the diverse interdisciplinary team, strong
      preliminary data and past work, and unique infrastructure to determine if LTAE slows down
      neurodegeneration and clinical disability in PD.
    
  