
    
      For patients with end stage renal disease receiving hemodialysis (HD) treatment, a
      well-functioning vascular access is necessary for achieving adequate dialysis and improving
      the quality of life. Among several types of vascular access, the long-term technical survival
      is best for the native arteriovenous fistula (AVF), which accounts for more than 80% of
      vascular access in HD patients in Taiwan. Vascular access complications accounted for about
      20% of HD patient hospitalizations in the United States with a cost of $1 billion annually
      (1). Malfunction of vascular access usually presents with inadequate blood flow because of
      stenosis or thrombosis of the venous outflow tract (2). About 80 to 85% of AV access failures
      arise from AV access thromboses, of which more than 80% result from AVF stenoses (3). An
      access flow (Qa) less than 500 ml/min was associated with an increased risk of access failure
      and predictive of poorer unassisted patency of native AVF (4). The pathological features of
      stenosis of vascular access are composed of intimal hyperplasia; proliferation of smooth
      muscle cells in the media with subsequent migration to intima, and excessive accumulation of
      extracellular matrix (5). In spite of the above findings, little information is available on
      how to effectively prevent the stenoses of vascular access in HD patients.

      Infrared radiation is an invisible electromagnetic wave with a longer wavelength than that of
      the visible light. According to the difference in wavelength, infrared radiation can be
      divided into three categories: near-infrared radiation (0.8-1.5μm), middle-infrared radiation
      (1.5-5.6μm) and far-infrared (FIR) radiation (5.6-1000μm) (6). Infrared radiation transfers
      energy that is perceived as heat by thermo- receptors in the surrounding skin (7). The
      application of FIR radiation includes food preservation (8) and health promotion (9-10).
      Animal studies also demonstrated that FIR improves skin blood flow(11-12), leading to the use
      of FIR in the treatment of ischemic lesions and necrosis of skin tissue due to trauma,
      diabetes mellitus and peripheral arterial occlusive disease. In addition, some studies
      indicate that FIR therapy may improve endothelial function and reduce the frequency of some
      cardiovascular diseases (13-15). The thermal effect of FIR results in vasodilatation and may
      increase access flow of AV fistula. According to the report by Vaupel et al., the temperature
      can be increased up to 4°C in 10 mm depth of tissue (16). In addition, infrared therapy may
      allow multiple energy transfer as deep as 2-3 cm into subcutaneous tissue without irritating
      or overheating the skin like unfiltered heat radiation (17). The skin temperature steadily
      increased to a plateau around 38~39 °C during the treatment of FIR for 30 to 60 minutes as
      long as the distance between the ceramic plate and the skin was more than 20 cm (11).
      Therefore, infrared therapy can be free of the disadvantages or side effects (such as burn
      injury, infection, risk of access failure or prolonged bleeding from the previous
      venopuncture site) of some traditional methods of thermal therapy.

      In addition to the thermal effect, three possible non-thermal effects of infrared therapy
      were reported in the literature, including (1) improving endothelial function, (2) inhibiting
      intimal hyperplasia, and (3) decreasing oxidative stress. FIR may improve endothelial
      function which is observed not only in animal studies (11,12,14) but also in one clinical
      study (13). Yu et al. suggest that the beneficial effect of FIR therapy on skin blood flow
      may be related to L-arginine/NO pathway (11). In this respect, Akasaki et al. found that
      repeated FIR therapy could up-regulate eNOS expression and augment angiogenesis in an
      apolipoprotein E-deficient mouse model of unilateral hind limb ischemia (12). Moreover, Ikeda
      et al. reported that 4 weeks of sauna therapy significantly increased the serum nitrate
      concentrations as well as the expression of mRNA and protein of eNOS in the aortas of TO-2
      hamsters (14). In addition, Imamura et al. showed that two weeks of repeated sauna therapy
      significantly improved vascular endothelial function, resulting in an increase in
      flow-mediated endothelium-dependent dilatation of the brachial artery from 4% to 5.8% in
      patients with coronary risk factors (13).

      In addition to enhancing eNOS expression, Kipshidze et al. found that nonablative infrared
      laser (NIL) therapy inhibited neointimal hyperplasia after PTCA in cholesterol-fed rabbits
      for up to 60 days (18). According to their report, the nonablative doses of NIL decreased the
      growth of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC), but it did not decrease the growth rate of
      endothelial cells. As the proliferation of VSMCs in the media is an important pathological
      finding of the vascular wall of HD patients with vascular access stenosis (5), slowing down
      the growth of VSMCs may reduce the frequency of access stenosis. According to the report by
      Masuda et al. (19), the systolic blood pressure and the increased urinary 8-epi-prostaglandin
      F2α levels were significantly lower in the patients receiving an FIR dry sauna for 45 minutes
      per day for two weeks. F2-isoprostanes, namely 8-epi-prostaglandin F2α, are chemically stable
      products of lipid peroxidation and the level has been suggested as a reliable marker of
      oxidative stress in vivo (20). These results suggest that repeated sauna therapy may reduce
      oxidative stress, which leads to protection against the progression and complications of
      atherosclerosis. Since HD patients are also exposed to heavy oxidative stress from both
      inward uremic status and outward HD-related technology, the application of FIR therapy may be
      considered as an alternative therapeutic modality for decreasing oxidative stress.

      Nakhoul et al. have shown a high incidence of unexplained pulmonary hypertension (PHT) in
      end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients on chronic haemodialysis (HD) therapy via
      arterio-venous (A-V) access [21]. Pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) was evaluated using Doppler
      echocardiography. Levels of ET-1 and NO metabolites in plasma were determined before and
      after the HD procedure and were compared between subgroups of patients with and without PHT.
      Out of 42 HD patients studied, 20 patients (48%) had higher PHT (PAP = 46+/-2 mmHg) while the
      rest had a normal PAP (29+/-1 mmHg) (P<0.0001). In comparison with HD patients without PHT,
      HD patients with PHT had higher cardiac output (6.0+/-1.2 vs 5.2+/-0.9 l/min, P<0.034),
      similar plasma ET-1 levels (1.6+/-0.7 vs. 2.4+/-0.8 fmol/ml), lower basal plasma levels of
      NO2 + NO3 (14.3+/-2.3 μM vs. 24.2+/-5.2μM, P<0.05), and a lower HD-induced increase of plasma
      NO metabolites (from 14.3+/-2.3 to 39.9+/-11.4 microM, P<0.007 vs. from 24.2+/-5.2 to
      77.1+/-9.6μM, P<0.0001, respectively). Temporary closure of the A-V access by a
      sphygmomanometer in eight patients with PHT resulted in a transient decrease in CO (from
      6.4+/-0.6 to 5.3+/- 0.5 l/min, P = 0.18) and systolic PAP (from 47.2+/-3.8 to 34.6+/-2.8
      mmHg, P<0.028). In summary, their study demonstrated a high prevalence of PHT among patients
      with ESRD on chronic HD via a surgical A-V fistula. In view of the vasodilatory and
      antimitogenic properties of NO, it is possible that the attenuated basal and HD-induced NO
      production in patients with PHT contributes to the increased pulmonary vascular tone.
      Furthermore, the partial restoration of normal PAP and CO in HD patients that underwent
      either temporal A-V shunt closure or successful transplantation indicates that excessive
      pulmonary blood flow is involved in the pathogenesis of the disease.

      Importance of this study:

      AV fistula may impose a significant impact on cardiac function and echocardiographic
      parameters. FIR has been demonstrated to increase access flow of AV fistula in prevalent HD
      patients. However, its role on newly-created AV fistula is not known. This study will reveal
      the effect of FIR therapy on echocardiographic parameters, access flow of AVF and endothelial
      function in patients with end stage renal disease. If FIR therapy is associated with
      beneficial hemodynamic effect in ESRD patients, it may be considered as a therapeutic
      modality for improving endothelial function and cardiac performance in ESRD patients.
    
  