
    
      There is a rising interest for the examination of the MHS that has been mostly studied among
      community people. Numerous international studies have shown that people with mental illness
      are considered to be unpredictable and dangerous (Corrigan et al, 2005). These people often
      experience disadvantages in various situations, like job interviews, in education, and
      housing (Corrigan et al, 1998; Thornicroft et al., 2009).

      The MHS has been much less examined among medical professionals and psychiatrists; however,
      studies have shown that it is prevalent among them as well.

      A recent multi-centre study (Harangozó et al., 2014) collected the positive and negative
      experiences of 777 people with schizophrenia about the access to healthcare services in 27
      countries. More than 17% of the patients experienced some kind of discrimination due to their
      mental illness when they sought medical care for physical problems. More than 38% felt that
      the medical staff was disrespectful during psychiatric services. Higher discrimination was
      found within the former Eastern Bloc countries.

      Generally, psychiatrists tend to be more empathetic towards people with mental illnesses;
      however, the MHS could be observed among them as well. A few studies have also shown that
      their attitude is more negative than that of community people (Wahl et al., 2010; Henderson
      et al., 2014).

      Based on the ambiguous results and the lack of studies focusing on the stigmatizing attitude
      of psychiatrists, we aimed to examine this important issue among medical professionals of the
      mental health field.

      Aim of the study:

      Our aim is to investigate the stigmatizing attitudes and behaviours of adult psychiatric and
      child and adolescent psychiatric professionals and trainees towards people with mental
      illness in European countries.

      The results of our study will contribute to the expansion of the existing knowledge both on
      national and international levels. The outcome could be used for the development of
      anti-stigma programs and the improvement of therapeutic options in the future.

      Structure of the research:

      Our study is cross-sectional and multi-centred across 35 European countries. We would like to
      measure the extent of the stigmatizing attitude and its relationship with psychosocial
      factors.

        -  Sociodemographic measures:

             -  sociodemographic data: age, sex

             -  professional data: workplace categories (university, psychiatric hospital,
                outpatient service, research centre); location of the workplace (capital, county
                seat, rural town, small town, village); years of the professional experience;
                current psychotherapeutic activity

             -  personal information (related to a stigmatizing attitude): mental illness known in
                his/her family or close friend, previous treatment for own mental illness,
                attending in psychotherapy

        -  National version of the Opening Minds Stigma Scale for Health Care Providers (OMS-HC)

      An online questionnaire will be provided for the participants of our study. Participation in
      the study is voluntary and it can be terminated at any time without having to give any
      reasons.
    
  