
    
      Air pollution is the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world
      today, disproportionally affecting low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) such as India.
      Numerous studies have shown that exposure to particulate matter <2.5 µm (PM2.5) can
      contribute to cardiovascular disease and mortality, which is partially attributable to the
      development of cardiometabolic conditions such as hypertension and diabetes. We hypothesize
      that the use of personal protective aids (home air-purifier and N-95 mask) can decrease
      systolic blood pressure (SBP) in people with hypertension and decrease fasting blood glucose
      (FBG) in those with diabetes.

      This is a prospective randomized cross-over study in Dalkhola, India- an area of high ambient
      PM2.5 levels. Participants between 18 and 70 years of age with hypertension (n=130) and
      diabetes (n=33) will be invited to participate in the study. They will be randomized to
      either an intervention or control arm for 4 weeks, after which they will cross over to the
      other arm following a 2-week washout period. The intervention period will consist of using an
      indoor air-purifier at night and an N-95 mask when outdoors. Control period will involve
      using an identical air purifier and facemask, with the filter removed (sham filtration).
      Participants and outcome assessors will be blinded.

      The primary outcome of the study is the absolute reduction in SBP among people with
      hypertension and absolute reduction in FBG among people with diabetes.

      This is the first randomized controlled trial to evaluate personal protective aids as a
      therapeutic measure in people with hypertension and diabetes exposed to high levels of PM2.5.
      Given the high burden of air pollution in LMICs, there is an urgent need for adaptation
      measures targeting people at high risk for mortality from this exposure. The results of our
      study will demonstrate if personal protective aids can be a viable adaptation measure for
      people living with hypertension and diabetes in areas with a high burden of air pollution.
    
  