
    
      Seventy-two children with CAS, between the ages of 2.5 and 5 years of age will be treated
      with DTTC. This work will employ a delayed treatment control group design across multiple
      behaviors. Participants will be seen in two groups: an Immediate Treatment group and a
      Delayed Treatment group. Probe data will be collected during the Pre-Treatment (5 data
      points), Treatment (12 data points) and Maintenance (minimum 5 data points) phases. The study
      duration is 28 weeks in total duration for all participants. The study will address the
      following specific aims:

      Aim 1: Quantify the effects of DTTC on improved speech production (perceptual ratings) in
      treated words that are maintained post-treatment and generalized to untreated words in
      children with CAS. The working hypothesis is that DTTC will increase accuracy of treated
      words (primary outcome measure) and this effect will be maintained post-treatment and
      generalized to untreated words. We also predict that DTTC will increase speech
      intelligibility pre to post-treatment (secondary outcome measure).

      Aim 2: Quantify the effects of DTTC on refined speech motor control (kinematic/acoustic
      measures) in treated words that are maintained post-treatment and generalized to untreated
      words in children with CAS. The working hypothesis is that DTTC will be associated with
      decreases in speech motor variability and duration of treated words (secondary outcome
      measures) that are maintained pre- to post-treatment and generalized to untreated words.

      Aim 3: Characterize the effects of speech motor variability (within-subject) at baseline as a
      predictor of DTTC efficacy in children with CAS. The working hypothesis is that children with
      CAS who demonstrate higher levels of speech motor variability at baseline will display
      greater improvements in speech production accuracy following DTTC than children with lower
      levels of variability at baseline.

      Treatment will be provided four times/week for 45-minute sessions. Principles of motor
      learning will be incorporated into sessions by controlling the type of practice (blocked vs.
      randomized), type of feedback (knowledge of results vs. knowledge of performance) and amount
      of feedback provided.
    
  