
    
      Background: Implantation of a cardiac pacemaker may be indicated in patients with a
      significant bradycardia according to current guidelines.1 Annually, around 691 pacemakers per
      million inhabitants are implanted in Sweden.2 A pacemaker system consist of one or two leads
      connected to a device that is implanted beneath the collarbone.3,4 Vessel access is typically
      on the left side through the cephalic, axillary or subclavian vein. The pacemaker is inserted
      into a pocket. Routinely this pocket is just above the pectoral fascia (subcutaneously) or
      sometimes in skinny patients with a small amount of subcutaneous fat between the pectoral
      muscular layer (intramuscular). Even though technical developments have diminished the size
      of pacemakers markedly over time, complications due to superficial implants still do
      occur.5,6 Occasionally the device erode the skin and a complete extraction of the system is
      necessary. More frequently patients complain about the device being too superficial which
      sometimes require surgical repositioning of the device.5,6 The device may create discomfort,
      pain, and unsightly.5,6 The lateral corner of the device may disturb the shoulder movement,
      sleep and the leads can be turned within the pocket (Twiddler's syndrome). Minor branches
      from the supraclavicular nerves may result in discomfort. When vessels from the subcutaneous
      adipose tissue are distorted, extensive bruising may be bothersome and a large hematoma is a
      known risk of infection. The perfusion in the operation area is diminished and the amount of
      fat over device may be reduced to an extent that was unexpected at first implant. The change
      of device due to battery depletion can result in even less surrounding tissue. An alternative
      approach is an intramuscular placement of the device.7,8 This has been advocated by Kistler
      et al based on personal experience but there are neither systematic observational studies nor
      randomized controlled studies to support this approach.6 To the knowledge of the
      investigators no randomized controlled trial have addressed the question about the optimal
      placement of a bradycardia pacemaker.

      Aim: To compare patient satisfaction with intramuscular placement of a pacemaker pocket to
      subcutaneous placement.

      Research questions: Primary outcome: Is there a different in patient overall satisfaction (on
      a Visual Analog Scale (VAS)-scale between 0-10) with the pocket between patients with
      intramuscular placement of a pacemaker pocket and patients with subcutaneous placement at 24
      months after implant? Secondary outcomes: Complications (revision of pocket, dislodgement,
      hematoma requiring surgery, infection (local/systemic). Patient reported satisfaction at 1,
      12, 24 months (overall satisfaction, pain, discomfort, degree of unsightly look, movement
      problems due to device, and sleep problems due to device). Pacemaker nurse judgement of
      unsightly look of the pacemaker pocket (month 1, 12, and 24). Picture of pocket (1, 12, 24
      months) judged by an experienced implanting physician who is blinded to the group allocation
      and has not operated on the patient.

      Method: Power analysis: the investigators performed a power analysis based on expectations
      and clinical experience of the research group. Figure 1 shows two hypothetical truncated
      lognormal distributions of patient overall satisfaction with the pacemaker, where median
      overall satisfaction of the intramuscular and the subcutaneous group are assumed to be 2.4
      and 4, respectively. Monte Carlo-simulations from these distributions showed that a total of
      200 patients, 100 in each arm, would yield a statistical power of 90% for Mann-Whitney U-test
      at a significance level of 0.05.

      In total, 200 consecutive patients with indication of are expected to be randomized in the
      study (100 patients in each arm, intramuscular vs subcutaneously). In Region Gavleborg , the
      annual primary implant volume of bradycardia pacemakers is approximately 220.

      Figure 1. Assumed distributions of patient overall satisfaction in the power analysis, as
      measured by an visual analogue scale where 0 means "very satisfied" and 10 means "very
      dissatisfied". The intramuscular group is assumed to follow a lognormal distribution with
      mean 1.5 and standard deviation of 1, on the logarithmic scale. The subcutaneous patients are
      assumed to follow a lognormal distribution with mean 1.5 and standard deviation of 1, on the
      logarithmic scale.

      Randomization: At the time of implant 1:1 randomization (100 patients in each group) to
      either subcutaneous (usual care) or intramuscular implant, in blocks with random block sizes.
      The randomization is performed by a statistician with no insight in the ongoing clinical work
      and patients' group allocation is revealed for implanting physician by the assistant nurse at
      the start of the surgical procedure. Randomization procedure: stratification (age strata: ≤65
      years and >65 years) and sex (female, male); totally 4 strata). Consecutive group allocations
      will be stored in sealed opaque envelopes that will be opened at the time of starting the
      implant procedure.

      Inclusion: Indication of a bradycardia pacemaker (DDDR, VVIR). Exclusion: Cardiac
      Resynchronisation Therapy Pacemaker (CRTP), Cardiac Resynchronisation Therapy Defibrillator
      (CRTD), implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). Very skinny patient deemed as such by
      implanting physician to clearly benefit from intramuscular implant.

      Surgical procedure: Standard procedure and vascular access by each operator's preference.
      Blunt dissection of the pocket.

      Statistical methods: For comparisons between groups: Mann-Whitney U-test. For test of changes
      in VAS-estimations between 1, 12, and 24 months: pair-wise Wilcoxon signed-rank test.

      Informed consent: Written and oral information by nurse/physician before implant.

      Ethical approval: Approved by Uppsala Regional Committee. Clinical Trial Registration:
      Registration before start of study.

      Variables:

      Clinical variables: age, sex, coronary artery disease, open-heart surgery, diabetes, kidney
      disease Pacemaker system: (VVIR, DDDR), brand, model (lead(s) and device. Vascular access:
      (cephalic, axillary, subclavian vein), fluro-time, procedure time Periprocedural analgetics
      (dosage): alfentanil, morphine, diazepam, paracetamol Pre och post-operative anticoagulant
      medication (dosage and withdrawal with respect to procedure: acetylic acid, clopidogrel,
      ticagrelor, dual oral anticoagulants, warfarin, low-molecular weight heparin) Preoperative
      current medication: (psychoactive drugs, betablockers, corticosteroids, inflammatory
      modulating drugs Outcome measurements: Patient satisfaction (overall, chronic pain,
      discomfort, degree of unsightly look, movement disorder due to device, sleep problems due to
      device) scale 0-10 (10 worst) Paper questionnaire at 1,12,and 24 months. Patient knowledge if
      device was intramuscular or subcutaneously implanted at 24 months.

      Pacemaker nurse judgement: unsightly look (0-10, 10 worst). Physician evaluation (blinded to
      the patient and not operator in the study): photo of pocket (1, 12, 24 months) scale 0-10 (10
      worst).

      Complications requiring surgery: pocket revision, dislodgment, hematoma requiring surgery,
      infection (local, systemic), pneumothorax, pericardial effusion requiring drainage, other.

      Clinical perspectives: The surgical approach to the pacemaker pocket needs to be evaluated.
      The optimal approach including patient reported outcomes may result in more long-term
      satisfaction and may reduce the need for pocket revisions.
    
  