
    
      Description of the population to be studied and justification of its choice:

      This study is going to include a single group of patients presenting a vestibular schwannoma
      that will benefit from an removal by translabyrinthine approach with exclusion from the
      middle ear under general anesthesia. During this surgery, the tympanic membrane is
      systematically sacrificed and the inner ear opened with as consequence a complete loss of
      residual hearing and vertigo for a few days. In this protocol research, the patients will
      participate by accepting an robot based placement of a tympanic ventilation drain during the
      surgery before the sacrifice of the tympanic membrane.

      All the patients will be adults, living in France, benefiting from the cover of the French
      health care system. The people participating to the research will have to give their consent
      to participate to the study.

      Name and brief description of one or several experimental medical devices:

      The concept of the device RobOtol® is based on a teleoperated system with 6 degrees of
      freedom.

      The medical device is European Conformity (CE) marked since in June, 2016. The team of Ear,
      Nose and Throat (ENT) of Pitié-Salpêtrière (PSL) university hospital will lead this project.

      Description and justification of the methods and the duration of study:

      The studied device is a drain mounted on a trocar placed by means of the teleoperated system
      RobOtol.

      The gold standard device and procedure is a drain inserted by the surgeon with forceps after
      incision of the eardrum.

      The equipment RobOtol will be driven by the surgeon. The procedure will be conducted under
      general anesthesia.

      Summarize of predictable and known benefits and risks for the people participating to the
      study:

      There is no individual expected benefit considering the choice of the included population in
      the protocol. The population was chosen to eliminate the risks of unwanted effect during the
      installation of the drain by the robot (in particular the risks for the tympanic membrane).

      The patients presenting an indication of tympanic ventilation drain placement (ex: serous
      otitis), have the exceptional risks, a hearing loss, a secondary infection of the drain or
      vertigo, or facial palsy.

      The population chosen in this study has to benefit from a removal of a vestibular schwannoma.
      Within the procedure of this surgery, a total loss of the hearing, a sacrifice of the
      tympanic membrane and vertigo are expected and predictable consequences of the surgical
      technique. For that reason, there is no additional risk of complication.

      The only risk is the fact that the general anesthesia will be prolonged for the study, for
      approximately 15 min on a surgery requiring an average duration of anesthesia of 5,5 hours (1
      hour of perioperative anesthesia, 4,5 hours of surgery).

      PROGRESS OF THE SEARCH

      Modalities(Methods) of recruitment:

      Fifteen adults presenting a vestibular schwannoma that will benefit from a removal by
      translabyrinthine approach with exclusion from the middle ear under general anesthesia will
      be included after information and obtaining of their written consent.

        1. Visit of selection and inclusion The recruitment of the patients will be made from the
           line of the new patients by the investigators for the consultation of ENT of PSL.

           Visit of selection / inclusion in the study by the ENT ( D0):

           O Clinical examination: otoscopy, check of the diameter of the external auditory canal o
           Check of the criteria of inclusion and non inclusion o Information of the patient o
           Signature of the informed consent by the patient o Collection clinical data: sex, age,
           operated side (left / right), previous otological history, diameter of the external
           auditory canal

        2. Visit of follow-up of the study

           The intervention by the ENT (D14):

           The intervention will take place in the operating room of the building Babinski and the
           service of ENT;

        3. Visit of the end of the research There is no visit of post-operative follow-up nor visit
           of the end of planned research.

      The patient sees his participation in the research ending after the removal of the tympanic
      membrane at D0.
    
  