
    
      This was a prospective, parallel and controlled clinical-laboratory trial. The population
      evaluated in this study was selected at the Graduate Clinic in Dental Implantology - UNIP-SP.

      The selected patients were randomly allocated (by a computer generated list) into:

      Group IM - (n = 20) - patients who received placement of implants and prosthesis within a
      period of 3 days, characterizing immediate loading implants protocol; Group NL - (n = 20) -
      patients who received single-stage dental implants with no placement of dental prostheses
      within a period of 4 months, characterizing non-loading implants;

      The surgeries, as well as all postoperative follow-up, were performed at the dental clinic of
      UNIP-SP. Surgical areas were anesthetized (2% mepivacaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine) and
      mucoperiosteal incisions in the alveolar ridge mucosa were made. The surgical sequence follow
      the protocol described by the implant company supplier of implants (SIN - São Paulo, SP, BR).
      In all cases, for maxilla rehabilitation, 6 implants were installed, while, for mandible, 5
      were used. Soft-tissue was sutured with simple interrupted sutures using absorbable
      polygalactin 910 suture. Postoperative care were: amoxicillin 500 mg (8-8 hours/7 days);
      sodic dipyrone 500mg (6-6 hours/3 days); 0.12% Chlorhexidine mouthwash (12-12 hours/10 days).

      The patients in the IM Group received Brånemark full arch prosthesis within 3 days after the
      implant. All prosthesis used straight mini-abutments (SIN, São Paulo, SP) and received
      occlusal adjustment and a monthly clinical monitoring (including modified bleeding on probing
      and peri-implant probing depth).

      Evaluation of osteogenic markers The collection of peri-implant crevicular fluid (PICF) was
      performed immediately after implant insertion (Baseline) and after 7, 15, 30, 60, 90 and 120
      days. The site to be collected was dried and isolated with sterile gauze. PICF was collected
      at four sites per implant using absorbent paper strips (Periopaper, Oralflow, Smithtown, New
      York). The volume of fluid was measured immediately with the aid of Periotron (Oraflow,
      Smithtown, New York) and conditioned at 400uL of PBS buffer + 0.05% Tween and then frozen at
      -80°C.

      The levels of the peri-implant osteogenic markers (OPG, OCN, OPN, TGF-α, and PTH) were
      determined using the LUMINEX/Magpix system (HBN1A-51K and HCCBP1MAG-58K, Millipore
      Corporation, Billerica, MA, USA). The samples were analyzed individually and the levels were
      estimated using a 5-parameter polynomial curve in the Xponent® software (Millipore
      Corporation, Billerica, MA). The concentration values were expressed in pg/ml.

      Statistical Analysis The null hypothesis considered in the study was the absence of
      difference in the peri-implant osteogenic markers concentration between the different loading
      protocols. For data analysis, the statistical program was used (SAS release 9.1, 2003, SAS
      Institute Inc., Cary, NC, USA). The demographic and clinical data were compared between the
      groups using Student's t-test (age), and Fisher's Exact test (gender and site of implants).
      The data on the levels of osteogenic markers were first analyzed for homogeneity using the
      Shapiro-Wilk test, which indicated non-normal distribution. Thus, the nonparametric tests -
      Friedman for intragroup and Mann-Whitney for intergroup analysis, were performed. All the
      analysis considered α=5%.
    
  