
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a sudden perturbation of kidney function that is frequently
      associated with high morbidity and mortality rates . A diagnostic time limit of 48 hours was
      recently introduced to ensure early diagnosis, management and prevention of progression to
      irreversible renal function loss . Furthermore, early AKI biomarkers that can ensure prompt
      diagnosis have been identified. When these biomarkers become widely available to clinical
      practice, informed therapeutic interventions capable of aborting disease progression,
      morbidity and mortality multiplication can be applied . In the injured kidney, adenosine is
      released endogenously from the macula densa causing vasoconstriction of the renal afferent
      arterioles via the adenosine A1receptor as well as vasodilatation of the renal efferent
      arterioles via the adenosine A2 receptor; thereby reducing the renal blood flow and
      glomerular perfusion pressure leading to ischemic kidney injury . One measure that has been
      tried with the objective of achieving better AKI outcome is the use of aminophylline (an
      ethylenediamine coupled theophylline) . Aminophylline is converted to theophylline in the
      human body, which in turn vasodilates the renal afferent arterioles through competitive
      inhibition of adenosine on the adenosine A1 receptor.

      Aminophylline and theophylline, methylxanthine nonselective adenosine receptor antagonists,
      have been effective in the management of AKI in certain clinical scenarios including heart
      failure, calcineurin inhibitor toxicity, and perinatal asphyxia. In the kidney, adenosine
      constricts the afferent arteriole and decreases glomerular blood flow; adenosine receptor
      blockade mitigates this vasoconstriction. Aminophylline also inhibits phosphodiesterase at
      higher concentrations, which leads to increased urine output.

      Eligible subjects included all patients more than 18 years old with acute kidney injury in
      ICU. To ensure the safest oversight for the duration of the study drug infusion, the
      investigators only approached patients for consent if participants' ICU stay would likely be
      at least 72 hours . Patients were recruited in the preoperative clinic or in the inpatient
      ward/ICU; the nature of the consent process for this interventional drug trial necessitated
      that all procedures were elective or scheduled. Because aminophylline has been associated
      with tachycardia and seizures at high serum levels, and its metabolism may be affected by
      liver or thyroid dysfunction and sepsis, the investigators selected the following exclusion
      criteria: history of tachyarrhythmias, seizures, coagulopathy (international normalized ratio
      > 1.5 while not taking warfarin),or hypothyroidism. Study investigators or research nurses
      recruited participants; written, informed consent was signed by each patient or guardian.

      The treatment group received aminophylline 5 mg/kg IV load over 30 minutes, followed by 0.5
      mg/kg IV every hour, for 72 hours .The control group received placebo bolus followed by IV
      infusions of normal saline (0.9%) every hour (matched by volume and appearance to the
      treatment group), for 72 hours.
    
  