
    
      Aims 1 and 2: Among children with newly diagnosed cancer, to determine if symptom screening
      and feedback to healthcare providers at least three times weekly and locally-adapted symptom
      management care pathways, when compared to usual care:

      Aim 1. Improves overall self-reported symptom scores (total SSPedi score), fatigue
      (PROMIS-Fatigue) and cancer-specific QoL (PedsQL 3.0 Acute Cancer Module) over 8 weeks
      Hypothesis: Symptom screening and care pathways will improve symptoms, fatigue and QoL

      Aim 2. Improves symptom documentation, increases provision of interventions for symptoms, and
      reduces emergency department visits and unplanned clinic visits and hospitalizations over 8
      weeks Hypotheses: Symptom screening and care pathways will increase symptom documentation and
      provision of interventions for symptoms, and will reduce healthcare utilization.

      Aim 3: As an exploratory aim, we will evaluate key elements of the intervention related to
      the external validity and generalizability of the intervention effects using the RE-AIM
      framework.

      Overall Strategy This is a cluster randomized trial including 20 pediatric oncology sites.
      The coordinating center is The Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto, Canada. Sites will be
      randomized to either systematic symptom screening via SPARK with provision of symptom reports
      to healthcare providers containing links to care pathways for symptom management
      (intervention) or usual care (control).

      Research Methods Eligibility: We will include children with cancer who: (1) are 8-18 years of
      age at enrollment (SSPedi is validated in this age range); (2) are English or
      Spanish-speaking (all PROs are validated in these languages in this age range); (3) have any
      newly diagnosed cancer; (4) have a plan for any chemotherapy, radiotherapy or surgery; and
      (5) enroll within 28 days after treatment initiation. Exclusion criteria will be cognitive
      disability (attending lower than second grade or equivalent) or visual impairment (cannot see
      SPARK even with corrective lens).

      Procedures: In this cluster randomized trial, we will randomize sites to either intervention
      or control groups. At both intervention and control sites, we will enroll participants within
      28 days after treatment initiation. Eligible participants will be identified by site
      personnel and the study will be explained to them by trained research team members.
      Participant capacity to consent will be assessed by the clinical or research team according
      to institutional standards. After the study has been explained and sufficient time has been
      provided to ensure all questions have been answered, informed consent and assent will be
      obtained from participants and guardians as appropriate. For those who decline to contribute
      PROs, they will be given the option to only participate in a retrospective chart review to
      evaluate symptom documentation, intervention provision and healthcare utilization. Careful
      tracking of all newly diagnosed patients by site research personnel will occur to determine
      how many patients are approached and consented, and where possible, reasons for declining
      participation.

      For all enrolled participants who will be contributing PROs (excluding those only involved in
      the retrospective chart review), a personal SPARK account will be created to allow SSPedi to
      be completed and symptom results to be recorded. At the 10 intervention sites, site-specific
      symptom management care pathways will be adapted from template care pathways for each of the
      15 symptoms included in SSPedi. Enrolled participants will be prompted by text or email to
      complete symptom screening three times weekly via SPARK with corresponding feedback sent to
      their healthcare providers. Symptom reports will contain links to care pathways for symptom
      management. Active intervention will last for eight weeks starting from the date of
      enrollment. At the 10 control sites, participants will complete SSPedi to obtain the primary
      outcome at weeks 0, 4 and 8 but the scores will not be revealed to providers and will not be
      linked to care pathways. Usual care will be provided to participants at control sites and
      thus, there will be no study-requested routine, systematic symptom screening, symptom
      feedback to providers, or linkage to care pathways. If sites already routinely perform
      systematic symptom screening or use care pathways for symptom management, these may be
      continued but their use will be recorded.

      At both intervention and control sites, demographic information including age, sex, race,
      ethnicity, diagnosis, cancer stage, family socioeconomic information and treatment plan will
      be collected at enrollment. The following PROs will be obtained by trained research staff at
      baseline, week 4 and week 8 for all participants: SSPedi, PROMIS Fatigue and the PedsQL 3.0
      Acute Cancer Module (Aim 1). We will contact participants ahead of time to coordinate the
      week 4 and 8 PROs so that they can be completed in person during hospitalizations or clinic
      visits. If unable to arrange completion of these PROs in person, we will use their contact
      information to complete the questionnaires by email, text or over the phone. Data from health
      records (Aim 2) will be abstracted for all enrolled participants. Relapse and cancer
      treatment received information will be collected at the end of the study.
    
  