
    
      This study is designed as a non-randomized, interventional case-control trial, followed by a
      post-intervention survey of a free living diet optimizing program.

      The dietary intervention is executed in free living conditions with participants engaging in
      their regular daily work and social activities. The plant-based dietary plan includes 3
      conventional meals based on starch nutrients (potatoes, sweet potatoes, rice, oatmeal,
      integral pasta, beans, peas, lentils and similar), fruits (seasonal fruits and various
      berries) and non-starch vegetables (brassicas, leafy vegetables) and 2 plant based meal
      replacements. Spices and tomato sauce (without oil) and one regular-sized spoon of flax seed
      is recommended as well. The participants are recommended to consume no more than 5-6 grams of
      salt per day. All milk and dairy products, vegetable oils and fats are excluded from the
      diet. Meat is allowed (but not recommended) once weekly. Two meal replacements are prepared
      by mixing two scoops of the registered plant-based commercially available nutritional powder
      (Herbalife European Free From vanilla low GI meal replacement with added plants and herbs,
      without gluten, lactose or soy, source of protein from pea)) with oat meal and fluid (water
      or plant milk without oil) thus yielding a 250-400 ml of shake. The total macronutrient
      composition of the intervention diet is approximated/targeted to 15% protein, 70%
      carbohydrates and 15% fat. Dietary fibre content is approximated to 40-45 g per day.

      No calorie count or limits are instituted to test the hypothesis that ad libitum intake of
      interventional diet allows significant body fat reduction.

      Participants who, after an introductory program presentation, opt not to follow the proposed
      dietary intervention including meal replacements, but only to attend the lectures on health
      effects of a low-fat plant-based diet, adjust their diet by their own judgment and attend
      weekly body composition follow-up measurements, serve as controls.

      All participants are followed at weekly intervals. Evaluation of dietary diaries and meal
      photographs are used to correct and adjust deviations from the targeted dietary plan and to
      help participants prepare the meals according to the dietary plan. Weekly lectures about the
      rationale and guidance on attaining the low-fat plant-based diet are given to all subjects
      (intervention and control group).

      Differences between groups will be tested with t-test for unpaired and paired samples, as
      appropriate. Mann-Whitney and Wilcoxon Signed Rank tests will be used for non-normally
      distributed data. Chi-square test will be used for categorical variables. Differences between
      cases and controls will be tested with analysis of covariance (general linear model), with
      adjustment for baseline variable status, age and sex.
    
  