
    
      Protocol

        1. Standard perioperative management Routine standard preparation of the patients will be
           carried out as per the investigators institutional standard for all patients undergoing
           cervical spine surgery. All routine physiological monitoring (ECG, invasive arterial
           blood pressure, SPO2, end tidal CO2, temperature and depth of anaesthesia monitoring)
           will be performed. The induction of anesthesia will be performed with propofol (2-5
           mg/kg), fentanyl (3mcg/Kg) and rocuronium (0.6 mg/kg) for intubation of the patient's
           trachea once peripheral nerve stimulation shows no muscle twitches.

        2. Study protocol Before general anesthesia, following a 10 minute stabilization period
           with the patient lying supine and breathing at a rate of 12 - 15 breaths per minute, a 5
           minute ECG recording will be obtained. ECG data will be downloaded onto a study laptop
           for later analysis using LabChart Software to determine HRV values. Hemodynamic data and
           depth of anaesthesia will be collected from the preinduction period until skin incision
           at 1 minute intervals. The study will be complete after skin incision.

      Data Collection and Management Data Collection The following data will be collected: patient
      demographics, surgical data including position technique, number of levels, duration,
      anaesthetic data including agents used, hemodynamic measurements from preinduction to
      surgical incision, Japanese Orthopaedic Association Score. The incidence of hypotension and
      the number of interventions required to keep mean arterial blood pressure above 70 mmHg will
      be recorded.

      Significance of the study Identifying patients at risk for hypotension can be useful to
      prevent hypotension and to prepare to treat hypotension sooner so that the risk of spinal
      cord ischemia can be minimized.
    
  