
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate how a Total Worker Health intervention targeting
      sedentary behavior among call center employees improves the health, safety, and well-being of
      sedentary workers. Our primary hypothesis is that a multilevel integrated intervention that
      follows the Total Worker Health approach will have a stronger impact on primary outcomes
      (sedentary time and light physical activity at work, musculoskeletal pain, time lost due to
      injury or illness) compared to a control condition that matches typical worksite practices.
      To test our hypothesis, we will 1) tailor Total Worker Health intervention components to the
      call center environment, 2) determine the effects of a 6-month intervention, and 3) measure
      the durability of intervention effects at 12-month follow-up.

      The study will use a randomized control trial design with two conditions: a control condition
      and a Total Worker Health intervention condition that includes organizational and individual
      intervention components. Study participants will include employees and supervisors from up to
      eight call centers. The call centers will be randomly assigned to the two conditions prior to
      the start of the study. During the study, we will conduct a baseline assessment; implement a
      six-month intervention; conduct a post-intervention assessment; and conduct a follow-up
      assessment at twelve months. During each assessment period, study participants in both
      conditions will complete a survey, physical measures, hemoglobin A1c measurement, and seven
      days of physical activity data collection with accelerometers. Study participants in both
      conditions could additionally be asked to complete a measurement for endothelial function
      during each assessment.

      The baseline assessment will occur directly after participant enrollment and consent at each
      worksite. Both conditions will be given access to portable pedal stands. The intervention
      condition will have additional environmental alterations including hanging signs throughout
      the work environment that promote health and safety behaviors; and replacing high calorie and
      high sugar food and drink options in vending machines and break rooms with fresh fruits,
      vegetables, and other healthier choices.

      Participants in the intervention condition will begin intervention activities. Intervention
      activities that participants could be asked to complete include: computer based training,
      goal setting and behavioral self-monitoring, scripted team-based health and safety
      discussions, and team competitions with pedal stands. Supervisor participants could
      additionally be asked to complete additional computer based training, goal setting and
      behavioral self-monitoring of supportive behaviors, and inter-supervisor observations.
      Participants in the control condition will receive no additional support beyond the provision
      of pedal stands.

      Repeated measures will be collected at baseline, six months, and 12 months. Our primary
      hypotheses are that the intervention condition will produce greater reductions in sedentary
      behavior, increases in light physical activity, and reductions in musculoskeletal pain and
      sick day use than the control condition. To test these hypotheses, we will employ an
      intent-to-treat strategy using generalized estimating equations in order to use all available
      data to evaluate group differences in the magnitude of change over time in primary outcomes.
      The effect of interest for each outcome will be the interaction of condition X time. We will
      statistically control for confounders by measuring a wide range of demographic and
      psychological variables that could impact study outcomes. We will test for baseline
      differences between conditions on these variables using one-way ANOVAs (continuous variables)
      or chi-squares tests (categorical variables). Variables that differ significantly between
      groups at baseline will be included as covariates in the generalized estimating equation
      models of intervention effects over time.
    
  