
    
      This study is designed to examine the impact of surgical resection versus medical therapy as
      initial treatment therapy for patients with Stage IV melanoma. Surgical resection is thought
      to be efficacious in highly selected patients with solitary metastases, but not in patients
      with multiple sites of metastases. Even in those with solitary metastases, there is
      considerable debate among major melanoma centers over whether undergoing initial systemic
      medical therapy prior to surgical resection should be preferred to initial surgical resection
      upon Stage IV diagnosis. According to Dr. Dan Coit, Co-leader of the Melanoma Disease
      Management Team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Institute in New York, a trial of initial
      medical therapy is their standard approach on the multidisciplinary melanoma service even for
      patients with solitary distant metastases (personal communication, 15 Dec 2009).

      Many who favor upfront medical therapy believe that delay before surgical resection may avoid
      unnecessary surgery by identifying patients who progress early due to the outgrowth of occult
      metastases at multiple sites, which may make the patient unresectable.

      This is a Phase III, randomized, international, multicenter study of metastasectomy with or
      without BCG versus best medical therapy as initial therapy in Stage IV melanoma. This study
      has three arms: surgical resection plus BCG as an immune adjuvant, surgical resection plus
      observation, and best medical therapy (BMT). Since no systemic medical therapy has been
      demonstrated to be superior to DTIC and multiple new therapies are being evaluated, the
      choice as to what constitutes best medical therapy will be determined by the individual
      investigator based on the standard of care for systemic medical therapy at that particular
      multicenter site. Best systemic medical therapy may include clinical trials of new agents or
      standard non-protocol treatments (e.g., DTIC or Temodar according to the standard of care at
      the multi-center site).

      Patients who progress on the best medical treatment arm may switch to a different medical
      therapy or, if appropriate, have surgical therapy; similarly, surgery patients may have
      additional surgical resection or receive medical therapy.
    
  