
    
      D. Research Design and Methods

      Inclusion Criteria:

      The study is a prospective, randomized controlled clinical trial comparing two methods of
      regional analgesia for primary TKA. All adult primary TKA patients are eligible for inclusion
      in the study.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Allergy to local anesthetics or to systemic opioids

        -  Contraindication to regional anesthesia technique, such as local infection or
           coagulopathy

        -  Sensory/motor disorder involving operative limb

        -  Requirements of more than 30 mg morphine equivalent daily prior to surgery

        -  ASA 4 or greater

        -  Psychiatric or cognitive disorders

        -  Incarceration

        -  Renal insufficiency with Cr > 2.0

        -  Hepatic failure

        -  Pregnancy

        -  Age under 18 years Potential risks for the procedure, which will be explained to the
           patient, include: bleeding, local infection, local anesthetic toxicity. All are commonly
           listed as rare complications of the procedures.

      After consenting to participation and upon randomization, ACBs will be placed either in the
      regional anesthesia bay or the OR prior to anesthesia induction and surgery, or in the OR
      immediately upon completion of surgery.

      For participating patients, the following data will be collected by the research staff: ASA
      physical status, age, height, weight, gender, intra- and post operative quantitative opiate
      use (expressed as morphine equivalent), numeric VAS scores, KSS score (form included) and QoR
      score (form included).

      Those collecting data will be blinded from randomization of patients to either research
      group.

      Intraoperative care:

      Intraoperative anesthesia will be achieved using a general anesthetic technique.
      Intraoperative analgesia will be administered per anesthesiologists' discretion.

      All patients will have cemented total knee utilizing a medial parapatellar approach,
      including patellar resurfacing. A tourniquet will be used in all cases. Posterior capsule
      infiltration will be done with 20cc of 0.25% bupivacaine, as the preferred method of
      providing sacral plexus analgesia 5-6, per current institutional protocol.

      ACB Procedure Details Patients will lie in the supine position. The needle insertion site,
      approximately 10cm proximal to their operative knee, will be exposed. The skin will be
      disinfected with 2% Chlorhexidine and the ultrasound probe placed in a sterile sleeve. The
      femoral artery is identified with a high frequency linear transducer (Philips 4-12L linear
      transducer with a frequency of 6-12 MHz, Milwaukee, WI or ) proximal to the operative knee.
      The appropriate location for injection will be determined by following the femoral artery
      cephalad until the artery is directly posterior to the Sartorius muscle. At this level, the
      saphenous nerve is located lateral to the femoral artery. An 18g insulated sonographic Tuohy
      needle (Pajunk GmbH, Geisingen, Germany) will be inserted in an in-plane approach, under
      constant ultrasound visualization, through the Sartorius muscle to a final location in close
      proximity to the saphenous nerve. Once satisfied with needle placement and following negative
      aspiration, 20 cc of 0.5% ropivacaine will be injected gradually through the needle under
      visualization, with recurrent aspirations to verify absence of intra-vascular injection
      signs.

      Data Collection Patients will be enrolled for the study during the orthopedic surgical
      appointment upon the scheduling of the surgery. Upon enrollment, patients will complete a
      baseline KSS questionnaire (attached), have a VAS pain score recorded, and have their
      pre-operative analgesic medication documented.

      To assess the effect of pain with movement and overall strength, on POD 1, the patient will
      indicate their level of pain using VAS numeric scale (1-10). QoR questionnaire (attached)
      will be assessed 24 hours from the placement of the ACB. Overall analgesic medication
      consumption, both opioid (expressed as morphine equivalent) and non-opioid will be recorded
      for PODs 1-3.

      The patients will also complete the KSS and the QoR questionnaires at the 4-6 week orthopedic
      follow-up appointment, as VAS scores and total analgesic medication will be documented.
    
  