
    
      Patients with established COPD admitted to the Department of Pulmonary Medicine at
      Landspitali National University Hospital from September 2014-September 2016 will be screened
      for malnutrition using the NRS2002 screening tool, recommended by ESPEN. Those identified at
      risk of malnutrition and are able to give informed consent will be recruited. According to
      the Hospital statistics and previous studies on the frequency of malnutrition in this patient
      group, the time frame for recruitment is long enough to recruit 200 subjects who will be
      randomised into the two study groups (~ 3 subjects per week).

      The following baseline data will be collected in order to identify possible confounders. This
      will include; socio-demographic data (age, gender, civil status, household size, family and
      social network); major medical diagnosis; use of medication; GOLD score (Global Initiative
      for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease), depressive symptoms, cognition), additional discharge
      interventions (e.g. outgoing hospital teams, day care with exercise); and use of oral
      nutritional supplements.

      Inclusion criteria are:

        -  Newly admitted patients > 18 years old who were at nutritional risk according to the
           validated nutritional risk screening tool (NRS-2002, score 3+)

        -  Able to eat orally

        -  An anticipated length of hospitalization of > 3 days

        -  Sufficient language proficiency

      Exclusion criteria are:

        -  Dysphagia

        -  Food allergy or intolerance

        -  Anatomical obstructions preventing oral food intake Exclusion during follow-up: Subjects
           who withdraw their consent to participate.

      Outcome measures:

      The primary endpoint is weight changes up to one year from admission to the hospital.
      Secondary endpoints include forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), forced vital
      capacity (FVC), six-minute walk distance, hand-grip strength, health related quality of life
      (HRQoL), length of hospital stay, nutritional status, energy- and protein intake,
      readmissions to the hospital in within 30 days, as well as the total number of readmissions
      to the hospital and acute exacerbation during follow-up. Functional outcome measurements will
      be conducted by trained research assistant in collaboration with the PhD student. Information
      about background diets, HRQoL as well as compliance to the intervention diets will be
      gathered by the PhD and MS students.

      Measurements will be conducted at admission to the hospital (baseline measurements) and
      before discharge from the hospital. Clinical examinations at Landspitali National University
      Hospital are planned 3, 6 and 12 months after discharge from the hospital. All together we
      aim at having five measurement points for each subject. Each examination will take ~ 80
      minutes (30 min for the FEV1 and FVC tests, 20 min for the walking test and measurement of
      hand-grip strength, and 30 min for the 24-hour recalls and HRQoL questionnaires).
      Additionally, the subjects will be contacted on at least two other occasions by phone, in
      weeks 2 and 6 (each interview ~20 min).
    
  