
    
      Study protocol: Acute hospitalised, community-dwelling elderly patients will be recruited at
      internal medicine service of the Araba University Hospital (HUA). Patients that fulfil
      eligibility criteria for the study will be evaluated during their hospitalization for
      different aspects (Hospital Evaluation): handgrip, nutritional assessment using Mini
      Nutritional Assessment- Short Form Test (MNA-SF), functional assessment by Short Physical
      Performance Battery (SPPB), cognitive assessment (Pfeiffer test) and frailty assessment
      (Fried test). Once hospital evaluation is assessed patients will be offered to participate in
      the study. In case patients accept to participate, another assessment will be carried out on
      discharge date (Discharge Day Evaluation): handgrip, functional assessment (SPPB), 30-Second
      Chair Stand Test, 30-Second Arm Curl Test, the Timed Up ang Go (TUG) Test, 8 Foot Up and Go
      (FUG) Test, Gait Speed Test for 4- meters and for 8-meters. Patients will also take two
      accelerometers, a wrist accelerometer and a hip accelerometer, for a week.

      A week after discharge day, patients will again be evaluated (Laboratory 1 (Lab 1) evaluation
      day): the same tests of discharge day will be repeated plus Berg Scale and 6-Minute Walking
      Test. Then, patients will wait until a group of 5-6 participants is formed. As soon as
      patients accept to participate, and when all evaluation tests involved until Lab 1 evaluation
      day are completed, participants will be randomized into two different groups: exercise
      training plus placebo control group (Group 1) and exercise training plus leucine-enriched
      protein ingestion intervention group (Group 2).

      Participants will be called by telephone a week before the intervention starts for
      psychological assessment, blood analysis and Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA)
      assessment.

      The first day of intervention program all participants will be evaluated for nutritional
      assessment: Mini Nutritional Assessment (MNA) Test, a quantitative score (14-item) of
      adherence to the Mediterranean diet (Prevention with Mediterranean Diet (PREDIMED)
      questionnaire), two non-consecutive 24-hour dietary recall and anthropometry.

      Exercise training intervention will be divided into supervised intervention and
      non-supervised intervention for both groups. Supervised intervention program will take 12
      weeks and participants will have to assist 2 non-consecutive days per week to hospital for
      1-hour exercise training. After those 12 weeks participants will take two accelerometers, a
      wrist accelerometer and a hip accelerometer, for a week. After that week participants will
      have to assist 2 non-consecutive days on the same week to complete: the same physical tests
      of Lab 1 evaluation day, anthropometry and nutritional tests, blood analysis and DEXA
      assessment. Individualised physical exercise recommendations will be explained and given to
      participants for the following 12 weeks of non-supervised intervention. During those weeks of
      non-supervised intervention, telephone monitoring will be made every two weeks.

      When completing the study, at week 24, participants will be called by telephone to come to
      hospital for blood analysis, psychological assessment, nutritional tests and one 24-hour
      dietary recall, and to take the two accelerometers for a week. After a week, participants
      will be evaluated for physical assessment (the same physical tests of Lab 1 evaluation day
      will be carried out) and a second 24-hour dietary recall and anthropometry will be assessed.

      The placebo and leucine-enriched protein supplementation will only be taken during supervised
      training period twice a week after 1-hour exercise training is completed. Participants will
      ignore what the supplement is, as the mixtures will be codified.

      Protein supplementation will consist on 20gr of whey protein (a commercial preparation of
      Davisco®: BiPRO all-natural whey protein isolate) enriched with 3g of leucine (commercially
      prepared by Nutricia), and protein mixture will be diluted with 100ml of water. The placebo
      will be an energy-matched mixture.

      The samples will be store at the Basque Biobank and then will be send to Biodonostia Health
      Research Institute for their analysis.

      Sample size: power calculation has been done for the main variable: muscle mass increase. If
      35 people are recruited on each group, a difference of unless 1.5 to 2kg will be detected in
      muscle mass with a standard deviation of 1.5-1.7kg and >80% of power, and an alfa level of
      0.05. Taking into account that mortality can be about 30%, 40 participants will be recruited
      for each group.

      Statistical analysis: variance analysis will be used to analyse the continuous variables and
      the Chi-square test for the categorical variables, both analyses will be used for the
      cross-cutting analysis. To evaluate the training effect on the primary and secondary
      variables general linear models will be used. Age and the pre-intervention value of any
      primary or secondary variable will be considered as covariates. The effect size and the
      statistical significance level for each of these effects will be calculated: group effect
      (between subjects), time effect (intra-subjects) and group*time interaction. Other possible
      interactions between group*sex and all other variables of the study will be determined. The
      analyses will be adjusted by multiple comparison test and the intend to treat principle will
      be applied for all analyses. For the analysis of missing data, such as for the participants
      that drop out from the program or did not meet the study criteria, different imputation
      methods will be used, and sensitivity analysis will be applied.
    
  