
    
      Purpose: It is estimated by 2045, one in five Albertans in Canada will be 65 or older.
      Medication compliance in the senior population is a significant challenge for optimizing
      patient outcomes. This has significant implications when nearly 69% of medication related
      hospitalizations are attributed to non-adherence and the estimated cost to the Canadian
      Health care system is $7-$9 billion. The factors that contribute to poor medication adherence
      are multifactorial. For example, multiple medications within a treatment regimen, increased
      frequency of medication intake and a prolonged course of drug therapy all contribute to
      decreased medication adherence. Almost 2/3 of those aged 65 and over take five or more
      prescription drugs thus increasing the risk of adherence issues.

      Therefore, therapeutic management of multiple chronic diseases can only be realized when the
      individual is adherent to their prescribed pharmacological regimen. Age-related innovations
      provide an enormous opportunity to enhance the quality of life for seniors and reduce
      healthcare cost related to medication adherence issues. The spencer medication dispensing
      device is a new integrated technology that improves medication compliance and offers
      independence to seniors at home while providing real-time pharmacist and caregiver support.
      Alberta Health Services (AHS) is committed to supporting and strengthening community care by
      adopting age-related innovations. Hence, the aim of study is to evaluate user benefits and
      effectiveness of the device for improving medication compliance in older adults and seniors
      population.

      Primary Research Question: Does the spencer system improve medication adherence in
      individuals 50 year or older living in the community taking five plus medications?

      Study Design: This Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) with the spencer device will be
      conducted from March 2019 to June 2020 in Calgary, Alberta. The data will be collected over a
      six-month period, the spencer deployment will begin in April 2019 and will continue till
      September 2019. This is a proof of concept study for which no formal sample size calculation
      is required. A total of 100 study participants will be recruited in the study (50
      intervention group and 50 in the control group). The investigators will randomly place a
      participant in either the intervention group to use spencer or into the control group to
      continue the using their current method of management.

      Randomization: The investigators will be using block randomization which is the recommended
      method for sample sizes of 50 or less in each group to balance the groups in terms of the
      number of subjects they contain, and in the distribution of potential confounding variables.
      The study is not blinded so the blocks will vary in sizes (10, 12, 14) to reduce the
      predictability of the intervention assignment. A project assistant (a contracted staff which
      will not be involved in data collection or analysis activities) will produce
      computer-generated sets of random allocations in advance of the study and then sealed in
      consecutively numbered opaque envelopes. Once the participants has given consent to be
      included in the study, he/she will then be irreversibly randomized by opening the next sealed
      envelope containing his/her assignment.

      Technology Intervention: The spencer device comprises interactive tools to optimize
      medication adherence and clinical outcomes. The device dispenses the patient's medications on
      time with reminders by sending visual and audio alerts. The sound of the audio alerts get
      louder if the medication pouch is not removed from the device by the patient. Patient have
      two hour window to remove the medication pouch. If not removed, patients are considered
      non-adherent for that particular time frame. Spencer allows individuals to dispense their
      medication early if away from home. Medication adherence is tracked through spencer Care
      platform. The medication adherence is based on an assumption that medication was administered
      by a patient once the pouch was removed from the device.

      Also, spencer uses a multi-disciplinary approach of care team members including pharmacists,
      caregivers and spencer medication adherence platform to provide healthcare in to the homes of
      the high-risk, chronically-ill population. The device supports a personalized plan that
      tracks medication adherence and response to therapy. Spencer displays personalized and
      condition specific questions to meet the individual goals of patients. Patients can respond
      to disease specific questions in spencer. Spencer certified pharmacists have the ability to
      review patient responses remotely and determine the need for reassessment, medication
      reconciliation and clinical intervention as appropriate. Spencer permits intervention
      remotely through Telehealth capabilities and consultation. Patient receives appointment time
      directly from spencer, spencer automatically rings at designated time, and call is initiated
      when patient answers with the touch of a screen. Daily tracking of medication adherence and
      response to relevant clinical engagement questions will be conducted via the spencer
      platform.

      Through the connected devices, spencer ensures that everyone in the circle of care can
      participate in the wellbeing of the patient. Spencer Assist is a mobile app that allows
      caregivers and family members to support patients at home. Medication adherence data is also
      accessible to the health care team. The pharmacist, health care provider and caregiver are
      now electronically connected to patients and can access data regarding deviations in
      adherence in real time. This connectivity allows for earlier intervention to provide the
      support needed for improved healthcare outcomes.

      The spencer system empowers patients to manage their treatment regimen and schedule from the
      comfort of their own home. Spencer technology addresses key priority areas related to Aging
      in place, independence, and caregiver support and care coordination with care team and
      caregivers.

      Primary outcome: The study will look at patient focused outcome and seek to understand the
      influence of the medication dispensing device on medication adherence. Specifically,
      increased patient medication adherence in the intervention group as a result of spencer
      utilization. In the intervention group, the medication adherence data will be retrieved from
      the Catalyst spencer medication adherence platform. In the control group, the medication
      adherence will be will be self-reported and participants will be required to maintain missed
      dosage logs. Participants will complete self-reported adherence questionnaire in both groups
      (intervention and control) at baseline assessment and end of the study for comparison
      purposes.

      Catalyst Healthcare defines Adherence percent as actual pill (s) dispensed from the spencer
      at the prescribed time within a two hour time window. Average medication adherence will be
      calculated by an average of all "pill level" adherence numbers i.e. if all pills were taken
      within the window, the adherence number would only contain 100 values. Alternately if no
      pills were taken within the window, the adherence number would only contain 0 values.
      Adherence number for a patient within the time range then divided by the total number of
      pills will provide average medication adherence. Similar approach will be used for
      calculating medication adherence for control group participants.

      Data source and variables: the investigators will use data from multiple sources: Catalyst
      technology platform for adherence; determine baseline health status of the participants and
      characteristics by doing initial assessment upon enrollment; and a monthly follow-up survey
      will be completed to collect medication management data and record any changes in health
      status or healthcare needs

      Data analysis: Data will be entered and analyzed using Statistical Package for the Social
      Sciences (SPSS) version 25. Descriptive and inferential statistics will be used to compare
      the baseline status of the intervention and control group as well as at the end of the
      intervention period. A Chi-square test of independence will be used for categorical variables
      such as the number of participants who missed one or more medication dosage in each group. An
      independent sample t-test will be performed for continuous variables such as to compare the
      average number of missed medicines between the intervention and control group. Any
      confounding factors will be controlled in the regression model. Statistical tests for
      inferential statistics will be set at 95% confidence level.
    
  