
    
      Restenosis remains a frequent cause of late failure after initially successful coronary
      angioplasty occurring in as many as 20-40% of procedures performed. Loss of luminal diameter
      as a result of restenosis has been attributed to three physiologic mechanisms: passive
      elastic recoil of the vessel, geometric vessel remodeling and neointimal hyperplasia.
      Coronary stents provide mechanical scaffolding that reduces restenosis by limiting the extent
      of elastic recoil and late vascular remodeling. Despite these improvements, the incidence of
      restenosis following coronary stent implantation occurs in 20-40% of cases. Restenosis
      following stenting is primarily a result of neointimal hyperplasia.

      The methodology in interventional cardiology has historically evolved from diagnostic
      coronary angiography to balloon angioplasty, the use of bare metal stents, their refinement
      to drug-eluting stents with a durable polymer, and is now on the verge to drug-eluting stents
      with further developed drug delivery approaches such as the reservoir technology and the use
      of bioresorbable polymers. While the reservoir approach may make drug delivery more
      controllable, the reduction of polymer exposure to the vessel wall was designed to improve
      vascular healing and reduce the occurrence of undesirable side effects such as stent
      thrombosis especially on the long-term once the drug is completely eluted.

      While to date, these are concepts validated preferably in pre-clinical studies, and only
      limited clinical data are available to suggest efficacy and safety of the NEVO™ SES, this
      study seeks to assess its clinical value in a large and unselected cohort of subjects
      representing real-world contemporary treatment patterns through a non-inferiority comparison
      with the most widely used DES today, the XIENCE V® / XIENCE PRIME™ / PROMUS® stent.

      Between August and October 2010, 156 subjects were enrolled in the trial. Of the 156
      subjects, 103 were treated with the NEVO™ Sirolimus-eluting Stent and 53 with the comparator.
      Based on a small number of acute performance observations, Cordis voluntary suspended
      enrollment to optimize the balloon catheter.

      As a result of evolving market dynamics, and product portfolio decisions, Cordis decided in
      June 2011 to no longer pursue the development of NEVO™ Sirolimus-eluting coronary stents. As
      a result of this decision, the design and objective of the NEVO II trial were changed to
      allow only follow-up of the 103 NEVO™ subjects.

      Since the NEVO™ SES is an investigational device; the NEVO™ subjects are being followed-up to
      safeguard their safety and wellbeing. The 53 subjects from the comparator arm do not need
      further follow-up due to the fact that they have been treated with a commercially available
      stent.
    
  