
    
      Andhra Pradesh is the state with highest burden of HIV in India. Anantapur is a district
      situated in the South border of Andhra Pradesh with 72% rural population and adult literacy
      rate of 74.1% in men and 54.3% in women. In Anantapur, the HIV epidemic is largely driven by
      heterosexual transmission and it is characterized by poor socioeconomic conditions and high
      levels of illiteracy.

      Rural Development Trust (RDT) is a nongovernmental organization, which provides medical care
      to people living with HIV free of charge, including medicines, consultation and admission
      charges. In Bathalapalli Hospital, outpatient clinics and 71 beds are allocated exclusively
      for HIV or tuberculosis infected patients.

      The Vicente Ferrer HIV Cohort Study (VFHCS) is a prospective open cohort study of all HIV
      infected patients who have attended Bathalapalli RDT Hospital. Routine clinical data from
      patients are collected prospectively since September 2009 and entered in a SQL-server
      database using C# as front end. Details of route of transmission, HIV associated risk factors
      and socio-demographic data are collected at enrolment. Data collected include medical
      treatment (antiretroviral treatment and other medications), laboratory investigations
      (haemogram, renal function tests, liver function tests, CD4 lymphocyte count, bacterial
      infections), and standardized diagnoses.

      The objective of the VFHCS is to describe social and medical aspects related to HIV in the
      investigators setting, including:

        1. Epidemiology: trends in HIV incidence, transmission mechanisms, socioeconomic risk
           factors associated with HIV.

        2. Incidence and prevalence of opportunistic infections, especially tuberculosis and
           cryptococcosis.

        3. Life expectancy and factors associated with mortality

        4. Describe the retention across the continuum of care and investigate factors associated
           with loss to follow-up.

        5. Toxicity and effectiveness of antiretroviral therapy.

        6. Effectiveness of programmes to prevent mother to child transmission.

        7. Incidence and prevalence of non-communicable diseases such as cancer or cardiovascular
           diseases.
    
  