
    
      Study Description: This study will examine whether cyclooxygenase 1 (COX-1) and
      cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) are detectable in the brain of individuals with major depressive
      disorder (MDD).

      Objectives: Primary Objective: To determine whether COX-1 and COX-2 are detectable in the
      brains of individuals with MDD experiencing a major depressive episode (MDE).

      Endpoints: Primary Endpoints: Group A - Calculation of COX-2 density from [11C]MC1 PET scans,
      using baseline scans and scans after blockade with celecoxib. Group B - Calculation of the
      density of COX-1 using [11C]PS13

      Secondary Endpoints, common to both groups:

        1. the relationship between peripheral markers of inflammation and COX binding;

        2. the relationship between clinical rating scales and COX binding

      Study Population: Group A) Sixteen (16) medication-free participants with MDD;

      Group B) Three groups of 16 subjects each will be studied: 1) Medicated MDD, 2) Unmedicated
      MDD and 3) healthy volunteers. Participants may be male or female. They must be between 18
      and 70 years old. Individuals may be recruited from anywhere but, for those participating in
      the outpatient study, most are expected to come from the Washington DC metropolitan area. MDD
      participants must be in good medical health and provide informed consent.

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants: Screening and PET imaging will be
      performed at the NIH Clinical Center.

      Description of Study Intervention: Group A - Participants will be intravenously injected with
      20 mCi of [11C]MC1 twice, once at baseline and once after blockade by celecoxib.

      Group B - Subjects will be intravenously injected once with 20 mCi of [11C]PS13 and

      For both groups, participants will also have a radial artery catheter(s) inserted to measure
      radioligand concentration before each scan. Participants will also have a brain MRI to
      provide anatomic orientation for the PET scans.

      Study Duration: 36 months

      Participant Duration: One to two weeks, depending on the participant's availability and
      investigators' overall access to MRI and PET cameras.
    
  