
    
      Attention deficit disorder with or without hyperactivity (ADD / H) is a public health problem
      since it has short and long-term consequences, affects about 5% of children of school age but
      remains unknown and therefore under- diagnostic. In the symptomatic triad of inattention,
      impulsivity and hyperactivity, there is often a psychopathological disorder, a learning and /
      or sleep disorder. Medication treatment with methylphenidate is the reference in terms of
      prescription to reduce the symptoms of AD / HD. However, the limitations of its long-term
      effectiveness, tolerance of side effects, and parental distrust of psychostimulant treatment
      are gradually opening the door to new therapeutic approaches.

      Neurofeedback is considered by the scientific world as a promising and effective
      neurocognitive learning technique in the treatment of Attention Deficit Disorder with
      Hyperactivity ADHD and several neurological and psychiatric disorders. Its principle is to
      increase the patient's ability to regulate his own brain activity, captured by an
      ElectroEncephaloGram (EEG), after visual and auditory feedback.

      In this controlled and randomized research, the investigator will compare the effects of two
      neurofeedback protocols on the repercussions of AD / HD symptoms, in particular the
      hyperactivity on which the improvements reported in the literature are less with usual
      protocols.

      Seventy children and adolescents aged 7 to 15 in two groups will benefit from thirty
      neurofeedback sessions each, either on a so-called Sensory Motor Rhythm (SMR) protocol or on
      a protocol called Upper Alpha. To date, no studies have identified the effects of a NF Upper
      Alpha protocol on improving sleep, hyperactivity and comorbidities in patients with ADHD in a
      controlled and randomized manner. nor on personality dimensions related to the processes of
      self-regulation of the patient involved in Neurofeedback (NF) treatment.

      The investigator expects superior clinical improvement of ADHD symptoms and sleep disorders
      in the NF upper alpha training group in patients not following any parallel drug or therapy
      regimen. The investigator expects stability of the effects of treatment after several months
      of stopping neurofeedback sessions, without taking or recovery of psychostimulant.

      This research protocol would make it possible for dozens of children and adolescents to
      benefit from an alternative treatment (in the absence of placebo conditions) in order to
      achieve a clinical improvement of at least 30% of their patients. symptoms related to AD /
      HD, as well as to develop a field of research still little investigated in France. On the
      other hand, parents would be more likely to accept effective neurofeedback treatment than
      psychostimulant treatment, especially since it may have side effects. In addition, the
      validation of clinical improvements following a neurofeedback protocol aimed at increasing
      the relative power of alpha waves at frontal sites would be encouraging for clinical practice
      and future research in this area.
    
  