
    
      Acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema is a frequent medical emergency. Several studies have shown
      that continuous positive airway pressure is effective in acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema,
      through improvement in gas exchange, reduction in intubation rate and a trend towards reduced
      mortality. CPAP is usually obtained with a hermetic nasal or facemask witch has an expiratory
      valve to maintain a positive pressure at the end of the expiration. With this support, the
      patient does not receive any assistance with respiration.

      The available data about CPAP concern patients hospitalised in cardiology intensive care
      units, in resuscitation areas or in emergency departments.

      We will undertake a controlled prospective randomised trial to investigate whether the early
      use of CPAP would improve oxygenation and survival, as compared with standard medical therapy
      in patients with acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema.

      This study will include 124 patients over 18 years of age, suffering of acute cardiogenic
      pulmonary edema, with a respiratory rate greater than 25 bpm and oxygen saturation less than
      90 %. The patients will be include just after the beginning of the episode, in prehospital
      mobile intensive car unit (SAMU) and will be all admitted in resuscitation area in a central
      hospital. They will be randomly assigned to CPAP or conventional oxygen therapy. The
      randomisation sequence is generated by the random numbers table. Closed envelopes containing
      the allocated treatment will be stored in the emergency department and will be opened when
      the patient is included.

      Oxygen saturation (by pulse-oxymetry), heart rate, respiratory rate, dyspnea, blood pressure
      will be measured every 15 min during the transport to the intensive care unit and every hour.
      The blood gazes will be measured at the arrival. The intubation rate, the duration of the
      hospitalisation and the mortality in the thirty days following initial treatment will be
      noted.
    
  