
    
      Research Hypothesis: For glioma patients undergoing TMZ chemotherapy, Mirtazapine will
      address TMZ-associated nausea and vomiting (CINV) and weight loss in addition to depression.
      Mirtazapine acts as an antagonist at the 5-HT3 receptor, which may explain its anti-emetic
      properties. Mirtazapine is also an appetite stimulant, which may help curb the weight loss
      associated with TMZ chemotherapy.

      Specific aim 1: To administer the Beck Depression Inventory to approximately 100 patients
      meeting the inclusion/exclusion criteria in order to identify at least 36 with clinical
      depression (defined as total score >= 21).

      Specific aim 2: To put at least 36 clinically depressed patients identified in aim one on
      mirtazapine for eight weeks.

      Specific aim 3: To administer the Beck Depression Inventory to patients from aim two at four
      weeks and at eight weeks of treatment with mirtazapine.

      Specific aim 4: To document weight and frequencies of nausea, vomiting, and insomnia among
      participants over the course of the study.

      Specific aim 5: To document adverse events experienced by participants over the course of the
      study and determine, to the extent possible, if mirtazapine is the cause.

      The investigators will:

        1. Assess changes in the distribution of depression scores as measured by the Beck
           Depression Inventory (a self-administered instrument extensively used and validated in
           glioma studies) from baseline to after eight weeks of treatment with mirtazapine.

        2. Assess changes in nausea, vomiting, Sleeping and body weight between baseline and the
           eight-week follow-up visit,

        3. Document the trajectory of changes in depression, nausea, vomiting, and weight over the
           three study time points (baseline, four-week, and eight-week visit).

        4. Lastly, collect information on the tolerability of mirtazapine in our patient
           population.

      Main Research Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that the mirtazapine regimen will
      improve depression scores at eight-weeks, compared to baseline scores. Further, the
      investigators hypothesize that the mirtazapine regimen will limit the reduction of weight and
      the incidence of nausea/vomiting and insomnia at eight weeks compared to baseline.
    
  