
    
      Gait-related dual-task impairments are common problems experienced in people with stroke by
      walking more slowly or taking shorter steps in dual-task walking. Decrements in dual-task
      capacity may predispose stroke survivors to risk of falls and affect negatively on functional
      independence and quality of life. Currently there is a need to explore whether people with
      stroke practice dual-tasking in standing and walking will lead to enhance dual-task
      performance and reduce falls rate. However, there is a lack of prospective, controlled
      studies which quantify balance, gait, cognition, and fall-risk after dual-task training. The
      objective of this study is to investigate the effect of dual-task training at impairment,
      disability, and participation levels for stroke survivors and investigate possible factors
      affecting cognitive-motor interference (CMI) under dual-task conditions. Specifically, we
      will compare the immediate and retention effects of dual-task balance training and
      single-task balance training on CMI, balance confidence, fall rate, functional performance,
      and quality of life in individuals with stroke (Aim 1). The second aim of this study is to
      explore how lateralization, stroke chronicity, task type, and task difficulty may influence
      patterns of CMI (Aim 2). The third aim of this study is to investigate whether dual-task
      balance assessments are more sensitive than single-balance assessment in distinguishing
      stroke fallers from stroke non-fallers (Aim 3).

      A prospective randomized control trial will be conducted at 2 medical centers in this study.
      Forty-eight people with stroke will be randomly allocated to either a single- or dual-task
      balance training group. Both groups will receive 12 hours of training over 4 weeks at
      progressively increasing task difficulty (60 minutes per session, three times a week, for
      four weeks). The single-task training group will undertake balance training and gait
      training. The dual-task training group will train the same set of balance activities as the
      single-task training while simultaneously performing a variety of added cognitive or motor
      tasks with instruction of a variable priority. During each session, participants in dual-task
      training practice shifting attention between tasks by spending half of the training attention
      focus on the balance task, and half focus on the secondary cognitive or motor task. A blinded
      assessor will conduct three assessments at baseline, post intervention, and 1-month
      follow-up. At baseline, all participants will be examine balance, gait, and cognitive
      performance under single-task (standing/walking at preferred speed and fast speed only,
      cognitive task only) and dual-task conditions (standing/walking at preferred speed and fast
      speed and concurrent cognitive task). Three cognitive tasks (simple auditory reaction time
      task, counting backward by 3s task, and Stroop task) will be used to examine patterns of CMI
      because these tasks represent different domains of cognitive function (information processing
      speed, working memory, and executive function). The primary outcome measure of cognition will
      be the composite score of accuracy and reaction time. The primary outcome measure of balance
      will be the sway index in mCTSIB test on a BioSway balance system under single- and dual-task
      standing. The primary outcome measure of gait will be gait speed on 10 m walk test under
      single- and dual-task walking. Secondary outcome measures will include: Berg Balance Scale,
      the Timed Up and Go test under single- and dual-task conditions, Activity-specific Balance
      Confidence Scale, Fugl-Meyer Assessment, Functional Independence Measure, Nottingham Extended
      Activities of Daily Living Scale, and Stroke Impact Scale. Additionally, falls will be
      prospectively monitored monthly and recorded during the following 6 months after the
      training. Repeated measure ANOVA will be used to compare measurements baseline, after
      training, and follow-up between the groups.
    
  