
    
      Introduction: Band ligation is one of the most frequently used methods in the treatment of
      hemorrhagic internal hemorrhoidal disease. Also, phlebotonic use and surgical excision
      options are available as an anti-hemorrhoidal drug in the treatment of the disease. Many
      studies have shown that these methods are safe to use. Band ligation is used quite often in
      our clinic. Whether or not band ligation is performed, these patients are prescribed
      phlebotonics as an anti-hemorrhoidal drug.

      Purpose: In this study, investigators aimed to investigate the benefit of adding rubber band
      ligation to treatment in hemorrhagic internal hemorrhoidal disease treated with the anti
      hemorrhoidal drug.

      Method: The study was planned prospectively and observationally. Patients are not assigned to
      groups by the researcher. The researcher cannot interfere with the treatment method given to
      the patient. The method of treatment is the method approved by the patient's doctor.

      Patients diagnosed with internal hemorrhoids will be examined in a group of patients who are
      prescribed anti-hemorrhoidal drugs and rubber band ligation in the context of routine
      treatment.

      In the other group, again, in the form of routine treatment, patients who are not given
      rubber band ligation and who are given only anti-hemorrhoidal drugs will be examined.

      Group 1: Patients who have been prescribed 450 mg diosmin + 50 mg hesperidin as an
      anti-hemorrhoidal drug and rubber band ligation will be included in this group.

      Group 2: Patients who have been prescribed only 450 mg of diosmin + 50 mg of hesperidin as
      treatment, without rubber band ligation will be included in this group.

      Patients will undergo a control examination in the 21 days after treatment.

        -  Whether the bleeding continues?

        -  Which bleeding day stopped?

        -  The comfort of the anal area will be evaluated

        -  Did the side effect develop?

        -  Did any complications occur? The above information will be entered into the SPSS
           program, and statistical analysis will be done.
    
  