
    
      STUDY DESIGN:

      This is a prospective, non-randomized, unmasked pilot study.

        1. SETTING:

           Storm Eye Institute, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC

        2. SUBJECTS

      A total of 50 patients of both sexes and any race or ethnic background who underwent
      uneventful routine bilateral cataract extraction and multifocal or accommodating intraocular
      lens implantation will be included. Subjects will be divided in 5 groups of 10 subjects each
      based on the IOL implanted as follows: ReSTOR +4.0 D, ReSTOR +3.0 D, Crystalens, ReZoom, and
      Mix-and-match (patients implanted with ReSTOR in one eye and ReZoom in the fellow eye).

      Assessment included a thorough medical history and a complete eye examination. The latter
      will include ETDRS visual acuity at distance (4 mts), intermediate (60 cm) and near (33 or 40
      cm accordingly to the lens, under photopic conditions) evaluated uncorrected and
      best-corrected as well as distance-corrected near and intermediate visual acuity, , and range
      of vision (uncorrected and distance-corrected); the previous tests will be done per eye and
      both eyes (visual summation). Slit-lamp exam, eye dominance, stereopsis, pupil size under
      photopic conditions, corneal topography and a satisfaction questionnaire will be evaluated as
      well. A defocus curve will be performed as follows: a phoropter and a 100% contrast ETDRS
      chart positioned 4 meters from the subject under photopic lighting conditions will be used.
      Manifest refraction will be used to designate the zero (0) baseline. To begin the testing,
      subjects will be defocused -5.00 D spherical correction from their best distance correction
      (manifest refraction). The logMAR acuity at this refraction will be recorded. Minus spherical
      power will be decreased in 0.50 D increments (i.e., -4.50 D, -4.00 D, -3.50 D, etc.) with
      logMAR acuity recorded at each change in correction until only the best distance correction
      (manifest refraction) remains. In a further step, subjects will be defocused +2.00 D
      spherical correction from the best distance correction (manifest refraction) and the logMAR
      acuity will be recorded. Plus spherical power will be decreased in 0.50 D increments (i.e.,
      +1.50 D, +1.00 D, +0.50 D) with logMAR acuity recorded at each change in correction until
      only the best distance correction (manifest refraction) remains.
    
  