
    
      High-Flow nasal cannula therapy is the administration of heated, humidified and blended
      air/oxygen via nasal cannula at rates of at least 2 L/kg bodyweight /min. This high-flow
      nasal cannula therapy was developed in neonatal intensive care unit for preterm babies with
      respiratory pauses as an alternative to continuous pressure support (CPAP). Due to its ease
      of use and safety to apply to a wide range of indication, this oxygen delivery therapy is
      increasingly gaining interest for providing respiratory support in paediatric and adult
      patients with respiratory failure in the ICU. High-flow nasal cannula therapy is applied in
      preterm infant with respiratory distress syndrome, apnoea of prematurity or a respiratory
      support after extubation. In the adult population the use of HFNCT focuses on hypoxemic
      respiratory failure and improvement reduction of hypoxemia during intubation in the
      anesthesia environment. A new application for high-flow nasal cannula therapy in adults is
      the extension of apnoea time in patients with difficult airways who are undergoing general
      anesthesia. In this environment a new term for this kind of oxygen therapy was created:
      THRIVE transnasal humidified rapid-insufflation ventilatory exchange. To distinguish this
      kind of high-flow nasal cannula therapy in apnoeic patients from the one in the paediatric
      ICU or ward the investigators use the term i-THRIVE for infant transnasal humidified rapid
      insufflation ventilation exchange.

      Due to the increased oxygen consumption and the reduced functional residual capacity,
      neonates, infants, and small children have a reduced apnoea tolerance compared to adults.
      Furthermore infants and small children have a greater closing capacity, which increases the
      airway collapse under general anesthesia and muscle paralysis. A direct consequence is that
      hypoxemia is very likely to occur after cessation of spontaneous or assisted ventilation
      during induction of anesthesia. Apnoea without supplemental oxygen leads to hypoxemia in a
      1-year-old infant without preoxygenation within seconds. All paediatric (and adult) patients
      undergoing general anesthesia have at least a brief period of apnoea during intubation
      between the time the face-mask is removed from the patient and the tube is placed in the
      trachea. Therefore, at least short phases of deoxygenation may occur.

      However if anesthesia needs to be provided in emergency situations or in the presence of a
      difficult airway, the rate of complication increases rapidly. In these circumstances methods
      that reduce desaturation incidents during prolonged difficult intubation are desirable. Due
      to oxygen toxicity in neonates or small children, prevention of hypoxemia with oxygen
      concentration below 60% would be favourable in this setting. Despite promising pilot results
      with high-flow nasal cannula therapy, it is unknown whether this technique is superior to
      low-flow oxygenation with high concentration and whether it is necessary to apply high-flow
      nasal cannula therapy with high (80-100%) versus low (30-50%) concentration oxygen.

      This study investigates under controlled circumstances the concept of i-THRIVE to prolong the
      apnoea time without deoxygenation and to improve safety of airway management in paediatric
      patients. Furthermore, this study enables to quantify the effects of different oxygen
      concentrations with high-flow nasal cannula therapy and distinguishes it better from
      conventional low-flow apnoeic oxygenation methods.
    
  