
    
      METHODOLOGY

      Study Setting:

      This study will be conducted in International Youth Centre, Cheras. It has been the main
      focal point of where most of the courses have been conducted. It is within easy reach and
      centrally located near National University of Malaysia Hospital. Many participants will come
      from all around Malaysia to attend. The centre is equipped with a lecture hall and boarding
      for the participants.

      Study Design:

      This is a pre-post quasi-experimental study that will be conducted over 12 months duration.
      Participants in this study will undergo a House Officer (HO) preparatory course. The level of
      confidence, readiness and psychological wellbeing will be evaluated. There will be three
      assessment time points: at baseline (before the course), immediately after the course (only
      for level of confidence and readiness) and 1 month after working as HO. This study is unable
      to have a control because of constraints in resources.

      Study Duration:

      This study will start from April 2018 - March 2019

      Sampling of participants:

      Recruitment

      Participants who attend the Medicorp HO Preparatory Course from April 2018 -March 2019 will
      be recruited into this study as the sampling frame. The eligibility criteria are based on the
      following:

      The sampling methods employed in this study will be taking all participants who fulfill the
      eligibility criteria and agree to participate in this study.

      Intervention:

      The intervention in this study will be the Medicorp HO preparatory course which comprises of
      a 3-day training touching on aspects of HO training that is needed practically for an HO to
      function. The training will touch on the nature of the HO job, explaining about technical
      details such as the shift and on-call system. The tagging period, and assessments that HOs
      need to undergo during their training. They will be guided on how to clerk, review and
      present common as well as emergency cases. Other aspects involved in clerking such as common
      forms used in the wards and also how to refer cases is also discussed. Apart from that, soft
      skills such as communication among staff, financed, balancing social life and future career
      planning is incorporated in the training. There are hands-on training for participants for
      common procedures such as continuous bladder drainage insertion and venepuncture. The
      trainers are specialists, specialists in training, medical officers, and also house officers
      who come to share their experience. Medicorp encourages their alumni to be part of their
      training program. This module will be held on a 1-2 monthly basis. The Module Content is
      moderated by Medicorp based on discussions with the board of directors, advisors and feedback
      from participants. The training program is done as a lecture, tutorial and hands-on session.
      Before commencing the course, participants will be included in a WhatsApp group, for easier
      content sharing and updates of the course. They will continue this networking even after
      completion of this course. They will be also be guided in the online applications of their
      job through this application and also through Facebook. During the commencement of their job,
      Medicorp will use their database to guide them into different WhatsApp groups according to
      their place of work for additional support.

      Sample size The sample size was calculated using G*Power 3.1 sample size calculator software.
      Based on reports by confidence score from a study analysing pre and post-emergency department
      posting in junior doctors was used. The mean overall confidence score was 56.475(24.67) at
      the end of month 1 and 62.775(28.69) at the end of month 4(Williams et al., 1997). The
      estimated sample size was 208 participants after accounting for the power of 80%,
      significance level of 0.05% and 30% attrition.

      INSTRUMENTS AND DATA COLLECTION

      Intervention: The Medicorp HO Preparatory Module

      Tools for assessment:

        1. Baseline questionnaire The study instrument will be a set of questionnaire that will be
           divided into sections A-E.

           The English versions will be used.

             1. Socio-demographic data :

                This will include certain details of participants such as:

                  -  Age

                  -  Sex

                  -  Religion

                  -  Ethnicity

                  -  Year of graduation

                  -  University of Graduation

                  -  Marital status

                  -  Place of work (evaluation during 1 month post HO-ship)

             2. Clinical Experience:

                This will be adapted from the International Medical University (IMU)Student
                Competency Survey. This will show participants past clinical experience on common
                procedures during their undergraduate years.

             3. Confidence level: Adapted from the IMU student competency questionnaire as
                explained in study outcome measures

             4. Readiness : Adapted from the IMU student competency questionnaire as explained in
                study outcome measures

             5. Psychological well -being : DASS as explained in study outcome measures

        2. Post course questionnaire (immediate)

             1. Level of confidence

             2. Readiness

        3. Case report form Conducted via telephone call at 1 month after starting work as HO
           Content will include

             1. Level of confidence

             2. Readiness

             3. DASS

             4. Work place information: which hospital and posting

             5. Any suggestions to improve the course based on your current working experience?

      All the questionnaires will be pilot tested by testing this on 30 medical graduates before
      using the questionnaire.

      Data collection

      A pre-tested self-administered questionnaire which includes baseline socio-demography,
      adaptation of the IMU Student Competency Survey, and the Depression Anxiety Stress Scale will
      be used. 1 month follow-up will be done by telephone. After the participants have completed
      the course, their level of readiness and confidence will again be assessed via a
      self-administered questionnaire. This will be done on the last day of the course.

      The participants will later be followed up 1 month after they have been working as a HO in
      their respective hospitals. The organisers will keep track of placements of all participants
      via social media applications as part of the course is still maintaining connections and
      informal training after the course has ended and as participants start the process of job
      application and working.

      Ethical considerations

      This study's approval for ethical clearance will be obtained from JETHIC COMMITTEE FOR
      RESEARCH INVOLVING HUMAN SUBJECT University Putra Malaysia ETHIC COMMITTEE FOR RESEARCH
      INVOLVING HUMAN SUBJECT (JKEUPM) ) and National Medical Research Register (NMRR); Medical
      Research and Ethics Committee (MREC) as the participants will be working in Ministry of
      Health facilities during the 1 month follow up. This study will also be registered in the
      National Institute of Health (NIH) as a trail registration.

      Informed consent will be obtained from each study participant and they will be told the right
      not to respond to the questions they don't want to respond to or to withdraw from the study
      at any time. All data obtained will be kept confidentially and for research purposes only.

      The benefits of the study includes assessing issues in relations to HO wellbeing and to
      assess what is needed in training a functional HO. The potential risk, discomforts and
      inconvenience is almost none. However, should the DASS score be suggestive of depression or
      anxiety, team members of the research team will refer the participant appropriately. Should
      participants choose to withdraw from study, they will be allowed to do so.

      Data Analysis

      The data will be analysed using IBM Social Package for Social Science (SPSS) version 24. A
      descriptive analysis of the demographic characteristics of the participants, clinical
      experience and baseline level of confidence, readiness and psychological wellbeing will be
      reported using means and standard deviations (SD) or median and inter-quartile range (IQR)
      for continuous variables (depending on the data distribution) and as frequencies and
      percentages for categorical data. An analysis to compare between participants who completed
      and withdrew from the study will be made using Chi-square or Exact test (for unbalanced data)
      for categorical variables and independent t-test for continuous data.

      A repeated measures ANOVA will be conducted to determine the effectiveness of the
      intervention within the groups across the study periods (baseline, immediately after
      intervention and at 1 month after working). Controlling for baseline measures will be done to
      determine the change over time on the measured outcomes (level of confidence, readiness and
      psychological wellbeing). All analyses conducted are two-tailed with significant level set at
      p value <0.05.

      Operational Definitions of terms

        1. Medical Graduates/Participants - Those that have obtained a medical degree be it MD,
           MBBCh BAO, MBBS or the same level

        2. Socio-demography - the components of description of a population

             1. Age - based on the year a person was born

             2. Sex- male or female

             3. Marital Status - single, married, separated or divorced

             4. Ethnicity - background of a person's race

             5. Religion - the religion based on identification card (I.C)

             6. Year of graduation - year they receive their certificates of qualification

             7. University- institution of higher learning they graduated from

             8. Confidence -a feeling of self-assurance arising from an appreciation of one's own
                abilities or qualities

             9. Readiness - the state of being fully prepared for something.

            10. Psychosocial well-being - the state of, affecting, or arising in the mind; related
                to the mental and emotional state of a person.
    
  