
    
      Specific Aim 1: To determine pre- and post-surgical predictors of the duration and severity
      of glucocorticoid withdrawal in patients undergoing a curative surgery for cortisol excess
      Specific Aim 2: To characterize the timing and recovery of hypercortisolism-induced signs and
      symptoms, proximal myopathy and tissue accumulation of Advanced Glycation End products (AGEs)
      in patients after a curative surgery Specific Aim 3: To assess the effect of MUSE
      intervention on GWS severity in patients undergoing curative surgery for CS as compared to
      standard of care

        1. Selection of study subjects and medical records review. We will prospectively recruit
           adult patients with CS of any three subtypes (pituitary, adrenal or ectopic CS) and MACS
           undergoing a curative surgery, from the pituitary clinic. Investigator will discuss
           participation in the study and obtain an informed consent. We will review data for any
           potential risk factors through clinical interview and review of medical record. Data
           will include demographics, behavioral factors (smoking and alcohol consumption), past
           medical history (history of AI, psychiatric disorder and recent GC usage), GWS related
           symptoms and signs (anorexia, nausea, emesis, lethargy, somnolence, arthralgia, myalgia,
           fever, hypotension), and lab tests.

        2. Subjects: We will enroll 100 consecutive subjects in this study who will participate in
           this study for up to 2 years. Inclusion and exclusion criteria are as below. We plan to
           have 50 subjects participate in the intervention arm with MUSE in one year, without
           modifying other study procedures.

        3. Step-by-Step methods:

             -  Patients will be identified by their clinician. Permission will be obtained from
                the patient in order for one of the investigators to explain the study and obtain
                informed written consent.

             -  Baseline history, physical examination, and the necessary baseline tests will be
                performed based on standard of care and as considered necessary by the treating
                physician.

             -  Medical record will be reviewed for demographic information, comorbidities, medical
                therapy, imaging information and biochemical testing results

             -  We will use a scoring system to quantify biochemical severity, and to classify
                clinical abnormalities as mild, moderate and severe ( based on existent laboratory
                and clinical parameters).

             -  At baseline, all patients will be asked to complete the Cushing QoL questionnaire,
                SF36 and AddiQol questionnaires (forms are attached in Document). Patients will
                discuss the intervention with MUSE with the study investigator. If they agree to
                participate in the intervention arm, they will be instructed on its use.

             -  At follow up, patients will complete AddQoL survey (weekly in the first 3 months,
                every 4 weeks in the next 6 months, every 3 months in the next 12 months, and then
                every 6 months until the end of the study) and SF36 survey (every 3 months) until
                the end of the study. (In-person, through a paper survey or electronically using
                external REDCap server (user name and password protected)).

             -  For patients in the intervention group, in addition to the above, at the time of
                enrollment, the study coordinator will help set up the MUSE application on to iPad
                or iPhone or Android phone (we will use generic login name and password without
                protected health information included). The coordinator will also go over a few
                helpful hints and discuss the homework log, which will need to be completed
                throughout the course of the study. After the surgery, patients are asked to
                complete the 3 minute 'focusing' exercise daily until 12 weeks after the surgery.
                During this time frame we will download the data from our end on a weekly basis.
                After 12 weeks, the frequency of the usage will be at the participant's discretion
                although ongoing usage is encouraged and data download should continue. In
                addition, we ask that patients bring iPad, iPhone or Android phone to each of the
                clinical visit for an app interrogation.

             -  Patient will participate in the study until one of the following: 1) 2 years of
                follow up completed, 2) patient withdraws consent, 3) HPA axis recovery is achieved
                and patient weans off GC, 4) completion of the study by the principal investigator.
    
  