
    
      The influence of 125 mL water, 150 mg caffeine/125 mL water, 30 mg HED/125 mL water or the
      combination of 150 mg caffeine + 30 mg HED/125 mL water on the gastric pH on different test
      days was investigated. Prior to the intervention, the trial subjects had to fast from food
      and liquid for 10 h, except for 200 mL of tap water that were allowed during this time
      period. During the experiment, the subjects remained in a supine left-sided position.

      For the non-invasive measurement of the gastric pH, the Heidelberg Detection System
      (Heidelberg Medical Inc., USA) was used which has been successfully used in our working
      group.

      This system consists of a pH-sensitive capsule (called a Heidelberg capsule), with a length
      of 2 cm, that has to be swallowed and contains a miniature radio transmitter. This system
      allows the detection of the actual gastric pH of the volunteer over a specific time period
      [Liszt et al 2012, Rubach et al. 2014].

      Prior to each test, Heidelberg capsules were activated for 5 min in a 0.9% sterile NaCl
      solution and calibrated using two calibration points, pH 1 and 7. Afterward, the subjects
      swallowed the capsule lay down on the left side. The capsule sends a signal to a transceiver,
      which has to be placed on the abdomen of the volunteer. The transceiver sends the signal to
      the recorder connected to a computer. The data can be collected and shown as a gastrogram on
      the computer screen, where the pH is drawn over time. When the intragastric pH was constant
      between pH 0.5 and 2.5 for at least 3 min, the capsule was considered to be in the stomach.
      Afterward, each trial started with the administration of 5 mL of a saturated sodium
      bicarbonate solution (NaHCO3). This alkaline challenge triggers a rise in gastric pH between
      around pH 6 to 7 and subsequently leads to the secretion of stomach acid by the parietal
      cells. The test solutions were administered 5 minutes after or 30 min before the alkaline
      challenge.

      Reacidification time as well as the time until start of the reacidification has been
      analyzed.

      Ratings of hunger were assessed before and after each gastric pH measurement by means of
      visual analog scales (VAS). Before and after each intervention blood samples were drawn to
      quantify satiety hormones (ghrelin, PYY, GLP-1, serotonin). Ad libitum energy and
      macronutrient intakes from a standardized breakfast served after each treatment were
      calculated.
    
  