
    
      Background: The majority (about 75%) of patients with childhood onset schizophrenia still
      have impairing cognitive and psychotic symptoms after drug treatment optimization. Recent
      studies with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) indicate moderate efficacy in symptom
      reduction in adult patients with schizophrenia. Transcranial direct current stimulation
      (TDCS) may be a safe and effective additional treatment of residual symptoms of schizophrenia
      in medication stable patients. Recent research into adult-onset schizophrenia established
      both safety and efficacy in 20-minute daily DC polarization (TDSC).

      Objective: To establish whether bilateral DC polarization (using TDCS) of either dorsolateral
      prefrontal cortex or superior temporal cortex is safe in patients with childhood onset
      schizophrenia and whether it is associated with improvement in cognitive performance or
      reduction in auditory hallucination (psychotic symptoms) respectively.

      Study population: Up to 40 patients with schizophrenia, ages 10 and older will be recruited.
      All patients will be on optimized medications for at least 2 months prior to this study.

      Design: The design has two concurrent study options; both double-blind sham controlled, with
      10-day, 40-minute daily DC polarization. Patients will be selected for one of the two
      treatment options: 1. Bilateral Anodal DC polarization of prefrontal cortex or 2. Bilateral
      Cathodal DC polarization of superior temporal cortex. A small battery powered device
      (Phoresor II Auto Model PM850) approved by the FDA for iontophoretic transdermal drug
      delivery will be used to administer the DC current. Sham treatment will be electrode
      placement without current.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome measure would be to determine whether TDCS treatment is
      safe in children and adults with schizophrenia, as assessed by vital signs monitoring,
      reporting/evaluation of adverse effects, clinical ratings and neurocognitive performance.

      Secondary outcome measures: The secondary outcome measures would be improvement on 1)
      Hallucination Change Scale (HCS) and Auditory Hallucinations Rating Scale (AHRS) for auditory
      hallucinations; SAPS, SANS and BPRS scales for psychotic symptoms and 2) performance on the
      working memory (verbal and non verbal), attention/vigilance, and verbal learning sub tests
      for cognitive improvement.

      Exploratory Measure: Effect of DC polarization on regional GM cortical thickness in DLPFC and
      STG regions.
    
  