
    
      Bipolar disorder is a serious medical illness that causes shifts in a person's mood, energy,
      and ability to function. These changes are drastic, and can result in damaged relationships,
      poor job or school performance, and suicide. Bipolar disorder is also known as
      manic-depressive disorder because it is characterized by episodes of mania and depression.
      Some signs and symptoms of a manic episode include the following: increased energy, activity,
      and restlessness; excessively "high," overly good mood; and extreme irritability. Some signs
      and symptoms of a depressive episode include the following: sad, anxious, or empty mood;
      feelings of hopelessness or pessimism; and feelings of guilt, worthlessness, or helplessness.
      Bipolar disorder is most effectively treated using a strategy that combines medication and
      psychosocial treatment. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of IPSRT versus CSSRT in
      reinforcing the treatment of bipolar disorder in individuals who are currently undergoing
      maintenance medication treatment for the disorder.

      Participants in this open-label study will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment
      strategies: IPSRT or CSSRT. All participants will attend study visits once a week until they
      have been stable for 4 weeks (acute phase). At this point, they will attend study visits
      every other week for 12 weeks (continuation phase), and then once a month for 18 months or
      until another depressive or mixed episode occurs (maintenance phase). Participants who
      experience a recurrence will be treated with medication and the type of therapy they were
      assigned upon study entry (IPSRT or CSSRT). These participants will continue to be followed
      for a period of time equivalent to their remainder of time in the study had they not
      experienced a recurrence. Outcomes will be measured at Week 12 of the continuation phase and
      Week 18 of the maintenance phase.
    
  