
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of oral
      decitabine/cedazuridine (ASTX727) and venetoclax in combination with either ivosidenib (Arm
      A) or enasidenib (Arm B) for patients with acute myeloid leukemia. (Phase Ib) II. To
      determine the overall response rate (complete response [CR], complete remission with
      incomplete hematologic recovery [CRh], morphologic leukemia-free state [MLFS] and partial
      response [PR)] of oral decitabine/cedazuridine (ASTX727) and venetoclax in combination with
      either ivosidenib (Arm A) or enasidenib (Arm B) for patients with acute myeloid leukemia.
      (Phase 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine duration of response (DOR), event-free survival (EFS), and overall survival
      (OS).

      II. To evaluate occurrence of minimal residual disease (MRD) negative status by
      multiparameter flow cytometry and molecular evaluation.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To investigate global gene expression profiles, deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation
      profiles, BH3 profiling and other potential prognostic markers to explore predictors of
      antitumor activity and/or resistance to treatment.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive decitabine/cedazuridine orally (PO) daily on days 1-5, venetoclax PO
      daily on days 1-14, and ivosidenib PO daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for
      12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive decitabine/cedazuridine PO daily on days 1-5, venetoclax PO daily on
      days 1-14, and enasidenib PO daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.
    
  