
    
      Intolerances to food are a major complaint of patients with functional gastrointestinal
      disorders (FGID) and even commoner in patients with inflammatory bowel disorders (IBD)
      (Barrett JS et al. Aliment Pharmacol Therap 2009;30:165-174). The most common forms of food
      intolerance are FODMAP (fermentable oligo-, di- and monosaccharide and polyol) -related, of
      which fructose and lactose are the best known. The prevalence of lactose and fructose
      intolerance in IBS patients is between 50 and 70% (Wilder-Smith CH et al. Gastroenterology
      2009;136 (Suppl. 1): A324). Recent high quality studies have shown that the reduction of
      ingested FODMAP can lead to significant and long-term symptom improvement in patients shown
      to be intolerant by breath-testing. While the pathophysiology behind lactose intolerance is
      the reduction in small intestinal lactase availability, the mechanism in fructose intolerance
      and its relationship to malabsorption are unknown. One possible and so far uninvestigated
      mechanism is a reduction in the expression or activity of the specific fructose transporter,
      GLUT5, which is mainly responsible for luminal absorption of fructose. GLUT5 is mainly found
      in the small intestine, as well as various extra-intestinal organs. The clinical relevance of
      GLUT5 expression for food intolerances in humans has not been reported, but in a mouse model
      deletion of GLUT5 led to decreased absorption of dietary fructose and typical signs of
      malabsorption (Barone S et al. J Biol Chem 2009;284:5056-5066). The control of GLUT5 is
      dynamic and considerable upregulation together with increased absorption of fructose is
      evident in diabetes mellitus, while expression is decreased by inflammation and
      lipopolysaccharide endotoxin, an integral component of the outer membrane of all
      gram-negative bacteria, through the action of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as TFN-a.
    
  