
    
      Data from the new cancer atlas covering the period 1970-94 indicate that bladder cancer
      mortality rates among white men and women are elevated in the northeastern U.S., particularly
      in the northern parts of New England including Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont. The reasons
      for these high mortality rates are unclear. The persistent elevations in mortality and
      incidence for bladder cancer among both men and women suggest the possible role of
      environmental etiologic factors. A leading suspect environmental exposure is inorganic
      arsenic in drinking water, which is elevated in private wells in parts of New England. The
      purpose of this study is to determine the risk factors that explain the high mortality and
      incidence rates for bladder cancer in men and women in northern New England. The study will
      be a population-based case-control study of carcinoma of the urinary bladder in three states:
      New Hampshire, Vermont, and Maine. All histologically-confirmed incident cases of carcinoma
      of the bladder occurring within a three-year period among residents of the study areas
      between the ages of 30 and 79 years will be eligible for the study. Controls will be selected
      randomly from the general population of each study area, frequency matched to the age-,
      race-, and gender-specific distributions of incidence cases of bladder cancer in each state.
      We expect to interview 1,200 cases and 1,200 controls. Several data collection activities
      will be incorporated in this study: a self-administered residential/occupational history
      calendar, a self-administered diet questionnaire, in-person interviews with subjects using a
      computer-assisted personal interview (CAPI), collection of drinking water to determine levels
      of arsenic and other contaminants in drinking water, a collection of buccal cells, toenails,
      spot urine, four-day urinary habits diary, overnight urine (from a sample of 240 cases and
      240 controls), and blood (from a sample of 180 cases and 180 controls). Tumor tissue samples
      will be obtained for cases. We will examine associations between bladder cancer and
      environmental exposures, and estimate the extent to which exposures to such risk factor
      explain the elevated mortality and incidence in northern New England.
    
  