
    
      The obesity epidemic has lead to increased morbidity and morality from cardiovascular disease
      and Type 2 diabetes. One co-morbidity of obesity is nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD),
      which is characterized by excess fat deposition in the liver. About a third of the overweight
      and obese population has NAFLD and this rises to 80 to 90% of morbidity in obese patients.
      Short-term weight loss and caloric restriction leads to a reduction in hepatic fat content,
      suggesting an ability of the liver to quickly respond to dietary interventions. Manipulation
      of the diet macronutrient composition in order to achieve quicker weight loss as well as
      improve adverse metabolic consequences attributable to excess weight has attracted much
      attention and controversy. Multiple clinical studies have shown that low carbohydrate diets
      can provide more rapid weight loss in individuals in the short-term and that most have no
      trouble adhering to the diet for up to 6 months. Most bariatric surgery programs use a
      conventional low fat, calorie restricted diet during the preparation phase for surgery.
      However, no systematic comparison of diets with different macronutrient compositions have
      been performed. In this study we propose to compare the clinical effects of a low
      carbohydrate versus a low fat diet in individuals which can derive an immediate benefit from
      interventions that have the potential to reduce hepatic fat content: individuals that are
      preparing for bariatric surgery (laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery or adjustable
      laparoscopic gastric banding). Enlarged steatotic livers increase the operative risk of
      bariatric surgery and weight loss prior to bariatric surgery has been shown to reduce
      operative risk. We hypothesize that the use of a 1000 to 1200 kcalorie low carbohydrate diet
      (< 15% of total kcaloric intake) during the preparation phase for bariatric surgery will
      cause a greater reduction in weight, hepatic fat content and hepatic volume compared to a
      "conventional" 1000 to 1200 kcalorie low-fat diet (30% fat, 60% carbohydrates of total
      kcaloric intake) and offer clinical advantages by making the technical aspects of surgery
      easier. Thus, the data collected will provide significant new clinical insights into the
      effect of diets with different macronutrient composition. These results will provide a basis
      for larger clinical trials to identify the optimal dietary intervention to make bariatric
      surgery safe and effective for the increasing numbers of patients opting for this aggressive
      therapy for morbid obesity.
    
  