
    
      Thoracic aortic aneurysm, while relatively rare, is a potentially lethal disorder with a poor
      long-term prognosis if not treated. As the aortic diameter increases, wall tension becomes
      higher, leading to further expansion of the aneurysm. Consequently, this disease process is a
      "progressive and self propagating" phenomena, and the natural history of the disease is
      progressive expansion of the aneurysm with eventual rupture. Patients with descending
      thoracic aortic aneurysms frequently have concomitant major medical conditions, making them
      poor candidates for major surgical procedures. Concomitant conditions may include:
      hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, congestive heart failure, and peripheral
      vascular disease, including abdominal aortic aneurysm, previous stroke and peripheral
      arterial occlusive disease.

      The accepted treatment for aneurysms deemed to warrant intervention is surgical resection and
      repair. Operative and post operative complications contributing to early mortality after
      surgical repair of descending thoracic aortic aneurysms include low cardiac output, pulmonary
      insufficiency, myocardial infarction, postoperative hemorrhage, pulmonary embolism and
      sepsis.

      In addition to mortality, two of the gravest complications of this surgical procedure,
      neurologic complications due to spinal cord ischemia, such as paraplegia and paraparesis, and
      renal failure or dysfunction, remain common.

      Dissections, another disease process of the descending thoracic aorta, are rare. Aortic
      dissections are thought to start with a tear or disruption of the intimal lining of the
      aorta, either due to medial degenerative diseases, trauma or rupture of an ulcerated intimal
      plaque. Blood at systemic arterial pressures invades the underlying medial layer of the
      aortic wall, dissecting the layers of the aortic wall, and forming a false lumen. The
      dissection then propagates for varying distances and in varying directions along the length
      of the aorta.

      As the false lumen increases in size, arterial flow to the true aortic lumen and to arteries
      arising from the aorta may be blocked or disrupted. Depending upon the location of the
      primary intimal tear and the direction of dissection propagation, various vital organs may
      loose arterial blood supply, and the aorta may rupture into the pericardial sac or pleural
      space, leading to cardiac tamponade or free pleural rupture. Blood flow from the false lumen
      may reenter the true lumen through another intimal tear, which may occur proximal or distal
      to the first, depending on the direction of dissection propagation.

      Medical therapy is the first line treatment for dissections of the descending thoracic aorta,
      and is aimed at reducing the mean, peak and diastolic recoil arterial pressure and the dP/dt
      while maintaining sufficient pressure to adequately perfuse all vital organs. Surgical
      intervention is warranted for patients with progression of dissection, impending rupture,
      refractory hypertension, a sizable localized false aneurysmal component, or continued pain.

      A device has been designed to treat disease processes of the descending thoracic aorta. The
      Thoracic EXCLUDER Endoprosthesis is a device that allows for primary endovascular repair of
      the descending thoracic aorta and is intended to be used as an intraluminal blood conduit.
      The Thoracic EXCLUDER Endoprosthesis is a flexible, self-expanding endoprosthesis that is
      constrained on the leading end of a delivery catheter. A separate balloon catheter, the
      Thoracic EXCLUDER Balloon Catheter, is used to smooth the endoprosthesis following
      implantation.

      Subjects will undergo an evaluation of the endoprosthesis, and will also be evaluated for
      device and procedure related adverse events that may have occurred during the follow-up
      period. Follow-up will be completed at 1, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months. Subject
      evaluation at 1 and 3 months will include a complete Physical Examination and a CT with
      contrast enhancement. Subject evaluation at 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months will also
      undergo a complete Physical Examination, a CT with contrast enhancement, and a Chest X-Ray
      (AP, Lateral, and 2 obliques).
    
  