
    
      The current study was carried out during November 2014 - July 2017, in the Clinical
      Rehabilitation Hospital in Cluj-Napoca, Cluj county, Romania. A total of 60 subjects
      diagnosed with typical, idiopathic PD participated in this study.

      All patients met the following inclusion criteria: (1) stable medication usage; (2) Hoehn and
      Yahr stage 2, 3 or 4; (3) ability to walk independently or by using an assistive walking
      device; (4) age 50 to 70 years; (5) no severe cognitive impairments (Mini-Mental State
      Examination - MMSE score, ≥24); (6) no other severe neurologic, cardiopulmonary or orthopedic
      disorders; and (7) not having participated in a PT or rehabilitation program in the previous
      2 months.

      The patients were randomly divided into 2 treatment groups: group physical therapy -GPT
      (n=30) and individual physical therapy - IPT (n=30).

      Treatment protocol for each group included 10 sessions of physical therapy, each 1.5 hour
      long, on a daily basis for 2 weeks. All treatment sessions occurred at the same time of day
      throughout the study, in the morning, 60-90 minutes after intake of pharmaceutical treatment
      for PD. For the GPT, there were groups of 6 patients, supervised by 1 physical therapist. The
      group sizes were kept small to promote efficiency and motivation. The patients undertaking
      IPT were alone with the physical therapist during the sessions. Both groups had their
      encounters in the same physical therapy room setting.

      The rehabilitation protocol for the IPT consisted of cardiovascular warm-up activities,
      stretching exercises, strengthening exercises, functional, gait and balance training,
      recreational games and ended with relaxation exercises. In addition, the GPT protocol
      followed the exact same pattern, except for 5-10 minute breaks for informal socialization
      between participants, at the beginning of the session, mid-session and at the end of the
      session.

      Also, both groups had access to external cues, which were applied during a variety of tasks
      and environmental situations, like gait initiation and termination, heel strike and push-off,
      sideways and backwards stepping, walking while dual tasking, and walking over various
      surfaces and long distances. There is evidence in the literature to support each of the
      components contained in the intervention.19-25 In order to facilitate initiation and speed of
      movement, most activities employed visual and auditory cues as triggers. Visual cues were
      looking at and follow the therapist's movements in the IPT group or the other group member's
      movements in the GPT group. A mirror was also used. Auditory cues were music with regular
      rhythm, and verbal suggestions and reinforcement from the therapist, in the IPT group or the
      therapist and other participants, in the GPT group.

      All patients were evaluated at the beginning and at the end of the physical therapy program.
      The evaluation included the 6-minute walking test and the 10-meter walking test. Gait speed
      for each participant was calculated as the ratio between the walked distance and the time
      unit, and it was measured in meters/seconds.

      For each subject, all assessment sessions were performed in the morning, by the same person
      and all tests were performed in the same order, to control for variations in performance
      because of medication cycle. All assessments were conducted in the "on" state for the
      subjects experiencing motor fluctuations.
    
  