
    
      Long-term maintenance of lifestyle changes to reduce cardiovascular risk factors after
      coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery is essential to positively influence health
      outcomes. Despite proven efficacy of cardiac rehabilitation (CR) in helping patients initiate
      lifestyle changes, less than 50% of CABG patients maintain lifestyle changes by 6 months
      post-CABG. It is known that the spouse is the main source of social support for the
      recovering cardiac patient and frequently attends cardiac rehabilitation with the patient to
      provide transportation, emotional support, or attend educational classes. In spite of these
      supportive behaviors, however; adherence still drops off after CR. Lifestyle interventions
      that specifically target the marital partners as a unit may be more efficacious than current
      individually-oriented education strategies. The objective of the proposed feasibility study,
      using an experimental, two-group (n = 30 couples in each group) repeated measures design,
      will be to pilot test the effects of the Partners Together in Health (PaTH) Intervention
      versus usual care in improving physical activity and healthy eating behaviors, and functional
      capacity. The specific aims are to assess the feasibility of implementing the PaTH
      Intervention and generate pilot data on all outcome variables in both the CABG patient and
      the partner to estimate effect sizes needed to determine the sample size requirements for the
      larger study. Partners in the PaTH Intervention group will formally join CR with the patient
      to participate in exercise sessions and educational classes to undertake comprehensive risk
      reduction for themselves, and to make the same positive physical activity/exercise and
      healthy eating lifestyle changes as the patient. Partners in the usual care group will be
      invited to attend the educational sessions with the patient as is currently usual care. The
      primary outcomes will be physical activity behavior (minutes per week) and eating behavior
      (percent saturated fat) at the 6 month time point in both the coronary artery bypass graft
      (CABG) patient and his/her partner. The secondary outcome includes functional capacity in
      patients and partners at 6 months. The PaTH intervention is innovative because it allows the
      couple to build new habits together so they can motivate and support one another on their
      journey toward health, it uses an existing, well-established treatment method (cardiac rehab)
      to deliver cost-effective care (Balady et al., 2007), it provides self-efficacy and social
      support for both members of the dyad in making behavioral changes, and no other studies
      testing the effects of including the partner in CR were found.
    
  