
    
      At present, the main treatment of stage II-III CRC (CRC) is surgical resection. CRC patients
      after radical surgery have good overall survival. However, there are still a large number of
      patients with postoperative recurrence. The postoperative recurrence rate of stage II CRC
      patients is 20-30%, and that of stage III CRC patients is 50-60%. Currently, there is no
      effective measures to predict whether patients suffer postoperative relapse. Patients can
      only periodically visit doctors in the hope of timely treatment in case of recurrence.
      Current clinical monitoring methods mainly include imaging detection and tumor markers
      detection. However, long-term monitoring may affect patients' quality of life and increase
      patients' economic burden. Therefore, biomarkers that can predict the prognosis of patients
      and screen out those who need intensive follow up are urgently warranted. At present, imaging
      is the mainly used approach to monitor tumor recurrence. Quantitative determination of ctDNA
      methylation in plasma may find tumor recurrence trend before imaging detection, indicating
      that quantitative determination of ctDNA methylation in plasma is a more sensitive monitoring
      approach than traditional imaging detection. Can plasma ctDNA methylation be a new recurrence
      monitoring technique and prognostic prediction method of stage II-III CRC in clinical
      practice? In this study, we aimed to monitor the dynamic level of plasma ctDNA methylation
      after surgery in patients with stage II-III CRC, and to explore the advantages of plasma
      ctDNA methylation detection over traditional CRC in recurrence monitoring and prognosis
      prediction. This is a prospective, multicenter, observational, single-blinded controlled
      study. Dynamic monitoring of patients with stage II-III CRC was performed using the
      previously established colorectal tumor-specific plasma ctDNA methylation markers. Dynamic
      monitoring of plasma ctDNA methylation before and after treatment and at regular follow-up in
      patients with CRC after radical resection of stage II-III CRC, to explore the predictive
      effect of postoperative plasma ctDNA methylation on postoperative recurrence and whether
      dynamic monitoring of postoperative ctDNA methylation could be earlier than imaging
      examination to indicate tumor recurrence.
    
  