
    
      This is a prospective phase II multi-center trial of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      or standard of care based on availability of HLA-matched related or unrelated donor after
      confirmation of clinical eligibility. In order to minimize bias assignment to either
      treatment arm, clinical eligibility to both treatment arms are similar and donor availability
      is not known at referral. HLA typing and donor search is initiated upon confirmation of
      clinical eligibility for the study. Additionally, all analyses of primary and secondary
      endpoints will follow the Intent-to-Treat principle to address potential bias introduced by
      participants with donors not proceeding to transplantation or those without a matched donor
      receiving transplantation with less well-matched donors.

      The primary outcome is 2-year overall survival. Our hypothesis is that patients who receive
      bone marrow transplantation will experience early deaths but that this will plateau by 2
      years after transplantation. Patients who receive standard of care will not experience early
      death but will succumb to their disease at a rate much higher than the general population.
      Therefore, the goal of the study is to establish that the difference in the proportion of
      patients surviving is not significantly more than 15% lower in the donor arm at 2-years after
      assignment to treatment arm.

      Secondary endpoints will compare changes in sickle cell disease related events (pulmonary
      hypertension, cerebrovascular events, renal function, avascular necrosis, leg ulcer) and
      functional outcomes [6-minute walk distance (6MWD), health-related quality of life, cardiac
      function, pulmonary function, and mean pain intensity as assessed by a multidimensional
      electronic pain diary] from baseline to 2-years after assignment to treatment arms.

      Additionally for patients assigned to the donor arm and expected to undergo transplantation,
      hematopoietic recovery, graft rejection, acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease, other
      significant transplant-related complications and disease-free survival will be reported.
    
  