
    
      Over the past decade there have been increasing calls for the scale-up of evidence-based
      interventions in order to reduce the risk of violence against children in low- and
      middle-income countries (LMICs) (Mikton et al., 2014). In particular, parenting programs for
      families with young children have been shown to be effective in reducing the risk of child
      maltreatment and improving child wellbeing with promising evidence emerging from low- and
      middle-income countries (Barlow et al., 2006; Knerr et al., 2013, Chen & Chan, 2015). These
      group-based programs typically aim to strengthen caregiver-child relationships through
      positive parenting and help parents to manage child behavior problems through effective,
      age-appropriate, nonviolent discipline strategies.

      Despite the emerging evidence of the effectiveness of parenting interventions in reducing
      violence against children, many local governments and service providers in LMICs face
      multiple challenges implementing evidence-based parenting programs in resource poor contexts
      (Mikton, 2012). Parenting programs are often too expensive to deliver effectively at scale in
      low-resource settings due to their complexity, intensity, and length (Knerr et al., 2013).
      Parenting programs developed and evaluated in other contexts also may not fit the local
      service delivery context and may require adaptation to be relevant to the local culture of
      families. Additional program content may also be necessary to address acute economic
      deprivation, high community violence, and parental distress. The process of delivery may also
      need to be simplified to improve participant engagement and the quality of delivery.

      As a result, it is essential that programs implemented in LMICs are

        1. effective at reducing violence against children,

        2. integrated within the existing service delivery system,

        3. feasible and culturally acceptable to service providers and families, and

        4. scalable in terms of their affordability, replicability, and sustainability while
           reaching a maximum number of beneficiaries.

      However, there are currently very few parenting programs that meet these criteria in LMICs
      (such as Romania, FYR of Macedonia and Republic of Moldova), where the need is the greatest.

      The present study utilizes the Multiphase Optimization Strategy (MOST) as a framework for
      increasing the reach and enhancing the implementation of a parenting intervention for
      families with 2-9 years old children (Parenting for Lifelong Health for Young Children, PLH
      2-9) in three southeastern European countries with restricted resources. The MOST framework
      is implemented over 3 distinct phases: 1) Preparation and Adaptation, 2) Optimization, and 3)
      Evaluation.

      The Preparation and Adaptation Phase lays the foundation for program optimisation. This may
      include formative research, cultural/contextual adaptation, and feasibility piloting in
      preparation for further testing. A key objective of the Preparation Phase is to confirm the
      conceptual model of RISE that informs the selection of program components to optimize.
      Feasibility studies are considered important steps in preparation for larger experimental
      studies. They allow for the assessment of intervention feasibility by examining program
      dosage, implementation fidelity, and participant satisfaction. Although often limited in
      their ability to detect significant effects due to small sample sizes, feasibility studies
      are also opportunities to conduct exploratory analyses of intervention effects. This is
      particularly important when probing for potential harmful effects prior to testing in a
      larger population.

      The RISE Study therefore includes developing three locally adapted variants of a promising
      parenting program which will be focused on the needs of families from LMICs with children
      ages 2 to 9 years who show elevated levels of externalizing problem behavior.

      This feasibility study can be located in the Preparation and Adaptation phase of MOST. It is
      a small-scale feasibility pilot to test the feasibility of the 12-session PLH 2-9 and the
      evaluation and implementation methods (including preliminary outcomes of program effects). It
      is planned to create a locally-developed, evidence-based parenting intervention for 40
      families per country. The following activities are linked to this study:

        -  Interviews with officials, experts and practitioners: interviews with 12-20 officials,
           experts and practitioners in order to gather information relating to their perceptions
           of the design and adaptation of a parenting intervention in;

        -  Gathering input from Parenting Experts Working Group in each country: meetings with a
           6-member Parenting Experts Working Group, in order to incorporate these findings and
           their own expert opinions into the adaptation of PLH 2-9 content, process, and
           structure;

        -  Pre-Post Feasibility Study: a small-scale, pre-post evaluation to test the feasibility
           of the program with 40 families with children aged 2-9 years with elevated levels of
           child behavior problems (assessed with the Eyberg Child Behaviour Inventory, ECBI, a
           parent report of child externalizing problem behaviors) in each country site to examine
           outcomes related to implementation fidelity, program acceptability, and preliminary
           program effectiveness on reducing child behavior problems and associated risk factors.
           Moreover, the feasibility of the assessment procedures and the measures (not yet
           available in these regions/languages) will be tested. This means that based on the
           psychometric results of the feasibility study, measures may or may not be suitable for
           evaluation all of the listed outcomes.

        -  Preparation of the training materials adapted in Romanian, Moldovian, Albanian,
           Macedonian, and Russian, taking into account adaptation needs identified in the first
           three activities;

        -  Training of facilitators and mentor coaches in the delivery of the PLH 2-9 program in
           each country.

      Based on the feasibility study (Adaptation and Preparation phase), the other two phases of
      the MOST framework will be tested in future research (studies will be registered separately):

        -  Phase 2: Optimization study using a factorial design testing 4 components of the
           parenting intervention

        -  Phase 3: The evaluation phase will involve testing of the optimized design (identified
           in phase 2) in a multisite randomised controlled trial.

      A secondary objective of this project is to carefully assess barriers to implementation,
      integration with existing service delivery systems, and scale-ups from the outset to
      facilitate sustainability and real world applicability at the end of the project. When
      introducing such an innovative intervention in resource-limited settings, it is important to
      focus on the implementation processes that increase reach, efficacy, adoption, and
      sustainability of culturally-adapted and optimized versions of the program in addition to
      evaluating program effectiveness. The theoretical model for the implementation framework in
      the RISE project is RE-AIM (Reach, Efficacy, Adoption, Implementation, Maintenance, Glasgow
      et al., 2011). As a result, investigators will examine the adoption (defined as the
      proportion of settings willing to initiate the intervention), reach (the proportion of
      eligible individuals that participate in the intervention) and implementation (the fidelity,
      adherence, dosage assessed with multiple measures) as well as on effectiveness and
      sustainability of the RISE project at the organizational and participants' level. In
      addition, it will be examined how implementation factors influence program effectiveness, and
      how potential population characteristics might affect outcomes (e.g., moderators such as
      child age, gender, ethnicity, poverty, level of child behaviour problems, and other
      adversities).
    
  