
    
      Participants attended two pre-treatment appointments. The first pre-treatment appointment was
      a 2-hour psychological assessment in which the study and its protocol were explained at
      length and consent was collected. Participants then completed a battery of measures,
      including a medical screening interview, a demographic interview, the full Structured
      Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I Disorders, and the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression.
      Participants also completed self-report psychological measures during the psychological
      assessment. After completion of this appointment, participants were given instructions to
      avoid specific substances or activities for a minimum length of time before the second
      pre-treatment appointment.

      The second pre-treatment appointment was a 3-hour physiological assessment which was
      completed within 1 week of the psychological assessment. The first 30 minutes of this
      appointment were used to set-up the physiological measurements and allow enough time for
      participants to become familiarized and comfortable with the laboratory setting. Following
      this, a carefully timed experimental protocol was followed, during which heart rate and mean
      arterial pressure were measured and recorded continuously. The participants also completed a
      stress task and their saliva was collected. The participants also engaged in the Submaximal
      Cycle Ergometer Test. At the end of the physiological assessment, participants were randomly
      assigned via a computer-generated random sequence to one of the treatment conditions. Group
      assignment was revealed via sealed envelopes that had been previously prepared by research
      personnel. Participants who were in the waitlist group were offered yoga or aerobic classes
      after the completion of the study protocol.

      Participants in the yoga and aerobic exercise groups then attended 2 classes per week of
      either yoga or aerobic exercise for 8 weeks.

      Following completion of the intervention period, participants attended a 3½ hr post-treatment
      assessment in which all measures of the physiological pre-treatment assessment were repeated.
      Additionally, participants were administered the Mood Module of the SCID-I/P and the HAM-D to
      assess changes in diagnostic status and depression severity.
    
  