
    
      The study will be carried out in close cooperation between the Orthopaedic Centre and the
      Department of Geriatric Medicine. The patients will be randomized in the Emergency Department
      in accordance with procedures already established for a recently finished trial. The
      intervention group will be transferred as soon as possible to the orthogeriatric ward,
      stabilised there preoperatively, and transferred back to the same ward postoperatively for
      further treatment and rehabilitation, while the control group will be treated in a
      traditional orthopaedic ward. Operative and anaesthesiologic procedures will be the same in
      the two groups.

      The primary endpoint is chosen in order to optimize clinical relevance as well as sensitivity
      to change within a wide range of functional performance, and will be recorded four months
      after the fracture. Our main hypothesis is that an orthogeriatric service may improve
      long-time cognitive outcome. Accordingly, we will use a composite endpoint tapping cognitive
      functioning in the lower as well as the higher spectre of performance by these two
      instruments:

        -  Clinical Dementia Rating Scale (CDR), proxy-based scale for severity of dementia, that
           is able to detect differences also between patients with severe dementia. The scale
           consists of six questions, each rated 0-3, adding up to a sumscore of 0-18 ("sum of
           boxes"). The scale is frequently used in dementia treatment trials, and is shown to be
           valid and reliable. CDR will be scored based on the best available source (relative,
           staff in nursing home or home nursing service)

        -  The 10 words memory task from the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's
           Disease battery (CERAD). This test is shown to be sensitive for memory changes in
           persons that have a good or fairly good cognitive functioning. We will use the immediate
           recall and the delayed recall parts of this task, i.e. two scales.

      The primary endpoint will be assessed after four months, by a specially trained research
      assistant blinded to allocation. The patients will be re-assessed after 12 months.
    
  