
    
      Long-term care (LTC) can be defined as the range of institutional and home and
      community-based services that support individuals needing chronic care. The defining values
      of LTC in the VA include caring for patients in the "least restrictive environment consistent
      with meeting a patient's needs". VA faces an increasing demand for these services with the
      number of veterans 85 years and older, those most in need of LTC. Yet in fiscal year 2007,
      87% of the 3.5 billion total VA dollars spent on LTC went to institutional care rather than
      the less restrictive HCBS. VA Central Office has formally committed to tripling the
      proportion of LTC that is HCBS between 1999 and 2011.

      Findings from our team's study, Assessing Practice Variation in LTC Referrals (IIR 02-228,
      2006), evaluated the LTC referral process from the perspective of the referring staff,
      administrators, and veterans and their families. We found that the referral process is
      frequently unstandardized, inefficient, and not supportive of referrals to home and
      community-based services. VAMCs across the country have varying ways of providing LTC
      referrals and some look promising. Measures of the outcomes for evaluating these systems are
      available with the exception of two important outcomes, satisfaction with the referral and
      its process and cost. The goal of this study is to develop the cost and process and
      satisfaction measures so that such an evaluation can be conducted.

      Study Objectives: (1) Develop and test measures of patient/caregiver and provider
      satisfaction. (2) Develop and test measures of process and cost of the referrals. The long
      term objective of our research is to identify and implement models of LTC referral with the
      best outcomes.

      Methods: Three VAMCs in VISN 11 with 3 different methods of LTC referral are the study
      setting. This study was conducted from October 2007-June 2010 and utilized a variety of data
      sources throughout this timeframe. Data sources include: the Geriatric Extended Care (GEC)
      form, telephone and in-person interviews, online and paper surveys, Extended Care Screening
      Committee meeting minutes, and technical reports from the Health Economics Resource Center
      (HERC). The GEC forms provided recruitment information for Veterans, caregivers, social
      workers and nurses in both the cost and satisfaction portions of the study and were randomly
      pulled by the Clinical Application Coordinators at each site. Recruitment information for VA
      and non-VA long term care (LTC) coordinators was supplied by Site Investigators. The cost
      portion of the study also utilized the Extended Care Screening Committee meeting minutes and
      salary information for VHA employees from the HERC technical report.

      Site Investigators facilitated completion of the paper surveys by attending department
      meetings, and coordinated in-person interviews with providers interested in participating in
      the study. For all telephone interviews, participants received an introduction to the study
      through the mail or email. Veterans and caregivers were mailed information while VA social
      workers, nurses, physicians and LTC coordinators were contacted via email. Potential
      participants then received a telephone call from a Research Assistant who further explained
      the study and inquired about his/her interest in participation. For the satisfaction online
      survey, providers were able to complete the survey after receiving the email introduction.

      Status: Complete.
    
  