
    
      The proposal of this study approved by our institutional review boards and institution's
      ethical committee, and all participants will sign a written consent before enter to study.

      The study population will consist of infertile women of <38 years of age with repeated in
      vitro fertilization/ intra cytoplasmic injection failures. Endometrial parameters including
      endometrial thickness, endometrial pattern , pulsatility index (PI) and resistance index (RI)
      will be evaluated with the use of color Doppler ultrasound on the day of hCG administration.
      Patients will be randomly divided into 3 groups, A, B and C. In the subsequent menstrual
      cycle, in group A, vaginal sildenafil suppositories (100 mg/day) will be given daily from the
      start of human menopausal gonadotropin (HMG) administration day until the day of oocyte
      retrieval. In group B, the women will receive daily vaginal placebo from the start of HMG
      administration day until 2 days before the human chronic gonadotrophin (hCG) injection day,
      then will be switched to vaginal sildenafil suppositories (100 mg/day) until the day of
      oocyte retrieval. In group C, vaginal placebo will be given daily from the start of human
      menopausal gonadotropin (HMG) administration day until the day of oocyte retrieval.

      When the diameter of at least 2 follicles will be reached equal or greater than 18 mm, hCG
      10,000 IU will be administered. In all patients, ovarian stimulation will be performed with
      the conventional GnRh agonist protocol. Endometrial parameters will be measured again on the
      day of hCG injection. Ovum pick up will be performed 34-36 h after hCG injection and embryos
      will be transferred 48-72 hours after oocyte retrieval. Pregnancy will be confirmed by
      assessment of βHCG level 14 days after embryo transfer and ultrasonographic visualization of
      gestational sac during the 5th week of pregnancy.
    
  