
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate changes in the Functional Assessment of Cancer Illness Therapy-Fatigue
      (FACIT-F) subscale score at day 43 +/- 3 days compared to baseline in patients with advanced
      cancer receiving oral anamorelin hydrochloride (anamorelin) 100 mg daily and standardized
      physical activity and nutritional counseling.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the effects of anamorelin and standardized physical activity and nutritional
      counseling on health-related quality of life and patient reported outcomes as measured by the
      Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short Form (MFSI-SF), Patient Reported Outcomes
      Measurement Information System (PROMIS) - Fatigue, Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS),
      Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS), Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT-G)
      and its Functional Assessment of Anorexia/Cachexia Treatment (FAACT) subscale in these
      patients.

      II. To examine the side effects and tolerability of anamorelin in these patients.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the effects of anamorelin and standardized physical activity and nutritional
      counseling on muscle function (as measured by the 30 second chair stand test, 6 minute walk
      test, day time activity [accelerometer], body composition [as measured by INBODY], and
      resting energy expenditure [measured by indirect calorimetry]).

      II. To characterize the effects of anamorelin on potential inflammatory biomarkers of
      cancer-related fatigue (CRF) (C-Reactive Protein [CRP], monocyte IL-6&R, TNF-a&R, IL-10,
      IL-8, IL-1&RA; IGF-1).

      III. To explore the effects of anamorelin on sleep as measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep
      Quality Index (PSQI).

      IV. To determine the association between change in FACIT-F scores and changes in muscle
      function, day time activity, and body composition, in patients with advanced cancer receiving
      oral anamorelin 100 mg daily and standardized physical activity and nutritional counseling.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive anamorelin hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) and undergo physical
      activity consisting of resistance exercises and a home walking program. Treatment continues
      for up to 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      also undergo nutritional counseling on day 21.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up on day 71.
    
  