
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a major public health problem affecting at least 2-4% of
      middle-aged population. OSA resulted in hypoxia and sleep fragmentation, which resulted in
      neurocognitive dysfunction and cardiovascular sequelaes. The cardiovascular sequelaes in OSA
      included hypertension, coronary artery disease and heart failure. Our data showed among 599
      moderate-sever OSA (AHI<15/hr)， 44.5% patients had cardiovascular disease, which included
      41.4% having hypertension，7% having CAD and 2.4% having congestive heart failure。 Though OSA
      is well known to be highly correlated with fatal and non-fatal cardiac event, only limited
      studies investigated how OSA affected acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Most studies
      concluded that AMI would worsen OSA and vice versa. However, how AMI exactly interacts with
      OSA and what the prevalence of OSA in the first-time AMI is have never been answered. Within
      four weeks from Nov. 15th 2007, we screened ten patients of first-time AMI with single-vessel
      disease and Killip I. Five in 10 received PSG and three in five have moderate OSA.

      So far, CPAP is the standard treatment for patients with moderate to severe OSA. CPAP could
      improve airway patency, daytime sleepiness, functional status, blood pressure, metabolic
      abnormalities and quality of life. In our study, we enrolled 24 non-sleepy OSA and 30 sleepy
      OSA to study the four-week CPAP effect. The results showed the apnea-hypopnea index, hypoxia,
      arousal, sleepiness and fatigue could be corrected with CPAP treatment in both groups.
      However, CPAP could only lower risk factors for cardiovascular disease, like blood pressure,
      epinephrine, norepinephrine and CRP, in sleepy OSA. Our finding supported that CPAP effect
      was not similar in the subgroups of severe OSA, so CPAP effect should be studied in every
      subgroup of OSA patients before it's applied. Till now, there's no literatures reported if
      CPAP treatment would decrease the morbidity and mortality of AMI.

      Sham CPAP mimicked all the characteristics of a true CPAP except for the null pressure, which
      was recently used as the placebo to study CPAP effect. Therefore, using this optimized
      placebo, we propose this double-blind, control randomized trial (1) To determine the
      prevalence of OSA in patients of first-time AMI in acute phase; (2) To determine the impact
      of CPAP treatment on the prognosis of AMI; (3) Determine how the OSA affects patients with MI
      in acute and chronic phase and vice versa, which is dissected from mechanical basis and
      molecular basis.
    
  