
    
      Reperfusion Strategies in ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction Network - Sao Paulo Registry.

      Preparation and implementation of the ST segment elevation myocardial network in Sao Paulo:

      Initially, in 2009 a 24-hour central office for electrocardiogram (ECG) reading was installed
      at Hospital São Paulo - Paulista School of Medicine to receive EKG's sent from 126 SAMU
      ambulances, covering the entire São Paulo city area. The ECGs were transmitted to the central
      office via mobile phone, fixed phone or Internet, and immediately interpreted by a team of
      cardiologists, by using guidelines for STEMI ECG diagnosis. The EKG reports were sent back to
      the mobile phone of the transmitting ambulance. With this system in place and working
      adequately, the Municipal Health Secretariat of São Paulo made the fibrinolytic agent
      tenecteplase (TNK) available initially in four municipal emergency rooms (ER) of large
      peripheral hospitals, with a previous history of receiving a large number of patients with
      AMI (Ermelino Matarazzo ER, Campo Limpo ER, Tatuapé ER, and Saboya ER). The medical and
      nursing teams of these hospitals were trained and updated on the clinical diagnosis of acute
      coronary syndromes, ECG recognition of STEMI, and indications of thrombolytic agents and
      primary PTCA in STEMI. A direct and immediate contact, via an exclusive mobile phone line,
      was established between the advanced ambulances or the ERs and the Coronary Unit of Hospital
      São Paulo. Thus, a patient diagnosed with STEMI, who was at an ER or in an ambulance and
      could be in a catheterization laboratory in less than 90 minutes or with contra-indication to
      thrombolysis was referred for primary PTCA. If the advanced ambulance was very far away or if
      the estimated travel time for a patient at one of the ERs was longer than 90 minutes, he/she
      would receive TNK; after thrombolysis, the patient would be immediately transferred to Sao
      Paulo Hospital, and would undergo either rescue PTCA, if necessary, or cardiac
      catheterization within 6 to 24 hours, if clinically stable. The dose of TNK ranged from 30 mg
      to 50 mg, meeting the known criteria for indication and contraindication of fibrinolytic
      drugs. In addition to TNK, the patients received as adjuvant therapy and according to the
      Brazilian and international guidelines the recommended doses of morphine, low molecular
      weight heparin (properly corrected to weight and renal function), IV nitrates and oral
      medications, such as, aspirin, clopidogrel, statins and beta-blockers.

      An expansion of the primary network was made in 2011 to allow 3 more ER's to be included in
      the network (Pirituba, Joao XXIII, Servidor Municipal) and one more in 2013 (Vila Maria),
      summing up at the moment 8 fixed ER units plus SAMU ambulances.

      After catheterization, patients are maintained in the tertiary hospital if they are in
      advanced Killip class or have left main or severe LV dysfunction and were referred back to
      the primary center 24 hours after cath or PCI if stable, with good LV function and 1 or 2
      vessel disease.

      Establishing a formal registry:

      Since the network's conception, a formal case report form (CRF) form was developed to collect
      demographics, metrics (times of performance), clinical characteristics, laboratory results,
      coronary angiography results and outcomes for all patients. This CRF includes now more than
      100 variables that are fed exclusively for one person (administrator).

      Data collection is made by 2 appointed medical co-workers that are responsible for the
      completion of the CRF and liberation for register on the electronic sheet. CRFs are kept
      filed with in-hospital ECGs copies.

      An electronic spreadsheet (Excel®, Microsoft Corp., Santa Rosa, Califórnia - EUA) is
      maintained in a dedicated central computer at the University and updated weekly by the
      administrator (principal investigator).

      Data checks for inconsistencies are made weekly by comparing results of clinical evolution
      and electronic data as well as information derived from "overlapping" columns, established in
      advance, containing similar data (EKG culprit and cath culprit artery, had PCI performed and
      type and number of stent utilized, complication yes and no complication item filled out).
      Source data verification to assess the accuracy, completeness, or representativeness of
      registry data is done by comparing the data on the spreadsheet to official medical records if
      any inconsistency is suspected. A single, experienced PCI person fills out Cath data reports
      and TIMI and BLUSH flow. Periodic monthly meetings with the total group of professionals
      involved in the project, reassessing causes and the rate of death and major complications are
      held previous to send a report to the Municipality with these variables and also detailing
      where the cases did come from and what the evolution was till hospital discharge.

      Definitions:

      All variables included (history elements, risk factors, clinical presentation data,
      diagnostic procedure data elements, invasive therapeutic intervention data elements,
      medication data elements, and outcomes data elements) comply with definitions on "2013
      ACCF/AHA key data elements and definitions for measuring the clinical management and outcomes
      of patients with acute coronary syndromes and coronary artery disease: a report of the
      American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on clinical
      data standards (writing committee to develop acute coronary syndromes and coronary artery
      disease clinical data standards). J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013 Mar 5;61(9):992-1025. doi:
      10.1016/j.jacc.2012.10.005. Epub 2013 Jan 28. PubMed PMID: 23369353".

      The two pathway established routes involved going directly to the cath lab or receiving TNK
      and then systematically having cat performed in 3-24 hours. Of those going directly to the
      catheterization laboratory they didn't have PCI performed if they were found to have no or
      mild lesions or on the contrary to have distal left main and/or proximal three vessel
      disease. Additionally, primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) was defined as
      initial mechanical reperfusion during cardiac catheterization for a STEMI with no previous
      use of fibrinolytic drugs or glycoprotein IIB/ IIIa inhibitors. Rescue PCI was defined as an
      emergency cardiac catheterization due to a suspicion of ineffective thrombolysis,
      characterized by persistence of pain at an intensity of at least 50% of that at onset or
      persistence of at least 50% of ST-segment elevation on ECG in the lead maximally initially
      involved. Pharmaco-invasive strategy was defined as the use of full-dose chemical
      thrombolysis, followed by routine cardiac catheterization within 6 to 24 hours, even in
      stable patients with successful reperfusion, with the intention to treat the culprit lesion.
      After the STREAM trial results in June 2013, patients older than 75 years have received half
      dosage of TNK.

      Statistical analysis:

      This study aims at prospectively collecting data, consecutively, of a large population,
      submitted to this double route option of STEMI treatment in which current standard medical
      practice is applied in an organized network. There were no specific statistical tests used
      when planning the study with the idea that appropriate tests would be applied when looking
      for specific information of all data collected. No patient to date has been refused to the
      Registry when the PCI hospital was contacted.

      Data dictionary:

      The variables included here are the main ones in the Registry, although some of them are
      further expanded in sub-items allowing more information, like for example,
      electrocardiographic results and catheterization characteristics. As already mentioned,
      definitions according to American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association
      Task Force or the European Society of Cardiology on clinical data standards.

      Name Hospital ID Phone number Age (years) Gender Ethnicity Date/time of admission in the
      primary hospital (arrival) or ambulance Arrival facility identification Date/time of
      admission in the tertiary hospital TIMI /GRACE/ ZWOLLE/ CADILAC/ CRUSADE scores Symptoms
      onset date/time Previous symptoms First ECG date/time TeleECG TNK date/time / location (pre
      hospital/ ambulance/hospital) Door/needle time Pain/needle time Dual antiplatelet therapy
      time/type Coronary angiography Date/time; duration Door/balloon time Pain/balloon time
      Admission arterial blood pressure and heart rate Body Mass Index (MBI) Killip class
      Creatinine MDRD ECG (multiple characteristics pre and post treatment) Catheterization aspects
      - type of PCI performed/pharmacologic therapies before and after procedure/ complications
      (several options) / TIMI and BLUSH grades pre and post intervention STEMI complications Major
      Bleeding Minor Bleeding Blood Transfusion Ischemic CVA / TIA Hemorrhagic CVA PCR at 3ary
      Hospital PCR at 1ary Hospital Known Hypothyroidism Length of hospitalization
      Echocardiographic data Outcomes Final diagnostic Final destination Laboratory screening
      (arrival or peak and follow-up) - troponin CK/CKMB/ creatinine/ hemogram/ Coagulation tests/
      Glucose and Hemoglobin A1c value/ TSH/T3/T4/ Lipids profile/ AST/ALT. Other invasive
      therapies - surgery/IABP/ventilator/circulatory support/pulmonary artery catheter Other
      non-invasive imaging or functional procedures - date /results

      Till June 2017, over 2169 patients have entered this registry, submitted to pharmaco invasive
      treatment, receiving tenecteplase at the emergency room of 14 primary hospitals and send to
      our institution (tertiary care). Successful reperfusion rates were obtained in more than 70%
      and complemented by invasive interventional and PCI in almost all patients. Most of them
      (77%) received the drug with less than 6 hours after symptoms onset and hospital mortality
      was 4,5% for this group, while it was around 9% for patients receiving TNK after 6 hours of
      pain. Again, cardiogenic shock and stroke were more frequent in the latecomers. Mortality
      rates for patients without cardiogenic shock were very low (under 2%). Late follow up is
      being proceeded.
    
  