
    
      Phase 2A of this study is directed primarily at prototype development, creating, testing, and
      modifying a 4x4 finger array device with a small footprint that is battery powered and
      reliable. The testing in this phase is aimed at proving that modifications did not degrade
      the screening sensitivity of the original lab prototype.

      Target enrollment is up to 100 patients to verify that the investigators have reproducible
      values in the same patient. Each breast will be evaluated and compared against each other
      whether it is considered normal or abnormal tissue. Data from patients both normal and
      abnormal regions will be compared and used to determine predictive value and accuracy in this
      prototype. The patient population will be women and men 18 years of age or older with
      symptomatic breast lump either by palpation or imaging.

      Symptomatic individuals scheduled to undergo diagnostic exam will be recruited from all
      patients presenting for breast evaluations at Dr. Brooks clinical practices who meet all the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. Consent will be obtained prior to any study related
      activities. The PEFS evaluation will be performed by a trained individual. Subjects will be
      scanned in supine position without breast immobilization - similar to ultrasound testing. The
      PEFS data is recorded and processed by an automated software algorithm and the results are
      displayed topographically on a breast-map with red areas showing positive findings and black
      areas showing negative findings. Quantitative data will be documented and analyzed for
      accuracy metrics. Results will not be given to subjects nor recorded in their medical
      records. Because this study is not a clinical utility study, results will have no effect on
      clinical care decisions. The PEFS evaluation may add between 10 and 30 minutes to the clinic
      visit. No imaging or pathology tests are being done for research purposes.
    
  