
    
      This is an observational, dietary study with cross-over design. Restaurant style meals and
      beverages are provided to faculty and delegates attending the Ascona II conference that agree
      to participate and provide written consent. Approximately 120 participants are expected to be
      recruited.

      On four consecutive days the evening meal served will vary in calorie load and fat content
      using the established, partially balanced study design applied in previous studies. On the
      first three days fruit juice will be served, whereas, on the final day, an alcoholic beverage
      with the same acidity and number of calories will be served. All meals will have the same
      size and salt content. Controlling for all these parameters will reduce possible confounding
      factors in the analysis.

        1. High calorie (1200 kcal), High fat (50% energy), 400 ml juice (230 kcal)

        2. High calorie (1200 kcal), Low fat (20% energy), 400 ml juice (230 kcal)

        3. Low calorie (600 kcal), Low fat (20% energy), 400 ml juice (230 kcal)

        4. High calorie (1200 kcal), High fat (50% energy), 300 ml wine (40 g alcohol, 230 kcal),
           100 ml water Note: The order of meals on day 1-3 will be fixed, but not necessarily in
           the order above. Meal constituents will not be disguised.

      Note: Testing digestive symptoms in response to diet on successive days is possible because
      clinical physiological studies have shown no evidence of a sequence effect in previous
      studies using similar test meals.

      An alginate-antacid preparation will be available as required for acute relief of any reflux
      or dyspeptic symptoms (Gaviscon Liquid, Reckitt Benckiser (available across-the-counter for
      this indication in Switzerland)). No participant is required to take this preparation.

      The occurrence and severity of fullness, reflux and dyspeptic symptoms will be recorded
      contemporaneously by participants for three hours after each of the four test meals using a
      mobile application (SymTrack, Gastric Imaging & Analysis GmbH, Zürich, Switzerland). Paper
      forms will be made available for those without a mobile device. Three hours is the period of
      time during which reflux and dyspeptic symptoms are most often reported after meals. Positive
      reporting bias will be minimized by automatic reminders sent to the participants by the
      SymTrack every 30 minutes for three hours to remind participants to document the severity of
      symptoms including, if appropriate, an absence of symptoms. The use of the rescue medication
      to treat reflux and dyspeptic symptoms during the study will also be documented on the
      SymTrack. Symptoms and use of the rescue medication that occur after this three hour period
      up to 12 hours (i.e. the following morning) will be documented as part of safety follow-up
      data; however these will not contribute to primary or secondary outcomes.

      All faculty and delegates will be invited to participate in this observational, dietary
      study. The investigators expect to recruit all, or nearly all, of those attending. The fixed
      menu provided every night by the restaurant will be the same whether the attendee does or
      does not participate in the study (unless specific dietary requirements are present).
      Involvement of almost all attendees will reduce selection bias; however, selection bias will
      remain because the group of clinical academics is not wholly representative of the general
      population. Note that the study population is predominantly male, with an older age and a
      larger waist circumference than the average in the community. These are all risk factors for
      reflux disease. This should increase study power to show treatment effect and the clinical
      relevance of findings.

      All those attending the Centro Stefano Franscini conference centre in Ascona take their
      evening meal together. The cost of these meals is included in the registration package. This
      is a fixed menu with non-alcoholic drinks (alcohol is available to purchase). No other food
      is available on site except for individuals that have registered special dietary
      requirements. If other food is wanted, then this is available nearby in the town of Ascona.
      This local organizational arrangement with the provision of fixed meals free of charge will
      encourage compliance with the diet.

      If the participants do not adhere to the meal and beverages set out in the study protocol
      then this can be documented using the SymTrack. To assess compliance, the participant will
      respond to the questions "did the patient consume the study meal?", "did the patient take
      additional food?", "did the patient consume the study beverage?", and "did the patient take
      additional alcoholic drinks?". Failure to comply with study procedures will not preclude the
      individual from participating on the following days.

      The primary study analysis will investigate associations between number symptoms and caloric
      and fat content of the meals. It will be expressed as odds ratio. There will be a qualitative
      description of the deviation from study protocol. For example if participants report drinking
      alcohol during or after the meal on days 1-3 this will be expressed as a percentage
      deviation.

      The primary and secondary variables plus other outcomes of interest will be documented using
      a mobile application (SymTrack; Gastric Imaging and Analysis GmbH, Zürich, Switzerland).
      Paper symptom diaries will be available for those participants without access to a
      smartphone.

      On arrival at the meeting each attendee that agrees to participate and signs Written Informed
      Consent will be given personal instructions as to the operation of the mobile application.
      Should any difficulties remain then investigators, including those involved in the
      development of the app, will be on hand to assist participants.

      Once the Written Informed Consent is signed the participants will be given a unique username
      and password to allow them to log into the SymTrack and start entering screening information
      and symptoms. This username will allow the identification of study participant as data is
      entered and ensure effective monitoring of data.

      The primary analysis will be performed following study completion. The primary outcome is the
      number of reflux or dyspeptic symptoms. Odds ratio will be computed to describe the
      association of the number of symptoms with the meal calorie load and fat content.

      Secondary outcomes are the severity of reflux and the severity of dyspeptic symptoms as well
      as sensation of fullness after each test meal. Analogue to the primary outcome an odds ratio
      will be computed to describe the association of these outcomes with the meal calorie load and
      fat content.

      An odds ratio will be computed to describe the association of the primary and secondary
      outcomes with the ingestion of alcohol after the meal.

      An additional analysis will be performed to identify factors - other than composition of the
      test meal - that increase the likelihood of reporting reflux and dyspeptic symptoms after
      meals (e.g. age, gender, BMI and low quality of life score).

      Control questions that describe the study compliance will be described using descriptive
      statistics.

      The majority of data acquired in this study originates from electronic sources. Screening
      data and symptoms entered via the smartphone are immediately transferred over an encrypted
      channel to the server and stored in a MySQL-database. Both the server application and the
      database are hosted on a professional application hosting provider located in Switzerland.
      The server application and the database design are developed and tested by Gastric Imaging &
      Analysis GmbH. The software version used during this study will be tested using
      semi-automated functional tests and load tests. Study principal investigator (Mark Fox) is
      responsible for all data stored in the database.

      To ensure that the study is conducted in accordance with ethical principles, internal
      monitoring will be carried out regularly throughout the study. At the screening the internal
      monitor will review the protocol, and the database and all other aspects of the study with
      the investigator and other staff. Monitoring will be carried out early in the study and again
      after the last subject has completed the study. During monitoring, the monitor will verify
      compliance with the protocol and amendment(s), review the signed informed consent forms,
      diverse logs and all other source data. Direct access to all study-related site and source
      data/documents is mandatory for the monitoring review. Study team staff must be made
      available to answer any queries during the monitoring process.
    
  