
    
      Mismatch repair genes normally serve to fix the small glitches that occur when DNA is copied
      as cells divide. In 1993, researchers discovered that mutations in human mismatch repair
      genes play a key role in the development of certain forms of colorectal cancer; individuals
      who are deficient in these mismatch repair genes are at high risk for colorectal cancer.
      Accumulating evidence has shown that immunotherapy may be most effective against these
      cancers.

      Programmed cell death protein 1, also known as PD-1, functions as an immune checkpoint,
      down-regulating the immune system by preventing the activation of T-cells, which in turn
      reduces autoimmunity and promotes self-tolerance. A new class of immunotherapy drugs that
      block PD-1, the PD-1 inhibitors, activate the immune system to attack tumors and are
      therefore used with varying success to treat some types of cancer.

      Current clinical trials are showing that patients whose tumors are mismatch repair deficient
      are more likely to respond to immune-boosting anti-PD-1 drugs-such as pembrolizumab-than
      those with tumors proficient in mismatch repair. The idea is that the greater the number of
      DNA glitches in a tumor cell, the more abnormal proteins it will produce-and the more
      abnormal proteins that are generated, the greater the odds that the body's immune cells will
      regard the tumor cells as "foreign" and target them for destruction. Thus far, PD-1
      inhibitors have shown great promise for mismatch repair deficient cancer patients, but not
      for mismatch repair proficient (MRP) cancer patients.

      In this clinical trial, the investigators hypothesize that treating MRP colon cancer patients
      with immunostimulating agent poly-ICLC will generate an inflammatory response, increasing
      epitope recognition and development of tumor reactive T-cells at the tumor site. However,
      interferon alpha and gamma produced by the poly-ICLC will increase PD-L1 expression and limit
      new T-cell development. Thus, PD1 blockade will increase the effectiveness of treatment with
      pembrolizumab.
    
  