
    
      CT-2103 is a chemotherapy drug designed to deliver an active chemotherapy medication
      (paclitaxel) inside of tumor cells. Gemcitabine is FDA approved for the treatment of breast
      cancer.

      Before you can start receiving drug on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests." These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will have a complete medical history and physical exam. You will have a CT scan of
      the chest and abdomen, a bone scan, and a chest x-ray performed to document the size and
      location of the tumor(s). Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. Women
      who are able to have children must have a negative blood-pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose of
      CT-2103. Participants in this study will be enrolled in groups of 3. The first group will
      receive the lowest dose of CT-2103. Each new group of patients will receive a higher dose
      until the highest safe dose is found. The dose that you receive will depend on how many
      patients have received CT-2103 before you. You will only be assigned to one dose level, and
      you will stay at this same dose level for the entire study unless you have a serious side
      effect that requires the dose to be decreased or stopped. All participants will receive the
      same dose of gemcitabine, though it too may be lowered if severe side effects occur.

      Both CT-2103 and gemcitabine are given through a vein. On the first day of your therapy
      (called 'Day 1'), you will receive a routinely given medication, ondansetron (Zofran), that
      will help decrease the risk of nausea. About 30 minutes later, CT-2103 will be given over
      10-20 minutes followed by gemcitabine over 30 minutes.

      One week later ('Day 8'), you will receive gemcitabine through the vein over about 30
      minutes. You will return to see your doctor 3 weeks after your first dose of chemotherapy
      ('Day 21'), and then this pattern or cycle of treatment will be given again.

      You will continue on therapy as long as the cancer is being controlled and you are not having
      unexpected or intolerable side effects. All chemotherapy will be given at M. D. Anderson.

      You will have blood (about 2 tablespoons) collected once a week while you are on study to
      monitor the effects of chemotherapy on your bone marrow and liver and kidney function. You
      will see your doctor every 3 weeks to monitor how you are tolerating the therapy. At these
      visits, your doctor will discuss any symptoms you are having, and you will have a physical
      exam. If you are taking warfarin (Coumadin) you will need to have blood (about 1 tablespoon)
      collected three times a week to monitor you warfarin levels.

      After each 6 weeks of chemotherapy, you will have repeat scans to evaluate the effects of the
      study drugs upon your cancer.

      Once you have stopped taking therapy with CT-2103 and gemcitabine, you will be asked to
      return to see your physician in about 6 weeks to evaluate how you are doing and to find out
      if there has been any additional change in the cancer. You will have a complete medical
      history and physical exam. You will have a CT scan of the chest and abdomen, a bone scan, and
      a chest x-ray performed to document the size and location of the tumor(s).

      This is an investigational study. Gemcitabine is FDA approved for the treatment of breast
      cancer when given in combination with paclitaxel. Gemcitabine will not be provided free of
      charge. CT-2103 is not yet FDA approved and will be provided free of charge during the study.
      Any laboratory testing that is not standard of care will be paid for by the supporting
      company. About 18 women will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  