
    
      This protocol is designed to combine and analyze data from two separate independent studies
      conducted at non-NIH sites-Boston Children s Hospital (BCH) and Kansas City Mercy Children s
      Hospital (KC). Both sites have protocols and consents reviewed by the IRBs at their
      respective institutions, and data collection is underway; NIMH will coordinate and oversee
      data analysis from these studies. A protocol to establish NIH s role in the studies and IRB
      review will enhance the acceptance of the research findings for publication in scientific and
      medical journals.

      Physicians and nurses working in non-mental health settings require tools to guide them in
      recognizing patients at risk. While screening children and adolescents is emerging as a
      priority of the Joint Commission, there are currently no suicide screening instruments
      designed specifically for assessing suicide risk in a pediatric outpatient medical setting.
      Recently, our study team developed the Ask Suicide-Screening Questions (ASQ), a 4-item
      suicide risk screening instrument with excellent sensitivity, specificity, and negative
      predictive value for use in pediatric emergency departments (Protocol 08-M-N070). However,
      use of the ASQ in an outpatient medical setting has not been tested. The aim of the studies
      at BCH and KC is to determine the utility of the ASQ among youth in outpatient primary and
      specialty care clinics (e.g., endocrine, sports medicine, orthopedic). While most outpatients
      will not be at imminent risk for suicide, we hypothesize that the ASQ will capture a number
      of patients who screen positive and are not only at risk for suicidal behavior in the future,
      but are also experiencing significant emotional distress and therefore warrant further
      psychiatric evaluation and follow-up treatment. Data from BCH and KC will be analyzed under
      this protocol from a total sample size of 580. Two measures of suicide risk (the ASQ and the
      Suicidal Ideation Questionnaire) and a depression screen (the Patient Health Questionnaire -
      Adolescent version), are administered to all eligible patients aged 10-21 years. The ultimate
      goal is to provide non-mental health clinicians with a brief, accurate assessment tool for
      detecting risk of suicide in pediatric medical outpatients and in turn, connecting those in
      need with mental health services.
    
  