
    
      1.1 Trial Phase

      Phase 1b

      1.2 Trial Aims and Objectives

      To examine the safety of topical application of a single dose of allogeneic bone marrow
      derived mesenchymal stromal cells (REDDSTAR ORBCEL-M) seeded in a collagen scaffold to
      patients with non-healing neuroischaemic diabetic foot wounds.

      1.3 Patient Population

      Patients with non-healing neuroischaemic diabetic foot wounds despite standard care.

      1.4 Trial Setting

      Steno Diabetes Center Copenhagen, Denmark and Zelo Phase I Unit, Bispebjerg Hospital,
      Copenhagen, Denmark.

      1.5 Trial Intervention

      Topical application of allogeneic bone marrow derived mesenchymal stromal cells seeded in a
      collagen scaffold to patients with non-healing neuroischaemic diabetic foot wounds.

      1.6 Concurrent Control

      Open label, uncontrolled, non-randomised, single dose study.

      1.7 Sample Size

      9

      1.8 Method of Participant Assignment

      Administration of a single dose of allogeneic bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells
      seeded in a collagen scaffold.

      1.9 Examination Points

      0, 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks up until 12 weeks or until complete wound closure. After
      the week 12 visit, or ulcer closure, whichever occurs first, each patient will return to the
      clinic 1 (± 2 days), 2 (± 2 days), 4 (± 3 days), 8 (±3 days), and 12 (±3days) weeks later for
      follow-up visits to for adverse events, assess wound, wound closure and durability.

      1.10 Primary Outcome

      Serious adverse events that are attributable to intervention.

      1.11 Secondary Outcomes

      Time to complete wound closure (defined as from treatment day 1 to the first visit when
      closure is documented). Absolute and percent changes in wound area from baseline, at weekly
      intervals throughout. Durability of wound closure as measured at 4 week intervals for 12
      weeks from date of wound closure.
    
  