
    
      Preterm delivery remains one of the most important issues facing perinatal medicine today. In
      1999, prematurity/low birthweight accounted for 4,304 neonatal deaths, reflecting a rate of
      neonatal mortality due to prematurity of 23.0 per 100,000 live births. Despite the extent of
      the problem, the exact etiology of preterm delivery is not completely understood. It is clear
      that many pathways are involved in preterm delivery, and that ultimately these must converge
      upon one final endpoint, which is likely related to progesterone. In the animal model
      progesterone withdrawal is clearly directly (rodent, rabbit) or indirectly (sheep) involved
      in the initiation of parturition, however the exact way in which progesterone works in humans
      is unclear. There has been a resurgence of interest in the association between progesterone
      and preterm delivery. Two recent trials have looked at the utility of progesterone in the
      prevention of preterm delivery in high-risk patients. In a multicenter trial reported in the
      New England Journal of Medicine in 2003, Meis et al, recruited 463 patients with a history of
      spontaneous preterm delivery and randomized them in a 2:1 ratio to intramuscular
      17-hydroxyprogesterone vs. placebo from 16-20 weeks until 36 weeks. Treatment with 17P
      significantly reduced the risk of delivery at <37 weeks, <35 weeks, and <32 weeks.

      The Yale Progesterone Study is a randomized, placebo-controlled trial of the use of 17
      hydroxyprogesterone for the treatment of preterm labor. The design is similar to the Meis
      NEJM trial, except that the patients will be symptomatic with preterm labor, rather than
      asymptomatic with a history of preterm delivery. In addition to the therapeutic intervention
      planned, the researchers intend to collect specimens to assess for markers of PTD, both
      before and after treatment. In this way, the researchers can analyze which pathway of PTD is
      involved, and finally, the effect of progesterone on these markers can be assessed.
    
  