
    
      Poorly controlled T1DM can lead to serious and devastating complications, including
      microvascular (retinopathy, neuropathy and nephropathy) and cardiovascular disease. Both
      diabetic microvascular and cardiovascular complications can be reduced by intensive insulin
      therapy and strict blood glucose aiming for hemoglobin A1C (HbA1c) less or equal to 7%.
      However, a tighter glycemic control correlates with a higher incidence of hypoglycemia and
      severe hypoglycemia. As well, recurrent episodes of hypoglycemia reduce patients' ability to
      recognize hypoglycemic episodes (a condition termed impaired awareness of hypoglycemia).
      Impaired awareness of hypoglycemia is also associated with an increased risk of severe
      hypoglycemia. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to seizures, emergency room
      visits/hospitalization, fear of hypoglycemia, compromised quality of life and potentially
      death. Thus, hypoglycemia and impaired awareness of hypoglycemia are major barriers to
      optimal glycemic control.

      Real-time continuous glucose monitoring (rtCGM) is a technique which measures interstitial
      glucose levels every five minutes to estimate coincidental blood glucose levels. A rtCGM will
      alert patients of hyper/hypoglycemic events at seg glucose thresholds and when the blood
      glucose levels are rapidly rising/declining. However, many patients using rtCGM continue to
      have impaired awareness of hypoglycemia and spend a significant amount of time in
      hypoglycemia.

      In an animal model, amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant, demonstrated its ability to
      completely restore hypoglycemia awareness. This potential effect of amitriptyline on human,
      however, has not been tested.

      In the current study, amitriptyline will be studied as an adjuvant treatment of rtCGM to
      further improve hypoglycemia course and T1DM patients' ability to recognize hypoglycemic
      episode.
    
  