
    
      The annual incidence of sudden cardiac death in the United States has recently been estimated
      at 450,000. Most of these patients die from ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Currently, there is
      a limited ability to predict reliably which patients are at risk for these events.
      Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) are highly effective at treating the
      arrhythmias that cause sudden death. Multiple clinical trials demonstrating the efficacy of
      ICDs for the primary prevention of sudden death have been completed, leading to a relaxation
      of the selection criteria for their use, and therefore a potentially large expansion in the
      pool of patients eligible for these devices. This has major economic implications for the
      health care system, and has led to a need for better prospective identification of patients
      who are or are not at high risk for sudden death.

      The existence of beat-to-beat changes in heart rate, termed heart rate variability HRV), has
      long been recognized by physiologists. However, over the past 15 years, it has been
      determined that HRV is not a random phenomenon but can be influenced by the brain through the
      autonomic nervous system.

      Promising work in the analysis of HRV may provide a means of predicting which patients are at
      risk for sudden death. HRV analysis utilizes mathematical modeling of ECG data to gain
      insight into the subtle variations in heartbeat patterns which occur from beat-to-beat.

      The development of a system that could better identify the patients at risk of arrhythmic
      events would have a significant impact on clinical and economical fields. This study will
      test software developed by Vicor Technologies that can potentially identify patients at risk
      of arrhythmic events. It works as a generic digital-electrocardiogram (ECG) device, as it
      would normally be used by technical personnel in the routine care of outpatients.
    
  