
    
      Aerobic training is an important component for health in daily life as well as sports
      performance. Aerobic training improves overall health, reduces body fat, maintain body
      weight, resting blood pressure (systolic and diastolic), maximal oxygen consumption adequate
      blood supply and provision of oxygen to the body muscles .The studies reveal that aerobic
      training is valuable for improving cardiovascular health, fitness and quality of life. On
      account of lack of aerobic engagement around 17 % of the population suffer from heart related
      ailment, 12 % from diabetes and 10 % from breast cancer. American College of Sports Medicine
      suggested that 30 minutes of aerobic workout has progressive effects on physical fitness and
      especially on chronic diseases. Physically fit individuals have got the potential to
      affectively cope with stress and anxiety and coronary arteries diseases. Aerobic training can
      raise maximal oxygen uptake, which means body adapts to use oxygen more efficiently during
      physical activities. Resultantly, the heart becomes efficient and stronger; meaning that the
      heart doesn't have to work hard to pump blood in resting position. Aerobic training decreases
      resting heart rate and may increase blood volume and blood plasma. Moringa Oleifera a plant
      from the family Moringacea, its products are used as a health supplement introduced in Africa
      and south Asian countries to cure many diseases and improve health status . Moringa leaves
      are rich source of vitamins and protein. The Moringa oleifera leaves, flowers, seeds and pods
      are commonly used as vegetables diet in different regions of south Asia. Moringa plant
      products are sources of vitamin A, b, C and proteins, including the essential amino acids.
      Moringa Oleifera leaves can be merged in the feed of birds, animals and human which provide
      wonderful source of protein other than expensive ingredients. The Moringa oil is used in
      cooking products as well as for lubrication. There are scientific indications that Moringa
      Oleifera holds therapeutic potential for hyperlipidemia, diabetes and cardiovascular
      diseases. The use of herbal supplements has increased rapidly during the first decade of the
      twentieth century. The nutrients of Moringa are considered to be useful for disorders
      including skin disease, malnutrition and sexual problem.Different experimental studies has
      described that Moringa oleifera leaves have therapeutic potential for chronic hyperglycemia
      and dyslipidemia . Moringa Oleifera is used as a hypolipidemic medication to improve the
      lipid profile of rats fed on atherogenic diet. Moringa Oleifera intake is more effective in
      prevention than in treatment of hyperlipidemia.It is documented that overuse of Moringa
      supplements can cause high increase of iron. Hence, a daily 70 g quantity of Moringa is
      recommended to be batter and preventive for accumulation of nutrients.This research study is
      due to be conducted to determine the effect of aerobic training and Moringa Oleifera on
      dyslipidemia and cardiac endurance
    
  