
    
      Participants All non-cardiologist physicians were eligible for the study and responded to
      recruitment advertising. Participants were 83 non-cardiologist physician volunteers (57
      practicing physicians, 26 residents in training) from one Academic Independent Medical Center
      in the Northeastern United States enrolled between January 11, 2011 and February 25, 2011.
      Participants were randomized by study investigators using a table of random numbers. All
      participants were given an MP3 player at the time of enrollment for compensation of their
      time, but received no grade for participation. Participants provided their informed consent
      before enrolling in the study.

      Educational Interventions Following the pretest, participants in the interventional arm of
      the study were given an MP3 player which contained eight, 15-second heart sound files (7
      pathologic heart sound files and 1 normal heart sound file) alternated with nine leisure
      songs. MP3 players could play files in order or "shuffle" files in random order. Each heart
      sound file was introduced by the narrated phrase "Identify this sound,", followed by 10 beats
      of a heart sound recording, then the narrated identification of the heart sound. Participants
      were asked to use the MP3 player in order to improve their auscultation skills as often as
      they could and asked to record their activities while listening, but were given no further
      training.

      Following the pretest, participants in the control arm received a 1-hour multimedia lecture
      (Power Point) taught by the same faculty member (AGK), which reviewed the pathophysiology,
      exacerbating and relieving factors, as well as visual diagrams of the heart sounds. The
      normal and seven pathologic heart sounds were played for participants during the lecture for
      a total of 2 minutes through high-quality home stereo speakers, exposing learners to 1280
      beats in the 1-hour session. Abnormal sounds were taught in groups of systolic, diastolic and
      extra sounds, and were first introduced by name, and then as unknowns using mixed practice in
      each of the three sections. At the end of the session, control group participants were given
      an MP3 player with no heart sound files as honoraria. Both the intervention and control group
      were told they would be retested at 12 weeks. Both were given a paper copy of the Power Point
      slides for self-study, but had no electronic access to the original slides. Both groups were
      asked not to discuss the study with the other participants.

      Content of the audio files The audio files of the heart sounds were obtained from actual
      patients and have validity evidence generated in prior studies. The pathologic sounds
      included aortic stenosis, aortic insufficiency, mitral stenosis, mitral insufficiency, mitral
      valve prolapse, S3, S4, and the normal heart sound. These heart sounds collectively represent
      the most important auscultatory findings according to a previously published national survey
      of residency program directors.

      Measurement All participants took a 15-question pretest in addition to a posttest at 12 weeks
      using identical heart sound files to those used in training. Tests consisted of 8-second
      clips of each heart sound file, with 10 beats of each sound. Participants were given 15
      seconds after each question to choose the correct response from an extended match list that
      included 9 choices, one of which was not represented among the training materials ("benign
      flow murmur"). Each of the 7 pathologic heart sounds were represented twice, with normal
      heart sounds represented once. The order of questions for the test was randomly selected. The
      same speakers used in the lecture format were also employed utilized for testing. Study
      examiners tested the speaker sound quality before each test. All tests were independently
      hand-graded by two graders, and all discrepancies in handwriting and scoring were resolved by
      consensus of both investigators. Grades were not shared with participants.

      Both groups were asked to rate their prior experience with pathologic heart sounds, including
      observation and feedback they have received, satisfaction with the teaching modality and
      confidence in their auscultatory skill at the pretest and posttesting. Both groups audited
      their preference for learning style by the VARK© learning style assessment instrument Version
      7.0, at the time of enrollment. Both groups were asked to record any other methods used to
      study auscultation during the study period. Intervention group exposure to heart sounds was
      determined by electronic interrogation of their MP3 player at 12 weeks. Play counts recorded
      by the device were reviewed by both study investigators and entered on an electronic
      spreadsheet.

      Data analysis Demographic comparisons, Likert scales of satisfaction and pathologic heart
      sound exposure between control and intervention groups were performed via Chi-square testing
      and Student's t-test as appropriate. Internal consistency of the pretest was performed using
      Cronbach's alpha. Total study time was recorded as 60 minutes for the control group, and was
      calculated by the total number of recorded plays multiplied by 15 seconds per play for the
      intervention group. Additional self-reported study methods and amount of exposure were
      recorded but not added to control and intervention study time calculations. The primary
      outcome was the difference in test score from pretest to posttest and was compared using
      paired t-tests. Effect sizes for both arms were computed using differences in means divided
      by pooled standard deviations. Correlations between exposure and improvement from pretest to
      posttest in the intervention group were calculated by linear regression. Subgroup analysis of
      intervention group participants who did not use their MP3 player between weeks 4 and 12
      (defined as play count= 0 during time interval) was performed to approximate decay in that
      group, and was analyzed by paired t-test. The auditory learning preference of the VARK
      learning style inventory was characterized dichotomously as present or absent. A two-factor
      ANOVA was performed comparing intervention and control groups with presence of auditory
      learning style against the primary outcome as the dependent variable to determine the
      relative effects of learning style and instructional method. Power calculations were made for
      the observed differences between the control and intervention arms for both variables of the
      primary objectives.
    
  