
    
      Primary Objective. Despite the obvious impact of bariatric surgery procedures on intake, no
      study to date has included a careful assessment of psychological factors, feeding patterns,
      energy intake and eating problems in this group of patients longitudinally. The Investigators
      believe that a careful examination of the structure of eating behavior and eating problems
      (e.g. vomiting) would be very helpful in guiding bariatric surgeons and dieticians who work
      with this group of patients in terms of dietary advice and recommendations, and with the
      prediction of eating problems and poor nutrient intake in the subgroup that develops such
      problems. This study involves prospective assessment of psychosocial outcomes of surgery by
      adding a supplemental battery to the LABS-2 assessment schedule. Conducting assessments at
      three of the LABS clinical sites assures the geographic, ethnic, and racial diversity of the
      sample, and hence enhances the potential to identify a subgroup or subgroups of patients
      susceptible to poor outcomes after surgery and the generalizability of study results.

      This study would also include an evaluation of psychopathological and behavioral variables
      that might impact on weight loss and weight regain, and psychosocial complications
      post-operatively, as well as quality of life.

      The overall goal of this study is to obtain detailed information that will allow a careful
      assessment of psychopathology, quality of life and eating behavior pre-surgically and at
      regular intervals for up to 7 years after the surgical intervention.

      The Investigators believe that the instruments and procedures selected will allow a detailed
      examination of psychopathology, eating pathology and quality of life in detail.

      The Investigators believe that the measures and tasks added at year 7 will allow the
      examination of theories of affect regulation, cognitive control, and reward processing in
      understanding postsurgical outcomes regarding pathological eating behavior and
      alcohol/substance use and their shared similarities as well as underlying neurobiological
      systems.
    
  