
    
      The proposed studies focus on 2 schemas to classify LBP: 1) the Treatment-Based
      Classification (TBC) system, from which clinical prediction rules about who is most likely to
      benefit from spinal stabilization exercises (among others) have been developed, and 2) the
      Movement System Impairment-Based Classification (MSI) system, which includes 5
      classifications of LBP named for the specific direction(s) of movements and alignments
      associated with the person's LBP.

      The primary purpose of this proposal is to conduct a prospective, randomized, controlled
      Phase II clinical trial in order to examine whether or not treatment matched to a patient's
      specific signs and symptoms (patient-matched) per the TBC is more effective than the MSI
      system for improving short- (6 weeks) and long-term (12 and 24 months) outcomes in people
      with chronic LBP. A secondary purpose is to identify prognostic factors that predict clinical
      outcomes in the 2 treatment groups being compared.

      Subjects will be assigned to one of two study arms:

        1. eligible for Treatment-Based Classification (TBC) stabilization exercises based on
           current criteria ('Eligible' Subject Group); and

        2. subjects who are not eligible for the TBC-based stabilization exercises ('Ineligible'
           Subject Group).

      Within in each study arm, subjects will be randomly assigned to 1 of 2 exercise protocols for
      a 6-week period:

        1. stabilization - a protocol focused on improving the motor control of trunk muscles to
           stabilize the spine; or

        2. MSI-based - a classification-specific treatment focused on education and instruction for
           modifying movement strategies during functional activities, and on exercises specific to
           the classification category.

      Laboratory measures (muscle activation, kinematics, forces) during standardized tasks will
      quantify neuromuscular impairments associated with LBP and clinical questionnaires will
      quantify changes in pain, function, and health status pre- and post-treatment. The addition
      of neuromuscular measures to these classification schemas could improve the sensitivity and
      specificity of each.
    
  