
    
      Ticagrelor is an oral, reversibly-binding, direct-acting P2Y12 receptor antagonist used
      clinically for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients with acute coronary
      syndromes (ACS). Guideline recommendations on the use of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT)
      have been formulated that ticagrelor 90 mg twice daily plus aspirin in preference to
      clopidogrel 75mg daily plus aspirin for patients who have an ACS with or without ST-segment
      elevation. However, few East Asian patients (or those of East Asian descent) have been
      included in these trials to assess the use of these drugs. In addition, a growing body of
      data supported that East Asian might have different adverse event profiles (thrombophilia and
      bleeding) and "therapeutic window" compared with white subjects. Furthermore, "East Asian
      paradox" phenomenon has been also described that East Asian patients have a higher prevalence
      of platelet reactivity during DAPT, but an ischaemic event rate following percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI) or ACS is similar or even lower than white patients. In Korea and
      Japan, it has been reported that low doses of ticagrelor might have a more potent inhibition
      of platelet aggregation (IPA) than clopidogrel (75 mg once daily) in healthy subjects and
      patients with stable coronary artery disease, respectively. But it is still not clear whether
      a low dose of ticagrelor is superior to clopidogrel in a large population of Chinese ACS
      patients. A recent study on pharmacokinetics and tolerability of ticagrelor has found that
      maximum plasma concentration and area under the plasma concentration-time curve of ticagrelor
      (90 mg twice daily) and its active metabolite (AR-C124910XX) tended to be approximately 40%
      higher in healthy Chinese volunteers compared with Caucasian subjects. This data also
      suggested that a low dose of ticagrelor might be more appropriate for Chinese ACS patients.
      In view of a large diurnal variation with a single daily dose, a lower dose twice daily may
      be a better choice for Chinese patients. Therefore, the investigators performed this
      randomized, single-blind, crossover clinical trial to observe the efficacy and safety of
      low-dose ticagrelor (22.5 mg twice daily) in comparison to clopidogrel (75mg once daily) in
      Chinese patients with stable coronary artery disease.
    
  