
    
      Local anesthesia is an important component of multimodal pain management during the
      perioperative period for total knee arthroplasty, particularly with increased emphasis on
      early mobilization and decreased length of stay. Periarticular injections and regional nerve
      blocks are both effective in providing short-term pain relief when administered in isolation,
      and multiple randomized controlled trials have demonstrated that when administered in
      conjunction with one another, they also provide a synergistic effect.

      Periarticular injections are the simplest mechanism for infiltrating the surgical site with
      analgesic medications, and these provide effective pain relief. One described technique
      involves infiltrating this mixture into the lateral femoral periosteum, posterior capsule,
      medial periosteum, capsule and skin during various portions of a total knee arthroplasty.
      This is the technique used in our practice.

      Regional nerve blocks also have beneficial effects on pain, early mobilization and length of
      stay. Traditionally, anesthesiologist-administered femoral nerve blocks were utilized for
      this purpose. The femoral nerve consists of 4 main branches:the terminal portion of the
      vastusmedialis branch innervates the medial collateral ligament (MCL). The terminal portion
      of the vastusintermedius branch innervates the anterosuperior aspect of the knee capsule. The
      terminal portion of the vastuslateralis branch does not innervate the knee capsule. The
      saphenous nerve is the terminal sensory branch of the femoral nerve and travels in the
      adductor canal. It gives off an infrapatellar branch which exits the adductor canal to
      innervate the skin on the anteromedial aspect of the knee and the anteroinferior aspect of
      the knee capsule. Blockade of the entire femoral nerve results in significant quadriceps
      motor deficits.

      Adductor canal blocks can be targeted to anesthetize only the saphenous branch of the femoral
      nerve, however, and this spares the motor innervation to the quadriceps. Multiple randomized
      controlled trials have shown that these adductor canal blockades provide equivalent analgesic
      effects to femoral nerve blocks without associated deficits in quadriceps strength. In one
      study, quadriceps strength was measured immediately prior to and immediately following
      placement of femoral and adductor can blocks in patients undergoing TKA. After the femoral
      block, quadriceps strength decreased to 16% of the baseline pre-block value. After the
      adductor-canal-block, however, strength increased to 193% of the pre-block value. MRI
      measurements, cadaveric injections, and dissections have shown that a surgeon-performed
      injection of the saphenous nerve from within the knee after it exits from the adductor canal
      is a feasible procedure, and a randomized controlled trial found that a surgeon-administered
      adductor canal blockade was non-inferior to the traditional adductor canal blockade
      administered by an anesthesiologist. This technique is simple and can be easily performed
      during administration of a periarticular injection. It is unclear based on the current
      literature whether this surgeon-administered adductor canal blockade provides a synergistic
      effect on pain relief when combined with a periarticular injection.

      Treatment Group:

      The treatment group will consist of patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty who receive
      standardized 100 cc periarticular injection into the lateral femoral periosteum, posterior
      capsule, medial periosteum, capsule and skin. Patients will then receive 10cc of ropivacaine
      into their adductor canal. This will be administered by injecting into the adductor canal
      without dissecting down to the saphenous nerve and without ultrasound guidance.

      Comparison (Control) Group:

      The control group will consist of patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty who receive a
      standardized periarticular injection into the lateral femoral periosteum, posterior capsule,
      medial periosteum, capsule and skin. Patients randomized in this group will then receive 10cc
      of saline into their adductor canal. This will be administered by injecting into the adductor
      canal without dissecting down to the saphenous nerve and without ultrasound guidance.
    
  