
    
      In Europe, 50% or more of new non-Hodgkin lymphoma cases occur in patients older than 60
      years. More than 30% are diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLCL).

      The CHOP chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone) was considered
      as the standard treatment in this population. Nevertheless, this treatment is associated with
      some toxic events in elderly patients and it did does not succeed to increase the 3-year
      survival rate above 40%.

      Two trials in patients above 60 years with DLCL cases were conducted by the GELA in the aim
      to improve the results of CHOP.

      Protocol LNH 93-5 : The primary objective of this study was to compare CHOP to ACVBP in
      patients aged from 61 to 69 years with aggressive lymphoma and at least one adverse
      prognostic factor according to the International Prognostic Index.

      Unlike the CHOP regimen, the ACVBP regimen includes a more intensive induction followed by a
      sequential consolidation with drugs different from those used during the induction phase, and
      includes a prevention of neuromeningeal relapses.

      Out of 708 patients included in this study, the results have shown that:

        -  Complete response rate was the same in the two arms.

        -  Event free survival was significantly better in the ACVBP arm than the CHOP arm ( 5-year
           survival rate : 39% versus 29%, p=0.005).

        -  Overall survival was significantly better in the ACVBP arm than in the CHOP arm (the
           5-year survival rate : 46% versus 38%, p=0.036).

        -  The ACVBP regimen was more toxic than the CHOP regimen, particularly in elderly patients
           (> 65 years) and in patients with a low performance status.

        -  Prevention of neuromeningeal relapses was necessary for these patients.

      Protocol LNH 98-5, the objective of this study was to compare the association CHOP +
      rituximab (R-CHOP) to the CHOP regimen alone in elderly patients with non previously treated
      diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

      Long-term results based on data from 399 patients, with a median follow-up of 5 years were as
      follows :

        -  Complete response rate was better in the R-CHOP arm than in the CHOP arm (76% versus
           61%, p<0.005).

        -  Significant prolongation of event-free survival (p<0.0002) and overall survival
           (p<0.0073) in the R-CHOP arm.

        -  No significant difference between the two arms in terms of toxicity. R-CHOP is now
           considered worldwide as the standard combination for these patients.

      These conclusions invited us to propose a randomized trial comparing ACVBP + rituximab to
      CHOP + rituximab. The study population is limited to patients aged from 60 to 65 years.
    
  