
    
      Patients selection All patients underwent left atrial appendage closure in Assiut university
      in the period from January 2014 to December 2019 will be included.

      Inclusion criteria In this retrospective cohort study, atrial fibrillation patients with
      previous major bleeding, bleeding predisposition or contraindications for oral anticoagulants
      scheduled for transcatheter left atrial appendage closure are included.

      Methods In this retrospective cohort study

        1. All patients with previous major bleeding or a bleeding predisposition scheduled for
           transcatheter LAAC in Assiut university in the period from January 2014 to December 2019
           will be included.

        2. All devices used in for LAAC in this period will be included (WATCHMAN, Amulet, LARIAT
           and Lambre)

        3. CHA2DS2-VASC, CHADS, HAS-BLED scores will be calculated for all patients.

        4. Patients will be divided into to groups, one group includes patients with no evidence of
           heart failure, and another group including patients with previous history of or with an
           evidence of with heart failure.

        5. Heart failure will be defined as patients with left ventricular ejection fraction ≤ 35%.

        6. New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification will be determined for all patient
           graded from I-IV.

        7. Both groups will be compared regarding procedural success (Procedural success is defined
           as deployment and release of the left atrial appendage closure device into the LAA with
           peri-device leak < 5 mm), the absence of any complication related to the intervention,
           major and minor bleeding, all-cause mortality and efficacy of the device to prevent
           stroke, transient ischemic attack, systemic embolization during follow-up.

        8. Device related thrombus (DRT) will be compared in both groups according to the results
           of transesophageal echo (TOE) 6 weeks post procedure.

      Primary endpoint

      - The primary endpoints of the study are procedural success (Procedural success is defined as
      deployment and release of the left atrial appendage closure device into the LAA with
      peri-device leak < 5 mm), the absence of any complication related to the intervention,
      bleeding, all-cause mortality and efficacy of the device to prevent stroke, transient
      ischemic attack, systemic embolization during follow-up in both groups of patients with heart
      failure and without heart failure.
    
  