
    
      Cervical dystonia (CD) is a focal dystonia, characterized by sustained muscle contractions of
      the neck causing repetitive movements, or abnormal postures. The muscles' activation pattern
      may lead to neck rotation (torticollis), flexion (anterocollis), extension (retrocollis), or
      head tilt (laterocollis) or a combination of these. Patients with CD may also have head
      tremor.

      In addition to motor symptoms, CD patients may have non-motor features including psychiatric
      disturbances, sleep difficulties, cognitive impairment and neck pain.

      The first line of treatment for CD is botulinum toxin-A (BoNT-A) injection therapy
      administered approximately at every 12 weeks. Several studies showed that one month after
      BoNT-A treatment there is an improvement of motor symptoms in the majority of CD patients.
      Conversely, regarding the effect of BoNT-A on non-motor symptoms previous studies in CD
      focused only on the possible effect on depressive symptoms and on neck pain.

      No study has so far investigated whether the treatment with BoNT-A may improve non-motor
      symptoms in CD, including psychological aspects, such as demoralization and perceived
      disability.

      Main aim of this study is therefore to assess the effect of botulinum neurotoxin type A
      (BoNT-A) treatment on motor and non-motor symptoms, including psychiatric and psychological
      symptoms (anxiety, depression, demoralization, perceived disability) and sleep. To this aim
      CD patients will be re-tested at 1 month and at 3 months after the treatment with BoNT-A.
      Investigators will also assess a possible relationship between the improvements of motor
      symptoms with that of non-motor symptoms at 1 month and at 3 months after BoNT-A treatment
      and the frequency and severity of non-motor symptoms in a large population of CD patients.

      To see whether non-motor symptoms in CD are the consequence of motor symptoms, investigators
      will compare the severity of non-motor symptoms with the severity of motor symptoms, as well
      as with the different clinical patterns of CD and with the presence or absence of head
      tremor.
    
  