
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the duration of overall survival and disease-free survival in
      premenopausal women with operable, high risk node negative or axillary node-positive breast
      cancer who have undergone complete surgical resection of all known disease by means of total
      or partial mastectomy, and have received standard adjuvant chemotherapy with
      cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil (CMF), cyclophosphamide, epirubicin, and
      fluorouracil (CEF), or doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (AC) followed by either daily
      tamoxifen for 5 years or placebo. II. Compare the short- and long-term toxicity in patients
      receiving tamoxifen versus placebo. III. Monitor follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing
      hormone, and estradiol levels, and determine whether overall survival and disease-free
      survival are affected by hormonal or menopausal status during or at completion of adjuvant
      chemotherapy or during or after tamoxifen or placebo treatment in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind study. Patients are stratified by adjuvant
      chemotherapy regimen (cyclophosphamide, epirubicin, and fluorouracil vs cyclophosphamide,
      methotrexate, and fluorouracil vs cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin), hormone receptor status
      (ER and/or PR positive vs ER and PR negative), number of positive nodes (1-3 vs 4-9 vs 10 or
      more), and participating institution. Patients receive one of three regimens of adjuvant
      chemotherapy at the discretion of the investigator. Regimen A: Patients receive oral
      cyclophosphamide on days 1-14 and epirubicin IV and fluorouracil IV on days 1 and 8. Courses
      repeat every 28 days for a total of 6 courses. Following chemotherapy, lumpectomy patients
      receive local radiotherapy daily for 5 weeks. Regimen B: Patients receive oral
      cyclophosphamide on days 1-14 or cyclophosphamide IV on day 1 and 8, methotrexate on days 1
      and 8, and fluorouracil IV on days 1 and 8. Courses repeat every 28 days for a total of 6
      courses. Concurrent with or following chemotherapy, lumpectomy patients receive local
      radiotherapy daily for 5 weeks. Regimen C: Patients receive doxorubicin IV and
      cyclophosphamide IV every 21 days for a total of 4 courses. Following chemotherapy,
      lumpectomy patients receive local radiotherapy daily for 5 weeks. Patients are then
      randomized to receive either oral tamoxifen or a placebo once daily for 5 years, beginning
      within 6 weeks of completion of chemotherapy. Treatment continues in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients are followed for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 800 patients will be accrued for this study over 4 years.
    
  