
    
      Objective. The purpose of the protocol is to extend the structured event complex (SEC) model
      developed by the principal investigator. Grafman (Grafman, 1995) proposed that action
      sequences are represented in form of SECs in the human prefrontal cortex (PFC). An SEC is a
      goal-oriented set of events that is sequentially structured and represents thematic
      knowledge, morals, abstractions, concepts, social rules, event features, event boundaries,
      and grammars. There are both temporal and semantic associative relations between
      subcomponents of SEC knowledge. We will investigate hypotheses regarding the role of
      different regions within the PFC in processing associative relations. We will also
      investigate how SECs differing in psychological dimensions such as temporal duration,
      complexity, and familiarity are represented and activated in the PFC. We will further examine
      the temporal and semantic organization of SEC subcomponents by investigating how the goal and
      outcome structure of event knowledge is represented and activated in the PFC. Further, we
      will investigate how the temporal location of events within SECs are represented and
      activated in the PFC. We will also investigate how goals and outcomes specifying the temporal
      order and duration of SEC subcomponents are processed within the PFC. Additional objectives
      are to (1) investigate the neural representation of human emotions and decision-making based
      on utility estimation; (2) investigate the relationships between cognitive and neural
      substrates of moral emotions and judgment (Moll et al., 2002a; Moll et al., 2002b) with those
      of the SEC model developed by the principal investigator (Grafman, 1995); and (3) probe a new
      construct of cognitive dimensions incorporating critical explanatory variables in social
      cognition such as moral emotions and social event knowledge.

      Study Population. In nineteen separate studies, healthy, normal adult volunteers will
      participate in experiments dealing with different kinds of associative relations in SECs
      using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).

      Design. The experiments we are conducting will employ within-subject, rapid event-related
      fMRI designs to determine whether different types of SEC associative and other types of
      relations are stored in dissociable networks in the PFC. In nineteen experiments; we hope to
      automatically activate lexical, event-based and temporally-based associative and other types
      of relations in SECs.

      Outcome Measures. The data collected will consist of accuracy and response time measures of
      cognitive performance reflecting automatic priming of associative relations and fMRI
      activation images corresponding to each kind of associative relation, and accuracy and
      response time measures of cognitive performance reflecting how temporal duration, complexity,
      and familiarity are represented and activated. Experiments 10 and 11 will also record
      donation choices made by the subjects. The results gained from this protocol will provide
      further evidence for modifying, supporting, or rejecting aspects of the SEC model, and will
      provide further evidence for modifying, supporting, or rejecting aspects of a framework of
      social cognition such as moral behavior and social event knowledge.
    
  