
    
      At least 1 in 4 of the 700,000 U.S. Veterans who served in the 1990-1991 Gulf War suffer from
      Gulf War Illness (GWI). Despite considerable research, effective treatments remain elusive.
      GWI refers to a complex of symptoms that typically include widespread chronic pain,
      persistent headache, memory and concentration problems, gastrointestinal difficulties, sleep
      disturbances and unexplained fatigue. This symptom profile is similar to that of fibromyalgia
      syndrome (FMS), a multi-symptom condition similar to GWI. Whereas, effective treatments for
      GWI have yet to be found, progress has been made in identifying medications to treat FMS. For
      example, the FDA has approved a number of medications including Duloxetine and Pregabalin for
      the treatment of FMS. Compared to placebo (PBO) Duloxetine (a serotonin norepinephrine
      reuptake inhibitor) and Pregabalin (an alpha-2-alpha-subunit calcium-channel ligand)
      significantly improved pain responses and fatigue. The capacity of Duloxetine to increase
      central levels of serotonin and norepinephrine as well as the more complex alterations of
      neurotransmitters and central nervous system (CNS) mediators of pain attributed to pregabalin
      are thought to be responsible for the medication's effects on pain, mood and sleep. Clinical
      practice and one open-label trial support the use of these medications in combination to
      achieve optimal symptom improvement amongst GWI sufferers; however, such combinations have
      not been formally tested in randomized controlled trials. The lack of progress in finding
      effective treatments for GWI, and the similarities between GWI and FMS, provides a rationale
      for determining if these FDA approved medications can provide significant symptomatic relief
      to Veterans who suffer from GWI. Central Texas is home to one of the highest number of Gulf
      War Veterans in the nation, thus the investigators' research team is ideally situated to
      conduct the proposed study. In a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial, 180 Veterans who
      meet defining criteria for GWI and whose symptom profile includes chronic widespread pain and
      sleep disturbances will be treated with one of the following medications; 1) AM Duloxetine+
      PM placebo (PBO); 2) PM Pregabalin + AM PBO or 3) AM PBO + PM PBO. All active treatments will
      titrate from a lower dose in 2-week increments to the full therapeutic doses (FDA-approved
      for FMS). The outcome of the PBO double-dummy period will be compared statistically with 18
      weeks of active therapy (weeks 5-22).
    
  