
    
      Although more frequent in adults, urolithiasis (urinary stones) is not rare in children,
      accounting for an estimated 1 in 7,600 hospital admissions. Recent reports have demonstrated
      a rising incidence of urinary stones in children. The hypothesis of this study proposal is
      that pediatric urinary stone formers have genetic risk factors which predispose their urinary
      stone production. 50-60% of pediatric stone patients have a positive family history of
      urinary stone disease. Several genetic mutations have been identified which predispose
      patients to various types of urinary stones. These genetic mutations can also lead to other
      significant sequela besides stones, including osteopenia/osteoporosis (bone loss).
      Furthermore, metabolic abnormalities can be identified in more than 50% of pediatric stone
      formers, some of which can be improved and/or alleviated with medical intervention to help
      decrease rate of stone formation and the need for hospitalization and surgical intervention.

      Independent of age, calcium is the main crystalline constituent of kidney stones in up to 80%
      of cases and calcium oxalate stones are the most common stone type. At all ages,
      hypercalciuria (urinary calcium excretion >4 mg/kg/d or urinary calcium / urinary creatinine
      > 0.2) is the most common metabolic cause of urolithiasis. Hypercalciuria is a common
      metabolic abnormality among patients who form calcium oxalate stones. Hypercalciuria can be
      primary (absorptive or renal) or secondary (resorptive). Primary absorptive hypercalciuria is
      the result of an increase in intestinal calcium absorption while primary renal hypercalciuria
      occurs when the kidneys leak calcium. Laboratory tests, including a serum parathyroid hormone
      level and urinary calcium excretion before and after dietary calcium restriction or load, are
      required to define which type of hypercalciuria is occurring. Secondary hypercalciuria may be
      the result of excessive sodium intake or induced by certain drugs. More commonly, secondary
      hypercalciuria is associated with other diseases (such as hypercalcemia, distal renal tubular
      acidosis, hyperparathyroidism, hypocitraturia, hypophosphatasia, Bartter's syndrome or
      prolonged immobilization). Whatever the cause, proper diagnosis and management of
      hypercalciuria in children is important since 50% may develop nephrocalcinosis and
      urolithiasis. In addition, vertebral bone loss has been reported in 30% of hypercalciuric
      children. In our patients who have undergone metabolic testing to date, approximately 50%
      have evidence of hypercalciuria.

      Hypercalciuria resulting from increased absorption of calcium from the gut, termed absorptive
      hypercalciuria (AH), accounts for 45% of all reported cases of stone formation. AH has long
      been suspected to be genetic. More than 40% of first degree relatives of patients with
      hypercalciuria also have a history of urolithiasis. Over the last 10 years, investigators
      have sought to understand the molecular basis of this presumed genetic observation. The
      genotypes of individuals with hypercalciuria have been studied trying to associate
      polymorphisms in the vitamin D receptor gene with nephrolithiasis, but it seems vitamin D
      genotype has no clear influence on this phenotype. However, recently, a new candidate-gene
      was identified by Gitomer, et al which was linked to AH in Caucasian adults; it was mapped to
      chromosome 1q24. This gene has been putatively identified as a gut-specific soluble isoform
      of an adenylate cyclase which when mutated causes absorptive hypercalciuria. Four
      polymorphisms and two mutations have thus far been described; the presence of any of these 4
      individual base substitutions yielded a 2.2 to 3.5-fold increase in estimated risk for
      absorptive hypercalciuria. These base changes were also associated with decreased spinal bone
      density and the occurrence of osteoporosis in the AH population. The incidence of gene
      mutations in this newly described AH gene has not been reported in children with either
      hypercalciuria, calcium oxalate stones or a positive family history.

      In addition, novel candidate genes causing urolithiasis may be discovered during the duration
      of this study which would become subjects of investigation. Similarly, pedigrees from
      stone-forming probands affected in childhood have not been studied for medical outcomes,
      stone recurrence risks, or for novel gene searches. Unique pediatric stone cases that have
      been seen at Children's Medical Center include:

        1. Xanthinuria (n=1)

        2. Primary Hyperoxaluria, type 1 (n=1)

        3. Cystinuria (n=3)

        4. Hypocitraturia

        5. Hyperoxaluria

        6. Novel contiguous gene deletion syndrome with calcium nephrolithiasis (n=1)

        7. Uric acid nephrolithiasis with metabolic syndrome (n=1)

      Overall, although smaller numbers of affected patients are identified, the investigation of
      rare cases with a severe phenotype, which often first manifests in the pediatric population,
      may lead to a major disease discovery, as has been shown in many genetic diseases. Thus, we
      now broaden the scope of this research to include all pediatric stone-formers of all races
      and underlying metabolic and/or genetic abnormalities.
    
  