
    
      Stroke therapy had entered a new era since endovascular therapy was introduced in addition to
      intravenous thrombolysis. The benefit of endovascular therapy for patients with a proven
      proximal intracranial arterial occlusion has recently been revealed in several large
      randomized controlled trials. However, a substantial number of patients treated with
      reperfusion therapy did not reach functional independence in long-term follow-up, despite
      relatively high recanalization rates. Therefore, simple and more reliable markers that
      identify patients most likely to benefit from reperfusion therapy are needed. Accumulated
      studies showed that arterial status such as arterial collaterals had been considered as a
      critical predictor of outcome or determinant criteria for therapeutic selection. However,
      other evidences denied that arterial collaterals serve as a predictors for outcome after
      recanalization. Moreover, non-reflow phenomenon, over-reperfusion and futile recanalization
      may lead to large infarct, brain swelling, hemorrhagic complication and neurological
      deterioration. The traditional pathophysiological understanding on ischemic stroke can hardly
      explain these occurrences. Recently, the importance of cerebral venous drainage, the major
      blood reservoir and drainage system in brain, has been described for stroke evolution and
      clinical sequelae. In this study, the aim is to investigate the roles of cerebral venous
      dynamic status on neurological outcome after reperfusion therapy and the potential mechanisms
      behind poor veins and adverse outcome. In this study, the investigators will prospectively
      recruit the AIS patients over 18 years old who undergo baseline CTP/MRP and receive
      reperfusion therapy within 24 hour after onset. Each of their perfusion imaging will be
      reconstructed to evaluate the status of cerebral vein system. The investigators hypothesized
      that the venous dynamic status may have effect on the ischemic-reperfusion progress, and may
      thus has the potential to impact the stroke outcome. This study may add new implications for
      stroke outcome prediction and future therapeutic decision-making.
    
  