
    
      Diabetes complicates 6-9% of all pregnancies. Of those pregnancies, 90% of pregnant diabetics
      have gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), while the remainder of patients have pre-existing
      diabetes mellitus (DM). Maternal hyperglycemia has a negative impact on maternal and
      fetal/neonatal health. Adverse neonatal outcomes include birth injuries, respiratory
      distress, and metabolic derangements such as hypoglycemia. The incidence of neonatal
      hypoglycemia is higher in pregnancies complicated by pre-existing DM (24-48%) when compared
      to patients with GDM (16-19%).

      Neonatal hypoglycemia causes immediate and long-term morbidity. Treatment of hypoglycemia may
      require admission to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). The severity and duration of
      neonatal hypoglycemia raises concern for permanent neurologic damage to the neonate. Even
      transient episodes of neonatal hypoglycemia have been associated with neurodevelopmental
      impairment. It is imperative that measures be taken in diabetic mothers (both pre-existing
      and gestational) to minimize the risk of neonatal hypoglycemia. While antepartum maternal
      glucose control remains an important factor in preventing neonatal complications, prevention
      of maternal hyperglycemia during the intrapartum period has been shown to reduce the risk of
      neonatal hypoglycemia.

      Therapies utilized for maternal intrapartum glycemic control across academic centers in the
      United States include the use of insulin and rotation of intravenous (IV) fluids. Although
      used in clinical practice for intrapartum glycemic control, the impact of rotating IV fluids
      on neonatal blood glucose is unknown. The potential for using rotating IV fluids to control
      intrapartum blood glucose has several advantages over using insulin for optimization of blood
      glucose. There is minimal risk of maternal hypoglycemia using IV fluids when compared to
      insulin therapy. There is also less risk of medication error. IV fluids are easily
      administered as they do not require separate peripheral access and are easily accessible on a
      Labor and Delivery (L&D) unit.

      The investigators propose a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to assess the effect of
      maternal intrapartum glycemic control with rotating IV fluids compared to insulin infusion on
      neonatal blood glucose levels within two hours of birth. The investigators hypothesize
      neonates born to mothers managed by rotating fluids will have higher neonatal blood glucose
      levels (closer to normal range) within two hours of birth compared to neonates born to
      mothers managed by insulin infusion.
    
  