
    
      Aims for the study:

      To identify aesthetic factors that contribute to overall beauty and aesthetics of the breast.

      To identify proportions and measures of the most aesthetically pleasing breast and also of
      the least appealing breast. This will provide a guideline and a map for the reconstructive
      breast surgeon in what to aim for and what to avoid in the breast reconstructive process.

      To identify cultural differences in the perception of beauty.

      Aims for the longitudinal part of the study:

      To identify lifestyle and life event factors that independently influences the progression of
      cosmetic ratings and 3D measurements of the breast over 5, 10 and 15 years.

      To identify trends and differences in aesthetic ratings of the same 3D scans over time.

      Data collection:

      At the initial and all following controls of the study a short patient interview will be
      conducted to obtain the following information:

      Subject demographics:

      Age, Race, Previous Medical History, Number of Childbirths, Breast feeding - how many
      children - how many months per child, Surgeries of the breast, Surgeries of the chest wall,
      Weight, Height, Bra Size, Sports bra use - always - during sports - rarely - never, Smoking,
      alcohol, Occupation, Physical activity

      Measures of the breast will be obtained by 3D scanning.

      Rating of the 3D scans will be performed by eight assigned teams:

      10 Plastic Surgeons from Scandinavia, 10 Plastic Surgeons from Texas, 10 Scandinavian nurses
      without formal aesthetic or plastic surgery training, 10 Nurses and/or Physician assistants
      from the USA without formal aesthetic or plastic surgery training, 10 Medical Students from
      Texas, 10 Medical Students from Scandinavia, 10 Nursing Students from Texas, 10 Nursing
      Students from Scandinavia

      The 3D scans will be aesthetically rated by independent evaluators on a scale from 1-5. The
      vertical split plane and the horizontal split plane as defined by Tepper et al (8) in
      mammometrics will be used to subdivide the breast into aesthetic units.

      A separate rating will be obtained for each breast:

      Lower pole 1-5, Upper pole 1-5, Medial pole 1-5, Lateral pole 1-5, Nipple position 1-5,
      Areola color 1-5, Areola size 1-5, Breast footprint position, Overall score

      Also both breasts together will be scored regarding:

      Intermammary distance / breast cleft, symmetry, overall bilateral score

      Data Storage:

      The data will be stored for 16 years. The data will be stored in a password -protected
      computer with firewall protection. The data will be stored in a locked safe.

      Statistics:

      We will use descriptive statistics such as mean and standard deviation. Various subgroup
      analyses may occur - continuous variables will be compared using the two sample T-test and
      parametric variables will be compared using chi-squared analysis or Fischer's exact test.
      Univariate and multivariate regression models will be used to analyze for confounding
      factors.

      The statistical calculations will be performed in Norway at the Dept of statistics at
      Rikshospitalet Oslo and/or in collaboration with MD Anderson Cancer Center in Texas, USA.

      The rating-system for aesthetics will be tested for reliability. Ten raters will be rating 30
      of the same 3D scans twice with a 2 week interval.

      Calculation of necessary number of participating women (n) as determined in collaboration
      with the Dept of Statistics Oslo University:

      In the present study a mean score of "overall score bilateral breasts" will be compared in 10
      American (Group 1, 3, 5, 7) and 10 Scandinavian/Norwegian (Group 2, 4, 6, 8) plastic
      surgeons/nurses/medical students/nursing students. We define a mean "overall score bilateral
      breasts" score difference of at least 0.5 to be a difference of statistical significance.
      Significance will be defined as p = 0.05. In order to perform a power calculation we need an
      estimate of the standard deviation (SD) of the scoring of "overall score bilateral breasts"
      within each group. However such estimates are not available in the literature. We therefore
      will use the following procedure to calculate (n):

      Step 1: Include 10 women and measure average score on "overall score bilateral breasts" for
      each plastic surgeon. Then calculate SD for each of the average scores in each group. Then we
      will use these estimates of SD in a power calculation, and calculate the (n) associated with
      a test power of 80% as per Sandvik.

      Our preliminary estimation of power is 150 patients. The somewhat high number is due to
      potential drop out rates for the longitudinal arm of the study.

      Organisation:

      Principal Investigator and Conceptual Author: LJ Sandberg Telemark Hospital Trust, Dept of
      Plastic Surgery, Norway

      Collaborators:

      Senior author: JC Selber MD Anderson Cancer Center, USA Other authors in random order: G
      Reece MD Anderson Cancer Center, USA; K Kloster Jensen Telemark Hospital Trust Dept of
      Plastic Surgery; T Bernklev Telemark Hospital Trust, Dept of Research, Norway; L Sandvik Oslo
      University, Dept of Statistics, Norway; G Gunnarson Telemark Hospital Trust, Dept of Plastic
      Surgery, Norway; E Berg Telemark Hospital Trust, Dept of Plastic Surgery, Norway; K Tønseth,
      Oslo University Hospital, Dept of Plastic Surgery, Norway; HP Gullestad, Oslo University
      Hospital, Dept of Plastic Surgery, Norway; M Halle Dept of Plastic Surgery, Karolinska
      Institute Sweden; Å Edsander Nord Dept of Plastic Surgery, Karolinska Institute Sweden; A
      Höckerstedt Dept of Plastic Surgery, University of Helsinki, Finland; S Kauhanen Dept of
      Plastic Surgery, University of Helsinki, Finland; E Holm Hansen University Southeast Norway,
      Norway; Karin Berntsen University Southeast Norway, Norway; Plastic Surgical Department of
      Statistics at MD Anderson Cancer Center , USA; Department of Statistics at Oslo University,
      Norway

      Canfield Inc / Skintech are not active partners in the project, just partners supplying
      technology and support. The name of the 3D Vectra system will be used in the paper to
      scientifically describe the study. Canfield Inc will be mentioned in the Method section of
      the study as contributing to the study and any conflicts of interests will be disclosed in
      all and any presentations and publications. No funds have been received from Canfield Inc.
      Canfield Inc has allowed use of the Vectra 3D camera in the study without any demands or
      charges.

      Clinical Importance:

      Aesthetic measures are the basis of all plastic surgical breast procedures and this study
      will have a major influence on all of plastic surgical procedures of the breast -
      particularly breast reconstruction. Determining a difference between aesthetic ratings in
      different cultures would further stress the concept of "beauty lying in the eye of the
      beholder" and that beauty concepts have to be adapted to the individual and not the other way
      around. Beauty is not one strict measure, but a range of measures and proportions adapted to
      the individual subject. The use of 3D scanning is a new technique that offers superior
      quality documentation and preoperative analysis. The study will further define 3D scanning as
      a new standard for aesthetic breast evaluations.

      In the long term follow up the factors affecting aesthetic ratings over time (aging of the
      breast), such as smoking, would be revealed. This could further allow life style choices to
      be made by patients promoting breast aesthetics and hopefully health in general.
    
  