
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effect of six months of acolbifene 20 mg/day on Ki-67 in high risk
      premenopausal women with baseline hyperplasia +/- atypia and Ki-67 positivity of >= 2%..

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effect of six months of acolbifene 20 mg/day on mammographic breast
      density in high risk premenopausal women.

      II. To determine the effect of six months of acolbifene 20 mg/day on serum levels of
      follicular phase bioavailable estradiol, and luteal phase progesterone, testosterone, and
      fasting IGF-1/IGFBP-3.

      III. To determine the effect of six months of acolbifene 20 mg/day on epithelial cell
      cytomorphology and molecular markers such as ER, PgR, and pS2.

      IV. To determine the effect of six months of acolbifene on markers of cardiovascular risk
      (C-reactive protein, functional AntiThrombin III, and fasting lipid profile) and bone
      turnover markers associated with bone mineral density gain or loss (serum osteocalcin and
      N-telopeptide crosslinks).

      V. To assess any increase in reported hot flashes, menstrual cycle irregularities, pelvic
      pain, musculoskeletal complaints, and fatigue from baseline.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive oral acolbifene hydrochloride once daily for 6 months in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo symptom assessment (hot flashes, menstrual abnormalities, pelvic pain,
      muscle and joint pain, and fatigue) at baseline, 6-8 weeks, monthly for 6 months, and then at
      2 weeks after completion of study treatment.

      Patients undergo random periareolar fine needle aspiration between days 1-10 of menstrual
      cycle at baseline and at 6 months. Patients also undergo blood sample collection between days
      1-10 and days 20-24 of menstrual cycle at baseline and at 6 months. Samples taken between
      days 1-10 of menstrual cycle are analyzed for Ki-67 expression, cytomorphology, molecular
      markers (estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and pS2 expression), and bioavailable
      estradiol levels. Samples taken between days 20-24 of menstrual cycle are analyzed for
      progesterone, testosterone, IGF-1, IGFBP-3, lipid profile, bone-turnover markers (osteocalcin
      and N-telopeptide crosslinks), C-reactive protein, and functional antithrombin III.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 2 weeks.
    
  