
    
      This study will analyze the effect of doxycycline on nosebleeds in hereditary hemorrhagic
      telangiectasia (HHT), a rare and debilitating medical condition. Patients with HHT have a
      variety of vascular abnormalities, including changes in their nasal vasculature that result
      in chronic, severe nosebleeds. These nosebleeds have been shown to significantly reduce the
      quality of life in HHT and can be severe enough to require emergent blood transfusion.
      Current therapies to control nosebleeds in HHT, which include both medications and surgical
      treatments, are inconsistently effective and associated with a variety of problematic side
      effects and complications.

      Doxycycline is a common, FDA-approved antibiotic medication that has been used by physicians
      for decades. It is a safe medication that can be used on an outpatient basis for extended
      periods of time with minimal side effects. Recent research has shown that doxycycline is a
      potent inhibitor of angiogenesis, the process of new blood vessel development. Since the
      vascular abnormalities in HHT form due to uncontrolled angiogenesis, it follows that
      doxycycline may have potential in treating HHT. A growing body of research demonstrates the
      efficacy of doxycycline in treating a variety of vascular conditions, including cancer of the
      breast, duodenum, liver prostate, and lung. Our trial will be the first to analyze the
      efficacy of doxycycline in treating HHT epistaxis.

      This a randomized, double-blind, crossover study design. Each patient will take both placebo
      and doxycycline. Since this is a cross-over study, half the participants will start out with
      taking placebo and half start with doxycyline and then switch halfway through. After a
      baseline observation period, participants will be given doxycycline at 100 mg twice a day, or
      an identical-appearing placebo, for a period of three months. Each month they will be seen be
      a physician, who will take a detailed clinical history and perform a physical examination.
      Further, each month the patient will have blood testing to assess blood loss, and fill out
      scientifically validated surveys to assess quality of life and the severity of bleeding.
      Following this three month treatment period, participants will be observed for one additional
      month, with one additional blood test and clinical assessment performed after this month.
    
  