
    
      Roles and responsibilities

        1. Nora Helmy Hasaneen (N.H.): Operator, data enterer and corresponding author; Assistant
           lecturer fixed Prosthodontics Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Modern Technology
           Institution (MTI) University, Egypt.

        2. Dr. Ahmed Naguib Hussin( A.H.): Main supervisor, data monitoring and auditing; Professor
           of fixed Prosthodontics, Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine- Cairo University, Egypt.

        3. Dr.Gihan Al-Naggar (A. G.):Co-Supervisor, data monitoring and auditing; Professor of
           fixed Prosthodontics, Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine -Cairo University, Egypt.

      3.Esraa Mohamed Odeuh(E.O.):Outcome assessors and data collection; Assistant lecturer, Fixed
      Prosthodontics Department, Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, MTI University, Egypt.

      4.Ahmed Gamal(A.G): Base line data collection, recruitment, sequence generation, allocation
      concealment, patient retention and taking participants' consents; Resident Fixed
      Prosthodontics Department, Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, MTI University, Egypt.

      5.Eman Desouky (E.D.):Sample size calculation; Statistician, Faculty of Oral and Dental
      Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt.

      6. Evidence Based Dentistry Committee (CEBD) Help in reporting study protocol following
      SPIRIT guidelines; Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt.

      7.Research Ethics Committee (CREC): Protocol reviewer of the clinical trial in order to
      protect the right, safety, dignity and well-being of the participants; Faculty of Oral and
      Dental Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt.

      8. Research Plan Committee (CRPC):For ensuring that this clinical trial following the
      department research plan; Fixed prosthodontic Department, Faculty of Oral and Dental
      Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt.

        1. Intervention:

           N.H. will perform conservative tooth preparation following the principles of all ceramic
           crown preparation with shoulder subgingival finish line of thickness 1.2mm using tapered
           stone with flat end attached to high speed headpiece with air and water coolant, after
           local anesthesia has been given.

           N.H. will take adequate 2ry Impression using non aqueous Elastomeric impression
           materials Impregum™F (medium consistency, 3M ESPE ,) and bite registration will by pink
           soft wax (Stardentalsupply) .

           N.A. & E.O. will visually select the shade match using Vita Easyshade Compact (Vita
           Zahnfabrik, Bad Sa¨ckingen,Germany). N.H will fabricate the temporary restoration using
           Protemp™ 4 Temporisation Material(3M ESPE ) and cemented using non Eugenol Zinc Oxide
           temporary cement TempBond™ Temporization (Kerrdentalsupply).

           N.H will deliver Press Bio - HPP framework material veneered with visio lign veneering
           material (Bredent) crown and cement it with 3M™ ESPE™ RelyX™ Unicem Self-Adhesive
           Universal Resin Cement.

        2. Comparator N.H. will perform conservative tooth preparation following the principles of
           all ceramic crown preparation with shoulder subgingival finish line of thickness 1.2mm
           using tapered stone with flat end attached to high speed headpiece with air and water
           coolant, after local anesthesia has been given.

           N.H. will take adequate 2ry Impression using non aqueous Elastomeric impression
           materials Impregum™F (medium consistency, 3M ESPE ,) and bite registration will by pink
           soft wax (Stardentalsupply) .

           N.A. & E.O. will visually select the shade match using Vita Easyshade Compact (Vita
           Zahnfabrik, Bad Sa¨ckingen,Germany). N.H will fabricate the temporary restoration using
           Protemp™ 4 Temporisation Material(3M ESPE ) and cemented using non Eugenol Zinc Oxide
           temporary cement TempBond™ Temporization (Kerrdentalsupply).

           N.H will deliver E.max® framework veneered with E-max veneering System (Ivoclar
           Vivadent) crown and cement it with 3M™ ESPE™ RelyX™ Unicem Self-Adhesive Universal Resin
           Cement.

        3. Outcomes

      A. Primary outcome: Patient satisfaction:

      E.O will measure patient satisfaction using Rating scores. The mean and standard deviation
      for the Rating scores of the patients will be recorded at the time of crown cementation, 3,
      6, 9 & 12 months after review for aesthetics.

      B. Secondary outcome: Clinical assessment of the restoration:

      E.O will evaluate shade matching, marginal discoloration and surface texture using modified
      USPHS criteria scores. The mean and standard deviation for the USPHS criteria scores of the
      patients will be recorded at the time of crown cementation 0, 3, 6, 9 & 12 months after
      review for aesthetics.
    
  