
    
      Proximal humerus fractures, who are admitted to the investigators' emergency department and
      are decided to follow conservative follow-up criteria, will be given one of 3 different
      bandages (velpau bandage, classical shoulder arm sling, 30 degree padded shoulder arm sling)
      according to the previous randomization.

      Routinely, at the 2nd week, 6th week, 12th week, 6th month and 12th month outpatient clinic
      controls, the patients will be seen and their X-ray and clinical satisfaction status will be
      checked. X-rays will be taken as classical ap / lateral and true ap.

      At the end of the second week, which is absolute immobilization, elbow and wrist movements
      will begin. Afterwards, in the 6th week, according to the state of union with deltoid
      strengthening, passive and active shoulder joint range of motion exercises will be started.

      At the end of the 12th month, the follow-up will be terminated, and in this control, the
      existing joint movements will be recorded by measuring the degrees of anterior elevation,
      abduction, external rotation in neutral, external rotation at 90 degrees and internal
      rotation. In addition, in this control, the values will be noted by taking the Constant,
      ASES, DASH and VAS Scores.

      After all these values are noted for all 3 groups, statistical analysis between groups will
      be made for each variable and the result will be given.

      In addition, if complications(non-union,mal-union,stiffness etc.) occur during conservative
      follow-up in the investigators' patients, they will be recorded and whether there is a
      statistically significant difference in complications between the groups will be
      investigated.

      The investigators' aim in this study is to understand whether any of these 3 different
      bandage types, which are routinely used as an immobilization method in proximal humerus
      fractures, are superior to the other.

      A study comparing immobilization methods could not be found in the literature. These bandage
      types, which have not been compared with their effectiveness, are used effectively all over
      the world. With this study, the investigator set this on a scientific basis and set the
      correct direction of the investigators' treatments as the investigators' main goal.
    
  