
    
      Research Question

      • Is 0.2 ml of 12% oral sucrose not inferior to 0.2 ml of 24% oral sucrose in reducing pain
      during initiation of venepuncture in extremely low birth weight infants?

      Research Hypothesis

      • 0.2 ml of 12% oral sucrose is not inferior to 0.2 ml of 24% oral sucrose in reducing pain
      during initiation of venepuncture in extremely low birth weight infants.

      Aims and Objective

        1. To study the effect of 0.2ml of 12% & 24% oral sucrose on reducing the pain during
           initiation of venipuncture in Extremely Low Birth Weight (ELBW) infants.

        2. To study the side effects associated with the administration of both the drugs.

      Participant:

      The study was conducted in the neonatal unit of Kalawati Saran Children's Hospital and Lady
      Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi. All the patients admitted in the neonatal units
      satisfying the inclusion criteria and not having any exclusion criteria were enrolled in the
      study.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  All extremely low birth weight babies (<1000gm) regardless of gestational age being
           admitted in NICU.

        -  Within first 48 hrs of post natal life

        -  Parental consent

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Neonates requiring ventilatory support.

        -  Neonates with any neurological impairment (HIE, seizures)

        -  Receiving opiates or born to mothers receiving opiates

        -  Newborns who have received muscle relaxants ,sedatives,analgesics

        -  Major congenital anomalies

        -  5 mins Apgar of less than 7

        -  Neonates undergoing any surgery

        -  Birth trauma(especially precipitate deliveries)

        -  Instrumental delivery

      Intervention

      24%sucrose was prepared by mixing 2.4gm of sucrose in 10ml distilled water and 12%sucrose was
      prepared by mixing 1.2 gm of sucrose in 10 ml of distilled water. Out of these solutions 1ml
      was measured by 1 ml syringe and packed and covered with serially numbered opaque sealed
      envelopes. The composition of these packets were decided by a senior consultant in the
      department of pharmacology who had the access to the randomization sequence & was uninvolved
      in the study. Fresh solutions were prepared daily and unused solutions were discarded at the
      end of the day to be replaced with identically numbered solutions from the laboratory. All
      study solutions were stored in the refrigerator at 2-8°C until they were used. The patient
      were enrolled into the study only after an informed written consent was obtained from either
      of the parent / care giver. At the initiation of venepuncture 2 min prior to procedure 0.2 ml
      of solution marked with patient serial no was administered by a prefilled syringe to the
      patient on the anterior aspect of the tongue avoiding spillage, by the personnel carrying out
      the procedure. The above mentioned personnel was blinded to the contents of the solution.

      The procedure involved putting first cannula in vein of the dorsum of right hand. Gentle
      steady pressure applied with the thumb to make the chosen vein prominent while the remaining
      fingers of the same hand helping stabilize the hand.A 24 gauge needle was inserted into vein
      after asepsis 2 min after the neonate had been given the allocated oral solution.The needle
      was inserted into vein to obtain steady blood flow.The procedure was divided into three
      phases. The pre-procedure phase from the beginning of the recording to just short of needle
      insertion. The intra-procedure phase from needle insertion to needle removal and the
      post-procedure phase from needle removal to end of recording lasting upto 4 min. Video
      recording was done by a video camera focusing on face of the patient. Neonates were monitored
      using a non invasive vital signs monitor to monitor their heart rate .The second video camera
      was focussed on the non invasive vital signs monitor.Video recording started just before oral
      sucrose administration and continued till 4 min after the skin puncture.All stages of needle
      insertion were indicated on camera by the person performing the procedure. All video
      recordings were evaluated independently by a consultant of the unit, who was uninvolved in
      the study and was blinded to the study methodology. NFCS (Neonatal facial coding system) was
      used to evaluate pain.The entire process involved only a single attempt at venepuncture
      initiation and the same was ensured rigorously during the entire study.

      Sample size calculation

      As there were no preliminary trials in a population of ELBW neonates comparing 12% vs 24%
      sucrose a convenience sample of 30 & 30 in each limb was taken.

      Randomization:

      Sequence Generation: Block randomization using computer generated random sequences was used
      with a block size of six each.

      Allocation Concealment: This was done by the pharmacy which packed the 12% sucrose and the
      24% sucrose into identical containers and opaque sealed envelopes sequentially labeled
      according to randomization code available with the consultant of Department of Pharmacology
      unrelated to the study.

      Implementation: Randomization sequence was generated by a senior consultant in the Department
      of Pharmacology, unrelated to the study. The participants were enrolled for the study by the
      candidate according to the serial number and the candidate was blinded to the randomization
      code.

      Blinding: The participants, the research candidate as well as the investigator assessing the
      painful response were blinded to the group assignment .Randomization codes and allocation
      sequences were broken only after the data analysis was finished.

      Statistical Methods: The data was analyzed using Strata (version 11.2). Descriptive
      statistics (Mean, SD), Median (Range) were calculated. For comparison of Means between
      different groups unpaired students's t test was used. For analysis of categorical data
      chi-square test was used. Continuous data was also analyzed using non-parametric Ranksum
      (Mann-Whitney) test. Statistical significance was assumed at a P value of <0.05.
    
  