
    
      24h-Urine free cortisol (24h-UFC) and other screening tests may turn out normal in Cushing's
      syndrome (CS) patients, probably due to high variability and cyclicity in cortisol secretion.
      To rule out cyclic cortisol secretion, the recommendation is to repeat 24h-UFC measurements
      on different and several occasions. As 24h-UFC is technically inconvenient, especially in the
      elderly and in women, compliance may not be optimal, and results could be falsely low
      especially if collection is not properly conducted.

      Alternatively, the status of cortisol circadian rhythm and urinary cortisol secretion may be
      assessed in a non-invasive and more convenient manner through the measurement of late evening
      urinary free cortisol concentration/creatinine concentration (Late-UFC). These measurements
      have been useful in screening outpatients for CS, but their performances have not been
      properly and enough validated.

      It appears that the assessment of Late-UFC can offer a non-invasive and convenient diagnostic
      tool for evaluating cortisol circadian rhythm and urinary cortisol secretion in ambulatory
      populations, especially in the case of patients for whom 24h-UFC should be repeated yet is
      technically not convenient to perform.

      Hair sample testing has gained increasing attention and recognition over the last 20 years,
      especially for detecting illegal drug use and for other forensic purposes. This is because
      hair provides a relatively long-term retrospective record of levels of various bio-markers in
      the body.

      In light of the foregoing evidence, it has been suggested that hair cortisol measurement
      could be a novel method for assessing dynamic systemic cortisol exposure, and could provide
      unique historical information on variation and cyclicity in cortisol exposure.

      The investigators will conduct a prospective cohort study which will include patients
      referred to outpatient endocrinology clinic for medical evaluation due to CS suspicion or
      adrenal incidentaloma evaluation. Participants will be asked to provide informed consent
      before study enrollment. All Participants will be asked to perform the routine screening
      tests for CS diagnosis. On the same day participants will collect the 24h-UFC, they will be
      asked to empty their urinary bladder at 22:00 hour to the urinary collection bottle, and to
      give a single urinary sample at 24:00 hour for Late-UFC determination.

      Immediately after study enrollment, hair sample of approximately 100-150 strands and 2-3 cm
      long will be collected from the posterior vertex, and cortisol concentration in hair will be
      determined.

      All patients enrolled will be diagnosed as "CS", "Pseudo-Cushing's syndrome" or "undermined".
      CS will be classified as ACTH-dependent CS or ACTH-independent CS. ACTH-dependent CS will be
      diagnosed when at least two screening tests for CS are positive (not including Late-UFC and
      HC), normal or elevated basal plasma ACTH concentration, and positive ACTH stained histology
      and/or post-surgical hypoadrenalism. ACTH-independent CS will be diagnosed when at least one
      screening test is positive, depressed basal plasma ACTH concentration (ACTH concentration
      below 2.2 pmol/L) and the patient has adrenal-post-surgical hypoadrenalism. Patients will be
      diagnosed as "Pseudo-Cushing's syndrome" when only one screening test is positive out of at
      least three tests performed, patients harboring no typical features for CS, and there is no
      deterioration in biochemical or clinical status during the study follow-up. Patients will be
      diagnosed as "undermined" when harboring two or more positive screening tests, yet the
      clinical and biochemical profile do not support definitive diagnosis.

      To address the questions of the study, the investigators will compare the two groups of "CS"
      and "Pseudo-Cushing's syndrome" determining sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic accuracy
      of Late-UFC and Hair cortisol in differentiating Cushing's syndrome from Pseudo-Cushing's
      syndrome.
    
  