
    
      Metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) is a heterogenous disease with at
      least 3 intrinsic subtypes including luminal, neuroendocrine, and atypical phenotypes.
      Different subtypes have different prognosis and treatment sensitivity. Thus, it would be more
      suitable to administer different therapy in different subtypes. Therefore, the investigators
      designed this phase 2 randomized clinical trial to explore potential effective regimens in
      variable subtypes of mCRPC. Patients were first classified into Luminal type, Neuroendocrine
      type and Atypical type by immunohistochemistry exam of FKBP5/AR-WT/AR-v7/CgA/SYN/YAP1 in core
      needle biopsy and then randomized to received either standard or experimental treatment.

        1. Group 1 (Luminal type):

           Standard treatment: Goserelin (3.75mg, once every 4 weeks)+Docetaxel (75 mg/m2 on day 1
           every 3 weeks)+Prednisone (5 mg, twice daily)

           Experimental treatment: Goserelin (3.75mg, once every 4 weeks)+Abiraterone (1000 mg,
           once daily)+Prednisone (5 mg, twice daily)

        2. Group 2 (Neuroendocrine type):

           Standard treatment: Goserelin (3.75mg, once every 4 weeks)+Docetaxel (75 mg/m2 on day 1
           every 3 weeks)+Prednisone (5 mg, twice daily)

           Experimental treatment: Goserelin (3.75mg, once every 4 weeks)+Carboplatin (area under
           the curve 5 on day 1 every 3 weeks)+Docetaxel (75 mg/m2 on day 1 every 3
           weeks)+Prednisone (5 mg, twice daily)

        3. Group 3 (Atypical type):

      Standard treatment: Goserelin (3.75mg, once every 4 weeks)+Docetaxel (75 mg/m2 on day 1 every
      3 weeks)+Prednisone (5 mg, twice daily)

      Experimental treatment: Goserelin (3.75mg, once every 4 weeks)+Abiraterone (1000 mg, once
      daily)+targeted therapy according to next Generation Sequencing (NGS)+Prednisone (5 mg, twice
      daily); or Goserelin (3.75mg, once every 4 weeks)+Abiraterone alone+Prednisone (5 mg, twice
      daily) if no druggable gene mutation detected. The detailed Individual treatment see below.

      The duration of chemotherapy is 6-10 cycles. Primary endpoint is the overall survival (OS) in
      each subtypes. Secondary endpoints include progression free survival (PFS), PSA response rate
      and safety. Tissue samples and blood samples will be collected at baseline and during
      treatment. There will be exploratory biomarkers analyses to identify predictive markers for
      efficacy in every subtypes.

      Targeted Therapy: Participants with druggable gene mutations will receive the corresponding
      molecular targeted drugs.

        1. Participants with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene mutation will receive
           Gefitinib, which inhibits a protein called EGFR that is thought to be a key factor in
           the development and progression of some cancers.

        2. Participants with B-type Raf kinase (BRAF) gene mutations will receive Vemurafenib,
           which inhibits a protein called mitogen-activated or extracellular signal-regulated
           protein kinase kinase (MEK) that is thought to be a key factor in the development and
           progression of some cancers.

        3. Participants with v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homologue 1 (AKT1) gene mutations
           will receive Celecoxib, which inhibits a protein called v-akt murine thymoma viral
           oncogene homologue (AKT) that is thought to be a key factor in the development and
           progression of some cancers.

        4. Participants who have erythroblastic leukemia viral oncogene homolog 2 (ERBB2) gene
           mutation will receive Lapatinib, which inhibits some proteins that are thought to be key
           factors in the development and progression of some cancers.

        5. Participants with PDGFRA/PDGFRB gene mutations will receive Sunitinib, which inhibits
           some proteins that are thought to be key factors in the development and progression of
           some cancers.

        6. Participants with PIK3CA gene mutations will receive Everolimus, which inhibits a
           protein called AKT that is thought to be a key factor in the development and progression
           of some cancers.

        7. Participants with DNA-repair gene defects will receive Olaparib, which inhibits poly ADP
           ribose polymerase (PARP).
    
  