
    
      Neurologic injury under general anesthesia in the beach chair position is believed to result
      from cerebral hypoperfusion.1 We hypothesize that brain hypoperfusion in this circumstance is
      caused by blood pressure monitoring that does not reflect of cerebral perfusion pressure.
      Maintenance of arterial blood pressure above an individual's lower limit of cerebral blood
      flow autoregulation would prevent this devastating complication. Near infrared spectroscopy
      can be used to continuously monitor autoregulation with the cerebral oximetry index (COx), a
      moving linear correlation coefficient between cortical tissue oxygen saturation and arterial
      pressure. We hypothesize that subjects in the beach chair position have impaired cerebral
      blood flow autoregulation compared with subjects undergoing surgery in the lateral decubitus
      supine position. We will test this hypothesis by comparing CBF autoregulation data, including
      the percentage of time patients undergoing elective surgery have abnormal autoregulation, in
      the beach chair position versus supine position. We will establish the range of arterial
      pressure required to maintain autoregulation in the two groups. Cerebral autoregulation
      results will be assessed for a relationship with postoperative neurocognitive dysfunction and
      with serum glial fibrillary acid protein levels, a biomarker of brain injury.

      The specific aims of this study are:

        1. To compare the average cerebral oximetry index and the percentage of time with abnormal
           COx between subjects in the head up or supine position during surgery under general
           anesthesia.

        2. To compare the range of arterial blood pressure required for a normal cerebral oximetry
           index between subjects anesthetized in the head up or supine position.

        3. To assess the association between impaired cerebral blood flow autoregulation and
           postoperative neurocognitive decline 1 month after surgery and perioperative elevation
           of serum glial fibrillary acid protein.

      Monitoring autoregulation non-invasively with COx has the potential to improve patient safety
      by delineating individualized limits of safe ABP for patients at risk of neurologic injury.
    
  