
    
      Two types of influenza A widely circulate in humans and cause seasonal outbreaks and
      epidemics - H1N1 (swine flu) and H3N2 (a subtype abundant in seasonal influenza). During the
      2009-2010 influenza season, the most commonly reported virus was influenza A (H1N1). However,
      during the 2010-2011 influenza season, the most commonly reported virus was influenza A
      (H3N2), but influenza A (H1N1) viruses and influenza B viruses circulated as well.

      A certain age group may be hit harder by one type of influenza virus than another (for
      example, the 2009 H1N1 virus disproportionately affected people younger than 65 years of age
      rather than those older than 65, whereas H3N2 virus often affects those older than 65 years).
      However, influenza A has a substantial health effect on every age group.

      Due to the limited therapeutic options for influenza and significant morbidity and mortality
      despite treatment, additional therapeutics are warranted. One potential therapeutic that is
      fairly rapidly available is the use of anti-influenza A immune plasma as immunotherapy.

      The objective of this protocol is collection of anti-influenza A immune plasma from male
      volunteers that meet criteria for use in human plasma therapy studies. The use of plasma from
      male donors will minimize the risk of transfusion related acute lung injury (TRALI), which
      has been associated with antibodies (likely generated during pregnancy) found in female
      plasma. For this reason, only male donors will be enrolled.

      This protocol does not administer any investigational product, but rather collects plasma
      from subjects with a high anti-influenza A antibody titer (convalescent survivors of
      influenza infection or recipients of a licensed influenza vaccine).

      Following screening of potential subjects to identify those who are not eligible to
      participate in plasma donations and to determine the likelihood of having antibodies to
      influenza A (H1N1 or H3N2) from a recent infection or immunization, enrolled subjects will
      receive a baseline physical and laboratory examination. Eligible subjects with high influenza
      A hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) titers will then be scheduled for at least 3 (and up to
      20) plasma collection sessions. Following testing of the collected plasma for potential
      pathogens, it may be used as therapeutic plasma, and/or it may be used for the manufacturing
      of high titer anti-influenza A intravenous immune globulin (IVIG). Both options would support
      clinical trials aimed at developing additional therapeutics for influenza infection.
    
  