
    
      Rituximab and Zevalin are monoclonal antibodies that bind to lymphoma cells and cause cell
      death.

      As is the case for all patients with orbital lymphoma, an orbital biopsy must be performed to
      confirm the diagnosis and status of the orbital lymphoma. The study doctors must first make
      sure that the disease has not spread too much and is not severe enough to require immediate
      treatment with chemotherapy before you can begin treatment on this study. You will have about
      4 teaspoons of blood drawn. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood or
      urine pregnancy test.

      You will receive two injections of rituximab by vein over about 4 to 6 hours. This is
      followed by an infusion of Zevalin over about 30 minutes on the same day. Whole body images
      will be performed immediately and at 4-6, 24, 72, and 144 hours after receiving Zevalin.
      About 1 week later, you will receive a second infusion of rituximab and Zevalin.

      You may be taken off the study if your orbital lymphoma does not respond within three months
      of receiving rituximab and Zevalin. Researchers will measure your response to therapy using
      magnetic Resonance imaging (MRI) of the orbit and an evaluation of the eye in the clinic. If
      you are taken off study, you will be given the option of receiving external beam radiation
      therapy as treatment for the disease.

      Follow-up evaluations will be done every 3 months for 2 years and every 6 months for Years 3
      and 4. This testing is considered standard of care and would include medical history,
      physical exam, blood tests, and urine tests. The status of the disease will be evaluated
      using CT scan or MRI of the orbit every 3 months for the first year and every 6 months for
      Years 2, 3, and 4. Blood tests (about 4 teaspoons each) will be every 3 months for the first
      year and may be continues every 3 to 6 month until they become negative or you start another
      anti-cancer therapy.

      This is an investigational study. Zevalin and rituximab are both FDA approved but their use
      together in this study is investigational. A total of up to 12 patients will take part in
      this study. All will be enrolled at The University of Texas (UT) MD Anderson Cancer Center.
    
  