
    
      Sleep causes temporary, partial and periodic interruption of the organism's interaction with
      the environment, is a physiological condition that affects many systems. That sleep activity
      is a vital and important activity for individuals.They emphasized and sleep; the alternating
      state of inertia and inertia, around the human a situation where they do not respond to the
      events that took place. initiation and maintenance through the function of many cortical and
      subcortical brain regions. People sleep on average one third of their lives They spend it.
      The sleep of a normal adult person consists of night sleep and It lasts an average of 7 to 9
      hours, with a sleep time of four to six 90 to 100 minutes. Non-REM (NREM) and REM sleep
      change cyclically. In the sleep-wake cycle in man, the most basic and determinant is the
      circadian rhythm. Circadian The rhythm refers to changes in the physiological and biological
      processes of the organism for about a day. The main center that regulates the circadian
      rhythm is located in the anterior hypothalamus as a double structure. suprachiasmatic nucleus
      (SKN). Light is the most important rhythm editor. Other regulators are social and are
      physical activities. Florence Nightingale and Virgina Henderson in love and day rhythm;
      defined the patient as two important factors in supporting the health of the individual. In
      the regulation of the circadian rhythm, the light and dark cycle in the external environment
      is important. The synthesis and release of melatonin is stimulated in the dark at night, and
      during the day by the effect of light It is suppressed. N-acetyl transferase (NAT) enzyme is
      effective in melatonin formation. Melatonin The main task of the hormone is to protect the
      biological rhythm of the body. In this context; lighting, circadian rhythm and sleep are
      related.

      Health care institutions and especially intensive care units, in terms of physical
      environment and lighting the patient can affect the circadian rhythm of the individual,
      change the release of melatonin and as a result can affect sleep patterns and cognitive
      performance. In our country, in terms of physical environment lighting, it does not support
      circadian rhythms. As a result, sick individuals in the ICU are asleep The therapeutic effect
      of sleep because they spend a significant amount of time they need to be awake can not
      benefit sufficiently. In addition, in the ICU, many There is a factor. These factors are;
      pain, physical condition, drug therapy, fear of death, environmental noise, pleasant
      non-smells, invasive interventions, loss of privacy and family disability. In the study of,
      the greatest stress of the sick individuals in the ICU One of the causes was found to be
      sleeping problems. In the literature, especially in health care institutions In patients with
      ICU inpatient, sleep activity has a negative effect on both duration and quality. shows that
      it is affected In admission to the ICU, when environmental factors are not suitable, the
      patient especially the sleep activity of the individual is impaired and this process occurs
      even after the patient is discharged from YBU, can continue. One of the biggest reasons for
      this; Physical environment and lighting of ICUs in terms of disruption of circadian rhythms
      of sick individuals. The presence of night light suppresses the level of melatonin, which is
      normally the highest at night. Melatonin level is accepted as an indicator of circadian
      rhythm. Artificial lighting is a known factor in the disruption of the circadian rhythm. Sick
      individuals in the ICU, 24 hours it is exposed to artificial light throughout a cycle.
      Artificial lighting, health of the sick individual health care to help professionals continue
      their care and treatment practices It is applied at high levels for 24 hours in institutions
      such as ICU. Its as a result, daylight is often obscured / eliminated in ICUs and artificial
      lighting are added. Researches conducted, unnatural night disruption of circadian rhythms
      with illumination causes health problems related to sleep activity. It is also sufficient and
      relaxing non-sleep, negatively affects the immune system, wound healing process and cognitive
      functions of the sick individual. It affects in the same direction, increases the level of
      stress and delays its recovery. Sick individuals in the ICU are concerned with serious
      illnesses or injuries and care and treatment. The illness of the symptoms lies. Today,
      long-term health of an illness or injury in an ICU It is known to cause problems. Some of
      these problems are sleep problems due to lighting and circadian rhythm disturbances. our
      Country Study to determine the effect of environmental factors related to lighting on sleep
      problems in ICU There is. Nurses who continue the care and treatment of sick individuals in
      ICU, diagnosing problems early, identifying primary nursing diagnoses, existing stressors
      important role such as reduction, ensuring the necessary environmental regulation to create a
      therapeutic environment, and they have responsibilities. In this context, this research is
      based on YBU. to determine the effect of light on sleep quality and physiological parameters
      in individuals and nursing will be carried out to guide its applications.
    
  