
    
      The day prior to surgery, all patients will undergo pre-anesthetic checkup including detailed
      history, thorough general, physical, systemic examination and weight of the patient. All
      patients will be kept nil by mouth for at least 6 hours.

        -  Written consent, coagulation profile, intravenous line, emergency resuscitation
           equipments including airway devices, advanced cardiac life support drugs for LA toxicity
           will be available.

        -  Patients will be monitored using standard monitoring (ECG, non-invasive blood pressure
           and pulsoximetry)

        -  All patients will be lightly sedated with 1 mg midazolam I.V. SonoAce 6 ultrasound
           machine with high frequency linear probe will be used in our study.

      Palpation of the subclavian artery in the supraclvicular fossa, just lateral to the
      sternocledomastoid and above the clavicle (landmark located one finger or 1 cm above the
      clavicle at the junction of inner 2/3 and outer 1/3 of clavicle).

      Position to perform supraclavicular BPB; the anesthetist will stand behind the patient's
      head, with the ultrasound machine on the side being blocked. The head of the bed is slightly
      raised to allow the shoulder to drop somewhat the patient's head will be turned to the
      opposite side, resting directly on the table without a pillow, the hand holding the probe
      will rest against the patient's jaw, the probe is placed in the supraclavicular fossa in a
      coronal oblique plane, the needle will be inserted from the lateral side, The pulsating
      hypoechoic supraclavicular artery is identified, lying above the hyperechoic first rib, the
      probe is then angled until both the first rib and the pleura are also seen simultaneously,
      The nerve structures (trunks or divisions) are usually visualized as a collection of
      hypoechoic round structures (a bunch of grapes) lying superior and postero-lateral to the
      subclavian artery. A 3 cm long 22 G needle with 10 cc syringe filled with respective LA agent
      will be inserted directing downward, forward and medially at the angle of 20° to the skin
      till the parasthesia elicited in the hand or the 1st rib hit, then the needle will be fixed
      at that point. After the negative aspiration respective agents will be given. A gentle
      massage over the area will be done with an idea of uniform spread. All brachial plexus
      injections will be administered slowly with repeated aspiration to prevent or detect early
      intravascular injection. The end of the injection will be considered time 0.
    
  