
    
      Neuroendocrine Neoplasm (NEN) are heterogeneous disease in terms of origin, localization and
      clinical presentation. Annual incidence of NEN is increasing in the last 30 years, even if
      the reasons underlying this rise have not been completely identified.

      Many biomarkers have been used in the diagnosis and follow-up of patients with NEN. In
      non-functioning NEN general tumor markers, such as chromogranin A (CgA) and neuron specific
      enolase (NSE), are commonly used but their sensibility and specificity are quite low.

      Recently, high-throughput tissue microarray and immunohistochemistry assessments have been
      performed to observe the expression pattern of new potential markers for NEN. In order to
      overcome limitations of tissue acquisition, the use of liquid biopsies has been advocated. It
      has been reported that tumor-educated platelets (TEPs) may easily enable blood-based cancer
      diagnostics. TEPs take up tumor-derived secreted membrane vesicles containing RNAs, of which
      circular RNAs (circRNAs) that can serve as a potential biomarker source for cancer
      diagnostics. This innovative approach in cancer detection has not yet been transferred to the
      NEN field.

      Flow cytometric analysis furnishes important insights into the immune status by providing
      information about the numbers and phenotypes of the immune cells, which are known to be
      altered in many types of neoplasms. In NEN, leukocytes subpopulations and peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMCs) are not been completely investigated but immunological alterations
      could represent a signal of neoplastic spread.

      Inflammatory and angiogenetic pathways' involvement in NEN behavior has recently received
      increasing attention. It is well known that NEN are known to be highly vascularized neoplasms
      and somatostatin analogues (SSA), used as first line drugs for most well differentiated NEN,
      can reduce tumour proliferation by various direct and indirect mechanism including the
      inhibition of angiogenesis.

      Tumor angiogenesis is a complicated process consisting of several steps, the angiogenesis
      cascade, regulated by endogenous and exogenous factors, including the system Angiopoietin-1
      (Ang-1) and -2 (Ang-2) / Tie2 and Prokineticins. These systems are involved in neoplastic
      angiogenesis and inflammation in various types of cancer. Despite these evidences, the role
      of inflammatory and angiogenic factors in NEN detection and follow-up has not been completely
      clarified.

      The aim of the study is to evaluate immune profiling, angiogenetic markers and circularRNA
      sequencing in patients affected by locally advanced or metastatic pulmonary or GEP NENs and
      controls. Moreover, NENs patients will be evaluated also after 1 and 3 months of first line
      medical treatment.
    
  