
    
      This will be a prospective cohort study designed to evaluate the value of atrial
      electromechanical interval and pulse wave velocity in the prediction of recurrence of atrial
      fibrillation among patients with atrial fibrillation with successful direct-current
      cardioversion to sinus rhythm.

      Should cardioversion be successful, a limited 2D echocardiogram will be done and the
      following information will be measured: atrial electromechanical interval, left atrial
      volume, left atrial size, ejection fraction, and maximal A-wave transmitral Doppler flow
      velocity. The presence of left ventricular hypertrophy and valvular heart disease will be
      recorded. In addition, baseline clinical information including age, gender, medications,
      presence of HTN, DM, CAD, stroke, and prior history of atrial fibrillation will be obtained.

      Radial artery applanation tonometry and pulse wave analysis will be used to calculate a
      central aortic pressure and other parameters using commercially available SphygmoCor® system.
      Central aortic pressures will be obtained immediately following measurement of brachial
      artery pressures. Patients will be seated for 5 minutes in a quiet room after which time
      blood pressure will be measured over the brachial artery three times at 5 minute intervals.
      The mean of the last two measurements will be recorded as representative of the brachial
      artery pressure. After the last measurement, radial artery pressure waveforms of the same arm
      will be sampled over 10 seconds with a Millar tonometer and calibrated to the average
      brachial pressure. Waveforms will be processed with dedicated software (SphygmoCor® version
      7, AtCor). The software will be used to calculate an averaged radial artery waveform and to
      derive a corresponding central aortic pressure. Aortic pressure waveforms will be subjected
      to further analysis by the SphygmoCor® software to identify the time to the peak/shoulder of
      the first and second pressure wave components (T1, T2) during systole. The pressure at the
      peak/shoulder of the first component sill be identified as P1 height (outgoing pressure wave)
      and the pressure difference between P1 and the maximal pressure during systole (∆P or
      augmentation) will be identified as the reflected pressure wave occurring during systole.
      Augmentation index (AIx), defined as the ratio of augmentation to central pulse pressure,
      will be expressed as the percentage: AIx = (∆P/PP) x 100, where P is pressure and PP is pulse
      pressure. Pulse pressure amplification (PPA) will be expressed as the ratio of central pulse
      pressure (CPP) to peripheral (brachial) pulse pressure (PPP): PPA = PPP/CPP

      Information will be recorded and the patients will be followed by their respective
      cardiologists and evaluated for recurrence of atrial fibrillation within 6 months.

      Primary endpoint for this study is clinical recurrence of atrial fibrillation or 6 month time
      frame of sustained maintenance of sinus rhythm whichever comes first.
    
  