
    
      The paranasal sinuses are within the bones of the face and head. Six paired sinuses are
      present in humans, and although their exact function is a topic for debate, they appear to
      play several roles ranging from cushioning the brain during trauma to increasing resonance of
      the voice and releasing nitric oxide to help with lung physiology. The sinuses are lined with
      a layer of respiratory epithelium that normally secretes a small amount of mucus to keep the
      sinuses lubricated and contains cilia to help sweep away debris. Rhinosinusitis occurs when
      this lining gets infected or irritated which can lead to excessive mucus production and
      impaired mucus drainage. It is a very prevalent condition affecting up to 16% of the
      population and is the fifth most common diagnosis generating an antibiotic prescription1,2.

      Chronic rhinosinusitis without polyposis (CRSsP) is characterized by persistent symptoms of
      nasal congestion, mucus discharge from the nose, facial pain or anosmia for at least three
      months. Unlike acute rhinosinusitis, which is usually caused by infection, CRSsP can have
      more elusive causes and can be profoundly more complicated.3 Due to the challenging nature of
      CRS, physicians often use a variety of treatment strategies against it.3 Potential treatments
      for CRSsP include lifestyle modifications (quitting smoking, reduce allergen exposure, etc.),
      nasal saline irrigations, nasal corticosteroid spray or irrigations, antibiotics and surgery.
      Typically, there is a stepwise fashion to the therapy offered to patients whereby the more
      aggressive or invasive modalities are reserved for those who did not benefit from simpler
      approaches. Even despite all these regimens there is a small subset of patients who continue
      to fare poorly. One thought toward the reason for this centers on the frequent presence of
      biofilms within the sinuses of recalcitrant CRSsP patients.4

      Biofilms have been reported in CRS populations for a decade now by a number of authors.4,5
      Furthermore, their presence has been linked to more severe disease both pre and
      post-operatively. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization investigators have been able to
      identify staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) and Haemophilus influenza (H. influenza) as the
      most common biofilm-forming organisms.5 In fact, H. influenza biofilms seem to be more common
      in milder patterns of CRS, whereas S. aureus biofilms are present in more severe, refractory
      forms of the disease.5 A very recently published study demonstrated colloidal silver directly
      attenuating S. aureus biofilms in vitro and herein lays the premise of our study.6

      Interest in colloidal silver, a commercially available naturopathic product, was sparked
      after clinical improvements were seen in a number of recalcitrant CRS patients who sprayed
      the agent intranasally. Silver has long been used for its bactericidal properties, as it is
      one of the most toxic elements to microorganisms.7 Silver-impregnated dressings and catheters
      are currently used in the treatment of burns, ulcers and chronic wounds. Clear advantages of
      silver over modern antibiotics include broad spectrum activity against Gram-positive and
      Gram-negative organisms, fungi, protozoa and some viruses as well as the general absence of
      resistance developing in a number of bacterial species.7,8 In addition, silver has been shown
      to have activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilm development.9

      The main reasons colloidal silver fell out of use as an antiseptic are due in large part to
      the advent of antibiotics, uncertain safety, and the production of argyria on ingestion10.
      Although it is not yet known which dose of silver is required to cause argyria, all case
      reports to date are following excessive daily consumption of the element over a period of
      years10,11. Topical application of silver has been reported to cause localized argyria
      whereas systemic toxicity is generally the result of longstanding oral intake12. Argyria is
      more or less a benign condition characterized by a slate-grey metallic appearance of the
      skin. Apart from skin discoloration, extreme cases of systemic silver toxicity can be
      associated with thrombocytopenia, abnormal clotting, renal impairment, proteinuria, and
      neurological symptoms such as seizures, loss of coordination and sensory loss12. All of these
      possible side effects are exceedingly rare and are not expected to be an issue in this study.
      There is, however, a possibility that there might be localized pigmentation of the nasal
      mucosa, of which there are no significant consequences13.

      Our goal with this project is to test whether topical silver colloid is a feasible treatment
      option for patients with refractory CRS. With the recent publication of a proof of mechanism
      study6, the investigators are looking to extend the same notion into a proof of concept
      investigation. The investigators propose taking twenty volunteer patients with recalcitrant
      CRS and trial randomized to a course of daily intranasal silver colloid for 6 weeks followed
      by saline, or vice versa. Pre and post-treatment measurements will be taken using validated
      scoring systems for CRS patients14-16. These include the Sino-Nasal Outcome Test (SNOT-22)14,
      Lund-Kennedy score15 and the Smell Identification Test16, which examine quality of life
      indices, endoscopic assessments and sense of smell, respectively. Should the results of this
      preliminary study be in favor of silver colloid use in CRS patients the investigator should
      look into arranging a formal Randomized-Controlled Clinical Trial.
    
  