
    
      Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a degenerative condition affecting the macula or
      central area of the retina in elderly people. Early AMD is marked by the presence of soft
      drusen and/or retinal pigment abnormality (hyper- and hypopigmentation). Late AMD includes 2
      forms, nonneovascular (dry) AMD and neovascular (wet) AMD. Despite new medical and surgical
      interventions, AMD remains a leading cause of vision loss in elderly people all over the
      world.

      Ranibizumab is one of the most effective approaches of AMD management. Ranibizumab - a
      recombinant, humanized, monoclonal antibody Fab that neutralizes all active forms of vascular
      endothelial growth factor A (VEGF A) - has been evaluated for the treatment of AMD.
      Ranibizumab binds to the receptor binding site of active forms of VEGF-A. VEGF-A cause
      neovascularization and leakage in models of ocular angiogenesis and vascular occlusion, and
      is thought to contribute to the progression of neovascular AMD and macular edema following
      RVO. Prevents the interaction of VEGF-A with its receptors (VEGFR1 and VEGFR2) on the surface
      of endothelial cells, reducing endothelial cell proliferation, vascular leakage, and new
      blood vessel formation.

      There have been a number of studies that have examined a possible association between
      ranibizumab and arterial thromboembolic events (ATE). The ATE rate in the three controlled
      neovascular AMD studies during the first year was 1.9% (17 out of 874; 0.3-0.5 mg LUCENTIS)
      vs 1.1% (5 out of 441) in control arms (AMD-1, AMD-2). In the second year the ATE rate was
      2.6% (1323 patients; Lucentis 879) vs Control 444 (p < 0.05). The ATE rate in the two
      controlled RVO studies (RVO-1, RVO-2) during the first six months was 0.8% (789 patients;
      Lucentis 527 vs Sham 262).

      The investigators assume that ranibizumab can be rather dangerous in patients with history of
      coronary artery disease or cerebrovascular events. The main objective of study is to reveal
      contraindications for ranibizumab prescription in patients with history of coronary artery
      disease and cerebrovascular events. Moreover, an association between management with
      ranibizumab and ATE rate in healthy above 50 years old persons is a concern of great interest
      as well.
    
  