
    
      Cardiovascular disease accounts for more than 50% of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) deaths.
      The reported cardiovascular death rates in patients receiving dialysis are substantially
      higher than in the general population. Cardiovascular mortality in ESRD is particularly high
      after acute myocardial infarction, but it is also elevated in ESRD patients with other forms
      of atherosclerotic vascular disease (eg, chronic coronary artery disease, strokes, transient
      ischemic attacks, and peripheral arterial disease). Left ventricular hypertrophy and dilation
      are associated with increased cardiovascular mortality, as is congestive heart failure. One
      of the major reasons for such high cardiovascular mortality in ESRD is the large burden of
      cardiovascular disease present in patients with chronic artery disease before renal
      replacement therapy.

      SGLT2 inhibitors have demonstrated benefits in reduction of major adverse cardiac events and
      heart failure hospitalisation in phase 3 randomised controlled trials. In addition, several
      recent clinical publications have also indicated renal benefits in patients with chronic
      renal impairment (eGFR >30ml/min).

      The primary SGLT2 inhibition predominantly occurs at the proximal tubules of kidneys. The
      mechanistic benefits postulated (other than serum glucose lowering) included SGL2i mediated
      naturesis and glucosuria. Independent of this class's effects at the renal level, SGL2i
      possibly affect cardiac metabolism (in animal studies), with reverse adverse cardiac
      remodelling by switching myocardial substrate utilization from glucose toward oxidation of
      fatty acids, ketone bodies and branch-chained amino acids. Such improvement in cardiac
      metabolism may attenuate myocardial ischemia, improve cardiac haemodynamics and reduce
      overall cardiac mortality, either independent of or synergistic with SGLT2 inhibition at the
      kidney level.

      Currently, there is a gap in knowledge and paucity of safety, efficacy and clinical outcomes
      data for the use of SGLT2 inhibitors in patients who are undergoing haemodialysis for end
      stage renal disease and established ASCVD.

      This study aims to study SGLT2 inhibitors in this population and examine the safety and
      clinical outcomes, consisting of a composite of non-fatal stroke, non-fatal myocardial
      infarction, or cardiovascular death as the primary outcome. The key secondary composite
      outcome was all cause death or hospitalization for unstable angina.
    
  