
    
      This is a retrospective analysis of the prospective multicenter, observational "HEPAVIR
      HEPATIC SAFETY Cohort" (NCT01908660), in which the hepatic safety of the three-drug
      combination TDF/FTC/RPV will be assessed. A total of 176 patients will be included in this
      study, as well as 352 patients naive for RPV who initiated any ART that does not include RPV,
      who will serve as control group.

      The main objective is to evaluate the incidence of grade 3 or 4 transaminase elevations or
      grade 4 total bilirubin elevations (hepatic toxicity) during the first 48 weeks of
      antiretroviral therapy with the combination of rilpivirine (25mg), tenofovir (245mg) and
      emtricitabine (200mg), in a single-tablet regimen (Eviplera®) in human immunodeficiency virus
      (HIV)/hepatitis C virus (HCV)-coinfected subjects.

      Variables collected within in the cohort:

        -  Demographic variable: age, sex.

        -  Variables related to hepatitis C virus-infection: infection route, genotype, grade of
           hepatic fibrosis and method used for its determination, baseline Child-Pugh index in
           patients with cirrhosis, previous hepatic decompensations.

        -  Variables related to HIV-infection: CDC clinical category, HIV viral load, CD4 cell
           count, previous and new antiretroviral drugs.

        -  Blood test: AST, ALT platelets, cholesterol, bilirubin, gamma-glutamyltransferase,
           alkaline phosphatase, creatinine.

        -  Other variables: alcohol intake, self-reported adverse events, abnormal clinical
           findings.

        -  Cause of discontinuing antiviral when applicable.

      Endpoints

        1. Primary endpoint: Emergence of grade 3-4 TEs/grade 4 TBEs (hepatic toxicity) from
           baseline to week 48.

        2. Secondary endpoints

             -  Emergence of hepatic adverse events.

             -  Drug interruptions due to liver toxicity.

             -  Development of hepatic decompensations.

             -  CD4 and viral load changes from baseline to week 48.
    
  