
    
      Recent evidence about the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of aminoglycosides strongly
      supports administration of aminoglycosides before, rather than after, hemodialysis.
      Therapeutic drug monitoring using pharmacokinetic modeling is currently used in
      non-hemodialysis patients. However, the PK tools employed are not suitable to dialysis
      patients.

      For aminoglycosides, the ratio of peak to Minimal Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) has been
      shown to be the parameter that best correlates with clinical efficacy, whilst prolonged
      exposure to high concentrations have been related to either nephrotoxicity or ototoxicity.
      Additionally, aminoglycosides are mostly excreted as unchanged drugs in urine and their
      clearance is directly proportional to the glomerular filtration rate. The elimination
      half-life of aminoglycosides is approximately 1.5-3 hours in adults with normal renal
      function, but is greatly prolonged up to 36-70 hours in patients with end-stage renal
      failure. In a standard patient, aminoglycosides are administered as a single dose, over a
      short time interval, to obtain an elevated blood peak concentration (the effective level).
      The next injection is not administered before 24 hours, to allow the patient to wash out the
      aminoside and to minimize the residual blood concentration (the toxic level). The aim here is
      to maximize the peak concentration during a fair amount of time (by repeating the peaks) and
      to minimize the overall drug exposure, responsible for the toxicity.

      For the renal impaired patient, our hypothesis is that the hemodialyzer can be regarded as a
      kidney. Thus, the administration of the aminoside at the beginning of the hemodialysis could
      lead to profiles of elimination comparable to those observed in normorenal patients.

      The research aims at performing a population pharmacokinetic (POPPK) study of gentamicin when
      given to hemodialysis patients.
    
  