
    
      Background: Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a common mental health disorder after
      natural disasters. Without treatment survivors of earthquake would continue suffering from
      PTSD for many years. There are not many short-term trauma-focused psychosocial therapies that
      have been examined after natural disasters in developing countries. This study investigates
      the effectiveness of a 4-session revised narrative exposure therapy (NET-R), and 2-session
      group-based control-focused behavioural treatment (CFBT-R) delivered by non-specialists with
      minimum supervision.

      Methods/Design: Participants would be identified and recruited through a door-to-door survey
      of families severely affected by the 2015 earthquake in Bhaktpur municipality of Nepal. PTSD
      Checklist for DSM-5 (PCL-5) will be used to screen all adult survivors (aged 18 and above)
      for the possible presence of PTSD, and the CAPS-5 interview will be used for the diagnosis of
      current PTSD. Investigators aim to include 240 consenting participants in a single blind
      randomised controlled clinical trial. All participants will be randomly allocated to one of
      three treatment conditions (N = 80 each): 4-session revised narrative exposure therapy
      (NET-R), 2-session group-based control-focused behavioural treatment (CFBT-R) involving
      instructions to conduct self-exposure, or a 3-month waiting list. In both NET-R and CFBT-R
      interventions, treatment sessions will last 90 minutes; NET-R will be delivered within a week
      while CFBT-R will be done over 2 weeks. All participants will be subjected to blind
      assessments for PTSD symptom severity with CAPS-5 and Fear and Avoidance questionnaire at
      pre-treatment (T0) and 3-month post-treatment (T1).

      Discussion: The results from the post-treatment measurement would provide strong empirical
      reference of the safety and effectiveness of trauma-focused short-term therapies (NET-R and
      CFBT-R) for mass trauma survivors in developing countries like Nepal. It may also provide
      information on who may benefit most from which type of intervention.
    
  