
    
      Participants will sign an informed consent to continue treatment for pulmonary arterial
      hypertension (PAH) with esuberaprost sodium tablets in this OLE study. At the Enrollment
      Visit for this OLE study, participants will begin a blinded transition from the
      BPS-314d-MR-PAH-302 double-blind study to this study over 4 weeks. The first dose for all
      participants in this OLE study will be 2 tablets. During this blinded transition, those
      participants on active study drug in the BPS-314d-MR-PAH-302 study will continue with blinded
      active study drug 4-times daily (QID); those participants who were on placebo study drug will
      receive 1 active tablet and 1 placebo tablet QID (blinded) during the first 2 weeks and
      increase to 2 active tablets QID (blinded) thereafter. After the first dose, the Investigator
      may adjust the dose as medically warranted. The maximum dose for this study is 30 microgram
      (μg) QID with a minimum accepted dose as 15 μg QID. For the first 4 weeks, contact with the
      participant should occur weekly to ensure up-titration to the fixed dose is tolerated and
      assess adverse events (AEs).

      Participants will return to the clinic at Week 4 to be supplied open-label esuberaprost
      sodium tablets and complete protocol specified procedures. At the Week 4 Visit, participants
      will be dosed with two 15 μg tablets (30 μg total), administered orally QID (provided the
      target dose is tolerated), or follow the Investigator's (or designee's) directions if
      adjustment is needed. Following the Week 4 Visit, each participant will return to the clinic
      at Months 3, 6, 9, and 12, and quarterly thereafter for assessments.

      This study is expected to continue until the first of any of the following are reached: the
      study drug is commercially available, the Sponsor discontinues the study, or the Sponsor
      offers enrollment in another study (estimated to be up to 2 years). At the conclusion of the
      study or if a participant discontinues the study prematurely, participants will return to the
      clinic for an End-of-Study (EOS) Visit. Participants will be provided instructions about down
      titration off esuberaprost sodium tablets by the Investigator.
    
  