
    
      3.1 Screening and Eligibility Assessment Study investigators will identify eligible
      participants within 72 hours of expected discharge from hospital. Eligibility will be
      determined using the criteria outlined which incorporates the Post-COVID-19 Functional Status
      (PCFS) Scale, a tool which has been developed and endorsed by the European Respiratory
      Society to measure functional status over time following COVID-19 infection. Patients graded
      2, 3 or 4 on the PCFS will be eligible for participation. Eligible patients will be provided
      with a detailed explanation of the study including the provision of written information
      (PIS). Patients will be given time to consider participation in the research study before
      being approached again by the research team.

      If the patient expresses an interest in study participation the research team will invite
      participants to a baseline data collection session that will be held at the University of
      Derby in the days following discharge.

      3.2 Assessments: Upon enrolment, admission clinical data and the results of investigations
      undertaken as part of the participants' usual care, before study enrolment will be collected,
      as outlined below. In the days following discharge (2 +/- 2 days) participants will complete
      a baseline assessments and measurements, outlined below and in the schedule of procedures.

      At days 14, 42, 70, 98 (+/- 2 days) participants will conduct a consultation via telephone
      where all scales and questionnaires completed at baseline will be repeated (see the schedule
      of procedures outlined below). The total duration of these consultations' will be 15 minutes
      each time.

      At Days 28, 56, 84, 112, 140 and 168 (+/- 2 days) participants will be attend a face to face
      appointment at the University of Derby's Human Performance Unit where physiological,
      biological, cognitive, and patient-reported outcome measures will be completed (see the
      schedule of procedures outlined below).

      Where face to face or telephone consultations fall over a weekend (Saturday or Sunday) these
      will be arranged to occur on either the Friday before or Monday after, as convenient for the
      participant, but not more than 2 days away from the original date. The total duration of
      these research assessments will be 60 minutes per visit. All follow up appointments will be
      confirmed one week before the scheduled date via telephone/e-mail consultation. Acting as a
      reminder and to confirm the availability of the patient.

      Schedule of Procedures

      3.2.1 Baseline Clinical Data: Data collected will include demographics, the pre-admission
      symptoms, pre-admission therapy, pre-admission exercise tolerance and performance status
      (retrospective assessment by the patient and/or representative 6 weeks preceding admission)
      level of educational attainment, past-medical history, time and route of admission, and
      in-hospital routine physiological observations (including heart rate, blood pressure, oxygen
      saturation, respiratory rate and temperature). To ensure consistent recording of data across
      participants, we will collect the first set of physiological observations taken at / closest
      to 08.00 am on the morning of discharge.

      3.2.2 Routine Clinical Investigations: The results of clinical investigations routinely
      performed during the participants' hospital admission, including those performed before study
      enrolment, will be collected including; blood parameters on admission to hospital full blood
      count (FBC), d-dimers, ferritin and Interleukin 6 (IL-6) Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). If a
      radiological investigation was performed, the first investigation following admission will be
      recorded.

      3.2.3 Post-COVID-19 Functional Status (PCFS) Scale The Post-COVID-19 Functional Status (PCFS)
      Scale will be assessed upon discharge from the hospital and during each face to face visit to
      monitor direct recovery and to assess functional sequelae. The PCFS will evaluate the
      ultimate consequences of COVID-19 on functional status and supplement other instruments that
      measure quality of life, tiredness, or dyspnoea in the acute phase. The PCFS covers the full
      spectrum of functional outcomes and focuses on both limitations in usual duties/activities
      and changes in lifestyle in six scale grades. Briefly grade 0 reflects the absence of any
      functional limitation, and the death of a patient is recorded in grade D. Upward of grade 1,
      symptoms, pain or anxiety are present to an increasing degree. This has no effect on
      activities for patients in grade 1, whereas a lower intensity of the activities is required
      for those in grade 2. Grade 3 accounts for inability to perform certain activities forcing
      patients to structurally modify these. Finally, grade 4 is reserved for those patients with
      severe functional limitations requiring assistance with activities of daily living (ADL).

      3.2.3 Biomarkers: In-line with the outlined biomarkers in section 3.2.1, participants will
      have a serum sample taken for the measurement of inflammatory and metabolic biomarkers,
      including full blood count (to determine neutrophil leukocyte ratio (NLR) and the polymorph
      lymphocyte ratio (PLR), C-reactive protein (CRP), ferritin, d-dimers, ferritin and
      Interleukin 6 will be at discharge (Day 0). These samples are in addition to those collected
      during routine clinical care. Blood will be aliquoted, frozen, and stored for batch testing
      of biomarkers. These biomarkers have been selected because it has previously been
      demonstrated to correlate with a persistent reduction in quality of life scores. Participants
      will be asked to provide permission for the retention of these samples and consent for their
      use in future COVID-19 research studies.

      3.2.4 Quality of Life: The EQ-5D-5L is routinely used in the assessment of the quality of
      life in respiratory research and is available in more than 130 languages (EQ-5D-5L, Appendix
      XX). It comprises five dimensions (previously 3): mobility, self-care, usual activities,
      pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Each dimension has five levels: no problems, slight
      problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems.

      3.2.5 Lung and Respiratory Muscle Function: Full lung function tests including FEV1 (forced
      expiratory volume at one second), FVC (forced vital capacity), PEFR (peak expiratory flow
      rate), flow-volume curves, MIP (maximal inspiratory pressure) and MEP (maximum expiratory
      pressure) will be measured at the hospital visits conducted at Day 0, all subsequent follow
      up appointments. These spirometry measurements will be conducted by a suitably qualified
      individual, proficient in the use of the specific equipment and according to published
      standards.

      3.2.6 Symptom Profile: Symptom profile will be measured twice at the discharge assessment
      (Day 0), to capture a) retrospective assessment by the patient of their symptom status 6
      weeks before admission (essentially their baseline symptoms before acute illness or
      admission), and b) their current symptom status at the point of discharge from hospital), and
      once at each subsequent weekly follow-up contact (either hospital visit or telephone
      consultation).

      Fatigue is a common complaint in patients recovering from an acute respiratory infection and
      is not adequately captured in general quality of life or specific recovery questionnaires.
      Participants will complete 2 separate measures of fatigue at discharge (Day 0) and each
      subsequent follow-up contact; (A) the Fatigue Assessment Scale (FAS), a self-reported
      questionnaire validated to assess presence and severity of fatigue; and (B) MFI-20. A 20 item
      self-reported questionnaire assessing fatigue across five aspects.

      The Medical Research Council (MRC) Dyspnoea Scale (MRC) is a measure to grade the effect of
      breathlessness on the person's daily activities. The MRC is simple to administer and is a
      short 1-5 stage scale (1 item) and allows the person to state the extent to which their
      breathlessness affects their mobility.

      3.2.7 Cognition: The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) will be conducted at discharge (Day
      0) and again at Day 168. To reduce the impact of learning effect 2 distinct versions of the
      MoCA will be used as recommended by the developers, one at point of discharge, and repeat
      assessment at 168-day follow-up. To allow accurate interpretation, highest educational
      level/attainment will be recorded during the data collection phase of the study (before
      discharge).

      3.2.8 Functional Status: Two different assessments of lower extremity functional capacity
      will be conducted at each visit these are (A) the 6-minute walk test (6MWT) and (B) the timed
      up and go test (TUG). The 6MWT is a standardised and widely used measure of functional status
      in individuals with chronic disease such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic
      fibrosis, congestive cardiac failure, peripheral vascular disease, and elderly. It has been
      previously used to assess response to interventions and predict morbidity and mortality.
      Participants will be given a shortened practice attempt (1-2 minutes) at the beginning of
      each of their assessment visits. This will not be recorded but will be performed to allow
      familiarisation with the assessment and repeated at each visit for consistency.

      The TUG is reliable and reproducible and has been validated as a predictor of frailty and
      risk of falls in elderly adults. The TUG has several advantages over other measures, mainly
      its reproducibility and shorter assessment time. Its use at predicting functional status
      following pneumonia has not been assessed previously.

      Participants will also be asked to self-report their return to functional activity and
      employment at each contact with the research team (telephone consultations and follow-up
      visits.) Each participant will be asked at each contact with the research team if they have
      returned to perform their activities of daily living to the same level as 6 weeks before
      admission, and if they have returned to their occupation (if employed.) The patient-reported
      date of return to these activities will also be recorded.

      3.2.10 Sleep Behaviour: Participants will complete the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI).
      The PSQI is a self-report measure to assess sleep quality over a 4 week in period, throughout
      the intervention. The measure consists of 19 individual items, with a 0-3 interval scale and
      creates 7 components that produce one global score. The PSQI is reliable and valid in the
      assessment of sleep problems.

      3.2.11 Patient Experiences of COVID-19 Recovery Patient experiences of their recovery will be
      recorded via a free text weekly diary. Patients will be asked to provide free-text details
      about their experience throughout the week and to highlight any perceived changes in their
      symptom profile, recovery, and quality of life.

      3.4 Description of Statistical Method: Statistical analysis will be supervised by Dr Emma
      Sharpe at the University of Derby and conducted using SPSS version 26. This study is a
      prospective observational cohort study, designed to identify suitable tools and measures
      across different domains for assessing patient recovery from COVID-19. Descriptive statistics
      will be calculated for all outcomes of interest. These will be presented as proportions and
      means with standard deviations or medians with interquartile ranges, depending on the
      distribution of data. Data will be collected at baseline and via face to face visits
      occurring every 28 days (days 28, 56, 84 and 112) which will be interspersed with telephone
      consultations, again occurring each 28 days (days 42, 70 and 98). Categorical data will be
      assessed using Chi-squared tests, whilst continuous outcome data will be analysed using
      Independent samples t-test or Mann-Whitney U test depending on the distribution. All
      qualitative components will be grouped collated upon study completion and analysed using
      Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis (IPA) in accordance with the methods proposed by
      Smith, Flowers and Larkin (2009).
    
  