
    
      The human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER) family including HER1 (also known as EGFR),
      HER2, HER3 and HER4 (also known as ErbB2, ErbB3, and ErbB4 respectively) is an important
      receptor family for the development of many malignancies. HER3 is overexpressed in breast,
      lung, gastric, head and neck, and ovarian cancer and melanoma and its overexpression is
      associated with poor prognosis. Because of the negligible tyrosine kinase function of HER3,
      it is typically present in heterodimers with HER1 or HER2, through which downstream signaling
      occurs involving extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 and AKT. In breast cancer,
      HER3 is associated with resistance to anti-HER2 therapeutics. HER3 is also one of several
      important causes of endocrine resistance in breast cancer.

      A HER3 specific cancer vaccine that induces polyclonal antibody and T cell responses can
      provide long term anti-HER3 immune responses and potentially prevent the emergence of
      resistant clones. In addition to the long term protection afforded by vaccination, polyclonal
      immune responses to a target protein may offer additional benefits. It has been established
      that the binding of multiple antibodies to different epitopes is more efficient than a single
      monoclonal antibody in mediating receptor internalization. Additionally, T cell responses
      induced by vaccination are also a potent mechanism of tumor rejection in numerous animal
      studies and the adoptive transfer of T cells in human clinical trials has shown clinical
      efficacy. Although HER3 is expressed on a number of normal tissues, and is only rarely
      mutated in cancers, it remains an attractive immunotherapeutic target as it is not abundant
      on the cell surface in normal cells, tumor cells may have higher levels of membrane-bound
      HER3, and HER3 peptides are presented on the cell surface by MHC complexes for presentation
      to T cells.

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety of immunization with pING-hHER3
      in patients with advanced or metastatic solid tumor malignancies. The study will also monitor
      immune responses to HER3 and preliminary data on survival and tumor response rate will be
      collected.
    
  