
    
      · Background

      During human gestation, fetal membranes (the "water bag") encompass the amnion, facing the
      amniotic cavity, and the chorion, lining the maternal decidua and comprising trophoblast
      cells. Membranes usually remain intact until their spontaneous rupture, close to the first
      stage of labor at term. Often seen as a simple inert shell, with a role of "airbag" for the
      developing fetus, the membranes provide yet a large surface of interaction between maternal
      and fetal tissues and function as a transient endocrine organ with immune properties. Indeed
      human parturition is tightly correlated with hormonal changes at the maternal-fetal interface
      during pregnancy, that may control cell interactions and chorio-decidua remodeling, the
      amnion remaining usually intact until the final break. Precocious remodeling may lead to a
      premature onset of labor, associated or not with premature rupture of membrane whether the
      cause is infectious or not. A better understanding of this membrane remodeling may thus offer
      new avenues to define biomarkers of preterm labor.

      Hereof, the fact that the mother-to-be accepts and keeps the fetus for months within her womb
      has long being seen as an enigma, since the fetus is a semi-allograft, half of his genome
      being of paternal, thus of foreign, origin. This apparent paradox was deciphered by the
      demonstration of the set-up of an immunotolerance at the site of implantation through the
      education of maternal immune cells (Natural Killer and T cells) by the fetal trophoblast.
      This immunotolerance is normally maintained throughout pregnancy, and some recurrent
      spontaneous miscarriages have been shown to be due to the loss of this immunotolerance, which
      activates the rejection of the semi-allograft.

      In this regard, remodeled fetal membranes overlying the cervix may discharge signals that
      could be detectable in cervicovaginal fluids and serve as biomarkers of the imminence of
      delivery. Such information on delivery timing may be of great importance for an adequate
      prediction that would change drastically the management of threatening preterm delivery.

      · Current proposal The objective of this study is to characterize the fetal and maternal
      cells in the chorio-decidua during the remodeling of the membranes using our well-established
      cell model (Hervé et al. 2008, J Immunol).
    
  