
    
      The IMAGINE study is a double-blind, placebo controlled, parallel group, randomized,
      multi-centre international study conducted in patients who have undergone CABG. The research
      protocol was approved by the ethics committee of all participating institutions, and all
      patients gave written informed consent. The data were collected and analysed by an
      independent clinical research organization.

      Patients were screened for eligibility and randomized in hospital within seven days
      post-CABG, except for France where randomization could occur within ten days post-CABG.
      Starting November 6, 2001, given the increasing evidence of benefit of ACE inhibitors in
      patients with diabetes and renal disease,14 all patients requiring insulin or with type II
      diabetes and micro-albuminuria were no longer eligible for the study. Those already in the
      trial were treated according to the clinical judgement of the treating physician.

      Of patients screened in 57 sites in Canada, the Netherlands, Belgium or France, 2 553
      patients (approximately 5 percent of patients screened) were randomized post-operatively to
      quinapril either 10 or 20 mg, or to placebo. Randomization was done centrally, was
      un-stratified, block-based, and computer generated. If tolerated, patients were up-titrated
      to 40 mg of quinapril or its placebo equivalent within hospital, or if not tolerated, later
      post-hospital discharge. Patients were followed for twenty-four months at which time they
      were invited to continue until 43 months of follow-up, or withdrawn if they did not wish to
      extend their participation in the trial.

      The original primary endpoint consisted of time to first occurrence of any of the composite
      of cardiovascular death or resuscitated cardiac arrest, nonfatal myocardial infarction,
      coronary revascularization, unstable angina requiring hospitalization and documented angina
      not requiring hospitalization. On January 14, 2003, the Steering Committee concluded that the
      required number of endpoints would likely not be reached without modification of the primary
      endpoint. Stroke and congestive heart failure requiring hospitalization were thus added to
      the primary endpoint and sample-size was increased to 2 500 patients.

      The secondary endpoints included, 1) time to first occurrence of the following composite of
      cardiovascular death or resuscitated cardiac arrest, nonfatal myocardial infarction, coronary
      revascularization or stroke; 2) incidence of any of the above mentioned secondary endpoints;
      3) time to first occurrence of the composite primary endpoint with the addition of the
      following: transient ischemic attack, and any cardiovascular event requiring hospitalization;
      4) incidence of any secondary endpoints included in #3; and 5) time to occurrence of death
      from any cause. All endpoints were adjudicated in a blinded fashion by an endpoint committee,
      based on pre-defined definitions for each endpoint.
    
  