
    
      This study aims to investigate benefits to the use of quadratus lumborum nerve blocks for
      laparoscopic myomectomies. Outcomes measured will be analgesic efficacy, incidence of
      post-operative events, patient satisfaction and narcotic usage.

      Once a patient meets eligibility criteria and has consented to enter the study, randomization
      will be performed by the concealed envelope method. If chosen to be in the intervention
      group, a regional-trained anesthesiologist will perform the procedure, different from the
      intra-operative anesthesiologist. The control group will receive a superficial needle stick
      in the same location the quadratus lumborum block would have been otherwise placed.

      Pre-operative protocol:

      No premedications will be given while in the pre-operative waiting area. A member of the
      study group will randomly chose a concealed envelope indicating whether the patient will be
      in the control or intervention group.

      Intraoperative protocol:

      All patients will have standard ASA monitoring including: continuous electrocardiography,
      non-invasive blood pressure, percutaneous oxygen saturation, end-tidal carbon dioxide
      measurements, and heart rate.

      Induction of general anesthesia and endotracheal intubation will be performed with propofol
      1-2mg/kg and fentanyl 100 mcg. Dexamethasone 10mg IV will be administered for all patients
      for post-operative nausea risk reduction.

      Maintenance of general anesthesia with be performed with sevoflurane 2-3% inhalation.
      Rocuronium 0.8-1 mg/kg intravenously will be administered for muscle relaxation.

      After the patient is intubated and hemodynamically stable, the quadratus lumborum block
      procedure will be performed under ultrasound guidance by the regional trained
      anesthesiologist. First, a pillow or rolled blanket will be placed under the patient's hip
      for a semi-lateral position. 30 mL of 0.25% ropivacaine will be administered on both the
      right and left sides with a 20 gauge, 4 inch ultrasound needle using a SonoSite ultrasound
      machine with a linear transducer probe. The tip of the ultrasound needle will be placed
      posterior to the quadratus lumborum muscle (QL2) made in the plane between the quadratus
      lumborum muscle and thoracolumbar fascia.

      After performing the block, intra-operative fentanyl administration will be at the discretion
      of the intraoperative anesthesiologist. On surgical closure, acetaminophen 1000 mg IV and
      ketorolac 15mg IV will be administered. No long acting opioids (eg hydromorphone, morphine)
      will be given intra-operatively. Ondansetron 4mg IV will be administered for post-operative
      nausea risk reduction. Sugammadex 2 mg/kg will be administered for reversal of neuromuscular
      blockade. Extubation will be performed by the intra-operative anesthesiologist.

      Post-operative Protocol:

      Patients will be asked their pain scores at rest and with movement at the designated time
      intervals: Arrival to PACU (t=0), 1 hr, 2hr, 3hr, and at PACU discharge. Severity of pain
      will be on a 10-point Numeric Rating Scale (NRS 0 = no pain, NRS 10 = worst imaginable pain).

      A worksheet will be given to the patient at discharge and the patient will fill out her pain
      score 6 hours, 24 hours, and 48 hours after surgery. Nursing staff will ask and record pain
      scores while in the PACU in the electronic medical system. A study member will make phone
      calls home after PACU discharge to collect data from the patient.

      While in the PACU, all patients will be ordered for intravenous fentanyl 25 mcg for mild
      pain, fentanyl 50 mcg for moderate pain, fentanyl 100 mcg for severe pain.

      Patients will be ordered for oxycodone PO 5mg for mild pain, oxycodone PO 10mg for moderate
      pain, oxycodone PO 15 mg for severe pain while in the recovery room.

      All patients will be discharged home with the same prescription of oxycodone 5mg, one pill
      every 4 hours as needed. All patients will be instructed to take acetaminophen 650mg every 6
      hours by mouth for the first 24 hours (6 doses, total 2,600 mg for 24 hours) as needed.

      It is currently not the standard of care to place these regional anesthesia nerve blocks, but
      we do think they offer great value and are hoping to produce results which will change what
      the standard of care entails.
    
  