
    
      The incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus is increasing annually, in all pediatric age
      groups, especially among infants and toddlers.

      However, only 30% of diabetic children manage to achieve and maintain glycated hemoglobin A1c
      (HbA1c) levels below 8%, although most are treated by intensive insulin therapy by multiple
      daily injections (MDI) or by subcutaneous continuous insulin infusion (SCII). The presence of
      high HbA1c levels increase the probability for long term complications of diabetes, as
      retinopathy, nephropathy and neuropathy.

      This failure is attributed to multiple reasons; irregular meals, unpredictable physical
      activity, behavioral difficulties, refusal to accept the diabetes and maintain the required
      lifestyle, resistance to insulin, but , most of all fear of hypoglycemia and hypoglycemia
      unawareness . Further more, recurrent hypoglycemic episodes under the age of 6 years old may
      cause neurocognitive permanent damage.

      Recently, devices for real-time continuous glucose monitoring (RT-CGMS) have been introduced
      to aid self management of glycemic control. These devices enable the patients to see the
      interstitial glucose levels continuously, the trends of decrement and increment, and to have
      alarms prior to a severe hypoglycemic episode .

      Only few studies were performed in the pediatric population. One showed a decrement of 0.27%
      in HbA1c after 1 month and the other a 1 % decrement in 50% of study population after 3
      months, but in the adult population. A study performed in the minority group of well
      controlled diabetic patients (HA1c<7.5%) demonstrated an increment of 1.56 hours per day of
      normoglycemia, and less time spent an hypoglycemia among those using RT-CGMS for 26 weeks.

      However, those studies were performed in chosen groups and motivated patients, in a state of
      research with multiple clinic visits and reminders. Those studies do not always reflect the
      real life benefit of the equipment and its best usage method.

      The RT-CGMS was approved in Israel for routine usage in the pediatric population, 0-18 years
      in 2011, indicated for those with recurrent hypoglycemic episodes.

      The aim of our study

        -  to examine prospectively the short and long term effect of the RT-CGMS routine usage, in
           daily routine life of the diabetic toddler, child and adolescent on glycemic control,
           frequency of day time and nocturnal hypoglycemia and quality of life not under a
           research template.

        -  to identify the characteristics of those patients who will benefit most of the RT-CGMS
           routine usage.

        -  to identify the characteristics of those patients who will not benefit, but will even
           worsen of the RT-CGMS routine usage

      Study design:

      This is a prospective multicenter case-control cohort study. We will follow prospectively all
      patients receiving RT-CGMS as part of their routine management, for a period of 2 years, in
      five centers of pediatric diabetes care in Israel.

      All participants will receive similar guidance and instructions prior to RT-CGMS usage.

      All clinic visits, at intervals of 3 months or more will be recorded, including data
      regarding weight, height, insertion sites, blood glucose average measurements, CGMS
      measurements and variability, frequency of hypoglycemia, time spent in normoglycemia and
      HbA1c.

      Quality of Life and Anxiety questionnaires will be filled bi-annually.
    
  