
    
      Study design: Annual / Biannual cross-sectional surveillance of nasal S. aureus carriage and
      nasopharyngeal S. pneumoniae carriage in children and one of their parents.

      PICR districts: 1. Palestinian Authority (PA) - particularly: Bethlehem, Ramallah and
      Nabulus. 2. East Jerusalem (EJ) 3. Central Israel (IL) - particularly: Rishon Lezion, Bat
      Yam, Holon 4. Gaza strip (GZ) - 12 regions including cities/villages in central/northern
      Gaza.

      Study population:

      Child (age 0-5y) & Parent who attend clinics (for any reason).

      Exclusion criteria:

      Parent does not agree to sign informed consent Child or sibling (brother/sister) have already
      participated.

      Both healthy and ill children are screened. No specific exclusion other than the above.

      Only one child per family (younger child, if more than one available) and one parent (mother,
      if both are available).

      Sample size per year:

      IL: Central Israel (Hashfela District): 400 pairs of child+parent/surveillance EJ: East
      Jerusalem: 400 pairs of child+parent/surveillance PA: West Bank cities (Ramallah, Bethlehem &
      Nabulus): 600 pairs of child+parent/surveillance GZ: Gaza strip: 300 pairs of
      child+parent/surveillance

      Study Period:

      May-August annually 2009 - 2011 - (Part a). May-August biannually 2014-2016-2018-2020 Current
      study (Part b).

      Screening Procedure:

        1. Parent signs informed consent

        2. Put Barcode stickers on informed consent, questionnaire, swabs and daily list

        3. Fill questionnaire with parent.

        4. Fill physician questionnaire

        5. Nasal & nasopharyngeal swab of child and parent.

        6. Fill daily working table.

        7. Write the number of refusals (parents who refused) on daily table.

        8. Fill questionnaire FULLY (unmarked questions will not be analyzed) - put x on each
           question - whether YES or NO.

      Swabbing:

        1. First swab the child and then follow with the parent.

        2. First perform nasal swab (for S. aureus) using cotton-tip swab placed into Amies
           transport Media (Blue) and follow with nasopharyngeal swab ( for S. pneumoniae) using
           rayon-tipped aluminum shaft swab placed in Amies transport Media (Orange).

        3. Slightly wet the nasal swab with sterile saline. Swab both anterior nares.

        4. Nasopharyngeal swab of only through one nostril - gently, quickly and deep to
           nasopharynx - until you touch the nasopharyngeal wall.

      Swab transfer to lab:

      If swabs are stored overnight before transfer - keep in 40C (fridge). Within 24h swabs must
      reach the central laboratory (Dr. Regev-Yochay's Lab at Sheba Medical Center).
    
  