
    
      Multicenter randomized controlled trial comparing the standard hematoma block as the local
      anaesthetic procedure for reduction of distal forearm fracture with ultrasound guided radial
      and median nerve blocks.

      Among all dislocated fractures of the distal forearm only the true Colles' fracture can
      potentially be treated adequately with a closed reduction and a cast, while the other
      fracture types are unstable by definition and require surgical stabilization. Most dislocated
      forearm fractures, however, require a primary reduction and this procedure requires the
      patient to be relieved of pain and the muscle traction on the fracture to be minimal. The
      conventional local anaesthetic procedure used in Denmark is the hematoma block where the
      local anaesthetic agent is injected directly in the fracture. This is done using either a
      blind technique or with the aid of X-ray to visualize the fracture line. The radial and
      median nerves supply periosteal innervation for the radius and the ulna as well as muscular
      innervation for the majority of muscles in the forearm and wrist. Blocking these nerves at
      the level of the cubital fossa should relieve pain and minimize muscular traction when
      performing closed reductions on distal forearm fractures.

      The investigators hypothesize that ultrasound guided blocking of the radial and median nerves
      will improve fracture reduction satisfaction for the true Colles' fractures and improve
      analgesia for reduction of all fracture types compared to the standard haematoma block.

      Patients eligible for screening for inclusion are identified in the Emergency Department (ED)
      at all recruitment sites upon primary contact. When an X-ray has revealed the relevant
      fracture, the ED-staff will call the available anaesthesiologist or anaesthesiologist trainee
      who will perform the inclusion process and randomisation. Participants will be randomized in
      either the intervention or the control group using the online randomization tool Research
      Electronic Data Capture (REDCap, Aarhus University, Denmark). In both groups, the reduction
      process will begin 10 minutes after the block has been performed. The technique for the
      actual reduction may vary amongst physicians. To best reflect the clinical practices and to
      avoid the risk of an insufficient reduction due to the physician being forced to comply to a
      technique unfamiliar to him, no further standardisation will be made in this regard.
      Following casting of the fracture a control X-ray will be performed and subsequently
      evaluated independently by two skilled orthopaedic surgeons to establish if the reduction was
      satisfactory. In case of disputes a third orthopaedic surgeon will evaluate the X-ray and
      make a final ruling. The fracture will be deemed satisfactory using a binary outcome measure
      (yes/no) if all the following requirements set by the National Clinical Guideline for
      Treatment of Distal Radius Fractures are met.

      Binary data, including primary endpoint will be analysed using chi squared test. For normally
      distributed measurements the differences between groups will be compared using Student´s
      t-test. Variables considered not to be normally distributed will be analysed by
      Mann-Whitney´s U-test. Two-tailed P-values < 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant.
    
  