
    
      Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a leading cause of pain and disability among Veterans, and
      Department of Veterans Affairs health care users are the most severely affected. There is
      ample evidence that exercise improves pain, function, and other outcomes among patients with
      knee OA. However, the vast majority of individuals with knee OA are physically inactive.
      There is clearly a need to develop and implement programs that efficiently and effectively
      foster regular physical activity and improve key patient-centered outcomes among Veterans
      with knee OA. This objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness a novel STepped
      Exercise Program for Knee OsteoArthritis (STEP-KOA).

      This will be a randomized controlled trial of n=345 Veterans with symptomatic knee OA in two
      VA Integrated Networks (VISN) 6 sites, with participants assigned to two study arms: STEP-KOA
      and Arthritis Education Control (AE). STEP-KOA will begin with three months of access to a
      low-resource internet-based exercise training program that uses patient-specific information
      to determine and deliver an appropriate personalized exercise plan (Step 1). Participants who
      do not meet response criteria for clinically meaningful improvement in pain and function
      after three months of Step 1 will additionally receive telephone calls from an exercise
      counselor for three months, to facilitate adherence and address barriers to physical activity
      (Step 2). Participants who still fail to meet response criteria after Step 2 will receive
      in-person physical therapy visits, which address specific functional impairments and further
      tailor exercise recommendations (Step 3). Outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 3-months,
      6-months, and 9 months (primary outcome time point). Veterans in the AE group will be offered
      participation in STEP-KOA after completing study assessments. The primary outcome will be the
      Western Ontario and McMasters Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), a measure of lower
      extremity pain, stiffness and function. The secondary outcomes will be objective measures of
      physical function. The main study analyses will compare the STEP-KOA intervention to the AE
      control condition at follow-up time points. The investigators will also evaluate patient
      characteristics associated with the need for progression to each Step and will conduct a
      cost-effectiveness analysis of STEP-KOA. This stepped exercise intervention is matched with
      patient needs, and it also provides the VA with a potential approach for focusing limited
      physical therapy resources toward patients who do not respond adequately to initial, less
      resource intensive and costly strategies to improve physical activity and related outcomes.
    
  