
    
      Dual antiplatelet therapy consisting of aspirin and a P2Y12 receptor antagonist is the
      cornerstone of treatment for secondary prevention of thrombotic events in patients with
      coronary artery disease. Recently, two new oral P2Y12 antagonists have been approved for
      clinical use: prasugrel, a third generation thienopyridine, and ticagrelor, a first in class
      cyclopentyltriazolopyrimidine (CPTP). These agents have been shown to be associated with more
      potent platelet inhibitory effects compared with clopidogrel. In addition, both agents have
      shown to be superior to clopidogrel in preventing recurrent ischemic events in the setting of
      acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Therefore, current guidelines recommend prasugrel or
      ticagrelor (as first line therapy according to European Society of Cardiology) in ACS
      patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Despite the broader indication
      for ticagrelor (also medically managed ACS) and its mortality benefit, prasugrel has a higher
      uptake than ticagrelor in the US market, likely due to its earlier approval. Further,
      implementation of prasugrel into institutional protocols, particularly for ST elevation
      myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients undergoing primary PCI, may also be a reason for the
      slow uptake of ticagrelor. However, many clinicians would indeed consider ticagrelor as the
      long-term treatment of choice for a variety of reasons. Therefore, understanding how to
      switch patients from prasugrel to ticagrelor is an unmet need of clinical interest. However,
      currently, there are no data on the pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of switching from prasugrel
      to ticagrelor. The proposed PD investigation will have a prospective, randomized, parallel
      design aimed to show that switching patients from prasugrel to ticagrelor provides similar
      levels of platelet inhibition. This study will provide insights on the PD effects of
      switching and will help clinicians to choose the most appropriate schema to avoid
      complications related to inadequate antiplatelet therapy in patients with coronary artery
      disease if switching from prasugrel to ticagrelor is desired.
    
  