
    
      This is an open-label, randomized, multicenter, investigator-initiated, phase IV trial. A
      total number of 350 patients will be enrolled.

      Patients will be stratified according to ECOG (0-1 vs. 2 vs. 3), the modified Glasgow
      Prognostic Score (mGPS) (0-1 vs. 2) and whether the patient receives concurrent systemic
      anti-tumor treatment or not.

      In a first step, patients will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to Arm A (Standard Parenteral
      Nutrition using Eurotubes®) or Arm B (Standard Parenteral Nutrition using 2/3-chamber bags).
      Patients in Arm A will be stratified again by the same criteria as listed above and
      randomized in a 1:1 ratio to Arm A-1 (Standard Low Glucose Parenteral Nutrition using
      Eurotubes®) or Arm A-2 (Standard Parenteral Nutrition using Eurotubes®). Within the study,
      the patient can receive PN for a maximum of 12 months after randomization as long as the PN
      is still indicated and deemed necessary by the investigator.

      Co-Primary objectives are to compare the incidence of catheter related infections and to
      compare the frequency of self-administered parenteral nutrition at home (HPN). Main secondary
      objectives are to compare the efficacy of parenteral nutrition (PN) in terms of body weight,
      C-reactive protein (CRP) and albumin levels, and overall survival (OS), to compare the
      Quality of life (QoL) by use of a modified HPN-PROQ questionnaire, to determine the frequency
      and duration of visits by the nursing service and to compare specified safety parameters.

      The HPN therapy plan determined at screening and any modifications and adjustments to this
      plan during the course of HPN treatment will be recorded.

      Anti-cancer treatment at the time of screening and any changes during the course of the HPN
      treatment period (e.g. type of treatment) will be documented.

      Monitoring of Adverse Events and medical device deficiencies will be performed at every
      visit. AEs will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 5.0.

      During the study the patient will maintain a study diary to document details of the
      administration of the HPN. A QoL questionnaire will be completed during regular study visits
      until EOT.

      After completion of study treatment, patients will enter the follow-up period. During this
      period, they will be followed approximately every 3 months for survival.
    
  