
    
      The prevalence of heart failure is very high worldwide: according to the European Society of
      Cardiology, it is between 1 and 2% in developed countries.

      The French Federation of Cardiology estimates that a million people are affected in France.
      This prevalence increases sharply with age, reaching 15% of people aged 85 and over.

      Each year in France, there are nearly 70,000 deaths linked to heart failure, and more than
      150,000 hospitalizations with an average cumulative duration per year of 12.7 days, figures
      which show the extent of the phenomenon. In addition, the aging of the population and the
      explosion of cardiovascular risk factors suggest that the impact of heart failure will be
      greater in the future.

      Heart failure is therefore a common pathology, which constitutes an important public health
      issue. It requires rigorous monitoring and early adaptation of treatments to avoid repeated
      hospitalizations. Studies show that following hospitalization for heart failure, all-cause
      re-hospitalization rates rise to 18% within 30 days. According to a report from the Caisse
      Primaire d'Assurance Maladie (CPAM) in 2019, the rate of re-hospitalization at 1 year is 30%,
      half of which in the following 3 months. The prognosis is grim with 20 to 30% of deaths
      within the year.

      The European Society of Cardiology recommends that the patient be integrated into a care path
      coordinated by the general practitioner; and a consultation with his general practitioner in
      the week after hospitalization and his cardiologist within two weeks. But general
      practitioners deplore a lack of coordination between city and hospital with difficulties in
      taking care of their patient following hospitalization. According to the CPAM report, only
      30% of re-hospitalized patients had contact with a cardiologist before their readmission, and
      15% of patients had no contact with the health care system within 2 months of followed their
      hospitalization.

      It is in this need to improve monitoring that the CPAM has set up since 2013 the PRADO-IC
      program (Support Program for Return to Home Hospital for Heart Failure). This program must be
      in place before discharge from hospital. A health insurance advisor comes to meet the
      patient, declared eligible for PRADO by the hospital medical team, to present the offer and
      collect his approval before discharge. He then contacts the attending physician and organizes
      his return home. A follow-up book is given to the patient to allow better transmission of
      information between town and hospital.

      A specially trained nurse (internet training) visits the patient's home every week. The
      duration of PRADO support varies according to the NYHA stage of severity: a patient in NYHA
      stage I or II benefits from home support for a period of 2 months, and 6 months for NYHA
      stages III and IV. It should make it possible to monitor the constants: blood pressure,
      pulse, and weight. It provides therapeutic education with reinforcement of hygieno-dietetic
      rules (low sodium diet), warning signs (orthopnea, cough, dyspnea), checks compliance with
      treatments and the necessary biological monitoring and must alert the attending physician in
      the event of aggravation.

      The objectives of this program are: to preserve the quality of life and the autonomy of
      patients, to support the reduction of the length of stay in hospital, to strengthen the
      quality of care in town around the attending physician, improve the efficiency of recourse to
      hospitalization by reserving the heaviest structures for the patients who need them most.

      The main objective of this study is therefore to assess the impact of the PRADO program on
      re-hospitalization at 1 year, at Paris Saint-Joseph hospital for heart failure.
    
  