
    
      This multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study will enroll patients
      with advanced NSCLC (squamous cell or non-squamous cell) without EGFR mutations (either L858R
      or 746-750 deletions) who have had progression or recurrence of their disease following at
      least one but no more than two prior regimens (adjuvant therapy excluded) of approved therapy
      that did not include immunomodulating or anti-EGFR targeted therapy for their disease. EFGR
      status must be known at the time of enrollment either via prior determination or testing
      performed from archival tissue during the screening process. Patients with resectable disease
      will eligible if resection can be deferred for the first six weeks of vaccine. Patients will
      receive twice weekly dosing of vaccine (spatially divided as 5 intradermal injections) for 18
      weeks (36 total doses). Patients will be randomized in a 2:1 fashion; with 30 patients in
      each of the HS110 treatments groups (high and low dose) and 15 patients will receive placebo
      injections. Patients will also receive erlotinib 150mg once daily for the duration of the
      trial. A total of 75 patients will be enrolled in the trial. The study includes a lead-in
      phase of 9 patients (3 from each dosing group) who will be observed weekly for 4 weeks to
      assess the safety of combining HS110 with erlotinib. Treatment of the first 4 patients will
      be staggered by 2 week intervals to allow for safety evaluation before treating additional
      patients. If the combination of proves to be safe and well-tolerated in the first 9 patients,
      enrollment will be opened up to the predetermined sample size for each arm. A Data Monitoring
      Committee (DMC) will be used in this study to independently monitor adverse events and
      progression/survival data. The DMC will meet at the completion of the run-in period and after
      half the patients have been dosed through week 6 and week 12.
    
  