
    
      Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) have remained the leading cause of death globally for the last
      15 years. Considering that advancing age is the primary risk factor for CVD, an increasingly
      aging population is expected to result in unprecedented levels of CVD. It therefore remains
      crucial to develop effective prevention or treatment strategies to reduce the impending
      health and economic burden of CVD.

      Exercise is arguably the best intervention for the prevention and/or treatment of CVD. A key
      adaptation underlying the cardiovascular benefits of exercise is to offset and reverse
      age-related reductions in vascular function. Studies have demonstrated, at least in men, that
      active older adults demonstrate preserved vascular function relative to their sedentary peers
      and that exercise training interventions improve vascular function in previously sedentary
      older adults. However, these studies have almost exclusively been performed in men. In
      contrast, the few studies performed in older women consistently demonstrate that active women
      do not demonstrate preserved vascular function relative to their sedentary peers and that
      exercise training interventions do not improve vascular function in previously sedentary
      women. This observation has been attributed to the loss of oestrogens that accompanies
      menopause. Although the mechanisms have not been fully elicited, it is possible that the loss
      of oestrogens desensitizes the endothelium to the physiological stimuli that result in
      improved vascular function with exercise training. Indeed, exercise improves vascular
      function in previously sedentary older women when it is combined with oestrogen replacement.
      Nevertheless, chronic oestrogen replacement therapy is not a viable intervention as it is
      associated with an increased risk of breast cancer. Alternative solutions to restore the
      beneficial effects of exercise on vascular function in post-menopausal women are thus
      urgently needed.

      The overall objective of this project is to determine if folic acid, an over-the-counter
      supplement that has been shown to provide beneficial vascular adaptations, can be used to
      improve vascular function in post-menopausal women. It is hypothesized that folic acid will
      improve blood vessel function in post-menopausal women and age-matched males.
    
  