
    
      This study is a part of a broader research programme established by CISBO ( Centre for Indoor
      air and Health in Dwellings). The purpose of the centre is to increase the general knowledge
      and to provide information on indoor air quality and related Health effects. The study may
      contribute with basic information on underlying pathophysiological mechanisms involved in
      human responses to these pollutants and in their interactive effects. The study includes as
      methods and techniques to detect minor changes in biomarkers suggesting early effect of
      exposure. These analyses will give information at a high sensitive level about the exposure
      effects on biomarkers for an array of symptoms and reactions.

      The study Group consitss of 24 non-smoking persons(aged 60-70). A controlled, randomized and
      balanced Latin square cross-over design using the participants as their own controls. The
      exposures are arranged in a full-scale climate chamber where the participants will be exposed
      for 5½ hour under controlled environmental conditions.

      The exposure facility (Climate chamber):

      The exposures are arranged at the controlled experimental facilities at our department which
      include climate chambers and exposure generators for dust and ozone. The exposure sessions
      will take place under controlled conditions in a 79 m3 climate chamber made of welded
      stainless steel optimized for experiments with gasses and particulate air pollutants. The
      chamber facility allows exposures with controlled ventilation, temperature and air humidity
      and has an efficient mixing of ventilation air with the chamber air.

      All participants will attend all four diff. exposure sessions:

      Dust (250-300µg/m3), Ozone (0,1ppm ozone),Dust+ozone (250-300µg/m3 + 0,1 ppm ozone), Filtered
      air (<20µg/m3). with at least 2 weeks between each exposure session to eliminate hang-over
      effects. The filtered air and dust and ozone contaminated sessions will be identical except
      for the air quality. The exposures are unknown to the participants and staff to keep the
      study double blinded. The blinding will be continued until the basic statistical analyses
      have been conducted.

      Selected subjective and objective health outcomes are measured at baseline and at follow-up
      at predefined time points.

      Health assessment and Measurements includes:

      Subjective symptoms, Respiratory outcomes (lung function, FENO, exhaled breath condensate,
      nasal lavages, Acoustic Rhinometri) Blood samples (inflammation biomarkers)
    
  