
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common heart rhythm disorder affecting 50 million people
      in Europe and the U.S. It is associated with an increasing mortality and risk for transient
      cerebrovascular incidents and dementia. De novo AF is in most cases asymptomatic and
      paroxysmal, causing the diagnosis to be made either by chance or in response to an incident.
      This drastically impacts the quality of life of the patient and is accompanied with a high
      socio-economic cost. Guidelines indicate that anticoagulation in patients diagnosed with AF
      is a cost-effective solution for the prevention of strokes.

      In addition, depending on the target group, patients identified with AF can receive therapy
      in order to control the heart rhythm. These procedures (cardioversion and ablation) often
      result in follow-up consultations that can be avoided if the heart rhythm can be monitored
      remotely.

      By using FibriCheck, a medically validated smartphone application, daily rhythm measurements
      can be performed using only the smartphone of the patient. This allows for the heart rhythm
      to be registered and monitored in a home environment and the data to be automatically sent to
      the physician. This enables the implementation of FibriCheck in two types of scenarios:

        -  Scenario 1: the follow-up of patients with high risk parameters for AF development for
           primary and secondary prevention, whereby detection of AF will result in therapeutic
           intervention

        -  Scenario 2: the realisation of monitoring of the heart rhythm of patients post
           intervention in a home environment

      The follow-up of patients is still driven by the treating physician(s). The objective is to
      implement a correct and successful process management allowing a smooth implementation of "an
      application on prescription".

      Short- and long-term benefits the project wants to prove:

      Short-term:

      - AF can successfully be detected in a home environment using the FibriCheck application

      Long-term: a successful detection of AF in a home environment can:

        -  Be the first step towards changing and improving the care pathway of the patient

        -  Induce therapeutic interventions in order to prevent strokes or other complications
    
  