
    
      This is an open label phase Ib study of an accelerated venetoclax ramp-up in patients with
      CLL/SLL in either the front-line or relapsed/refractory setting. This clinical trial is
      testing a new dosing schedule of a drug that is normally dosed in a different fashion. As
      such, venetoclax is considered an investigational drug when given in this new schedule.
      "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA) has approved venetoclax as a treatment option for CLL or SLL but the approval is based
      on a different schedule.

      Venetoclax is an oral drug inhibitor of BCL-2, a protein that regulates the death of cells in
      the body. It has been FDA approved with or without rituximab for the treatment of adult
      patients with CLL/SLL who have received at least one prior therapy, with obinutuzumab for
      frontline therapy of CLL/SLL, as well in combination with azacitabine, decitabine, or
      low-dose cytarabine for the treatment of adults with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia
      (AML).

      Venetoclax is typically started at a low dose and increased on a weekly basis, over 5 weeks,
      to the desired dose for patients with CLL/SLL.This study is trying to determine if patients
      can safely increase the venetoclax dose in the hospital on a daily basis, over 5 days rather
      than weekly, and which patients, grouped by their risk for TLS, with newly diagnosed or
      relapsed/refractory CLL/SLL, are able to safely tolerate this accelerated, daily venetoclax
      dose ramp-up.

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including
      evaluations and follow up visits.

      All participants will be actively followed for approximately 3 months. Following completion
      of the active study period, participants will be encouraged to return for a response
      evaluation. Following this, patients will enter a long-term follow up period where they will
      be observed for a maximum of 5 years.

      It is expected that about 40 people will take part in this research study.
    
  