
    
      The results of trials combining checkpoint inhibitors or platinum-based chemotherapy plus
      PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors are eagerly awaited. The combination of split cisplatin with
      atezolizumab is a feasible treatment that may provide better outcomes than carboplatin/based
      combinations.

      In the IMvigor130, 52% of patients considered cisplatin eligible at the entry of the study
      were treated with carboplatin. Subanalysis presented at European Society of Medical Oncology
      (ESMO) 2019 (Grande E, et al. 2019) has also shown a longer median OS are achieved with
      cisplatin-based chemotherapy combined with atezolizumab (21.7 months) when compared to the
      carboplatin-based chemotherapy plus atezolizumab (14.2 months), with similar findings when it
      comes to PFS 8.8 months with cisplatin/gemcitabine/atezolizumab vs 7.1 months
      carboplatin/gemcitabine/atezolizumab.

      A reasonable strategy may be the use of split cisplatin with atezolizumab to increase the
      number of patients receiving cisplatin.

      The AUREA study is a multicenter, open labelled, single arm, multicohort Phase II clinical
      trial of of atezolizumab in combination of split-dose cisplatin plus gemcitabine in patients
      with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (additional details on the
      eligibility criteria of the study are found in section 6 of this protocol).

      The design includes screening phase, combined treatment initial phase, monotherapy treatment
      phase, follow-up phase and translational research with biopsies, blood samples and faecal
      samples.

      The dose scheme includes the initial dose of atezolizumab (1200 mg) intravenously
      administered every 21 days (one cycle) up to disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or
      absence of clinical benefit. Dose adjustment or dose reductions of atezolizumab are not
      expected. AUREA is an Investigator Initiated Study, the Sponsor will supply Atezolizumab for
      up to 24 months of treatment for each patient. For those patients in which the PI considers
      that the best option for the patient is continuing atezolizumab for more than 24 months,
      available commercial Site supplies should be used, after managed local administrative
      regulation. Gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 IV on D1 and 1000 mg/m2 IV on D8 of each 21-day cycle plus
      Cisplatin 70 mg/m2 by IV on split-dose schedule of 35 mg/m2 on day 1 (D1) and 35 mg/m2 on day
      8 (D8) for up to 6 cycles.

      Study treatment will begin as soon as possible after signing the informed consent. Before
      each treatment administration chemotherapy/atezolizumab administration laboratory, medical
      consulting and other determinations will be performed to ensure that treatment can be safely
      administered.

      A CT Scan or MRI will be performed at baseline, on week 9, week 18 and then every 12 weeks
      (q12w) ± 1w until objective disease progression as per PI's criteria or death (whichever
      comes first). Blood samples for biomarkers studies should be collected before administration
      of cycle 4 and at the time of Progression Disease (PD) (end of treatment if applicable).

      For patients with progression reported as per RECIST criteria at week 9, continuity of
      treatment with atezolizumab should be evaluated by the PI of each site as per clinical
      benefit criteria.
    
  