
    
      Background

      Memory difficulties are a core feature of dementia. These include difficulties remembering to
      do something at a specific time and place in the future (Prospective Memory). Although a
      range of electronic prospective memory aids currently exist (e.g. "Neuropage"), the evidence
      supporting their use among the dementia population remains limited. "Mindmate" is a recently
      developed mobile application that aims to support individuals with a diagnosis of dementia,
      improving self-management skills and quality of life.

      Aims

      This study will explore the effectiveness of "MindMate" reminder alerts delivered to a smart
      phone or tablet computer as a memory aid for people with a diagnosis of Mild Dementia.

      Method

      Three participants with a diagnosis of dementia, who are considered to be in the early stages
      and who report everyday prospective memory difficulties, will be recruited from Older People
      Community Mental Health teams within Greater Glasgow and Clyde. The participants will own a
      smart phone or tablet and will be living with a partner or family member who will also
      participate in the study. During the initial baseline phase, the partner or family member
      will monitor the number of pre defined tasks the participant remembered and forgot. The
      partner or family member will record this information on a weekly monitoring form and this
      phase will last between five to seven weeks. This will be followed by a five-week
      intervention phase where "MindMate" reminder alerts will be sent to the participant's phone
      or tablet. Again, tasks that require remembering will be identified prior to the intervention
      phase, and family members or carers will monitor their success on a form. Results will be
      analysed using visual inspection and Tau-U analysis.

      Applications

      This study will provide information on the effectiveness of a form of assistive technology at
      supporting people with a dementia, which could improve quality of life of those with a
      diagnosis.
    
  