
    
      Modafinil has been shown to improve recovery after general anesthesia in a small pilot study
      which involved 30 patients. In these study, patients were given one dose of Modafinil 200mg
      po versus placebo after surgery when patient tolerating po with a sip of water and were
      discharged home. They were asked to assess their fatigue, alertness and energy level during
      the following 24 hrs. Modafinil was found to significantly reduce fatigue and improves
      feelings of alertness and energy in postoperative patients. It was concluded that patients
      recovering from general anesthesia can significantly benefit from Modafinil.

      A more recent study looked at the perioperative use of Modafinil in 67 patients presenting
      for lithotripsy requiring sedation. Goal was to asses improvement in recovery compared to
      placebo. Patients were randomized to 4 groups 1 and 2 received midazolam/ fentanyl sedation
      plus Modafinil 200mg po given 1 hr before sedation versus placebo, the other two received
      remifentanil / propofol infusion plus Modafinil 20 mg po versus placebo. Groups were compared
      using the digital symbol substitution test (DSST), trail making test (TMT), observer scale of
      sedation and analgesia (OAA/S) and Aldrete score and they found no statistical significant
      difference between groups. However they measured the Verbal rating scale (VRS) scores for
      secondary outcome variables e.g. energy, tiredness and dizziness were also recorded before
      and after treatment. They concluded that Modafinil reduces patient-reported tiredness after
      sedation/analgesia however does not improve recovery in terms of objective measures of
      patient psychomotor skills.

      Nuvigil is longer acting product which is similar in action to Modafinil and has not been
      previously studied for postoperative recovery. We intend to study the effects of Nuvigil on
      postoperative recovery time and wakefulness in obstructive sleep apnea patients and obese
      patients.
    
  