
    
      One of the most common musculoskeletal pathologies of the foot and pain is plantar heel pain.
      In the studies, it was stated that the feeling of foot pain and stiffness was between 18% and
      63%. The plantar fascia is the most common cause of heel pain in adult age. Due to overuse,
      such as standing for a long time or running, it is assumed that it occurs as a result of
      micro-injury on the surface of the plantar fascia. It has been reported that 10% of the
      general population will be encountered throughout life. Although the exact cause is not
      known, middle age, obesity, excessive foot pronation, pes cavus, running, pes planus and
      long-term standing are among the reasons that facilitate. Patients experience severe pain in
      the first step they take after sitting for a long time or when they get up in the morning and
      start to walk and the pain is triggered by the tension of the plantar fascia and overlapping
      weight onto the foot. A large number of conservative methods have been used in the treatment
      of plantar fasciitis. Anti-inflammatory agents (Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs,
      steroid injections), physical therapy modalities (iontophoresis, ultrasound, extracorporeal
      shock wave therapy, electrical stimulation, cryotherapy, and whirlpool), manual therapy,
      stretching therapy and external support (orthosis and banding) treatment most of these
      methods. Orthosis and taping aim to correct poor biomechanics in the foot while most of the
      other treatment programs are suppressing symptoms. Extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT),
      which is another treatment modality that is used effectively in treatment, is currently
      preferred in delayed and nonunion fractures, calcified tendinitis of the shoulder, lateral
      epicondylitis, plantar fasciitis, patellar tendinitis, and calcaneal spur. In a recent
      prospective study, ESWT treatment was not superior to Kinesio-taping, and both treatments
      were found to be similar in both pain reduction and increased functionality.
    
  