
    
      The proposed study will be conducted in humans according to Good Clinical Practice (GCP)
      guidelines. All subjects will review and sign an Informed Consent Form approved by the
      Illinois Institute of Technology's Institutional Review Boards (IRB) prior to screening.

      This single-center clinical trial is a randomized, blinded, 4-arm, placebo-controlled, within
      subject cross-over trial, featuring a repeated postprandial sampling paradigm to evaluate the
      effects of spice/herb intake on endothelial function, inflammation, insulin sensitivity /
      glucose handling and vascular function in overweight/obese adults after consuming a
      standardized challenge meal.

      A planned sample size of 24 will be enrolled into the study. This study will require one
      initial screening visit and 4 study visits. This study will take approximately 4-5 weeks per
      subject to complete.

      The initial screening visit will provide subject with their site-specific, IRB-approved
      informed consent document prior to the start of any study related procedures. Subject
      eligibility will be determined through anthropometric measurements, vital signs, fasting
      blood glucose test (finger prick), and completion of a survey relate to general eating,
      health, mood and exercise habits.

      Eligible subjects will follow a limited polyphenolic diet throughout the duration of their
      participation, although stricter guidelines will be imposed during the 3 days prior to a
      study visit. Shopping lists and meal plans will be provided to subjects, along with
      counseling by our study dietitians, to help subjects adhere to the limited polyphenolic diet.
      The trial will initiate with a 3-day food diary to assess background (pre-study) dietary
      intake followed by counseling to follow a diet relatively low in (poly)phenolic
      rich-beverages/foods, which will be maintained for the duration of the experiment. After an
      initial 7-day run-in period on the limited polyphenolic diet, subjects will be randomized to
      1 of 4 treatment sequences. Treatment codes will be maintained by the principal
      investigator/study physician. All subjects will receive four treatments, once each on 4
      different occasions and separated by at least 4 days. Italian Herb mix, Cinnamon, Pumpkin
      Spice or placebo will be provided with a standardized meal.

      Each visit will last ~8 hours and subjects will be required to remain at the Clinical Unit
      for the duration of the visit. Blood samples will be collected at 0 (fasting) and at 0.5 h, 1
      h, 2 h, 4 h, 5.5 h, 7 h and 24 h via a catheter placed on the non-dominant arm by a
      registered nurse. FMD or NIRS will be conducted at the CNRC or the HNRCA, respectively at 0
      (fasting) and at 1 h, 2 h, 4 h, 5.5 h, 7 h and 24 h.
    
  