
    
      The systemic vasculitides comprise several inflammatory diseases of blood vessels, usually
      arteries, which may cause systemic, multi-organ disease that can result in substantial
      morbidity and increased mortality. Each type of vasculitis is a rare ("orphan") disease.
      However, taken together, vasculitis affects tens of thousands of Americans and is responsible
      for substantial morbidity and mortality and almost one billion dollars per year in hospital
      care alone. While the vasculitides share the trait of vascular inflammation, the unique
      disease phenotypes, clinical courses, differences in prognoses, and responses to therapy
      suggest that important differences exist in pathogenesis. The Vasculitis Clinical Research
      Consortium (VCRC) currently focuses on 6 specific types of vasculitis that were selected to
      represent a balance between unmet medical and scientific needs, prevalence in North America,
      feasibility of study, and an interest in studying a spectrum of small, medium, and large
      vessel vasculitides.

      The great majority of published studies on the genetics of vasculitis have used modest-sized
      cohorts that are only suitable for investigation of a few candidate genes at a time, or to
      detect large effect sizes, so that replicated findings are highly skewed to the HLA region.
      Larger and more ambitious genetic studies in vasculitis are expected to generate numerous
      hypotheses for translational research in gene expression, biochemistry, and molecular
      pathology.

      A one-time collection of clinical data and DNA would substantially increase the sample sizes
      for genetic association studies in all six vasculitides studied in the VCRC. Many patients
      are seen at participating VCRC centers but do not enroll in the Longitudinal Studies. These
      patients often are interested in participating in research studies but cannot return
      frequently for visits, usually due to distance from the VCRC centers. This approach would be
      particularly useful for the rarer forms of vasculitis under study (Takayasu's Arteritis
      (TAK), Polyarteritis Nodosa (PAN), eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis
      (Churg-Strauss) (EGPA) and also for Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA), since elderly patients have
      been particularly likely to decline participation in the Longitudinal Studies due to travel
      constraints.
    
  