
    
      Art therapy is a type of psychotherapy that uses making art and creative processes to allow
      patients to express feelings that may be difficult to put into words. It has been available
      at The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust since 1988. Patients are referred for a range of
      issues that include isolation, anxiety, depression, identity or end of life issues. Research
      has shown art therapy to offer significant improvements in these areas. There is much
      anecdotal evidence within art therapy of it's effectiveness for physical pain, but little
      research in this area. Pain itself is acknowledged as a complex phenomena that demands a
      multifocused approach to treatment. The British Pain Society's guidelines recommend a
      combined approach to treatment that includes psychological and complementary therapies, but
      although music therapy is cited, art therapy is not. This study proposes to broaden the
      research base into art therapy's effectiveness as an additional intervention to support
      patients managing physical pain, and thus be able to be offered as additional support to the
      interventions currently on offer.

      Art therapy would, in practice be able to be offered concurrently to all other treatments for
      pain, and at at any point in the treatment journey. However for the purpose of this study, in
      order to understand art therapy's potential effectiveness, it is useful to narrow the focus
      of the research. It is reported that up to 50% of breast cancer patients suffer from chronic
      post treatment pain, that is, for an extended period of time after all treatment for cancer
      and despite being optimally treated already for their pain. In consultation with the Pain
      Team at the RM it was decided that breast cancer patients were a suitable cohort for this
      study.

      As this is the first study at the RM looking into art therapy and physical pain, it was
      decided that a mixed method study would produce the most valuable data. Narrative data from
      interviews will allow a greater understanding of participants experience of art therapy, and
      how it might be effective for pain. Numerical data will give information on the extent of how
      effective for pain art therapy might be. The sample size is small (20 participants) in order
      to allow for in depth analysis of the narrative data. Previous research studies looking at
      art therapy in oncology have offered between a single, to eight, one hour individual art
      therapy sessions. Art therapy research in oncology that included pain as a criteria for
      study, has offered a single, hour long session and examined data on its impact on pain
      collected immediately after the art therapy session. As this study proposes to explore art
      therapy as an intervention that may offer benefits for pain that develop over time, four,
      hour long individual art therapy sessions have been decided on. This allows for an
      understanding of whether art therapy may have any effect on pain beyond an immediate
      lessening during an art therapy session.
    
  