
    
      Complete cytoreductive surgery (CCRS), an extensive procedure increasingly used to treat, and
      potentially cure, advanced cancers of the peritoneal cavity, including Pseudomyxoma Peritonei
      (PMP). In a process that can last fourteen hours a typically sizeable number of peritoneal
      organs or tissues (upon which cancerous cells present) are targeted for tumour nodule
      removal, or are resected or excised. CCRS is concluded by the administration of hyperthermic
      intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC), a warm chemotherapy solution which is gyrated across
      the peritoneal cavity for one to two hours.

      Despite the magnitude of the procedure, CCRS offers the potential of prolonged survival, or
      indeed cure, particularly for those diagnosed with PMP. Accumulated 10-year survival rates
      for 1904 PMP patients after CCRS, in countries including the United Kingdom (UK), indicated
      survival rates of 74%.

      Empirical studies conclude that 'recovery' from the procedure, to preoperative or reference
      population quality of life scores, across the domains of physical, emotional and psychosocial
      health, typically occurs 3 - 12 months postoperatively. Notably, however, the dominant
      paradigm of inquiry adopted in this field is positivist, with survey work accounting for
      31/36 of the fully published studies located through a systematic literature search to have
      examined the impact of CCRS on patients. Such work is limited in its ability to explicate the
      personal meaning that people may attribute to their lived experience of recovery. Moreover,
      the remaining five studies have not acquired an understanding of personal meaning over time,
      across the course of postoperative recovery, in what is likely to be a profound example of
      postoperative experience with implications beyond those highlighted by positivistic work.

      This study aims to fill this gap in the knowledge base by providing a nuanced understanding
      of the lived experience of recovery over time, from the perspective of patients who have
      undergone CCRS surgery, with the view to inform future supportive measures for CCRS patients
      in particular.

      There is also a secondary motive for conducting this study.

      Recovery is a term used frequently in literature to describe the process that CCRS patients
      undergo. On occasion, authors insinuate that their study participants (or at least some)
      experience a complete recovery.

      However, the dictionary definition of recovery is 'a return to a normal state of health,
      mind, or strength', and it is perhaps questionable whether such a definition applies a
      completely adept description to patients who have experienced CCRS, or indeed any major
      illness, injury or treatment. Do survivors ever truly recover? Is it not a 'new normal' to
      some degree? There are increasing reasons to doubt that the definition holds true in such
      cases, on physical, emotional or psychosocial bases.

      For instance, many examples of literature within the field of survivorship following major
      illness such as cancer, seem to indicate that many survivors continue to experience issues
      pertaining to their illness, even years after it is diagnosed or treated. Foster et al.
      (2009) found that 20-30% of survivors, five or more years after their treatment, consistently
      reported problems associated with cancer and its treatment. Elliott et al. (2011) found in an
      online survey of 4892 individuals, of whom 780 were cancer survivors, that survivors 'were
      significantly more likely to report poor[er] health outcomes … than those with no history of
      cancer or a chronic condition' (p11). These works are quantitative in nature, and it may be
      that qualitative work, particularly as it increases in number, will highlight further changes
      that distinguish survivor's lives from their pre-illness lives. Ohlsson-Nevo (2011) for
      example, lead with the theme that 'life is normal, and yet not' to describe the experiences
      of colorectal cancer survivors.

      Given the potential that many do not experience a recovery in the full sense, Foster and
      Fenlon (2011) and Horikoshi and Futawatari (2017) speculate that cancer survivor experiences,
      in particular, are more akin to a process of adaptation such as that necessitated by chronic
      illness (previously discussed by the 'biographical disruption' work of Bury (1991), Charmaz
      (1991) Dorsett (1991) and Frank (1997)).

      This study provides the opportunity to longitudinally examine patient perceptions of the
      concept of 'recovery': How do survivors of major illness or treatment define recovery as a
      term, both as a process and as an outcome? Do such perceptions change over time? Even if they
      are physically, emotionally or psychosocially 'recovered', do survivors think or live their
      lives differently as a result of their experiences? In what ways do people not recover? Do
      they consider themselves as recovered?

      In conclusion, this study seeks a longitudinal and detailed understanding of the experience
      of recovery from CCRS, beyond that currently recognised by empirical work. This will be
      useful in informing supportive measures for CCRS patients as they 'recover', and furthermore
      will increase our understanding of recovery as a concept.

      The study utilises interpretive phenomenological analysis (IPA) as a methodological
      framework, which is suitable in meeting such objectives in light of its three core
      principles. In being phenomenological, this study acknowledges that the study of lived
      experience is a valid means of understanding the recovery process. It encourages the
      researcher to suspend their preconceptions as much as possible and to be fully receptive and
      inquisitive to the experience as it is conveyed. In being hermeneutical, this study
      acknowledges that researcher-led interpretation is necessary in fully understanding lived
      experience, particularly in the context of the sensitive timeframe in which the research will
      be performed, and in bringing to light the temporal changes that may occur as the study
      progresses. Lastly, in being idiographic, this study recognises that individual lived
      experiences of recovery following CCRS are likely to be unique and rich, and deserve in-depth
      consideration. It also acknowledges that literature exists in the field, and that this may be
      re-evaluated in the light of in-depth findings. An in-depth understanding of the experiences
      of CCRS patients as they 'recover' from their surgery, and the meanings of 'recovery' to them
      during this time, should therefore be attained through the use of IPA.

      This study will implement a longitudinal interview-based design with sequential data
      collection points running over an approximate 12-14 month period.
    
  