
    
      Two experimental studies are planned over a time period of 12 weeks. In the nutrition study,
      participants will randomly be allocated to either a waiting control group (WCG) receiving a
      tailored intervention after the last follow-up questionnaire, an active control group (ACG),
      receiving an interactive quiz on all areas of healthy nutrition or to one of two intervention
      groups (IGs). Intervention group 1 receives one of four computerized tailored interventions
      based on a standard recommendation on vegetable and fruit intake, intervention group 2
      receives one of the same four tailored interventions based on another criterion.

      In the physical activity study, study participants in the intervention group receive an
      interactive, computerized expert system (Intervention Group, IG). Individuals in the Active
      Control Group (ACG) get a standard program, which does not tailor treatment components to the
      individual needs of the patients. Internet users (N = 1000) will be recruited in in the
      internet via press releases, personal invitations and advertised likes at well known
      web-sites. Study participants will be followed up over three measurement points: One to eight
      weeks after T1, T2 will take place. Four to 12 weeks after T1 the T3 measurement will be
      conducted.

      The hypotheses are: Both the IG and the ACG are expected to have a higher motivation, to
      adopt a healthy lifestyle, to perform more health behavior and to be less likely to relapse
      into previous unhealthy routines at T2 and T3 than at T1. Also, IG and ACG will be healthier
      as well as they will report more quality of life and rehabilitation satisfaction at T2 and T3
      than at T1. In comparison to ACG, the IG is hypothesized to be more effective than the ACG
      regarding motivation, behavior and social-cognitive predictors of behavior. Moreover, the
      interventions (ACG and IG) are supposed to be equally effective for different age and sex
      groups, obese and non-obese individuals. In the nutrition study, the IG2 will report higher
      on all outcome measures than IG1.

      After successful evaluation and some adoptions the intervention will be implemented as a
      self-help program in all eligible Internet users in the Internet.
    
  