
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Dose escalation: To determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of intratumoral
      injection of autologous dendritic cell-adenovirus CCL21 vaccine (CCL21 gene-modified DC
      [Ad-CCL21-DC]) when combined with intravenous pembrolizumab in 1) patients with advanced
      non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) without a sensitizing epidermal growth factor receptor
      (EGFR) mutation and/or anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene rearrangement who have received
      prior systemic anti-cancer therapy for advanced disease that includes a PD -1 and/or PD-L1
      inhibitor or 2) patients who have sensitizing EGFR mutations and/or ALK gene rearrangements
      and have received prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy.

      II. Dose expansion: To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) in subjects treated with
      the dose established during dose escalation (ExD) of intratumoral injection of Ad-CCL21-DC
      when administered with intravenous pembrolizumab in 1) patients with advanced non-small cell
      lung cancer (NSCLC) without a sensitizing epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation
      and/or anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene rearrangement who have received prior systemic
      anti-cancer therapy for advanced disease that includes a PD -1 and/or PD-L1 inhibitor or 2)
      patients who have sensitizing EGFR mutations and/or ALK gene rearrangements and have received
      prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define the adverse event (AE) profile of intratumoral injection of Ad-CCL21-DC
      (determined during dose escalation) when administered with intravenous pembrolizumab in 1)
      patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) without a sensitizing epidermal
      growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation and/or anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene
      rearrangement who have received prior systemic anti-cancer therapy for advanced disease that
      includes a PD -1 and/or PD-L1 inhibitor or 2) patients who have sensitizing EGFR mutations
      and/or ALK gene rearrangements and have received prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy.

      II. To determine drug target activity by analyzing serial pre- and post-treatment biopsies
      and blood specimens of intratumoral injection of Ad-CCL21-DC (determined during dose
      escalation) when administered with intravenous pembrolizumab in 1) patients with advanced
      non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) without a sensitizing epidermal growth factor receptor
      (EGFR) mutation and/or anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene rearrangement who have received
      prior systemic anti-cancer therapy for advanced disease that includes a PD -1 and/or PD-L1
      inhibitor or 2) patients who have sensitizing EGFR mutations and/or ALK gene rearrangements
      and have received prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of autologous dendritic cell-adenovirus CCL21
      vaccine.

      Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes followed by autologous
      dendritic cell-adenovirus CCL21 vaccine by computed tomography (CT)-guided or bronchoscopic
      intratumoral (IT) injection on days 0, 21, and 42. Patients then receive pembrolizumab every
      3 weeks for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at day 63 and every 3 months
      thereafter.
    
  