
    
      Rationale: Infertility is a worldwide problem and about 10%-15% of all couples will be
      affected by the inability to have children. In approximately 50% of infertile couples a male
      factor is involved. In the past decade, the role of oxidative stress on sperm has been
      researched thoroughly and found to be the problem in 30% to 80% of male infertility cases.
      Impryl® is a nutritional supplement which works on the metabolic system and regulation of
      oxidative stress by activating the 1-Carbon cycle and therefore recycling of homocysteine.

      Objective: To determine the effectiveness of nutritional supplement Impryl® in men of
      infertile couples on ongoing pregnancy rate, with or without assisted reproduction technology
      (ART).

      Study design: Multicentre, randomised double blind placebo controlled clinical
      trial/superiority study.

      Study population: All participants in this study are male adults, age 18-50 years, part of a
      couple that is diagnosed with infertility, regardless the outcome of semen analysis. The
      couple will either start or is already started with fertility treatment, i.e. expectative
      management (EM, duration 6 months), intra-uterine insemination (IUI) with or without ovarian
      stimulation (mild ovarian hyperstimulation (MOH) or ovulation induction (OI)), either in
      vitro fertilization (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) treatment.

      Intervention: Impryl® or placebo, with identical appearance one tablet each day for a total
      duration of maximal 6 months. Patients can start directly with study medication and fertility
      treatment (or to conceive spontaneously).

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary outcome is the number of ongoing pregnancies
      confirmed by ultrasound at ≥ 10-12 weeks. Secondary outcomes are change in semen parameters
      between baseline and 3 months intervention in IUI/IVF/ICSI group, based on (pre-wash) total
      motile sperm count (TMSC), leading to a change in treatment category Furthermore the
      occurrence of pregnancy, time to pregnancy, embryo fertilization rate in IVF/ICSI,
      embryo-utilization rate in IVF/ICSI, number of miscarriages and live birth rate are
      documented within the study period. The occurrence of adverse events will be reported.
    
  