
    
      A. Background Schizophrenia is a heterogeneous disorder whose pathophysiology is not yet
      understood clearly. The treatment of schizophrenia remains suboptimal. Take risperidone for
      example, response rate of a patient is around only 60% to 80%. The second-generation or
      atypical antipsychotics are widely used. Apart from dopamine D2 receptor, they also target on
      5-HT2 receptors and receptors of other neurotransmission systems. However, these
      second-generation antipsychotics still result in other common side effects. Therefore,
      finding predictors for clinical efficacy and side effect profile is a necessary task. Up to
      date, several genetic and non-genetic factors have been suggested related to the efficacy and
      side effects of antipsychotics. Noteworthy, pharmacokinetics as indicated by the temporal
      change of antipsychotics blood levels is usually overlooked. It might be a contributing
      factor why results from pharmacogenetic studies were usually difficult to be replicated.

      Paliperidone (9-hydroxy-risperidone) is an active metabolite of the second-generation
      antipsychotics risperidone. Pharmacogenetic studies have found polymorphisms of some genes to
      be related to blood risperidone concentration, side effects and treatment response. Comparing
      to risperidone, paliperidone has less metabolic side effects, probable faster occurrence of
      efficacy, and better tolerance for subjects with hepatic insufficiency. Further, paliperidone
      is more sensitive to P-glycoprotein. There are just a few pharmacogenetic studies on
      paliperidone and P-glycoprotein. Therefore, one aim of this proposed study is to examine the
      pharmacogenetic effects on paliperidone extended release (paliperidone ER) for acute
      treatment of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder. The electrophysiological
      abnormalities as measured by event-related potentials (ERP) are characteristics features of
      several neuropsychological disorders. For schizophrenia, deficits in mismatch negativity,
      P50, and auditory steady state response have been frequently reported. Therefore, besides
      from clinical improvements, the investigators are also interested whether paliperidone
      treatment can alter the deficits in mismatch negativity, P50, and ASSR.

      B. Study aims

        1. To study the association of candidate genes, which are related to pharmacodynamics and
           pharmacokinetics of risperidone, with paliperidone pharmacokinetics and clinical
           response

        2. To evaluate the impact of pharmacodynamics on the efficacy (including ERP change and
           cognitive function) and side effects of paliperidone ER for acute treatment of
           schizophrenia

        3. To evaluate whether the paliperidone pharmacodynamics is related to the metabolic,
           hormonal, and bone turnover profiles

        4. To evaluate whether paliperidone ER treatment will influence epigenetic markers

        5. To evaluate whether paliperidone ER treatment will influence event-related potentials
           and performance in neurocognitive tests

      C. Study design It is a 6-week, prospective, open-label, uncontrolled and non-randomized
      trial of paliperidone ER for patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder in an
      acute episode. A total of 40 subjects will be recruited.

      D. Protocol overview:

      For at least the first three weeks, participants should receive inpatient treatment in the
      acute psychiatry ward (03W2) in National Taiwan University Hospital. Medication compliance,
      efficacy of treatment and side effects will be monitored and evaluated by the psychiatrists
      who are the principle investigator or sub-investigators of this study.

        1. Dosage of titration of paliperidone ER:

           Fixed dose (9 mg/day) of paliperidone ER will be given in the first two weeks of trial
           (from day 1 to day 14). Since the third week (day 15), the dosage can be adjusted in the
           range of 6 to 12 mg per day.

        2. Medication regulation:

             1. Antipsychotics other than paliperidone ER are not allowed.

             2. For benzodiazepines and sedatives/hypnotics: only lorazepam up to 4 mg per day is
                allowed to management medication withdrawal, side effects or symptoms.

             3. Anticholinergic agents: for management of extrapyramidal symptoms only biperiden up
                to 6 mg/day or trihexyphenidyl up to 15 mg/day is allowed.

        3. Measurements 3-1. Clinical evaluation on day 0, day 4, day 7, day14, day 28, and day 42:

             1. Efficacy evaluation: positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), Personal and
                Social Performance Scale (PSP), Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S)

             2. Side effect evaluation: Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Symptom Scale (DIEPSS), and
                Udvalg for Kliniske Undersogelser (UKU) Side Effect Rating Scale; any new-onset
                adverse conditions or worsening of the original conditions will be recorded as side
                effects and be managed promptly.

             3. Body weight. 3-2. Blood sampling on day 0 (40 ml), day 14 (15 ml) and day 42 (40
                ml):

             1. Blood paliperidone concentration and pharmacodynamics of risperidone and
                paliperidone on day 0, day 14, and day 42.

             2. Blood biochemistry study (AC sugar, uric acid, cholesterol, triglyceride,
                HDL-cholesterol, leptin, adiponectin, prolactin) on day 0, day 14, and day 42.

             3. Bone turnover markers (serum alkaline phosphatase, calcium, phosphate bone-specific
                alkaline phosphatase, intact osteocalcin), and hormonal markers (oestradiol,
                progesterone, LH, FSH and testosterone) on day 0 and day 42.

             4. DNA sample for genetic markers on day 0: 1236C/T of the ABCB1 gene, Ser9Gly of the
                DRD3 gene, Ser311Cys of the DRD2 gene, 267T/C of the 5HTR6 gene, 102T/C of the
                5HTR2A gene, 995G/A of the 5HTR2C gene, dinucleotide repeat (GT)n of the BDNF gene,
                val108/158Met of the COMT gene, and polymorphisms of the RGS4 gene.

             5. Epigenetic markers on day 0 and day 42. 3-3. Urinary examination for bone turnover
                markers on day 0 and day 42: urinary deoxypyridinoline cross-links and urinary
                C-terminal telopeptide fragment of type I collagen 3-4. Electrocardiogram on day 0
                and day 42. 3-5. Event-related potential experiments on day 0 and day 42:
                Participants will receive experiments of mismatch negativity, P50 and auditory
                steady state response 3-6. Neurocognitive tests on day 0 and day 42: Participants
                will receive Continuous Performance Test (CPT), Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST),
                Trail-A test, Trail-B test, verbal fluency test, and selected subtests from
                Wechsler Adult Intelligence Test-III (Digit Span and Arithmetic).

      D. Conditions when a subject drop-out from the trial

        1. Whenever a subject withdraws the informed consent.

        2. Whenever a serious treatment-emergent adverse event happens.

        3. Whenever the treating psychiatrists or the principle investigator judge early dropout
           necessary for a subject, considering the risks and benefits clinically.

        4. Whenever a subject violates the trial protocol to a significant degree, as judged by the
           treating psychiatrists or the principle investigator.

      E. Conditions when the trial will be stopped Since paliperidone ER has been approved for the
      treatment of schizophrenia by the Food and Drug Administration and the daily dose is within
      the recommended range, this trial will be terminated or suspended under the following
      situations: (a) order from the Research Ethics Committee to terminate or suspend the clinical
      trial; (b) order from the Central Competent Health Authority to terminate or suspend the
      clinical trial; (c) when paliperidone ER becoming unavailable in the National Taiwan
      University Hospital.

      F. Trial medications Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (Invega): 9 mg/tab, 3 mg/tab

      G. Data collection and statistical analysis

      Since the current study is an open-labeled and single-arm trial, it is not aimed to prove the
      efficacy of paliperidone for treatment of schizophrenia. Instead, it is aimed to evaluate
      whether pharmacodynamics factors are related to the clinical response of paliperidone
      treatment. The variables of clinical response are defined as:

        1. Primary efficacy variable: response rate (the ratio of subjects who respond to
           paliperidone treatment).

           Response to paliperidone treatment is calculated as [(PANSSevaluation - PANSSbaseline)/
           (PANSSbaseline -30)]*100%

        2. Secondary efficacy variables: PSP, CGI-S, ERPs and neurocognitive tests

        3. Side effect variables: DIEPSS, UKU side effect scales, body weight, blood chemistry
           markers, metabolic markers, hormonal markers, and bone turnover markers

      Response rate and other efficacy variables were analyzed with last observation carried
      forward and intention-to-treat principles. Response rate will be calculated on day 4, 7, 14,
      28 and 42, and the impact of pharmacodynamics and genetic effects will be analyzed
      accordingly. Demographic data, blood paliperidone concentration, and the aforementioned
      variables will be compared between responder group and non-responder group on last visit
      (Pearson χ2 test or Fisher exact test will be used to compare categorical variables;
      independent t test will be used for continuous variables). The secondary efficacy and side
      effect variables on day 0 (before treatment) and day 42 (after treatment) will be compared
      with paired t-test. Relationship of the change of the aforementioned variables with blood
      paliperidone concentration will be examined by Pearson's correlation coefficient test or
      Spearman's correlation coefficient test. Multiple linear regression analysis will be applied
      for adjustments of covariates.

      The genotyping quality will be checked by Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium tests. Association of
      the allelic effects of the genetic markers with clinical response and other outcome variables
      will be analyzed by using PLINK version 1.07 19. Other statistical analyses will be performed
      by using SAS®9.4 Software (SAS Institute Inc., USA). A p-value of less than 0.05 was
      considered statistically significant.
    
  