
    
      Cesarean delivery is the most common surgical procedure performed in the United States, with
      over 1 million procedures performed per year. Based on recent Centers for Disease Control
      National Vital Statistics Report 32.3% of all births in the United States were via cesarean
      delivery, marking the twelfth consecutive annual increase in the cesarean delivery rate.
      Given the high numbers of cesarean deliveries being performed today, there has been interest
      in optimizing surgical techniques. Several recent reviews have summarized the evidence for
      various steps of cesarean delivery, but surprisingly in many cases there is little scientific
      evidence on which to base the choice of surgical technique.

      The topic of skin closure after cesarean delivery is an area that has been the focus of
      several randomized control trials. The trials compared surgical steel staples to subcuticular
      suture of various materials focusing on differences in post-operative pain, infection rates,
      and scar cosmesis. Cosmesis has been investigated in all three Randomized Clinical Trials and
      none have found differences between surgical steel staples and subcuticular suture. Infection
      rate has been studied in a single observational study which found a higher infection rate in
      those patients whose skin was closed with surgical steel staples compared to suture. Studies
      of post-operative pain and skin closure technique have been contradictory. The earliest
      Randomized clinical trial to investigate skin closure and post-operative pain was done by
      Frishman et al (5) and found that subjective self-assessment of pain was better at hospital
      discharge and 6 weeks post-operatively in patients when subcuticular suture rather than
      surgical steel staples were used. A subsequent Randomized clinical trial reported the
      opposite result with less pain 6 weeks post-operatively when surgical steel staples were
      used. This discrepancy may, in part, be due to the different suture material used in the two
      trials. The study by Frishman et al which showed a benefit of subcuticular suture utilized
      used polyglycolic acid (Vicryl suture or Insorb staples); whereas, the study by Rousseau et
      al used polyglecaprone (Monocryl suture). To date direct comparison of skin closure at the
      time of cesarean with these two suture materials has not been performed.

      Recently, a new technology for skin closure has been introduced that employs absorbable
      material, polylactic and polyglycolic acid, in subcuticular staples. In animal models this
      method of skin closure has shown less histological inflammation and fewer wound infections
      than either surgical steel staples or subcuticular suture. Unfortunately, little is known
      about how this skin closure technique compares to the other more established techniques after
      cesarean delivery in humans. However, a retrospective analysis comparing subcuticular
      absorbable staples with surgical steel staples revealed an association between subcuticular
      absorbable staples and decreased in-hospital analgesic use. The current study is a
      prospective randomized trial that investigates four cesarean skin closure techniques-surgical
      steel staples, subcuticular polyglycolic acid suture (Vicryl), subcuticular, polyglecaprone
      suture (Monocryl), and absorbable subcuticular polyglycolic acid staples-to determine if one
      is associated with improved cosmesis or a decrease in post-operative pain.
    
  