
    
      The following things will be done for the study:

        1. Each day you are in the hospital someone from the study team who does not know your
           treatment assignment will come in 3 times during the day to ask you questions about your
           pain and how you are feeling. The doctors and nurses taking care of you will also do
           this as part of the routine care for your pain crisis. You will have your vital signs
           (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature) and oxygen level checked regularly as part of
           your routine care. The doctors and nurses may need to give you other medicines or do
           procedures that are not part of the study to take care of your pain crisis. They will
           talk with you about this. The doctors and nurses taking care of you while you are in the
           hospital will take care of you and treat your pain crisis just as they would do if you
           were not in this study. Being in this study will not interfere with the usual care and
           treatment you would receive.

        2. Each day you are in the hospital a member of the study team will have you answer
           questions about your pain, any side effects you are having, and how well you are able to
           move around.

        3. While you are in the hospital, you will wear an Actigraph Micro-Mini-Motion logger, a
           wristwatch type device that will keep track of how much you move around and how well you
           are sleeping. This will help us determine how well the treatment plan is relieving your
           pain level. You will wear the actigraph through Day 5 (Day 3 for children) of your
           hospital stay, or until you leave the hospital if you go home sooner.

        4. Each day you are in the hospital you will have blood drawn to check how well your
           kidneys and liver are working. These blood tests will be done at the same time as your
           regular blood tests whenever possible. We will collect about 2 teaspoons of blood from
           you for the study each day you are in the hospital.

        5. We will call you 3 days and 14 days after you leave the hospital. During these phone
           calls we will ask you questions about how you are feeling, the medications you are
           taking including those for pain, and any problems you have had since your discharge.
    
  