
    
      The traditional diagnostic methods of UC include CT urography (CTU) and cystoscopy. To access
      the upper urinary tract, CTU is commonly used. The sensitivity for detecting upper tract
      urothelial cancer with CTU has been reported to reach 89%. However, the specificity of CTU is
      51% and it cannot get a biopsy sample. Other shortcomings include exposing the patient to
      high dose of radiation and the contrast material usage may impair the renal function. In the
      context of diagnosing lower urinary tract cancer, cystoscopy is the "gold standard"
      diagnostic procedure, which has a sensitivity of 68-83%. But it is invasive, uncomfortable
      and may miss flat lesions. Furthermore, due to the high recurrence rate of bladder cancer,
      surveillance of the disease with frequent cystoscopy make it one of the costliest cancers.
      Therefore, a noninvasive diagnostic method with high accuracy is urgently needed.

      Copy number variations (CNVs) refers to the ongoing acquisition of genomic alterations
      ranging from point mutations to gross chromosomal rearrangements, is a hallmark of cancer
      which is found in 60-80% of human cancer, and it positively correlates with high tumor stage,
      poor prognosis, metastasis and therapeutic resistance. Several researches have investigated
      the value of detecting chromosomal instability with sWGS in either cell-free (cf)DNA or
      genomic DNA as a noninvasive diagnostic method for cancers and yielded quite fine results.
      Our previous research has also proved the UroCAD model reached performance of AUC=0.928, with
      sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of 82.5%, 96.9% and 89.0%, respectively. This test also
      showed superiority in diagnosing upper tract urothelial cancer compared with urinary cytology
      test.

      Here we intended to conduct a prospective, multicenter, single-blinded research to further
      validate the value of UroCAD in diagnosing UC and investigate the potential of UroCAD in UC
      patient follow-up by analyzing the CNV level of patient DNA extracted from urine exfoliated
      cells and follow UC patient for up to 2 years to determine if there is a correlation between
      CNV level and patient prognosis. Patient information, which is acquired every 3 months after
      surgery, including survival status, CNV level in urine exfoliated cells, treatment during
      this period, medical examination during this period, etc.
    
  