
    
      Viral encephalitis is a medical emergency The spectrum of brain involvement and the prognosis
      are dependent mainly on the specific pathogen and the immunological state of the host.

      Although specific therapy is limited to only several viral agents, correct immediate
      diagnosis and introduction of symptomatic and specific therapy has a dramatic influence upon
      survival and reduces the extent of permanent brain injury in survivors Epidemiologic studies
      estimate the incidence of viral encephalitis at 3.5 to 7.4 per 100,000 persons per year.
      Overall, viruses are the most common cause of encephalitis.

      The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates an annual incidence of
      approximately 20,000 new cases of encephalitis in the United States; most are mild in nature.
      The mortality depends largely on the etiologic agent of the encephalitis.

      Herpes simplex virus (HSV) encephalitis (HSVE) is the most common cause of sporadic
      encephalitis in humans. More than 90% of HSVE cases are attributable to HSV type-1 (HSV-1).
      Approximately 5% of them are caused by HSV type-2 HSVE is a severe disease, often leading to
      high morbidity (40%) and mortality (up to 15% in treated cases and 70% in untreated cases)
      Patients with encephalitis have an altered mental status ranging from subtle deficits to
      complete unresponsiveness. The typical clinical presentation includes a rapid onset of fever
      and impaired consciousness, often accompanied by focal neurologic signs and seizures.

      The current treatment of choice is the viral replication inhibitor acyclovir. Although highly
      effective in reducing mortality, it only results in complete recovery in one-half of patients
      . Steroid therapy as an adjunctive therapy in HSVE has good anti inflammatory effect. Steroid
      therapy has both anti inflammatory and immunosuppressive property.

      The diagnosis of viral encephalitis is suspected in the context of a febrile disease
      accompanied by headache, altered level of consciousness, and symptoms and signs of cerebral
      dysfunction. These may consist of abnormalities that can be categorized into four: cognitive
      dysfunction (acute memory disturbances), behavioural changes (disorientation, hallucinations,
      psychosis, personality changes, agitation), focal neurological abnormalities (such as
      anosmia, dysphasia, hemiparesis, hemianopia etc.) and seizures. After the diagnosis is
      suspected, the approach should consist of obtaining a meticulous history and a careful
      general and neurological examination.
    
  