
    
      Urban Strategies was funded by a Teen Pregnancy Prevention (TPP) grant from the Office of
      Population Affairs (OPA) within the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) to conduct
      a rigorous evaluation of a TPP program, Project With, to determine the impact of this
      innovative literary-based curriculum for incarcerated and other justice-involved youth.
      Project With is a 12-lesson literary-based curriculum, typically delivered in six weekly
      sessions, with each session having two one-hour long lessons and a meal with facilitators in
      between the two lessons. Each lesson includes a discussion of selected literary works,
      including poetry, short stories, and excerpts from films and other videos. The intervention
      shows potential to promote optimal health and reduce teen pregnancy and sexually transmitted
      infections (STIs) among incarcerated and other justice-involved youth. This intervention
      builds upon a former TPP grant. A formative evaluation of the intervention with OPA funding
      was carried out from 2018-2020. The formative evaluation showed that the curriculum, which
      explores healthy and unhealthy relationships as they appear within literary works and is
      facilitated by a caring mentor using a culturally attuned approach, deeply engages
      incarcerated youth.

      This study involves youth aged 15-19 who are incarcerated/justice-involved and who are at
      high risk for involvement in risky sexual behaviors, including teen pregnancy. The findings
      from this study are intended to contribute to research on teen pregnancy, sexual health, and
      healthy relationships. The population of justice-involved/incarcerated youth face historical,
      structural, and environmental factors that bring about distressing sexual health disparities.
      Nationwide, 20% of incarcerated youth already have a child or are either pregnant or
      expecting a child they fathered (Sedlak & Bruce, 2016). Rates of teen fatherhood for
      incarcerated youth are seven times higher than their peers, and rates of teen motherhood for
      incarcerated girls are one-third higher than national averages. Along with disparities
      related to teen pregnancy, incarcerated youth have high rates of trauma, thus any
      intervention for these youth must be trauma-informed. A 2010 Office of Juvenile Justice and
      Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP) report on the needs of incarcerated youth found 70% of all
      youth had experienced at least one childhood trauma, and 30% had experienced physical abuse,
      sexual abuse, or both. This study was designed to contribute to our understanding of what
      works with this population and to strengthen our knowledge base around developing and
      implementing a sexual health and personal relationships program.

      The study will roll out in waves. During each wave a cohort of 8-12 youth from each facility
      will participate in Project With. After Urban Strategies implements Project With in a given
      facility, they will wait a period of time (e.g., one week to several months) and will then
      implement the program with a new cohort of youth. Using this design, each facility will
      participate in the study multiple times.
    
  