
    
      Regulatory CD4+CD25+ T cells (Treg) derived from the thymus and/or periphery can control
      immune responsiveness to auto- and allo-antigens. However, there have been few efforts to
      harness the therapeutic potential of isolated Tregs to control graft rejection and inducing
      transplantation tolerance in solid organ recipients. In order for Tregs to be used as a
      clinical treatment, the following properties are necessary: ex vivo generation of sufficient
      numbers of cells, migration in vivo to sites of antigenic reactivity, ability to suppress
      rejection in an alloantigen-specific manner, and survival/expansion after infusion. We and
      others have demonstrated 1) the feasibility of expanding Treg ex vivo, 2) the ability of
      these cells to down-regulate allogeneic immune responses in vitro, and 3) the efficacy of
      Treg for prevention of allograft rejection in animal models. In kidney transplant, we have
      developed strategies for the ex vivo expansion of naturally occurring human Tregs (nTregs)
      from leukapheresis products that would allow for the clinical employment of this cellular
      therapy. We are also interested in this approach in patients with end stage liver disease
      (ESLD) undergoing liver transplantation (LT). Our central hypothesis is that alloreactive
      human nTreg with suppressive action can be expanded ex vivo from ESLD patients (this
      proposal) and used to both prevent liver transplant rejection and facilitate the minimization
      and withdrawal of drug-based immunosuppression (future proposals). This application will
      further define and validate efficient methods for ex vivo expansion of human CD4+CD25+CD127-
      FOXP3+nTregs cells in ESLD. We herein propose to use leukapheresis products obtained from
      patients with ESLD to further refine and optimize protocols for expansion of Tregs.
      Suppressive function of expanded cells will be assessed using in vitro assays of
      alloreactivity (mixed lymphocyte culture).
    
  