
    
      The death of a parent is one of the most traumatic events that can happen to a Child. In our
      previous research, we have found that a lack of medical knowledge, communication and
      awareness of impending death increased long-term psychological morbidity among bereaved
      family members. Unfortunately, very few clinical interventions in palliative care have been
      conducted in Sweden.There is therefore a need to develop and evaluate interventions that aim
      to decrease the risk for psychological morbidity in families affected loss.

      The overall purpose of this project is to evaluate a family-centered intervention (the Family
      Talk Intervention, by W. Beardslee) in families where a parent of children aged 6-19 years is
      seriously ill and cared for in specialized homecare. The aims of the intervention are to
      increase family communication, the families' awareness of the impending death and their
      knowledge about the cancer illness, and thereby reduce the family members' long-term
      psychological distress.

      This study is a family-based intervention study among families where a parent of young
      children is seriously ill. It involves an intervention group and a comparison group. The two
      groups will consist of families where the seriously ill parent has at least one child in the
      age range 6-19 years. Around thirty families will be recruited by two interventionists
      through two specialized homecare unit in Stockholm and this is expected to take about 18
      months. Families in the comparison group (N=30) will be recruited by a research member at two
      other specialized homecare units in the Stockholm area.

      The effect of the intervention will be measured by questionnaires to both parents and
      children. Questionnaire data collection will be conducted before the intervention is started
      (baseline, for both intervention and control group). After two months there will be a
      follow-up for both groups. The next follow-up for both groups will be performed one year
      after the baseline.

      In order to examine the meaning of the intervention for all family members and the
      study-feasibility we are planning to conduct interviews after meeting 5. Interviews with the
      whole family respectively each family members will be conducted.
    
  