
    
      The recognition that ICD therapy in children can be life-saving, as well as the development
      of smaller devices and leads, are resulting in increased ICD implantation in the pediatric
      and young adult populations. However, ICD lead survival in this patient group is suboptimal.
      Lead extraction is technically difficult and has substantial morbidity. Recently, improved
      ICD lead designs have been released and are currently being utilized. While the development
      of transvenous ICD leads has allowed for less invasive implantation, the long-term presence
      of these leads carries some risks. When a lead becomes infected or causes patient morbidity,
      it must be removed. Because of the larger caliber of ICD leads and the presence of
      uninsulated shocking coils, non-functional ICD leads usually warrant removal to avoid future
      mechanical or electrical lead interactions. The larger size of ICD leads is of concern in
      this younger population, particularly with regard to avoiding the accumulation of implanted
      hardware. The principal indication for lead revision in children and young adults is lead
      malfunction, commonly related to patient growth and increased physical activity in this
      younger population. The removal of chronic indwelling pacer or ICD leads is not trivial. Scar
      tissue begins to bind transvenous leads to the endothelial surface several weeks after
      implantation, and this fibrous adherence progresses over time, exacerbated by high-energy
      shock delivery. In children and younger adult ICD recipients, exuberant lead scarring is
      prevalent, particularly in the regions of venous entry, high voltage shocking coils, and the
      lead tip. Transvenous lead extraction has been facilitated by the use of telescoping sheaths
      and powered sheaths that can be advanced over the lead to disrupt scar tissue and free the
      lead from the endothelium.

      The 2 ICD lead types to be compared (thin ICD leads versus ePTFE-coated leads) in the
      proposed study are at clinical equipoise. Both types are believed to be improved over prior
      generation ICD leads. However, a direct comparison has not been performed. As the pediatric
      and congenital heart disease patient subgroup is younger than the average ICD patient
      population, they will have greater likelihood of long-term survival, and therefore, the
      issues of lead survival, durability, and extractability are critically important. While these
      themes are important for all ICD patients, they are particularly germane for younger patients
      who have more active lifestyles and are, in general, expected to outlive their ICD leads.

      This study will prospectively assess the improvements in ICD lead design, specifically
      comparing a Gore ePTFE coating and thinner caliber ICD leads in pediatric and congenital
      heart disease population.

      Specific Aim #1: To prospectively evaluate the long-term performance of modern-generation ICD
      leads in pediatric and congenital heart disease patients.

      Specific Aim #2: To determine the potential beneficial effects of two improvements in ICD
      lead design - Gore ePTFE coil coating and thinner lead diameter in pediatric and congenital
      heart disease patients.

      Specific Aim #3: To directly compare the safety and efficacy of these new ICD lead
      technologies in terms of extractability in pediatric and congenital heart disease patients.

      The primary hypothesis is that improved lead designs and smaller diameter leads will
      demonstrate benefit in survival and extractability. The primary outcome variables will
      include: a) ICD lead functionality and performance by subtype, b) inappropriate shocks due to
      lead issues, c) lead extractability by subtype (Gore-coated versus thin leads).

      Secondary outcomes include comparison of implant electrical parameters, patient morbidity and
      mortality, comparing each new lead type with each other and against historical pediatric
      controls with standard transvenous ICD leads.
    
  