
    
      Drugs that activate nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), such as nicotine, have
      cognitive enhancing, and in particular attention-enhancing effects that may be of clinical
      benefit to individuals with cognitive deficits, such as those diagnosed with Alzheimer's
      disease, schizophrenia, or ADHD. nAChR agonists can increase the release of other
      neurotransmitters in the brain, including dopamine, noradrenaline, serotonin, glutamate and
      GABA. To date, it is unknown which of these actions is central to mediating the
      attention-enhancing effects of nAChR agonists. Such knowledge would channel drug development
      efforts onto subtypes of the nAChR expressed on and activating the target system, but not
      systems such as the subcortical dopamine system involved in unwanted effects of nAChR
      agonists (e.g., dependence).

      Preclinical studies have suggested that the noradrenergic system is critical to the
      attention-enhancing effects of the prototypical nAChR agonist nicotine. Activation of
      alpha1-adrenergic receptors appears to be involved in broadening the attentional window, an
      effect shared with nicotine. The aim of the present study is to test whether the effects of
      nicotine on broad monitoring may be mediated by alpha1 adrenoceptors by testing the
      interaction of nicotine and the predominantly alpha1 adrenergic antagonist prazosin in
      healthy human non-smokers. The effects of a low-dose nicotine patch vs. a placebo patch will
      be tested in the presence and absence of prazosin in a 2 x 2 within-subject design, over 4
      repeated test sessions, in healthy never-smokers. Each participant is asked to complete for
      test session, on separate days. In each session, a skin patch will be applied and a capsule
      given by mouth. In one session, both are a placebo. In another session, the patch contains
      nicotine (7 mg/24 hrs) and the capsule is a placebo. In another session, the patch is a
      placebo and the capsule contains 1 mg of prazosin. In another session, the patch contains
      nicotine and the capsule contains prazosin. The sequence of these testing conditions is
      counterbalanced and double-blind.
    
  