
    
      Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) refers to the provision of Ventilatory support through the
      patient's upper airway using a mask or similar device. This technique is distinguished from
      those which bypass the upper airway with a tracheal tube, laryngeal mask, or tracheotomy and
      are therefore considered invasive. NIV refers to non-invasive positive pressure ventilation,
      Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) refers to the non-invasive application of positive
      airway pressure, again using a face or nasal mask rather than in conjunction with invasive
      techniques.

      A study on Non-invasive ventilation in postoperative patients was conducted in 2017 in Italy;
      systematic review was performed on Patients undergoing any of the following procedures,
      thoracic surgery, lung surgery, abdominal surgery, solid organ transplantation,
      thoraco-abdominal surgery and bariatric surgery were included. Information on demographics,
      medical history, preoperative medications, postoperative care Pharmacologic management and
      laboratory investigation results were obtained from medical charts.

      Prospective, randomized, case-controlled, pilot study included forty patients, who underwent
      elective (OPCAB) and were randomized into two groups. group-A (BiPAP) and group-B . All
      patients received same regimen of medication. Group-B was kept on BiPAP immediately following
      extubation, while, group-B received conventional physiotherapy only. All hemodynamic and
      oxygenation parameter were recorded and chest radiographs were done to find out incidence of
      atelectasis. Patients were followed up to their discharge.

      Noninvasive Ventilatory support does not facilitate recovery from acute respiratory failure
      in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease his investigation evaluates, in a prospective,
      randomized and controlled manner, whether noninvasive ventilatory support (NIVS) with bilevel
      positive airway pressure (BiPAP) facilitates recovery from acute respiratory failure (ARF) in
      patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

      Effects of Positive Airway Pressure in Patients with Heart Failure and Obstructive Sleep
      Apnea done at Toronto General Hospital University Health Network and Mount Sinai Hospital
      Twenty-four patients with a depressed left ventricular ejection fraction (45 percent or less)
      and obstructive sleep apnea who were receiving optimal medical treatment for heart failure
      underwent polysomnography. The subjects were then randomly assigned to receive medical
      therapy either alone (12 patients) or with the addition of continuous positive airway
      pressure (12 patients) for one month. The assessment protocol was then repeated.

      Bilevel positive airway pressure on ventricular ectopy in heart failure patients with
      obstructive sleep apnoea was done at canada in 2015. Following optimisation of medical
      treatment and cpap.The frequency of vpbs and urinary norepinephrine (noradrenaline)
      concentrations during total sleep time were determined at baseline and after 1 month
    
  