
    
      1. Treatment for patients There are no significant difference in standardized treatment
           received by patients enrolled, as well as the light equipment bedside and the food
           supply time. Patients are randomly divided into Eye Masks Group and Control Group by
           computer tools. Patients in Eye Masks Group are applied with eye masks from 22: 00 to 6:
           00 each night during the admission. Blood sample was collected from each patient
           immediately after enrollment (D0), 6:30 of Day 1 (D1), Day 1 (D2), Day 3 (D3), Day 4
           (D4) after admission. Urine of 6:00-21:00 and 21:00-6:00 is also stored from D0 to D4.

        2. Clinical data collection Data such as patient's age, gender, contact information, time
           from onset to admission, existence of septic shock, pathogen species, the site of
           infection, the existence of organ dysfunction, APACHE II score (Acute Physiology And
           Chronic Health Evaluation Scoring System) , SOFA （Sequential Organ Failure
           Assessment）score, the use of mechanical ventilation, vasoactive drugs, corticosteroids,
           sedative and analgesic medication, history of eye diseases and neurological diseases is
           collected from each patient who is included in the study. Follow-up data for daily
           daytime sleep time, existence of delirium, CPC score and GCS score on Day 7 and Day 28,
           length of stay and survival of 28 days after admission is also collected.

        3. Sample collection and processing The blood samples collected in citrate anticoagulation
           tubes and the urine samples collected in specialized graduated cylinders are stored at
           room temperature. Staining and fixation were performed within 24 h after blood
           collection. The expression of Monocyte Human Leukocyte Antigen-DR is detected using flow
           cytometer. The concentration of 6-sulfatoxymelatonin in urine is detected by ELISA kit.

        4. Cerebral Performance Category (CPC) CPC is a 5-category scale for measuring neurological
           status 2 weeks after cardiac arrest and CPC score 6 months after cardiac arrest. The 5
           categories are: CPC 1, conscious and alert with good cerebral performance; CPC 2,
           conscious and alert with moderate cerebral performance; CPC 3, conscious with severe
           cerebral disability; CPC 4, comatose or in persistent vegetative state; and CPC 5, brain
           dead, circulation preserved.

        5. Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) The GCS was developed as a standardized method for healthcare
           practitioners to evaluate degree of altered consciousness in patients who had sustained
           head injuries. The GCS is comprised of three categories: eye opening, verbal response,
           and motor response. The score from each category is summed, to provide a total GCS score
           (range 3-15).
    
  