
    
      Stickler syndrome (STL) is a genetic disease affecting several organs. However the major risk
      is represented by the development of retinal detachment (RD). Up to 80% of patients present a
      RD and 25% to 80% have sequential bilateral RD. The surgical outcome of RD in this population
      is worse than that of the general RD population mainly because of the severity at diagnosis
      and the high frequency and severity of postoperative complications. Prevention has therefore
      emerged as a therapeutic option for this identifiable high-risk group of patients. Prevention
      has been proposed especially for the fellow (contralateral) eye of patients having presented
      a RD in their first eye and often lost vision as a consequence of retinal detachment in the
      first eye.

      The investigators hypothesize that a scleral buckling surgical procedure performed for the
      fellow eye of STL patients having recently presented a RD of the first eye could prevent the
      occurrence of bilateral RD and/or vision loss.

      Stickler patients are regularly diagnosed and followed-up in referral centers mainly in the
      context of a recent retinal detachment. They are proposed genetic testing as part of the
      standard of care. Genetically confirmed Stickler patients having recently presented (<24
      months) a retinal detachment and treated as part of the standard care are eligible for this
      study. During the usual follow-up visits performed for their recent first RD operation they
      will be informed and offered to participate in the "STL-DR-PREV study" for the prevention of
      RD of their fellow eye.

      Patients in the intervention arm will undergo an encircling scleral buckle surgical
      procedure, which is a routine surgical procedure used for decades and still in use to treat
      RD that will be performed in the present study to prevent rather than to treat retinal
      detachment from a healthy eye of a patient having a genetically confirmed Stickler Syndrome.
    
  