
    
      Percutaneous coronary intervention(PCI) is one of the standard therapies for acute coronary
      syndrome. Despite major advances in PCI procedure, impaired myocardial perfusion frequently
      occurred after primary PCI and resulted in a larger infarct size and increased morbidity and
      mortality.Reperfusion injury process can be resulted in additional death of cardiomyocytes
      and it is suggested that oxidative stress is a contributing factor to induce reperfusion
      injury.During PCI,trauma occurs to the arterial endothelium, causes the activation and
      aggregation of platelets.

      It is estimated that approximately 25% of patients undergoing PCI have significant
      postprocedural creatinine kinase (CK)/creatinine kinase myocardial band (CK-MB) elevations
      and approximately 50% of patients have significant post-procedural troponin elevations. The
      most common complication of PCI is a cell damage to cardiomyocyte that can be diagnosed by
      postprocedure elevation of cardiac markers. N-acetylcystein have several positive effect on
      platelet and vascular function and infarct size.

      This study is a randomized clinical trial (RCT) evaluating the effect of N-acetylcystein on
      biomarkers of platelet activation and coronary reperfusion in patients undergoing
      percutaneous coronary intervention. Double blind randomized clinical trial on 100 patients in
      2 groups (intervention & control) is conducted. Patients with confirmed ST-elevation
      myocardial infarction included in this study. Patients were excluded if they had: emergency
      for cardiac bypass; cardiogenic shock and rescue percutaneous coronary intervention. Patients
      in Intervention group were administered 100 mg/kg Iv bolus N-acetylcystein and then 480mg
      intracoronary and 10mg/kg/h over 12 hours after percutaneous coronary intervention and
      patients in control group received standard regimens. Primary outcome was platelet activation
      biomarkers assessment before and 24 hours after percutaneous coronary intervention and
      secondary outcome was effect of N-acetylcystein on CK-MB and high sensitive Troponin T, 6 and
      12 hours after percutaneous coronary intervention.Patients were assessed for coronary blood
      flow after percutaneous coronary intervention with the use of TIMI flow and myocardial blush
      grade.

      Major adverse cardiac events (MACE) will be evaluated as a secondary endpoint after 30 days.
    
  