
    
      Patients presenting to the Harborview Emergency room with acute traumatic spinal cord injury
      (tSCI) will be recruited to undergo contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) during routine
      surgery for decompression and stabilization of their injury.

      Traumatic spinal cord injury (tSCI) develops in two phases. The primary injury is
      characterized by direct mechanical destruction of cells, nerve fibers and blood vessels. The
      secondary injury phase represents the downstream biological effects of the loss of blood flow
      in the injury center as well as significant hypoperfusion in the surrounding penumbral zone.
      This process is associated with cytotoxic spinal cord edema, which causes a rise of tissue
      pressure within the contused spinal cord. While experimental studies demonstrate that spinal
      cord tissue damage due to primary injury is often remarkably limited, the cascade of
      biochemical and molecular processes that comprise secondary injury often exacerbate and
      define the extent of injury to the patient.

      Accordingly, two routinely performed clinical treatment strategies aim to mitigate the
      effects of secondary injury by improving the local tissue perfusion of the contused spinal
      cord. First, surgical decompression of the spinal cord is recommended within 24 hours after
      injury, as it may improve functional outcome. Second, trauma guidelines recommend maintenance
      of the mean arterial blood pressure at 85 - 90 Hg for the first 7 days after acute spinal
      cord injury.

      Despite these interventions and a tremendous research effort to develop neuroprotective
      therapies targeting the hypoperfused "rescue-able" penumbral zone, there are no clinically
      efficacious techniques to improve functional outcome following tSCI. We believe that a lack
      of clinical biomarkers for hypoperfused "rescue-able" penumbral zone is a main road block for
      the development of novel therapeutic procedures and therapies. This motivates a search for a
      biomarker for tSCI that can guide surgical and critical care interventions. We seek to
      develop an ultrasound-based biomarker for tSCI that is sensitive to the underlying tissue
      pathology and predictive of clinical outcomes.
    
  