
    
      Bismuth-based quadruple therapy is recommended by a recent review to be the first-line
      treatment for H. pylori eradication, replacing clarithromycin-based triple therapy. It is
      because the eradication rates of triple therapy in adults and clarithromycin-contained
      sequential therapy in children have declined due to increasing clarithromycin resistance in
      both adults and children. The best regimen for H. pylori eradication should be the one which
      succeeds on the first attempt. However, the effectiveness and the optimal duration of
      bismuth-based quadruple therapy for first-line H. pylori eradication in children and adults,
      respectively, are unknown. Moreover, the impacts on gut microbiota after H. pylori
      eradication should be concerned; nevertheless, the results are controversial.

      Probiotic supplements are beneficial to gut health through modulation of the gut microbiota
      and metabolomics. Our previous studies also reported that the efficacy of H. pylori
      eradication is improved and relevant immune response could be modified by
      probiotics-containing yogurt ingestion. Our preliminary data have shown that gut F.
      prausnitzii depletion in H. pylori-infected children could be reversed after triple
      eradication therapy with probiotics-containing yogurt ingestion. However, it is uncertain
      whether the recovery of gut F. prausnitzii by probiotics could restore gut dysbiosis or
      improve systemic inflammation, and the role of gut F. prausnitzii or metabolites in the H.
      pylori-microbiota-host metabolism axis.

      The investigators hypothesize that bismuth-based quadruple therapy could be an optimal
      regimen for first-line H. pylori eradication in the era of increasing clarithromycin
      resistance; moreover, gut dysbiosis could be reversed after bismuth-based quadruple therapy.
      Furthermore, the efficacy of the10-day course is not inferior to that of the 14-day course in
      H. pylori eradication. Among the H. pylori-infected patients, they are randomized to the
      14-day bismuth-based quadruple therapy group and the 10-day bismuth-based quadruple therapy
      group to receive a 14-day and 10-day course, respectively, of the bismuth-based quadruple
      therapy, including esomeprazole (Nexium 40 mg) 1 tab twice a day, dibismuth trioxide (KCB
      F.C. 120 mg) 1 tab four times a day, metronidazole (Flagyl 250 mg) 2 tab thrice a day, and
      tetracycline (250 mg) 2 tab four times a day.

      Moreover, the investigators also hypothesize that probiotics could restore gastric or gut
      dysbiosis, especially gut F. prausnitzii depletion. The patients who still have depletion of
      gut F. prausnitzii 12 months after H. pylori eradication are enrolled into the probiotic
      supplement trial. They are randomized to the probiotic therapy group ingesting probiotic
      powder twice daily for 24 weeks and the non-probiotic control group, respectively. The
      probiotic powder is named as "President AB powder", which contains an approximately equal
      mixture of Lactobacillus acidophilus and Bifidobacterium lactis Bb12 at a concentration of >=
      10E9 CFU/mL (President Corp., Tainan, Taiwan)

      Sample size assessment: The investigators propose that the eradication rates in the 14-day
      group and the 10-day group are 99% and 95%, respectively. The case ratio of the two groups is
      1:1. If there is a true difference in favor of the 14-day bismuth-based quadruple therapy of
      4% (99% vs 95%), then a total of 198 patients are required to be 80% (power) sure that the
      upper limit of a one-sided 95% confidence interval (or equivalently a 90% two-sided
      confidence interval) will exclude a difference in favor of the 14-day bismuth-based quadruple
      therapy group of more than 10% [Sealed Envelope Ltd. 2012. Power calculator for binary
      outcome non-inferiority trial. [Online] Available from:
      https://www.sealedenvelope.com/power/binary-noninferior/ [Accessed Sun Feb 14 2021]. Assuming
      a surveying failure rate of 10%, at least 220 patients are needed.

      In addition, the investigators propose that the rates of gut F. prausnitzii depletion before
      and after probiotic therapy are 50% and 25%, respectively. With a two-side alpha value of
      0.05 and power of 80% (β=0.20), the number of patients required is 92 in such a paired
      sample. Assuming a surveying failure rate of 10%, at least 103 subjects are needed in the
      probiotic therapy group. Moreover, according to case ratio of the probiotic therapy group and
      the non-probiotic control group as 7:3, and the number required is 46 in the non-probiotic
      control group.

      Statistical analysis: The statistical analysis is performed with SPSS software (SPSS 17,
      Chicago, IL, USA). The Student's t-test, Pearson's χ2 test, and Mann-Whitney U test are
      conducted to identify the statistical differences between the two comparison groups. One-way
      ANOVA with Tukey's least significant difference, Pearson's χ2 test, and Kruskal-Wallis
      one-way ANOVA by ranks and post hoc comparison by Mann-Whitney U test are used to identify
      the statistical differences between the three or more comparison groups. Paired t-test,
      McNemar, and Wilcoxon signed-rank test are conducted to identify the statistical differences
      between the pair data. All of the tests are two-tailed with the statistical significance
      defined as P < 0.05.
    
  