
    
      Despite that mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) is a common condition managed in various
      healthcare settings, early team based neurorehabilitation (TbNR) in post-concussion syndrom
      (PCS) is sparely investigated. Therefore we aim to design a high quality randomised
      controlled study (RCT) investigating the effect of early TbNR in PCS. Prior this RCT a pilot
      study will be conducted with the aim to evaluate the study design, procedure and
      measurements.

      Method:

      Thirty consecutive patients visiting Alingsås hospital emergency department due to head
      injury caused by fall, trauma to the head, traffic accident or abuse, and diagnosed with
      brain concussion (ICD10 S060, S0600) for the first time or after repeated trauma, will be
      asked to participate in the study. The patient will receive a written study information when
      discharged, and asked if an occupational therapist can contact the patient by phone for
      further information and screening questions 14 days after trauma. If the patient meet the
      inclusion criteria and wish to participate in the study a written informed consent will be
      obtained.

      Test procedure:

      A structured interview and the assessment described below will be performed at baseline 3-4
      weeks after the trauma and after 16 weeks by an occupational therapist. Participant's
      characteristics such as age, gender, work ability, education, social status, previous trauma
      to the head and known comorbidity are collected. The classification of the mTBI will be
      collected from the patients' medical journal, as well as the result and time of the CT
      examination if it has been performed. Information about previous sick leave will be collected
      from the Swedish health insurance office. The number of visits to the occupational therapist
      (OT) and the physiotherapist (PT) will be recorded from the participant's medical journal.

      Study protocol In this pilot study we plan to evaluate broadly as the persons with mTBI may
      suffer from a complex symptomatology, and the causes of persisting symptoms are unclear.

      The following data will be collected:

        -  The number of patients who meet the inclusion criteria.

        -  The number of patients consenting participation in the study.

        -  The number of patients completing questionnaires at baseline and post-test.

        -  The number of patients who participate in the intervention.

      Randomisation:

      After screening for eligibility, fulfilling inclusion criteria and consenting to
      participation the baseline assessment will be conducted by an OT at enrolment. After this the
      patients will be randomised either to the intervention or control group in using lots in
      sealed envelopes based on a computer generated group allocation. The lots are kept in sealed
      envelopes prepared by a person not involved in the study. An OT will open the envelope and
      inform the patient about group allocation. All care providers will be blinded for baseline
      and post-test outcomes. A research co-worker who are involved in data management will be
      blinded for group allocation.

      Interventions:

      The patients randomised to the intervention group (n=15) will be treated by the PT and OT in
      TbNR. At the first visits a medical history will be taken, there after a structured interview
      will be made by the OT about activity level, and an examination of the patients bodily and
      neurological symptoms will be made by the PT. Based on this result a TbNR a rehabilitation
      plan is established consisting of the patient's goals, and the purpose that the patient shall
      be as active as possible without triggering symptoms. An individual exercise program is
      prescribed. Number of visits to TbNR will depend on the individual need for rehabilitation.

      Between each appointment with TbNR, the patient will have personal tasks to accomplish with
      the purpose of being active based on symptoms and the adaptation to the current level of
      energy. Information about underlying causes of perceived symptoms will be present at the
      visits, and the patient will be given help to analyze the tasks that has been performed
      during the past week. The perceived symptoms will be logged in an activity log including
      estimation of fatigue and headache. A week-schedule will be created in the purpose of helping
      the patient to a balanced activity level in relation to their current capacity.

      The PT assesses physical activity level and reactions to physical strain. Adaptations are
      made to the exercise program and advice is given on physical activity and exercises. When
      appropriate the OT advices about returning to work and adaptations concerning work.

      Control:

      Participants will be treated as usual, which is that they can search health care by themself.

      Statistics:

      Ratio and interval data are presented as mean ± 1 standard deviation (SD), ordinal data are
      presented as median, and 25th and 75th percentile, nominal data are presented in absolute and
      relative numbers.

      Change between baseline and post-test will be analyzed for each outcome measure and between
      the groups. Depending if the data are normal distributed or not parametric or non-parametric
      tests will be used for differences between group.

      Effect sizes and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated. Cohen's d will be used to
      estimate the effect size using mean difference between groups and pooled standard deviation
      of the mean differences. The magnitude of effect size will be considered small for d = 0.2 -
      0.49, medium for d = 0.5-0.79, and large for d = 0.8-1.1 (16).

      Odds ratio will be used to estimate effect size for binary dependent variable using logistic
      regression. Linear regression analysis will be used for change of outcome measurements
      adjusting for gender, number of head trauma and if the injury has been caused by another
      person or not. The Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS) for Windows, Version 22.0,
      2013. IBM Corp, Armonk, NY: USA will be used for statistical analyses. A p-value < 0.05 is
      considered statistical significant.

      Sample size:

      In the planned pilot study 30 participants will be enrolled. This sample size is considered
      to be sufficient to analyze effect size for the included outcome measurements which will be
      used for planning the full-scale randomized controlled study involving more emergency
      hospitals and neuro teams.
    
  