
    
      Chronic Kidney Disease-Mineral Bone disorder (CKD-MBD) is a constellation of problems related
      to alterations in mineral and bone homeostasis that occur in CKD stage 3-5D (estimated GFR
      60-15 ml/min). The damaged kidney is unable to fully excrete a phosphorus load, leading to a
      compensatory secondary hyperparathyroidism to attempt to increase urinary phosphorus
      excretion in order to maintain serum phosphorus in the normal range. Eventually this
      compensation of elevated PTH becomes pathologic and leads to abnormalities in biochemistries,
      bone and vascular disease, all of which are associated with morbidity and mortality in
      patients with CKD. Prevention of these complications is key to improved patient outcomes.
      Unfortunately, this normal or high normal phosphorus does not reflect the "behind the scenes"
      appropriate and inappropriate compensation. The use of medication to bind phosphorus from
      food (phosphate binders) may prevent absorption of phosphorus across the intestine and
      prevent or change the elevations in PTH and other hormones like FGF23. Thus, either urinary
      excretion of phosphorus, or changes in hormone may be more appropriate end points to evaluate
      efficacy of phosphate binders than is serum phosphorus.

      In healthy individuals, there is variation throughout the day (diurnal) in serum phosphorus
      and urine phosphorus excretion, but in dialysis patients, this variability appears to be
      lost. No data exists for patients with stage 3 and 4 (pre-dialysis) CKD. Intestinal
      phosphorus absorption is also dependent on bioavailability (amount of free phosphorus
      available to be absorbed), which differs depending on the protein source, as the phosphorus
      in grain/soy diets is less bioavailable than that from protein from animal/casein protein
      source. In our animal model of CKD, these differences in bioavailability impact urinary
      phosphorus excretion and serum levels of FGF-23, but not PTH. As phosphaturia, PTH, and FGF23
      may become important end points for future clinical trials, understanding diurnal variability
      and the relationship to diet in patients with CKD 3 and 4 with normal serum phosphorus levels
      is critical. We hypothesize that dietary protein source will affect the hormonal response and
      diurnal phosphorus homeostasis in advanced CKD. To test this hypothesis, we will examine the
      following specific aims in a population of CKD stage 3 and 4 subjects from the Indiana
      University Affiliated Nephrology Clinics and determine

        1. if the dietary protein source affects fasting serum and urinary phosphorus excretion

        2. if the protein source affects post prandial changes in serum and urinary phosphorus in
           patients

        3. if changes in plasma FGF23 and PTH correlate with urinary phosphorus excretion in
           response to different protein sources.

      We will conduct a cross over study to assess blood and urine after one week of a diet that
      differs only in the source of the protein (and thus the bioavailability of phosphorus).
    
  