
    
      First-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer generally includes the chemotherapies
      oxaliplatin and fluoropyrimidines, known as CAPOX and FOLFOX. A previous study showed that
      over 40% of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer required dose modifications (including
      dose reductions, treatment delays or discontinuation) within the first three months of
      palliative treatment, and around 30% was admitted to hospital due to chemotherapy-related
      toxicity. Toxicity-induced dose modifications and hospitalization may reduce benefit of
      treatment. In patients with metastatic colorectal cancer, reductions in muscle mass and lower
      physical activity levels (<9 metabolic equivalent of task hours/week) were found to be
      associated with more dose-limiting toxicity and shorter (progression-free) survival. However,
      the causality and underlying mechanisms linking physical activity and exercise to cancer
      outcome have not been elucidated. The immune system (by increased infiltration of activated
      natural killer cells into the tumour) might play a role as was shown in studies with rodents.
      In addition, studies among patients showed that exercise may counteract a variety of
      treatment toxicities (e.g. neutropenia, neuropathy, gastrointestinal side effects, fatigue),
      but optimal exercise type and dose are unknown.

      In addition to the above-mentioned biophysiological effects by which exercise may prevent
      dose modifications, several studies demonstrated the positive effects of exercise during
      cancer treatment on quality of life. A recent study on patients' perceptions indicated that
      exercise helped patients to better cope with cancer treatments, as it gave them psychological
      strength (i.e. empowerment and resilience) next to physical strength. The investigators
      hypothesize that exercise reduces treatment-related toxicity and thereby reduces chemotherapy
      dose modifications and improves progression free survival.

      randomised controlled trials are the gold standard for ascertaining treatment efficacy.
      Studying differences in effects on chemotherapy dose modifications between different exercise
      programs requires a multi-arm randomised controlled trial. Due to complex logistics and high
      costs, the conduct of a traditional adequately powered multi-arm exercise trial is difficult
      with available patients and resources. Therefore, a Bayesian adaptive flexible multi-arm
      multi-stage design will be used which allows for a number of interim analyses after which a
      treatment arm can be dropped early if it falls outside the pre-defined futility/efficacy
      boundaries. This reduces patients' exposure to suboptimal interventions and increases trial
      efficiency.

      This study aims to examine whether:

        1. Exercise prevents chemotherapy dose modifications via reduced toxicity and enhanced
           psychological strength, and which exercise program yields largest benefits.

        2. Exercise improves immune function (e.g. functionality of natural killer cells).

        3. Benefits of exercise on dose modifications and immune function improves progression-free
           survival.
    
  