
    
      Although there are many safe and effective vaccines for adults, the Public Health Agency of
      Canada has noted that public perception of vaccination is that it is primarily for infants
      and children. The National Advisory Committee on Immunization (NACI) recommends adults and
      adolescents receive the influenza vaccine, tetanus-diphtheria-acellular pertussis vaccine
      (Tdap), and meningococcal vaccines (MenACWY, 4CMenB). As well, NACI recommends that people 60
      years or older receive the herpes zoster vaccine and that Canadians who travel to high-risk
      areas should consider getting vaccinated to protect themselves against travel-related
      illnesses, such as Hepatitis A and Typhoid Fever. While NACI makes recommendations, provinces
      and territories (P/Ts) determine if they will fund and implement vaccine programs. Unlike the
      childhood immunization programs which tend to be funded by P/Ts, many adult vaccines are
      unfunded, resulting in poor population uptake. In this project,the investigators propose to
      implement and compare new community pharmacy-based strategies for improving vaccine coverage.

      Patients are typically educated about preventative health care during face-to-face visits
      with physicians in office settings. The ability to educate and deliver preventative health
      care is limited by the available provider time during office visits - providers often focus
      on acute needs and current disease management. New delivery models and a means of extending
      preventative health care delivery outside of traditional face-to-face office visits are
      needed.

      Pharmacists are in a unique position of being among the most accessible of health
      professionals. Given their extended operating hours, accessibility, and established trust
      with patients, pharmacists are well-positioned to improve vaccination rates and health system
      efficacy through injection administration.

      Vaccine coverage rates will be measured using the following:

        1. pharmacy database analysis,

        2. public health vaccine reports by physicians,

        3. number of vaccine doses delivered to pharmacies in all four regions, and

        4. public survey within the study communities to determine immunization status.

      Intervention communities include Saint John, New Brunswick and New Glasgow/Pictou/Antigonish,
      Nova Scotia area, which include the smaller towns of Stellarton and Westville, Nova Scotia.
      Control communities include Moncton, New Brunswick and Kentville/New Minas/Wolfville, Nova
      Scotia, which include the smaller towns of Canning and Coldbrook, Nova Scotia.
    
  