
    
      Conventional techniques of endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) by snare resection do usually
      not achieve resection of gastrointestinal mucosal neoplastic lesions larger than 1 cm in
      diameter in a single piece ("en-bloc"). En-bloc resection can even fail in cases of smaller
      lesions depending on their location and shape. Extension of EMR by piecemeal resection is
      therefore frequently required for removal of the targeted neoplastic area. However the
      histological evaluation of several specimen can usually not identify the outer margins of the
      neoplastic area. Thus complete R0 resection cannot be histologically confirmed.
      Histologically important additional information, e.g. infiltration of lymphatic vessels or
      submucosal infiltration may be missed in between resected specimen due to coagulation
      artifacts or left tissue bridges. In addition piecemeal EMR of early neoplasia in Barrett's
      esophagus is associated with a high recurrence rate probably because of minor remnants of
      neoplastic tissue. In contrast to EMR the technique of endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD)
      allows en-bloc resection even of large neoplastic lesions. Variations of this method have
      been increasingly used for various types of early gastrointestinal neoplasia mainly in Asian
      countries. In Japan ESD has been approved for treatment of selected cases of early gastric
      and colorectal neoplasia as an alternative to surgery. A recent meta-analysis of
      non-randomized controlled trials showed that ESD of early gastrointestinal tumors is superior
      to EMR in terms of en-bloc resection and curative resection rates but it is more
      time-consuming and is associated with higher rates of bleeding and perforation. A few small
      series on ESD were also reported from Western countries.

      The waterjet-assisted ESD technology (WESD) allows pressure controlled injection of fluids
      through the tip of a recently developed HybridKnife®. Submucosal injection, circumferential
      cutting and dissection of lesions as well as coagulation of bleeding sources can be performed
      with the same device without need for changing the instrument. These options should
      accelerate the procedure and may increase its safety and efficacy. Experimental trials in ex
      vivo and in vivo pig models showed that the gastrointestinal mucosa of different sites can be
      effectively and safely lifted by gentle placement of the HybridKnife® on the wall and
      needleless injection of saline solution with pressures between 30 - 70 bar. Our group
      reported on effective en-bloc resection of esophageal areas in all of 14 cases of an Erlangen
      porcine model. We subsequently compared WESD with EMR of predefined esophageal mucosal
      lesions in anesthetizised pigs in a randomized controlled trial. The results demonstrated
      that WESD more frequently achieved a complete resection with a significantly lower number of
      specimen. WESD caused no perforations and bleedings could be endoscopically managed during
      the procedure.

      Furthermore, we applied WESD for early gastric neoplasia in a prospective single center
      study. This study involved 29 consecutive patients. The results confirmed the experimental
      findings that WESD simplifies the ESD procedure and can be effectively and safely performed.
      Repici et al. applied the WESD methodology to colorectal neoplasia larger than 3 cm in
      diameter. Also this clinical study showed that WESD is a safe and effective method to provide
      en-bloc and curative resection of selected cases of colorectal neoplastic lesions.

      In addition we recently reported on this technology in a first clinical trial on WESD for
      early Barrett's neoplasia. The results indicated that WESD can be safely and effectively
      performed in the esophagus. It achieved en-bloc resection of early BE neoplasia in 27 of 30
      patients. The rate of histologically complete resection (R0) was 38.5 % which was higher than
      previously reported for focal EMR of BE-EAC. We discussed that higher rates can be expected
      in case of well delineated lesions and definition of R0 resection as histologically complete
      resection of adenocarcinoma or HGIN. This definition would not consider LGIN at lateral
      margins as incomplete resection which is in accordance to a recent trial on ESD of early
      colorectal neoplasia. Possible remnants of LGIN seem to be clinically irrelevant because they
      are not considered as exclusion criteria for RFA after complete endoscopic removal of HGIN or
      EAC. RFA is considered to be the best available ablation technique for eradication of
      residual BE mucosa after focal EMR. On the other hand R0 resection of HGIN or EAC is
      considered to be important because a complete histological evaluation of the specimen
      minimizes the risk of overlooking criteria for advanced tumor stages (e.g. cancerous
      infiltration of lymphatic vessels or submucosal tissue) which are related with an increased
      risk of lymph node metastases thus requiring major surgery. The risk of a more advanced
      lesion is increased in visible lumps or nodules consisting of HGIN. In this context it should
      be considered that there is poor inter-observer agreement among pathologists in
      distinguishing HGD from intra-mucosal adenocarcinoma.

      Therefore the primary objective of this study is to compare the R0 resection rate of ESD and
      EMR for visible lesions of HGIN or EAC. Secondary objectives are related to completeness of
      resection, safety of the procedures, the medium term outcome and comparison of costs.
    
  