
    
      The use of drug resistance testing to guide the selection of an antiretroviral regimen for
      patients in whom current therapy is failing has gained growing acceptance in clinical
      practice. Genotypic and phenotypic resistance testing has been associated with improved
      short-term virologic outcome in prospective interventional trials. There is also growing
      evidence that monitoring drug levels, particularly of PIs, may add to the benefit provided by
      resistance testing. This study will assess the impact of TDM and resistance testing on
      lowering viral load in treatment-experienced patients and will also evaluate the mean change
      in plasma HIV RNA from study entry to Step 2 of the study.

      No antiretrovirals will be provided by this study. Participants will be followed for a
      maximum of 48 weeks. Participants failing at least one combination antiretroviral regimen
      will have a screening drug resistance test performed while remaining on the failing regimen.
      In Step 1, participants will begin a salvage antiretroviral regimen within 7 days of study
      entry selected by their clinician using results of the resistance test. Two weeks after
      initiation of the salvage regimen, participants will have timed plasma samples obtained for
      PI trough levels. The results of the trough level tests will be used to calculate a
      normalized inhibitory quotient (NIQ) in order to determine eligibility for randomization into
      Step 2 at Week 4. Electrocardiograms (EKGs) and trough levels will be performed at Weeks 2,
      6, and 10; support interviews to promote adherence will also be conducted by the study nurse
      or clinician at these times. Some participants taking tipranavir may have additional blood
      collection at Week 2.

      In Step 2, participants with an NIQ of 1 or less will be randomly assigned to one of two
      arms. Arm A participants will receive standard care (SC) only, while participants in Arm B
      will receive SC plus dose-adjusted PIs based on the NIQ. Clinical and viral load assessment
      will be conducted at screening, entry, and Weeks 4, 10, 16, 24, 32, 40, and 48. Arm B
      participants will also have their PI trough levels checked at Weeks 6 and 10. Participants
      with an NIQ greater than 1 will be assigned to observational Arm C (open to up to 50
      enrollees) or will stop their involvement in the study. Participants in Arms A, B, or C who
      have a viral load of 1000 copies/ml or higher or who experience virologic failure at or after
      Week 24 will be eligible to receive a second resistance test and enter Step 3.

      Participants in Step 3 will begin a second salvage regimen; PI trough levels will be measured
      after 2, 6, and 10 weeks of salvage therapy. Those with an NIQ greater than 1, or with an NIQ
      of 1 or less and do not wish to escalate dose, will be followed on Step 3 for a maximum of 48
      weeks after study entry.

      All participants are encouraged to coenroll in ACTG A5128, Consent for Use of Stored Patient
      Specimens for Future Testing.
    
  