
    
      Rationale

      Pulmonary hypertension (PH) post pulmonary thromboembolisms is a serious and complex disease,
      is one major cause of pulmonary hypertension (1). It is the most feared late complication of
      pulmonary thromboembolism (PT) characterized by the organization of thrombotic material
      within the pulmonary arteries (2). Although a purely mechanical theory is too simplistic in
      view of the lack of correlation between the proportion of obliterated pulmonary arteries and
      the numbers of PH.

      Acute, symptomatic, or asymptomatic PT may be the initial event, but disease progression
      would result from progressive vascular remodeling of small vessels. It is possible that
      unresolved pulmonary arterial thrombosis is a decisive factor for vascular endothelial cells
      to initiate their mesenchymal transition (3).

      On the other hand, Pulmonary hypertension post pulmonary thromboembolisms is the only
      subclass of pulmonary hypertension that has a curative surgical treatment (4). The diagnosis
      of this situation should be detected as soon as possible to optimize the results of surgical
      and pharmacological treatment. Surgical indication should be established as early as possible
      to avoid progression (5).

      Hypothesis

      The current data on the incidence of PH are very variable, depending on the different studies
      designs. There are no data on the prognostic of PH in patients with asymptomatic PT, neither
      paucisymptomatic PH, in which without a prospective follow-up would be underdiagnosed. We
      thought that the prognosis of both clinical forms (PT with or without symptoms) would be
      similar. Also we thought and that there are forms of paucisymptomatic PH whose diagnosis and
      treatment would benefit from a prospective follow-up.

      Objectives

      Main objective

      To know the incidence of pulmonary hypertension (PH) post symptomatic and asymptomatic
      pulmonary thromboembolic (PT).

      The secondary objectives of the study are:

        -  To defined clinical subtypes of PT with a predictive value of diagnosis of PH in two
           years.

        -  To Measure biomarkers described that may be related to the diagnosis of PH or the
           disease progression.

        -  Use of genetic, proteomic, RNA transcription, cytometric and cellular and metabolic
           identification assays to aid in the search for new genetic factors and / or PH
           biomarkers.
    
  