
    
      Although papillary and follicular thyroid cancers are low-grade endocrine malignancy, they
      were fatal if the cancer cells were poorly-differentiated or anaplastic change. Prior
      researches indicated that one-third well-differentiated thyroid cancers could transform to
      poorly-differentiated patterns, even to be anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC), a fatal
      malignancy, and no effective therapeutic strategies was noted, including surgical
      intervention, chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The poorly-differentiated or anaplastic change
      of thyroid cancer cells proliferates rapidly and always invades local tissues with distant
      metastasis. Cellular de-differentiation is the most pivotal cause for malignant
      transformation and invasion. De-differentiation usually in papillary thyroid cancer and
      follicular thyroid cancer, and definitely in ATC. The Poorly-differentiated thyroid cancer
      cell will rapidly proliferate and metastasize. The poorly-differentiated tumor cells lost
      apoptotic mechanism with de-differentiation, and such phenomenon is fatal for such patients.
      The investigators started research of thyroid cancer since 1999, and the investigators
      initially found TNF-α could induce cyto-morphological re-differentiation of thyroid cancer
      cells. Later, the investigators further found Lovastatin could induce re-differentiation of
      anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) cells in 25μM, but induce apoptosis in 50μM, in 2001. In
      2006, the investigators designed nude mice model, and found tumor will shrink via treatment
      of Lovastatin in 5 or 10 mg/kg/day, but tumor will proliferate significantly in 1 mg/kg/day.
      The investigators called this phenomenon as "Duality effects" of statins. In 2012, the
      investigators found FLOT1 and transketolase (TKT) as important regulatory factor of
      re-differentiation and proliferation in ATC cells, respectively. The investigators also found
      that inhibition of Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (CD26) will influence proliferation of ATC cells.
      Exosomes are nanovesicels secreted into extracellular environments. A growing evidence
      suggests theat exosomes could be used as biomarkers to be the diagnosis and prognosis of
      malignant tumors. Exosomes are 50-100 nm diameters, and correspond to the intrluminal
      vesicles of endosomal multivesicular bodies. Because of their cellular orgins, exosomes have
      specific protein markers, like CD63, CD9, CD81 and heat shock protein (HSP). Urine was used
      to be the biosamples in the past five years in baldder cancer, prostate cancer, breast cancer
      and ovarian cancer. Urine sample is usually easy to obtain and non-invasive. Exosomes
      secreted by cells could micro-molecularly transfer messages between cells and to be
      biological markers of cancer. The investigators now found Vildagliptin and Lovastatin could
      influence tumor cells survival via exosomal proteins. For patients of thyroid cancer, the
      investigators could obtain the urine samples without invasive procedures. Furthermore, the
      investigators could find the biological markers and therapeutic targets via the exosomal
      expression in urine. On the continuing basis of ATC cells culture experiments, the
      investigators expected to enroll 30 patients with papillary, follicular or anaplastic thyroid
      cancer, and collect their urine samples before operation, immediately after operation,
      post-operative 3, 6 12 months. The investigators will analyze the urine exosomal proteins and
      probable biological markers. The investigators hope to find the prognostic biological markers
      via this prospective study. The investigators further hope to find newly therapeutic
      mechanism and medications for such patients with poorly-differentiated or anaplastic thyroid
      cancer.
    
  