
    
      In the first part of the study, 150 consecutive patients with a diagnosis of SLE were
      included in the study. All patients fulfilled the American College of Rheumatology (ACR)
      revised criteria for the classification of SLE and provided written informed consent. Data
      collected at the time of study inclusion were age, disease duration, race, menstrual status,
      age at menopause, periods of amenorrhea, family history of osteoporosis, ultraviolet (UV)
      light intolerance, sunshine avoidance, use of sunscreens in the previous year, calculated
      mean daily dietary calcium intake in the last 3 months, history of (non)vertebral fractures
      after the age of 25 years, comorbidity, alcohol and tobacco intake, and exercise status.Body
      weight, height, and body mass index (BMI) were assessed. Disease activity was scored using
      the Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index (SLEDAI) 54. Accumulated organ damage
      was assessed with the SLICC/ ACR damage index (DI) 55. A modified DI score was derived as the
      DI score excluding osteoporotic fractures as a damage item.BMD measurements of the hip (total
      hip and femoral neck) and the lumbar spine (L1-4; anteroposterior view) as well as lateral
      radiographs of the thoracic and lumbar spine (T5-L4)were performed. The prevalence of low BMD
      and vertebral fractures will be assessed.

      In the second part of the study, 40 female SLE patients with steroid induced osteopenia will
      be enrolled in a 12-month, randomized, parallel-group, controlled study. Patients will
      receive either oral Ibandronate 150 mg once monthly plus daily alfacalcidol (0.001 mg) or
      placebo ibandronate once monthly plus daily alfacalcidol(0.001mg).In addition, the intake of
      dietary calcium will estimate by a questionnaire on the screening visit. All patients will
      receive a daily calcium supplement(500 mg).

      Primary outcome is the improvement of bone mineral density measured by DEXA.

      Secondary outcome includes:

        1. Evaluation of the changes in bone mineralization and architecture measured by Xtreme CT.

        2. Evaluation of the changes in perfusion and marrow edema using MRI.

        3. Anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory action of alfacalcidol using serum level of
           interleukin-6 (IL-6), transforming growth factor-beta-1, angiotensin-II, as well as
           urinary levels of TGF and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1).
    
  