
    
      The administration of medication, fluid resuscitation, or even nutrition in intensive care
      unit (ICU) patients, requires one or more infusion lines which can be peripheral or central.
      Although central venous catheters (CVC) are often mandatory in ICU, the risk of
      catheter-related infections should lead to consider the insertion of peripheral venous
      catheters. However in ICU patients, presence of edema or poor venous condition may not allow
      placement of peripheral venous catheter.

      Midline catheter is a 10 to 20 cm long peripheral venous catheter, which can be used for up
      to 28 days (according to manufacturer recommendations). These features make it a good
      alternative to central venous and conventional peripheral venous catheters. They are placed
      at the bedside, peripherally into the cephalic or basilic vein, with the tip reaching the
      axillary vein.

      Midlines are routinely used in the ICU of Lorient Hospital, currently inserted by doctors.
      Studies have shown the feasibility and the safety of delegating to nurses placement of CVC
      and Midlines. In association with the Regional Health Agency, the investigators are currently
      implementing a project of task delegation to ICU nurses, so that they could insert Midlines'
      catheters.

      Midlines' implementation has been associated with a decrease in the use of CVC and
      catheter-related infections. To our knowledge, no study investigated the placement of
      Midlines by nurses in the ICU.

      The investigators propose to conduct a prospective monocentric study to compare the frequency
      of Midlines' use, before and after the task delegation. The primary objective is to compare
      the duration of exposure to central venous catheters between the two periods. Secondary
      objectives are to compare the duration of exposure to peripheral venous catheters and
      Midlines, and the catheter-related infections and thrombosis. Complications related to
      Midlines' placement would also be recorded.
    
  