
    
      The aim of this study is to explore the possibility that outcomes from emergency laparotomy
      may vary according to:

        1. the urban-rural nature of the patient's home location and

        2. travel time from hospital.

      This is a retrospective study of all emergency laparotomies performed in Scotland during the
      period from 1st January 2001 - 31st December 2010. It will use routinely collected
      administrative data from the Information Services Division (ISD) of NHS National Services
      Scotland.

      Emergency laparotomy will be defined as a non-elective abdominal procedure primarily on the
      gut tube; and such cases will be identified by the use of a set of procedural codes, which
      will be validated against local records.

      Potentially significant confounding variables such as age, gender, and co-morbidity will be
      studied for their predictive value in a univariate model and included in a multivariate model
      if they remain significant. The primary outcome measure will be risk-adjusted 30
      day/inpatient mortality, and secondary outcome measures will be 30 day readmission rate, 30
      day re-operation rate, and post-operative length of stay.

      The registry which will supply the data for this study is the Scottish Morbidity Record 01
      (SMR01), the full title of which is the "General / Acute Inpatient and Day Case dataset" (see
      http://www.adls.ac.uk/nhs-scotland/general-acute-inpatient-day-case-smr01/?detail). SMR01 is
      collated and administered by ISD, and data submission is mandatory for all Scottish NHS
      providers of in-patient or day-case care. Approximately 1.4 million records are added each
      year. Diagnoses are coded according to International Classification of Diseases (ICD)-10
      standards and procedures are coded according to the United Kingdom's Office of Population
      Census Statistics (OPCS) standards, the most recent of which is version 4.5.

      The data quality in SMR01 is high and is assured by regular internal audits. In the 2010
      audit of accuracy, Main Condition was recorded with an accuracy of 88% and Main Procedure was
      recorded with an accuracy of 94%. Where data inconsistencies are identified in the extract
      supplied for this study, further clarification will be obtained where possible with ISD's
      data retrieval support team. Data completeness is very high in SMR01. However, where
      significant volumes of data are missing or unusable, the need for data imputation will be
      explored.

      The study period was decided on pragmatically by a desire to provide an assessment of
      contemporary practice, fully within the era of wide-spread laparoscopic surgery.

      A power calculation also suggested that this would provide an adequate sample size to
      demonstrate mortality differences. A recent paper showed 30 day mortality for emergency
      laparotomy to be 14.9% (Saunders DI, Murray D, Pichel AC, Varley S, Peden CJ. Variations in
      mortality after emergency laparotomy: the first report of the UK Emergency Laparotomy
      Network. Br J Anaesth. 2012 Sep 1;109(3):368-75.)

      It was decided that we wanted to be able to detect a mortality difference (absolute) of 2%.
      Alpha was specified as 0.05 and power 0.9. Using a chi-2 test in G Power 3.1.7, it was
      determined that a total N of 5221 was required to show this difference. In the study already
      cited, 35 hospitals submitted data on 3 months of practice, giving a total of 1853 patients.
      We extrapolated to estimate that one hospital completes 212 laparotomies per year. There are
      currently 31 adult surgical centres in Scotland, resulting in an estimate of 6,565
      laparotomies per year. Even accepting the smaller size of Scottish hospitals, this
      demonstrates that a 10 year cohort should be more than adequate to detect a clinically
      significant difference in length of stay.

      The investigators will use the Scottish government's own 8-fold urban-rural classification
      system (see
      http://www.scotland.gov.uk/Topics/Statistics/About/Methodology/UrbanRuralClassification) to
      investigate the possible relationship between patient geographical location and outcome.
      Urban-rural categories may be grouped for analysis, according to initial exploratory work.

      The investigators will further calculate the approximate travelling time from patient home
      location (using postcode) to the treating hospital, by constructing isocrones at
      time/distance intervals from hospitals. Travel time will be analysed as a continuous and
      discrete variable.
    
  