
    
      Background:

      The balance of the long-term risks and benefits of coronary drug-eluting stents versus bare
      metal stents is not known.

      Study objective:

      The primary objective of the trial is to compare in a real-world setting the long-term
      effects on the incidence of death and myocardial infarction (composite primary end-point)
      after implantation of drug-eluting stents versus bare-metal stents. The secondary objective
      is to compare the long-term effects on the incidence of total death, cardiovascular deaths,
      major cardiovascular events, angina pectoris, revascularization procedures, and on
      health-related quality of life after implantation of drug-eluting stents versus bare-metal
      stents. The main tertiary objective is to assess the safety and efficacy in patient subgroups
      with specific demographic, clinical, and vessel- or lesion characteristics, and to conduct a
      cost-effectiveness analysis.

      Study design:

      This is a randomized, five-year prospective, multicenter, open-label clinical trial with
      blinded end point-evaluation.

      Setting:

      Investigator initiated trial conducted at 8 Norwegian interventional centres. The trial is
      sponsored by the Norwegian Research Council, the Regional Health Authorities and other
      not-for-profit organizations.

      Randomization:

      Patients will be randomized to receive either drug-eluting stent(s) or a bare-metal stent(s)
      in a 1:1 ratio.

      Patients:

      The trial will include 9000 patients with de novo lesions in native coronary arteries or
      by-pass grafts who meet the eligibility criteria. Men and women with stable angina pectoris
      or acute coronary syndrome will be included.

      End-point:

      The primary composite end point is total death and nonfatal myocardial infarction.Secondary
      end-points include total death and subcategories of death, fatal and nonfatal myocardial
      infarction, fatal and nonfatal stroke, angina pectoris, revascularization, major bleeding,
      health-related quality of life.

      Length of follow-up:

      Five years.

      End-points collected by electronic linkage to national registries:

      The trial will use the unique Norwegian 11-digit person number to search the National Patient
      Registry and the National Death Registry for nonfatal and fatal end-points during follow-up,
      thereby minimizing loss to follow-up. Information on angina pectoris and health-related
      quality of life will be collected by questionnaires.

      Statistical power:

      The trial has a statistical power of 93 percent to detect a three percent (RR 1.176) absolute
      difference in incidence between the study groups, and a power of 64 percent to detect a two
      percent (RR 1.118) absolute difference, given a two-sided alpha value of 0.05.

      Statistical analysis:

      Statistical analyses will be conducted according to the intention-to-treat principle, and
      will be performed by using widely accepted statistical and/or graphical software.

      Data collection:

      Electronic Case Record Form (e-CRF)

      Clinical Event Committee:

      Adjudication of all end-points according to pre-specified and standardized criteria by
      Clinical Event Committee blinded to study assignment.

      Expected Timelines:

      First patient enrollment: September 2008 Last patient enrollment: February 2011 Completion of
      Follow-up: December 2014.
    
  