
    
      The aim of this study is to assess what effect external inspections have on the quality of
      care provided to sepsis patients admitted to hospital and to explore how external inspections
      affect the involved organizations.

      External inspections are widely used as a means to improve the quality of care, and it is a
      core element of regulatory regimes and certification and accreditation processes. The
      activity of assessing a health care organization's performance according to an externally
      defined standard has been described by partly overlapping terms such as external inspection,
      external review, supervision, and audit. The project uses the term external inspection
      implying that the inspection is initiated and controlled by an organization external to the
      one being inspected; and define it as: "a system, process or arrangement in which some
      dimensions or characteristics of a healthcare provider organisation and its activities are
      assessed or analysed against a framework of ideas, knowledge, or measures derived or
      developed outside that organisation".

      In line with this definition the investigator intend to study how external inspection affect
      the quality of care provided on an organizational level. The project does not intend to study
      how external inspections can affect individuals in the organization nor individual
      professional development. The investigator takes the perspective that quality of care can be
      considered a system property, being dependent on how the organization providing care performs
      as a whole. Accordingly, improving the quality of care is dependent on changing the
      performance of the organization, which in turn implies change in organizational behavior and
      the way clinicians mutually interact and perform their clinical processes. Change in
      organizational behavior is a complex social process that involves a number of different
      practices on different organizational levels. If external inspection has the ability to
      contribute to improve the quality of care on an organizational level, it need to affect the
      practices involved in organizational change.

      The effect of external inspection systems on the quality of care remains unclear and the
      evidence is contradictory. Studies have demonstrated a positive association between
      accreditation and the ability to promote change, professional development, quality systems,
      and clinical leadership. There is evidence to support an association between inspections and
      different quality outcomes e.g. reduced incidence of pressure ulcer and suicide. There are
      however also studies reporting that inspections have no impact on the quality of care.
      Inspection systems are widely used and much resources are spent on such systems worldwide.
      More knowledge about how and whether external inspections can effect the quality of care is
      needed.

      The inspection process can be considered a complex intervention consisting of a set of
      activities that are introduced into varying organizational contexts. The inspection itself
      does not have a direct impact on the quality of care. If the inspection encounters
      non-compliant behavior, the inspected organization is responsible for implementing necessary
      changes. The way the inspection process affects the involved organization will thus influence
      how the inspected organizations pursue the following change process. The way external
      inspections affect the involved organization, is currently poorly understood. A better
      understanding of the underlying mechanisms for how inspection systems might contribute to
      improve the quality of care is needed. Such knowledge can improve the understanding of why
      effects of external inspections seem to vary, which in turn can facilitate the development of
      more effective ways of conducting inspections.

      The study uses external inspections of sepsis detection and treatment in hospitals as a case
      to explore how inspections affect the involved organizations and to evaluate their effect on
      the quality of care. Sepsis is a prevalent disease and one of the main causes of death among
      hospitalized patients internationally and in Norway. Former external inspections of Norwegian
      hospitals have showed that insufficient governance of clinical process in the emergency room
      could have severe consequences for patients admitted to hospital with undiagnosed sepsis.
      During recent years, the Norwegian Board of Health Supervision has investigated a number of
      cases in which the hospitals had not provided care in line with the recommended guidelines
      for sepsis treatment. On this background, the Norwegian Board of Health Supervision has
      decided to conduct a nationwide inspection campaign with sepsis detection and treatment in
      acute hospitals during 2016-2017.

      Early treatment with antibiotics along with compliance to treatment guidelines is associated
      with reduced mortality for sepsis patients. International studies have shown that compliance
      with treatment guidelines varies, and that improved compliance can improve patient outcomes.
      External inspection can identify sub-optimal compliance with treatment guidelines. Improved
      compliance with treatment guidelines is dependent on change in organizational practice. Such
      changes in organizational practice can be measured using process indicators that are
      indicative and sensitive for changes in the key areas identified during the inspection. The
      study uses process measures to assess how external inspections affect guideline adherence.
      Because improved guideline adherence has been demonstrated to improve the quality of care in
      terms of reduced mortality, it can be argued that this is an expedient case for evaluating
      how external inspections can affect the quality of care.
    
  