
    
      Despite progress in providing comprehensive prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV
      (PMTCT) services, significant gaps in the timely uptake and provision of guideline-adherent
      services and maternal retention in care remain. Such gaps create missed opportunities for
      preventing mother-to-child transmission and result in nearly 6,100 infants becoming infected
      with HIV each year in Kenya. Effective interventions that routinize the delivery of
      evidence-based PMTCT services and foster consistent patient engagement are essential to close
      the remaining gaps and eliminate mother-to-child transmission of HIV. Building off of a
      successful R34 grant to develop and pilot test the HITSystem 2.0, an eHealth intervention
      targeting PMTCT services, the overall goal of this proposal is to use a cluster randomized
      control design at 12 Kenyan government hospitals to evaluate a modified HITSystem 2.1
      intervention. HITSystem 2.1 reflects the 2018 Kenyan PMTCT guidelines, including routine
      viral load monitoring and interventions to suppress maternal viral load. The investigators
      aim to evaluate the impact of HITSystem 2.1 to optimize the provision of guideline-adherent
      services and viral suppression through the antenatal, delivery, and early postpartum periods.
      Aim 1 of the proposed study will assess the efficacy of the HITSystem 2.1 to increase the
      proportion of mothers who receive complete PMTCT services (including appointment attendance,
      medication adherence support, viral load testing, hospital-based delivery, and infant testing
      per Kenyan National Guidelines) through 6 months postpartum. The investigators hypothesize
      that mothers receiving the HITSystem 2.1 intervention will have a significantly higher
      completion rate for guideline-adherence PMTCT services compared to mothers receiving standard
      of care PMTCT services. In Aim 1b, the investigators will evaluate HITSystem 2.1
      implementation using the RE-AIM model to inform sustainable scale up. Aim 2 will assess the
      efficacy of HITSystem 2.1 to increase viral suppression (<1,000 copies/mL) among pregnant and
      postpartum women, including those who disengage from care. The investigators hypothesize that
      mothers at HITSystem 2.1 sites will have higher rates of viral suppression at delivery and 6
      months postpartum. Aim 3 will evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the HITSystem 2.1. Driven by
      differences in PMTCT retention, viral suppression, and modeled estimates of pediatric HIV
      infections averted, the investigators hypothesize that the HITSystem 2.1 will be
      cost-effective, based on World Health Organization criteria. This proposal is aimed at
      improving the quality of PMTCT services in the health facility setting. If efficacious and
      cost-effective, HITSystem 2.1 holds strong promise for national dissemination.
    
  