
    
      The purpose of this research study is to improve completion of Advance Directives. These are
      documents that patients use to let doctors know what their wishes for treatment are and who
      they would want to make decisions for them if they could not make decisions for themselves.

      At the time of the clinic visit to the Internal Medicine at Medical Plaza (IMMP) or the
      Internal Medicine at Tower Hill (IMTH) subjects will be invited to participate in the study.

      Research Assistant(s) RA Responsibilities:

      All Potential Study Subjects:

        1. RA will interview study subject in a private area (exam room or empty office).

        2. RA will assess eligibility criteria.

        3. RA will obtain informed consent.

        4. RA will randomize the subjects to either intervention or control.

        5. RA will explain to the subjects how to return the advance directive (AD)

      For the Intervention group:

        1. RA will review and walk through the University of Florida (UF) AD brochure

        2. RA will offer subjects a link to a patient education video on advance directives. The
           link will be texted or emailed or given in paper per the subject's preference.

        3. RA will conduct a brief satisfaction questionnaire addressing the activity review of the
           UF AD brochure.

        4. RA will ask

             1. Did addressing advance directives enhance today's experience at the clinic?

             2. Do you think that advance directives be routinely addressed at visits to the
                doctor?

      Control group:

      If the subject is ready to complete an advance directive they will be referred to clinic
      staff for assistance.

      RA will ask

        1. Did addressing advance directives enhance today's experience at the clinic?

        2. Do you think that advance directives should be routinely addressed at visits to the
           doctor?
    
  