
    
      This work was submitted to the Ethics and Research Committee (CEP) of the Federal University
      of Rio Grande do Norte through the national interface "Plataforma Brasil" and approved in its
      ethical aspects based on Resolution 466/12 of the National Health Council and the Declaration
      of Helsinki under registration number 3246854. All data will be registered in a confidential
      database of the laboratory and can only be handled by the responsible researchers. All
      individuals will be invited to voluntarily participate in the study and must sign the Free
      and Informed Consent Form (FICF) containing information about the purposes, risks and
      benefits of the research. A pilot study was carried out aiming at the adequacy of all the
      research procedures, as well as the training of the researchers involved. After signing the
      FICF sociodemographic, anthropometric and clinical data will be collected and then the
      individuals will be submitted to the evaluation procedures. Four identical evaluations will
      be carried out before, during and after the intervention protocol. Initially, initial
      assessment (IA) will record the baseline data prior to the protocol, the second assessment
      (SA) will be performed after the first four weeks of protocol, the third (TA) at the end of
      the 8 week intervention protocol, and the fourth (FA) four weeks after the end of the
      protocol. The evaluation of the pain sensation will be performed through the numerical pain
      scale. Volunteers will be instructed by the evaluator to scale the intensity of pain based on
      the last 24 hours. The scale is composed of 11 items, 0 being described as "painless" and 10
      as "worst possible pain" at its extremities. Participants will then complete the Brazilian
      version of the Desabilities of the arm, shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire. It is a
      self-assessment questionnaire containing 30 questions with the purpose of assessing physical
      function, symptoms and social function. Five possible responses are presented ranging from
      "no difficulty" to "unable to perform activity". Responses are scored on a rating scale of
      one to five points. The score calculation is performed by applying established formulas.
      Volunteers will be instructed by the evaluator to complete the items in the questionnaire
      that have been applicable in the last 24 hours. The higher the final score, the greater the
      disability. Motion amplitudes will be evaluated by the Smartphone clinometer application
      (Plaincode Software Solutions) which operates as a reliable and validated inclinometer. The
      Range Of Motion (ROM) of flexion, hyperextension, lateral rotation and medial rotation of the
      shoulder will be evaluated. The flexion and the hyperextension of the shoulder will be
      evaluated in the sitting position. The evaluator will position the smartphone parallel to the
      subject's arm secured in an appropriate device, aligned to the lateral epicondyle of the
      elbow and will request flexion and active hyperextension respectively of the shoulder with
      the elbow in complete extension. Lateral and medial rotation of the shoulder will be
      evaluated with the volunteer in the supine position at the table, shoulder abducted at 90 °
      and elbows at 90 ° flexion. The evaluator will position the smartphone on the forearm of the
      individual aligned between the lateral epicondyle and the wrist and between the medial
      epicondyle and the wrist for the medial and lateral rotation movement respectively. Peak
      torque evaluation will be perfomed using a portable hand held dynamometer (Lafayette
      Instrument®, model 01165, USA). Data will be recorded from two 5 seconds maximum voluntary
      isometric contractions (MVIC), with a 1-minute interval. The average of the two tests will be
      considered for analysis. The evaluation will be carried out by the same evaluator and will be
      positioned in such a way as to counteract the requested movement. The electromyographic
      signal will be captured by an 8-channel signal conditioning modulator (Noraxon® surface,
      Scottsdale, AZ, USA) with a 16-bit resolution and common mode rejection rate> 100 Db. The
      signals will be captured at a sample rate set to 1500 Hz, filtered at a frequency between 10
      and 500 Hz and amplified 1000 times. Signal capture will be performed using passive surface
      self-adhesive electrodes (Noraxon®, USA), separated by an inter-electrode distance of 2 cm.
      The electrodes were placed in the Upper Trapezius (UT), Lower Trapezius (LT), Middle
      Trapezius (MT) and Serratus Anterior (SA) muscles, in accordance with the SENIAM guidelines .
      First, individuals will perform three movements of arm elevations in the plane of the scapula
      in the standing position. The arm will be positioned at 40 degrees from the frontal plane
      measured by MotionMonitor software (Innovative Sports Training, Chicago, IL) of kinematic
      analysis and the motion will be directed with the aid of a vertical support. Each movement
      should occur in approximately eight seconds with four seconds in the concentric phase and
      four seconds in the eccentric phase. The subjects will then perform isometric contractions of
      5 seconds with and without load at angles 30 °, 60 °, 90 ° and 120 ° of shoulder abduction.
      The load will be determined from a test with the same movement with dumbbells of 2kg, 1kg and
      0.5kg respectively Taking as reference a score not higher than 3 on the Borg effort scale
      (moderate effort). The Root Means Square averages for each phase will be recorded and the
      ratios UT / LT, UT / MT, UT / SA will be analyzed. The electromyographic data (in microvolts)
      will be normalized by the peak of the signal recorded during the MVIC. The three-dimensional
      analysis of the movement of the shoulder complex will be performed using the Flock of Birds
      (Ascension Technologies, Burlington, VT) electromagnetic tracking system associated with
      MotionMonitor software (Innovative Sports Training, Chicago, IL). Volunteers will be asked to
      stay in a neutral position with the transmitter directly in the shoulder joint to be
      evaluated and three superficial electromagnetic sensors will be positioned to the skin of the
      volunteers in pre-established anatomical marks. A double-sided tape will be used, in specific
      anatomical points: in the sternum, inferiorly to the sternal furcula; on a flat surface in
      the posterior and medial part of the acromion process; and one fixed at the junction of the
      deltoids attached with velcro to the volunteers' arm directly above the epicondyles of the
      humerus. A sensor will be connected to a stylus, for digitizing the anatomical points and
      constructing the coordinate system for each joint. The anatomical coordinate systems will be
      established for each segment by the digitization of the anatomical marks according to the
      protocol recommended by the International Society of Biomechanics - ISB36. The anatomical
      marks will be palpated and marked by a researcher who has experience with the protocol. then
      it will be estimated by passively moving the arm in short rotation amplitudes in several
      different positions. After completing the scan, the volunteers will assume a neutral standing
      position, with their arms resting in the body sludge, for approximately five seconds (time
      required for the angular values to be recorded).

      The kinematic evaluation will be performed concomitantly with the recording of
      electromyographic activity. After the evaluation the subjects will be randomly distributed in
      Exercise Group (EG) and Biofeedback Group (BG) through the site www.randomization.com. GE and
      GB should attend twice a week, for eight consecutive weeks to the physiotherapy department of
      UFRN to carry out their respective intervention protocols. Each session will have an average
      duration of 30 minutes and should be justified in case of absence. All will be instructed to
      perform ice packs for 30 minutes in case of severe pain. The GE will perform a strengthening
      protocol and will have four elastic bands with different resistances available (light (red),
      moderate (blue), strong (purple) and extra strong (gray) for the progression of elbow flexion
      exercises, medial rotation of the shoulder, lateral rotation of the shoulder and scapular
      retraction. To determine the initial load the individual will perform a series of 10
      repetitions of each exercise with the moderate resistance band (blue) and should not present
      pain greater than that reported in the initial evaluation and score above "moderate". For the
      exercise called "push up plus "the initial load will be determined from the kneeling position
      supported with the hands in the step using the same criteria of pain and scores of the borg
      scale mentioned above. The intensity progression will be due to the complexity of the
      exercise. Biofeedback (GB) volunteers will perform the same GE exercises added to the sEMG
      biofeedback in the upper trapezius (UT), Middle Trapezius (MT), Lower Trapezius (LT), and
      Anterior Serratil (AS) muscles in real time displayed in a computer screen during exercises.
      In the Y-axis of the screen the EMG amplitude is displayed and in the X-axis the time domain
      Volunteers will be instructed to change their movement strategies in order to decrease TS
      activity and facilitate MT, LT, and AS activity during exercises by viewing the computer
      screen. The researcher should guide the process through the verbal command.
    
  