
    
      CHESS and Cancer Information Mentoring:

      Researchers want to learn the best way to improve a man with prostate cancer's knowledge,
      coping skills, and satisfaction with decision-making and overall quality of life. This study
      will do this by comparing the following 3 methods of receiving information, social support,
      and skill training: using the CHESS system for 6 months, talking to a Cancer Information
      Mentor for 6 months, or using the CHESS system and talking to a Cancer Information Mentor for
      6 months.

      CHESS is an interactive, internet-based computer program that will provide information,
      social support, and skill-building techniques. CHESS provides the latest medical, social, and
      legal information about prostate cancer (such as information on symptoms and treatments). It
      also provides help in deciding what treatment to choose, advice on where participants can go
      for help, information on how participants can make the best use of health and human services,
      and a way for participants to share concerns with cancer information specialists and other
      survivors of prostate cancer. Participants who take part in the CHESS interactive services
      will not need to give their names. Participants can talk with other people by sending
      anonymous (your identity will be unknown) messages through the CHESS computer network.

      Cancer Information Mentoring is provided by a person called a "cancer information mentor"
      that will give quality prostate cancer information and explain medical information and
      procedures. The cancer information mentor is a certified information specialist trained by
      the National Cancer Institute (NCI). This mentor will not provide medical advice or mental
      health counseling.

      Study Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the roll of
      dice) to 1 of 3 groups. No matter which group you are assigned to, you will be loaned a
      computer with internet access to use in your own home (unless you have your own computer and
      would prefer to use it). The computer will be sent to your home, and you will be trained on
      how to use the computer and the CHESS system.

      Participants in Group 1 will have access to the CHESS system. Participants in Group 2 will
      talk with a cancer information mentor. Participants in Group 3 will have access to the CHESS
      system and talk with a cancer information mentor.

      Study Participation:

      CHESS Participants in Group 1 and Group 3 who receive the CHESS internet-based program will
      have access to information, social support, and skill-building services. The CHESS system
      will keep a record of how often and for how long each part of CHESS is used. Information will
      also be gathered about anything you communicate in the CHESS interactions. This information
      will be used to figure out which parts of CHESS may be most useful. You will be provided a
      free 1-800 phone number for computer support if you need any help.

      Cancer Information Mentoring:

      Patients in Group 2 and Group 3 will have access to a cancer information mentor. The mentor
      will make regular telephone calls to the patient during the study. He will receive 10 calls
      in total (4 calls the first month, 2 calls the second month, and one call each in Months
      3-6). Patients can also call the cancer information mentor whenever they wish during this
      period. Each call will last as long as the patient needs it to.

      For patients in Group 3, the cancer information mentor will communicate with them through
      CHESS as well as by telephone.

      Surveys:

      All participants will fill out 5 surveys during this study. The surveys will include
      questions about health, treatment decisions, knowledge of prostate cancer, and quality of
      life. You will complete the first survey before you get the computer and again at 2 weeks, 6
      weeks, 3 months, and 6 months after getting the computer. The surveys should take about 30
      minutes to finish each time.

      Length of Study:

      This study will last up to a little over 6 months (about 24 weeks).

      Up to 327 men and 327 support persons will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 127
      participants and 127 support persons will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  