
    
      This project will test the proximal and distal effects of an integrated dual-generation
      intervention approach, Power PATH, in an existing Head Start University Partnership in
      Alabama. Dual generation approaches recognize the need to intervene with both parents and
      children in Head Start preschools, in order to improve parents' ability to provide safe and
      supportive caregiving environments and to prepare children for the transition to elementary
      school academically and behaviorally. Parents of Head Start preschoolers often have high
      levels of poverty, stress, and mental health needs (Yoshikowa, Aber, & Beardslee, 2012) and
      their children are at-risk for academic, behavioral, and social-emotional difficulties (Aber,
      Jones, & Cohen, 2000; Costello, Keeler, & Angold, 2001; Morales & Guerra, 2006). Thus, in
      this project, two evidence-based and widely-utilized preventive interventions will be adapted
      and thoughtfully integrated, in collabo-ration with Head Start personnel, to provide
      intensive, high quality services to Head Start parents and children. First, the Power PATH
      Parent Intervention program, adapted from Coping Power (Wells, Lochman & Lenhart, 2008) for
      this dual-generation approach, will be implemented to address parental mental health needs,
      to increase parental employment and financial security, and to improve parents' ability to
      model effective social-emotional skills. The parent intervention will help parents create a
      positive and predictable home environment, and support their child's academic learning and
      emotional and behavioral self-regulation. Second, the Promoting Alterna-tive Thinking
      Strategies (PATHS) Preschool Social and Emotional Learning curriculum (Domitrovich et al.,
      1999) will be implemented in the preschool classrooms. PATHS is a universal, classroom-based
      curriculum that increases children's social-emotional competence and self-regulatory skills,
      leading to long-term social, behavioral and academic gains. The Power PATH program will
      incorporate both of these parent and child interventions, and will include opportuni-ties for
      the children to teach their parents the social and emotional skills they are learning in the
      classroom, to promote skill- generalization and transfer to the home environment. This study
      will also identify novel intervention mediators and moderators, essential for interrupting
      the intergen-erational transmission of chronic social stress, and will identify the best
      interventions for families, particularly during preschool when self-regulation skills are
      still malleable, and children's primary environments and physiological responses to stress
      are likely to moderate intervention effects (Bierman et al., 2008; Boyce & Ellis, 2005;
      Porges, 2007). In summary, addressing sources of chronic stress in the parents of Head Start
      preschoolers (i.e., employment and financial insecurity, mental health needs, and family
      stressors) through the Power PATH dual generation intervention is expected to prepare parents
      to better support, shape and model their children's self-regulation skills and to better
      foster their children's school readiness, and to improve overall family well-being.
    
  