
    
      The squamous cell carcinoma is the most common cancer of the vulva (90-95%), with a prognosis
      depending on the stage. The management of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) is a
      secondary prevention of squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva.

      Conventional VIN strongly associated with infection with oncogenic HPV (human papillomavirus)
      , present a risk of malignant degeneration of the order of 9-15%. Whereas the differentiated
      VIN, rarer often seen in the context of lichen sclerosis have a high risk of malignant
      degeneration ranging from 40 to 50%.

      The diagnosis is histological, biopsy realization is currently the gold standard before
      starting a cure. However, biopsies on the vulva are not a harmless act for patients, and are
      often repeated due to extensive damage. The early management of lesions VIN avoids changes in
      squamous cell carcinoma. Over their diagnosed early, the better the care and specific
      treatments allocated.

      The confocal microscope is a new imaging technology, already widely used for examination of
      the skin and mucous membranes. This is a noninvasive imaging technique that provides
      high-resolution images to a depth of 250 microns, such as "optical" cuts in three dimensions
      in the thickness of the skin. The device will be used for this study is the VivaScope 3000.

      The advantage of the confocal microscope to discriminate between benign and malignant lesions
      of the skin and the oral mucosa has been shown in several prospective studies. Two recent
      studies have highlighted the promising results of the use of the confocal microscope for
      pigmented vulvar lesions (melanosis / melanoma).

      There is currently no data in the literature on the impact of this technique on the VIN and
      vulvar epidermoid carcinomas.

      This is a single-center prospective descriptive study at the University Hospital of Nice in
      gynecology and dermatology, to prove the contribution of the confocal microscope in vulvar
      intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) and vulvar epidermoid carcinomas.

      The aim of the study is to describe the characteristics reproducibly confocal microscope of
      normal vulvar mucosa lesions VIN, and vulvar squamous carcinoma.

      The patients seen in consultation in the obstetrics and gynecology department and / or
      dermatology with a bow or vulvar lesions suspicious looking will be included in the study
      after signing an informed consent.

      The results will be compared systematically to the histological results of biopsies of
      lesions (gold standard).

      The investigators expect for this study a validation of the confocal microscope as a
      noninvasive diagnostic tool suspicious vulvar lesions (reduction of repeated biopsies,
      targeted biopsies to monitor certain lesions, and this even reduce health costs inherent to
      unnecessary biopsies)....
    
  