
    
      Study Design Part 1 (POC precision) Two levels of BNP control samples (Thermofisher) will be
      tested during 5 days, with 5 replicates per day by three different users to assess precision
      of the Minicare BNP. The two different levels need to be tested on the same analyzer by the
      same user. For this study, six analyzers are made available, meaning that each user will test
      2 analyzers. In parallel this testing will be done at Philips to establish the expected POC
      (im)precision. The two (im)precision values will be compared to each other. The precision
      study will also be used as a proficiency study that is normally requested prior to starting
      enrolment. Study Design Part 2 (sample comparison)

      Part 2 (Sample comparison):

      This study will be a prospective European single site study with at least 100 patient
      samples, taken from patients presenting at the cardiology ward and coronary care unit with
      suspected/ diagnosed heart failure (HF) or other cardiac diseases and thus suspected elevated
      BNP values. The blood sample will be collected near the patient by a trained healthcare
      professional of the study site.

      When testing capillary whole blood, the blood will be collected by a finger stick according
      to the local SOP's of the study site. Directly (within 1 minute) after finger stick, the
      blood will be transferred with capillary transfer devices, one without ant-coagulant and one
      containing EDTA as anti-coagulant, to the BNP cartridge that is positioned in the Minicare
      I-20 analyzer. Testing will be done near the bedside of the patient. Two venous whole blood
      tubes will be collected; one containing Li-Heparin and the other containing EDTA as
      anti-coagulant. The venous whole blood will be collected in the specific tubes by a venous
      puncture according to the local SOP's of the study site. The EDTA venous whole blood will be
      transferred to the Minicare BNP by using a pipet and a transfer device. The Li-Heparin and
      EDTA venous whole blood sample should be tested within 2 hours (keep at room temperature)
      after the blood is taken (preferably as soon as possible after blood taking). Li-Heparin and
      EDTA venous whole blood can be tested at the ward by a trained healthcare professional or in
      the lab by a trained lab technician. The Li-Heparin and EDTA whole blood sample will be
      transferred to the lab and centrifuged and tested within 2 hours after the blood is taken.
      The Li-Heparin and EDTA plasma should be tested within 2 hours (keep at room temperature)
      after the blood is taken (preferably as soon as possible after blood taking). Li- Heparin and
      EDTA plasma samples might be tested in the lab, dependent on local routine.

      All patient samples will be tested in singleton. The time that the blood is taken and tested
      will be recorded for each sample. Study will continue until at least 100 patient samples
      covering the predefined concentration range have valid measurements. Due to experience from
      previous sample comparison studies (Lab2Go) the site expects the necessity to test up to 200
      patients to find 100 patients within the required BNP ranges. The Minicare BNP test results
      will not be used as part of the patient diagnosis but only for sample comparison purposes.
      Testing for both Part 1 and Part 2 will be done according to the Clinical Brochure for
      Minicare BNP.
    
  