
    
      This study included 34 patients with mild and moderate acne vulgaris. The patients were
      recruited from the dermatology outpatient clinic of Kasr AlAiny hospital.

      This study was approved by the Ethical committee of the Faculty of Medicine Cairo University
      and the Ethical committee of the Dermatology department Cairo University.

      After signing an informed consent, patients were subjected to history taking, clinical
      examination and grading of their acne by global acne grading score, photography, dermoscopic
      examination and chemical peeling.

      Photography:

      Patient was photographed from front, lateral and side view before each session and two weeks
      after the 4th session. All photographs were taken using a digital camera (Nikon AW1,
      Indonesia) with identical lightening and patient positions.

      Dermoscopy:

      The cheek was split as four quadrants and photography of dermoscopic figures was taken before
      every session and two weeks after the 4th session (Using Dermalite DL3N Gen, USA).

      Chemical peeling:

      Skin degreasing was performed before every session using acetone. Trichloroacetic acid 25%
      was applied on one side of the face and azaleic acid 20% with salicylic acid 20% to the other
      side of the face randomly. Randomization was done through a computer-generated random
      sequence prepared by a statistician; Allocation was concealed in sequentially numbered,
      sealed, opaque envelopes, and kept by a nurse not involved in the study.

      A gauze was used to apply the peel. The gauze was soaked with the peel. The peel was applied
      uniformly starting from medial to lateral. The peel was left on each side for around 60
      seconds. The patients were asked to wash their faces using tape water for neutralization of
      the peel until the burning sensation is eliminated.

      Patients received 4 sessions 2 weeks apart. As a post procedure care, the patients were asked
      to apply sun screens immediately after the procedure until their next session.

      No other topical or systemic treatment was used during sessions. Patients will receive 4
      peeling sessions 2 weeks apart.
    
  