
    
      10 Patients requiring standard implant installation in their maxilla will be recruited to the
      study.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Men and women over the age of 18.

        -  The patient will be willing, and will be available to attend all the follow-up meetings.

        -  The patient will accept and sign an informed consent form before the beginning of the
           study.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Pregnant women or women who are breast feeding.

        -  Patient suffering of untreated periodontal disease.

        -  Patient who smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day.

        -  Alcohol abuse.

        -  Patient suffering of either uncontrolled Diabetes, Osteoporosis, rheumatic arthritis,
           neoplastic or pre-cancerous condition, or any other condition limiting standard implant
           installation procedure.

        -  Patient who need some bone augmentation prior.

        -  Immediate implant placement or restorations.

      Course of study:

      Every patient found eligible to the study will need to go through a CT scan of the
      implantation site (as required).

      Before the operation 2 gr of AMOXICILLIN (or 600mg of CLYNDAMYCIN - in case of allergy) will
      be administered. The implants will be installed in a standard approach under local
      anesthesia, as customary being done. The implants' installation torque will be recorded.

      At the end of the operation the patients will be instructed to rinse their mouth with
      Chlorhexidine solution for one week.

      Eventually the implants will be restored and loaded after the common 3 months healing period.

      Follow-up appointments:

      The patients will be monitored through a period of 3 months. The patients will be instructed
      to return to a follow-up examination 2, 4, 7, 14, 21, 28, 45, 60 and 90 days after the
      operation. On each meeting the implants' ISQ values will be measured using an 'Osstell'
      appliance.

      An x-ray intra-oral radiogram will be taken right after the end of the operation and at the
      end of the follow-up (i.e day 90).
    
  