
    
      The integrative vascular laboratory has recently observed that the small blood vessels in the
      skin (the cutaneous microvasculature) in obese (BMI>30kg/m2), but otherwise healthy
      individuals, require a greater amount of nitric oxide (NO) to achieve the same degree of
      dilation when compared to age, gender, and race matched lean (BMI<25kg/m2) individuals (34).
      In addition, it is well documented that African Americans have impaired blood vessel function
      which likely contributes to the elevated risk for developing a variety of cardiovascular and
      metabolic diseases including coronary artery disease, metabolic syndrome, hypertension and
      stroke in this population. The cutaneous circulation is recognized as a surrogate vascular
      bed for assessment of mechanisms underlying systemic vascular disease (7, 20, 22). This is
      particularly important as microvascular dysfunction is emerging as a critical step in the
      atherosclerotic process and a variety of conditions including hypertension, exercise
      intolerance, and insulin resistance (25). Furthermore, impaired cutaneous microvascular
      function mirrors impaired responses in other vascular beds (7, 12, 20, 22). A primary
      advantage to utilizing the cutaneous circulation is that it provides an accessible vascular
      bed through which processes of endothelial function can be systematically and mechanistically
      investigated, with virtually no risk, through thermal stimuli and local intra-dermal drug
      infusions. Mechanisms of impaired NO bioavailability have been assessed in various at-risk
      and diseased populations including, healthy aging, hypertension, postural tachycardia
      syndrome, hypercholesteremia, and chronic kidney disease (8, 16, 19, 24, 36, 37). Using
      approaches and techniques similar to those proposed in this application (see below) the
      findings have implicated that a number of factors, including elevated oxidative stress,
      contribute to the reduced bioavailability and/or action of NO (8, 16, 19, 24, 36, 37)

      The recent findings suggest an impairment in the action of NO on the microvascular smooth
      muscle of obese young adults (34) as well as in college-aged otherwise healthy African
      Americans. Local heating is a common method to test nitric oxide-mediated vasodilation (3, 6,
      31). Therefore, the investigators propose to test the following hypotheses:

        1. Obesity results in impaired blood flow response to local heating and this will also be
           the case for African Americans.

        2. Inhibition of superoxide, a common form of oxidative stress, augments the local heating
           response in obese individuals as well as in African Americans.

        3. Inhibition of sources of superoxide, NADPH-oxidase and/or Xanthine-oxidase, augments
           skin blood flow local heating response in obese to that of their lean counterparts. This
           will also be the case for African Americans relative to their Caucasian American
           counterparts.
    
  