
    
      1. BACKGROUND

           Implant stability

           Until recently, the implants used in Baha surgery have exclusively been standard
           Brånemark type of titanium implants with an as-machined surface finish. The recommended
           procedure for Baha implantation with the machined titanium implants uses a 12-week
           healing period before loading the implant with a sound processor, in order to allow
           sufficient time for the implant to become integrated in the bone. The new Cochlear Baha
           BI300 Series implant has been designed to improve implant stability at placement and
           over time, thus making it possible to reduce the time to sound processor fitting. The
           implant features a wider diameter compared to the previous generation Baha implant,
           small-sized threads at the cylindrical portion of the implant underneath the flange, and
           a roughened implant surface.

           Six-month data from a multi-centre clinical investigation comparing the new implant with
           the previous generation Baha implant using a 6-week loading protocol, shows
           significantly higher Implant Stability Quotient (ISQ) values (measured by resonance
           frequency analysis) for the new implant at each time point, and no reduction in
           stability after loading.1 The data from the study suggest that the implant stability
           achieved 6 weeks after implantation is sufficient to support the sound processor. The
           data also suggest that a further reduction of the time to sound processor fitting may be
           possible, provided favourable bone conditions at the implant site and provided
           satisfactory soft tissue status at the time of loading. Hence, a clinical investigation
           with implant loading 21 days post-surgery was initiated by the team in Nijmegen, and
           6-month data from the investigation confirm that it is safe to attach the sound
           processor after 3 weeks.2 Early results from two other studies using loading times of 4
           weeks3 and 2 weeks4, respectively, have also been presented and show good outcomes. All
           studies have been performed on patients with good bone quality.

           Soft tissue management

           The recommended procedure for Baha implantation advocates a hair free transplant
           measuring 25 x 25 mm placed direct on the periosteum. The purpose is to obtain an
           immobile skin, hence reducing the risk of adverse skin reactions in the area. Since
           there is no or only weak adherence between the titanium abutment and surrounding soft
           tissue it is anticipated that, if no skin reduction is performed, epidermal downgrowth
           and pocket formation may occur over time, increasing the risk for infection in the
           implant area. The current surgical procedure, with skin transplant, has been used for
           three decades and proven safe; however, skin complications still occur and account for
           the majority of reported complications with Baha implants.

           Some surgeons have hypothesised that equally good or better results may be achieved if
           the soft tissue is left intact. However, the clinical evidence still remains scarce and
           a systematic follow-up is lacking. To the investigators knowledge, the only publication
           specifically focusing on the alternative surgical technique without soft tissue thinning
           is a limited study by Dr. Hultcrantz comparing outcomes in seven patients undergoing
           Baha surgery with the traditional surgical technique (with skin thinning) and seven
           patients with the alternative technique (without skin thinning).5 The outcomes of the
           study are promising, but more clinical data is necessary to establish whether the
           surgical technique is safe and efficacious.

        2. OBJECTIVES

      To evaluate the evolution of implant stability during the early healing period after
      implantation, which is the most critical period for osseointegrated implants, in particular
      when early loading protocols are used.

      To compare soft tissue healing around Baha implants placed according to the recommended
      surgical technique with skin transplant and Baha implants without performing skin reduction.

      To compare the loss of sensibility of the skin around the Baha implant (some loss of
      cutaneous sensibility nerves in the transplant procedure) between the two surgical
      procedures.

      While the study focuses on the early healing period (3 months), long-term safety data will
      also be collected after 6 months and 1-year.

      The study will also evaluate the change in health status produced by the surgical
      intervention.

      6. IMPLANT DEVICE

      The following CE marked implant with pre-mounted abutment shall be used (MDD Class IIb
      medical devices, manufacturer: Cochlear Bone Anchored Solutions AB, Mölnlycke, Sweden):

      • Cochlear Baha BIA300 Implant 4 mm with Abutment 9 mm (Article # 92346)

      Note: The 9 mm abutment will be used in both treatment groups (with and without skin
      transplant) in order to be able to compare results from resonance frequency analyses (implant
      stability) during the early healing period. When appropriate, the patients with skin
      reduction will have the 9 mm abutment exchanged to a 6 mm abutments (Article # 92130) after
      3-month data has been collected. No further surgery is needed in order to exchange the 9 mm
      abutment to 6 mm abutment.

      7. TREATMENT

      Implantation and use of the Baha system (hearing device/implant system). The implants shall
      be placed according to the procedure for FAST (one-stage) surgery.

      All patients will receive treatment, thus no placebo control group is used.

      8. METHOD

      This evaluation will be performed at one site. Implants will be placed in a one-stage
      surgical procedure. Sound processor fitting will be performed 2 weeks after implant
      installation, or at the discretion of the investigator. The decision to load an implant will
      be based on assessment of implant stability and status of the soft tissue. Patients who are
      evaluated as not ready to be loaded 2 weeks after surgery will be loaded as soon as the
      healing is sufficient.

      Patients included in the study will be randomised into two different treatment groups where
      the patients in one group will have soft tissue removed and split skin (harvested with
      dermatome) will be used to cover the periosteum around the abutment as per the recommended
      procedure by the manufacturer, and the patients in the other group will not have any soft
      tissue removed (a linear incision technique will be used). If the subcutaneous tissue is of a
      thickness so that it is not possible to use a 9 mm abutment, minimal removal of the
      subcutaneous tissue superficial of the fascia will be performed.

      The risks with this treatment are the same for the two treatment groups and are: bleeding
      per- and postoperatively, wound infection and damage to surrounding tissues including sensory
      nerves to the scalp and loss of the implant. These risks are well known risks with known
      treatments. The new surgical procedure does not introduce any new risks.

      The change in health status produced by the surgical intervention is evaluated with the
      Glasgow Benefit Inventory 3 months after surgery.
    
  