
    
      A randomized clinical trial with a total of 50 new brace candidates diagnosed with AIS from
      the Stollery Children's Hospital Scoliosis Clinic will be conducted in the next 2 years.
      Ethics approval (Pro00054113) has been granted. Inclusion is based on the standard Scoliosis
      Research Society (SRS) brace studies criteria: a) diagnosed with AIS and new to rigid spinal
      brace treatment, b) prescribed full-time brace wear (23 hours per day), c) primary Cobb
      angles 20°- 40°, d) age between 10 -16 years, e) Risser 0-2 (skeletally immature), f) either
      premenarchal or less than 1 year postmenarchal. The 50 subjects will be randomly assigned to
      2 equally sized groups (n=25 in each group): group A conventional designed and manual
      fabricated braces and group B ultrasound and CAD/CAM scanner designed brace with printing by
      a 3D printer.

      Both groups: A brace monitor (2.5cm x 4.0cm x 1.5 cm and 8g) developed from our group will be
      installed into all braces for both study groups. It will monitor patients' compliance which
      includes how much time they use their braces and how much time they wear their braces at the
      prescribed tightness level (quantity and quality). The battery power and memory capacities of
      the monitor last for 9 months with the sample rate at 1 sample/minute. The brace monitor will
      be embedded into the brace). No extra attention is needed from the patients. The brace wear
      pattern data will be downloaded at the routinely scheduled follow up clinics (post brace
      prescription of 2 months, 6 months, 1 year and every 6 months periods).

      For the compliance assessment, we will get 80% power in this sample size if the average
      compliance from the control group is 60±4% (from our previous study), but in the intervention
      group the compliance is increased to 70±4%. The compliance is the number of brace wear hours
      relative to the prescribed hours per day wear time.

      Outcomes: When subjects return to their regular follow up scoliosis clinics, the standard
      standing in-brace radiographs will be taken. The in-brace Cobb angle will be measured by the
      clinic staff and saved into the clinical database. The Cobb angle correction (in percent) of
      the treated curve as measured at the immediate follow-up clinic (in-brace radiographic
      clinic) [(Pre-Out of brace Cobb angle - In-brace Cobb angle)/Pre-brace Cobb angle]*100 will
      be used to evaluate the immediate effectiveness. An unpaired 2-tailed Student's t-test using
      an alpha of 0.05 will be used to compare the correction observed in the intervention group to
      that of the control group. The total numbers of in-brace radiographs will be tailed; it will
      be counted up to the last radiograph that shows an in-brace correction which is deemed
      acceptable by the attending orthopedic surgeon. The number of radiographs will be compared
      between the two study groups. The p-value of the chi-squared test for independence will be
      used to determine whether a statistically significant difference exists between the 2 groups.
    
  