
    
      Neurofeedback is a cognitive remediation technique that allows a subject to learn to regulate
      their cognitive and brain activity through information provided in real time about their
      brain activity, in particular electroencephalographic (EEG) brain activity. Neurofeedback has
      been used to regulate EEG amplitude in certain spectral bands, which correlate with the
      degree of neural synchronization. Neurofeedback makes it possible in particular to reduce the
      amplitude of the EEG theta spectral band (4-8 Hz) and to increase the EEG beta spectral band
      (> 12Hz).

      This type of protocol has been used successfully to reduce the degree of neural
      synchronization and to stimulate arousal systems and sustained attention skills.

      Studies on healthy subjects submitted to controlled sleep deprivation have shown that
      inducing a full night of sleep deprivation is a good model for studying the brain mechanisms
      of arousal and the links with cognitive functions, but also to assess the effectiveness of
      counter measures reducing the impact of sleep deprivation on cognitive performance. These
      experimental models provide a better understanding of the mechanisms and consequences of the
      complaint of excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS). EDS is indeed a frequent symptom affecting
      between 5% and 8% of the population. The consequence of EDS is a decrease in quality of life.
      In addition, the EDS entails a high medico-economic cost because of the accidental risk of
      the public and professional roads.

      Neurofeedback could, through its impact on the degree of neuronal synchronization, help to
      reduce the impact of sleep deprivation on wakefulness and cognitive performance. Thus, it
      appears relevant to assess the effectiveness of neurofeedback, targeting activities in the
      theta / beta EEG spectral band, on wakefulness and cognitive performance in healthy subjects
      with EDS due to sleep deprivation. Targeting the degree of neuronal EEG synchronization would
      then be an innovative avenue for improving the physiological mobilization of arousal systems
      and wakefulness and cognitive performance in the event of EDS. This cognitive remediation
      technique could in particular be proposed as a complement to pharmacological treatment in
      treated patients suffering from hypersomnolence disorder presenting a residual EDS.

      The main objective is to study the effect of a program of 8 sessions of neurofeedback
      targeting EEG theta / beta activities, to modify the degree of neuronal synchronization, on
      the ability to maintain objective wakefulness measured by a maintenance wakefulness test
      (MWT) in healthy subjects presenting objective excessive daytime sleepiness after a full
      night of sleep deprivation under controlled experimental conditions. The objective of this
      study will also provide a better understanding of the learning modulation mechanisms of
      arousal systems.

      The secondary objectives are:

        1. To study the effect of a program of 8 sessions of neurofeedback targeting theta / beta
           EEG activities, in healthy subjects after a full night of sleep deprivation presenting
           objective excessive daytime sleepiness, on the instantaneous subjective arousal level in
           a situation controlled (MWT and neurofeedback session) by the Karolinska sleepiness
           scale (KSS).

        2. To study the effect of a program of 8 sessions of neurofeedback targeting theta / beta
           EEG activities, in healthy subjects after a full night of sleep deprivation presenting
           objective excessive daytime sleepiness, on the cognitive performance, before and after
           neurofeedback sessions, assessed by the Psychomotor Vigilance Task (PVT) and by the Test
           of Attentional Performance (TAP).

        3. To study the functional reorganization of the EEG activities of the brain, in particular
           the degree of neuronal synchronization between the different regions of the scalp, in
           subjects presenting objective excessive daytime sleepiness after a full night of sleep
           deprivation and following a program of 8 neurofeedback sessions targeting EEG theta /
           beta activities.

        4. To study a learning effect during the 8 neurofeedback sessions evaluated by measuring
           the evolution of the modulation of the spectral power in the theta / beta band during
           each neurofeedback session.

        5. To study the prognostic learning factors during the 8 neurofeedback sessions.

        6. To study the prognostic factors for clinical improvement of MWT, subjective EDS and
           cognitive performance.
    
  