
    
      Ventilator associated pneumonia is defined as one that occurs 48-72h after tracheal
      intubation, is classified into early and late and is responsible for a mortality of 24-50% to
      almost 70% in some studies.

      The clinical suspicion of ventilator associated pneumonia is based on the finding of new or
      progressive pulmonary opacity associated with two or more variables such as: fever,
      leukocytosis or leukopenia, and purulent pulmonary secretions.

      Some studies show that the etiologic diagnosis reduces spectrum of antimicrobials and
      bacterial resistance, reducing hospital stay and time of mechanical ventilation, as well as
      treatment costs. The collection of material for quantitative culture ensures greater
      specificity however there is no standard method.

      The investigator's hypothesis is that collection of material to confirm the etiologic
      diagnosis of ventilator associated pneumonia, held by bronchoscopic bronchoalveolar lavage,
      define the etiology in a larger number of patients when compared to the endotracheal aspirate
      and non-bronchoscopic bronchoalveolar lavage.

      The primary goal is evaluate and compare the sensitivity and specificity of noninvasive
      methods (endotracheal aspirate and non-bronchoscopic bronchoalveolar lavage) in comparison
      with invasive (bronchoscopic bronchoalveolar lavage) regarding the collection of material for
      etiologic diagnosis.

      The secondary objectives are determine the prevalence of ventilator associated pneumonia and
      antimicrobial susceptibility patterns of bacteria isolated, helping to update empirical
      antibiotic therapy protocols.

      This is a prospective comparative observational study on etiologic methods of diagnosis. All
      the patients, with clinical suspicion, will be submitted to collection of tracheal aspirate,
      bronchoscopic and non-bronchoscopic bronchoalveolar lavage. These procedures are already
      incorporated in the daily practice of our intensive cara unit and are routinely performed for
      investigation of patients with compatible framework of ventilator associated pneumonia, as
      availability of bronchoscopist.

      Whereas an analysis of variance will be performed to compare the three interventions, with a
      minimum difference between the treatment means, a power of 0.95 and a significance level of
      0.05, with an estimation error of 0.1, will be required a total sample of 72 patients.There
      will be only one group of 72 patients, in which will be held in all the three samples of the
      study.
    
  