
    
      Since the early 1980s, a number of efficacious pediatric weight management interventions
      (PWMI) have been developed to reduce child weight status. Epstein's Traffic Light Diet (TLD)
      is likely the most studied PWMI and has demonstrated efficacy across a wide range of
      randomized controlled trials in children up to and older than 12 years of age. This work and
      the majority of efficacious PWMI have been based in large urban areas delivered through a
      hospital or medical center and the most recent childhood obesity treatment recommendations do
      not address geographically underserved audiences or settings where all members of an
      interdisciplinary team may not exist. As a result, there is no information on the degree to
      which evidence-based PWMIs have been translated into micropolitan (cities<50,000) and rural
      settings. This is an important issue when considering the prevalence of obesity is higher,
      socioeconomic status and access to preventive healthcare is lower, and 20% of the nation's
      populations reside in rural areas based on the most recent census data. A related issue is
      the potential mismatch between the resources and expertise used to deliver research and
      hospital-based PWMIs in urban, when compared to micropolitan and rural, areas. Thus,
      adoption, implementation, and sustainability may be limited in micropolitan and surrounding
      rural areas unless adaptations are made that leverage multiple systems within the community
      that interact with families and children and strategies include a balanced focus on reach and
      effectiveness to increase the likelihood of having a public health impact. To address these
      issues the research team has implemented an adapted version of the TLD in Kearney, Nebraska,
      developed and used training approaches for PWMI for underserved micropolitan settings, and
      conducted a number of implementation trials focused on planning for, and evaluating, PWMI
      reach, effectiveness, adoption, implementation and maintenance (RE-AIM). This includes
      research examining models of participant identification and engagement within settings where
      a large proportion of children are screened for obesity-schools and primary care pediatric
      clinics. Building Healthy Families (BHF), the investigators' TLD adaptation, includes the
      required or more contact hours through regular and frequent in-person contact with families
      and leverages the expertise and time of health professionals from a variety of local
      organizations. BHF has been implemented locally and successfully achieved clinically and
      statistically significant reductions in child BMI z-score (-0.27±0.22). Through collaborative
      efforts the research team has developed online resources for organizations interested in
      delivering PWMIs, training modules for related interventions, and participant-facing program
      materials that could be combined into a 'turn-key' approach for communities interested in
      reducing childhood obesity. The investigators preliminary work demonstrates that the adapted
      TLD intervention can achieve a similar magnitude of effect relative to previous efficacy
      trials, that the associated training materials and approaches can result in a high level of
      implementation fidelity, and that ongoing program adaptations to address local needs can be
      made. To date, the research team has not combined all of these approaches and materials as a
      turn-key package that could be adopted, adapted, and sustained in other micropolitan/rural
      communities.

      The first aim is to collaboratively refine and develop an intervention package for the TLD
      that includes all of the materials necessary for others to implement the intervention in new
      micropolitan and rural locations. The second aim is to perform a rigorous, mixed-methods
      pilot implementation research study using an innovative community application process to
      identify 4 to 8 new communities to pilot test the utility of the packaged PWMI and training
      materials when coupled with a learning collaborative facilitation strategy and sustainability
      action planning process in supporting PWMI adoption, implementation, and sustainability when
      compared to receiving access to the packaged program and training materials alone. Additional
      outcomes will include start-up and ongoing costs while tracking intervention reach,
      representativeness, and effectiveness in reducing and maintaining child weight status
      relative to a matched cohort. The third aim is to use the pilot evaluation data and results
      of the sustainability action plan to refine program and training materials and develop a
      dissemination plan to move the program to other communities.

      To complete these aims the investigators will engage an existing partnerships that includes
      local schools and pediatricians in Kearney, NE and the Great Plains IDeA Clinical and
      Translational Research Network Community Advisory Board who has identified childhood obesity
      treatment, particularly in rural areas, across North Dakota, South Dakota, and Nebraska as a
      priority. As is recommended, the approach will use an implementation research explanatory
      process, and outcome model to test hypotheses related to implementation and sustainability,
      engaging community/clinical partners in the implementation and sustainability process, and
      evaluate outcomes at both the individual and organizational level. Specifically, the
      Promoting Action on Research Implementation in Health Services (PARIHS) Framework will be
      used as the explanatory model and the RE-AIM framework to track individual reach,
      representativeness, effectiveness and organizational cost, adoption, implementation, and
      sustainability.
    
  