
    
      Objective:

      The study aims to (a) estimate the effects of bariatric surgery on the function of large
      arteries (determined non-invasively by measurement of PWV, pressure central reflection
      wavelength) in a population of obese grade 2 or 3, and (b) evaluate the respective role of
      weight loss, the change in metabolic parameters, and the decline in BP on changes in the
      function of large arteries and on markers of target organ alterations after surgery.

      Methods:

      This is a prospective longitudinal study with assessment of arterial stiffness before and
      after 6 and 12 months following bariatric surgery. Ninety grade 2-3 obese patients with an
      indication of bariatric surgery will be included. Arterial stiffness is estimated by the
      aortic PWV (SphygmoCor®) at baseline and after 6 and 12 months following surgery. Changes in
      the central pressure, wave reflection, the PA device, and markers of target organ alteration
      (left ventricular mass, LVM, glomerular filtration rate, GFR, urinary albumin excretion, EUA;
      caliber of retinal vessels as assessed by retinography) will be the secondary objectives.

      To study the evolution of PWV in connection with weight loss, a linear mixed model is used
      based on data collected for each patient every time. Correlations between different
      parameters will be studied each time. Changes in secondary endpoints over time will be
      correlated to changes in weight, BMI, percentage loss of excess weight and blood pressure.

      Expected results and their prospects:

      Weight loss surgery should lead to a rapid and sustained weight loss, improved arterial
      function parameters (BP, arterial stiffness) and markers of target organ damage (GFR, UAE,
      LVM, caliber of retinal vessels).

      The analysis of the relation between the metabolic / hemodynamic responses and target organ
      damage should enable us to identify consistent pathophysiological mechanisms, and refine our
      understanding of the consequences of bariatric surgery.
    
  