
    
      Objectives: Recent advances in neuroscience may be helpful in designing more accurate
      neurorehabilitative strategies to decrease post-stroke disability. First, recovery is more
      extensive when the interhemispheric balance of activity favors the ipsilesional primary motor
      (M1Ipsilesional) and premotor (PMIpsilesional) cortices. Second, non-invasive transcranial
      direct current stimulation (tDCS) over M1Ipsilesional may help to transiently improve motor
      performance in stroke patients. Third, in healthy volunteers, training combined with cortical
      stimulation of M1 (which plays a critical role in motor learning) leads to up-regulation of
      corticomotor excitability, improved motor learning, and use-dependent plasticity. Since
      stroke patients have to re-learn how to control their paretic hand, enhancing their learning
      capacity by adequate tuning of M1Ipsilesional with tDCS could promote plastic reorganization
      that supports functional improvement. Finally, another factor to be considered is that
      functional changes elicited by cortical stimulation depend on the previous activity state
      (metaplasticity). Therefore, we hypothesize that implementing metaplastic changes will
      enhance motor learning gains induced by tDCS in chronic stroke patients to a larger extent
      than a control intervention in both stroke patients and healthy volunteers.

      Study Population: 20 healthy subjects for safety issues and parameter optimization; 31
      patients with a single cortical or sub-cortical stroke; and 31 matched healthy controls.

      Design: To test our hypothesis, we will precondition M1Ipsilesional with cathodal tDCS (which
      transiently down-regulates activity in this site) and then apply anodal tDCS to
      M1Ipsilesional during a motor sequence learning with the paretic hand. After a
      familiarization session, real and sham tDCS will be applied in 6 randomized sessions in a
      crossover design. Learning will be evaluated one day after each tDCS/sham session.

      The primary outcome measure will be the number of learned sequences correctly played on a
      keyboard in a 30-second period. TMS will be used 1) to interfere with the activity of
      different cortical motor areas as a marker of their respective contribution to paretic hand
      control before and after the metaplasticity intervention and 2) to measure corticomotor
      excitability changes associated with the interventions. This will provide descriptive
      information on the neural substrates underlying behavioral gains, important for
      hypothesis-generation and power analysis in future investigations.
    
  