
    
      The COVID-19 pandemic led to the suspension of consultations and hospitalization of the
      majority of patients followed in the Rheumatology Department of the Limoges University
      Hospital.

      The department therefore implemented a strategy for the management of patients with chronic
      inflammatory rheumatism (CIR) during this period, which allowed maintaining contact with
      patients in the patient database.

      During this telephone call, an CIR-Covid19 questionnaire was fulfilled in order to prioritize
      patients requiring rapid management.

      The strategy is based on the use of the available health reserve, i.e. volunteered medical
      students to provide patient management assistance. These students were trained with
      face-to-face learning in the rheumatology department given by residents on chronic
      inflammatory rheumatism to remind them of all the elements of diagnosis and management. They
      had an interview with a senior rheumatologist from the Department to present the
      questionnaire and its objectives , to give them advice regarding communication with patients,
      as well as information about the COVID-19 infection and recommendations of the French
      Rheumatology Society for CIR patients. The students were trained with quizzes on practical
      situations, with feedback on the answers.

      The information's collected in the questionnaire were based on the patients' feelings.
      Telephone communication does not allow an assessment of disease activity according to
      validated criteria as it requires a clinical examination.

      The opinion of the referring rheumatologist was requested by the patients or by the medical
      student at the end of the telephone call, depending on the information collected. At any
      time, the medical students could call upon to senior doctors from the department or residents
      in case of difficulties.

      943 patients were thus contacted between 14/04/2020 and 28/04/2020. They were able to benefit
      from an optimized management according to the context of the COVID19 pandemic.

      These questionnaires were analyze in order to assess the need for specialized follow-up
      during this period and to evaluate the impact of COVID19 on this population.
    
  