
    
      The long-term goal of this study is to advance best practices in complementary and
      integrative health (CIH) to improve health for caregivers and individuals with chronic
      disabilities. This proposal is focused on merging exercise and education to improve pain for
      individuals in a caregiving dyad. The objective of this study is to develop and test the
      online Education and Gentle Exercise intervention, thus, addressing the critical need for
      innovative pain interventions focusing on the caregiving dyad. To achieve this objective and
      support a future randomized controlled trial (RCT), the researchers will conduct a
      mixed-methods study, including a small RCT.

      Aim 1: Develop and manualize the Education and Gentle Exercise intervention. Using focus
      groups, clinical reasoning, literature, and findings from previously tested interventions of
      yoga and self-management, the researchers will develop, refine, and standardize the Education
      and Gentle Exercise intervention for chronic pain. In parallel, the researchers will develop
      a control group that includes exercise and health and wellness education. The expected
      outcomes include Education and Gentle Exercise intervention workbooks for participants and
      training and teaching manuals for interventionists leading the Education and Gentle Exercise
      intervention group and control group.

      Aim 2: Assess feasibility and acceptability of online Education and Gentle Exercise and
      research procedures including planned assessments. In this small RCT, the researchers will
      examine feasibility and acceptability of the 8-week Education and Gentle Exercise procedures
      and intervention compared to an exercise and health and wellness education control group.
      Participants will be assigned to one of the the two groups. The primary hypothesis is that
      the online Education and Gentle Exercise intervention will be feasible and acceptable to
      caregiving dyads, as measured by benchmarks for recruitment, screening, attendance, and
      completion of assessments and intervention. Surveys will be administered and focus groups
      will be conducted online to understand participant satisfaction and experiences with
      Education and Gentle Exercise. After each intervention session, interventionists, caregivers,
      and care recipients will rate their satisfaction with the session content and activities. To
      assess change on the primary outcome (pain-related disability) and secondary outcome
      measures, members of the caregiving dyad will complete pre and post-assessments guided by the
      Biopsychosocial model.
    
  