
    
      This is an observational study of visual sampling during gait under different environmental
      challenge (straight, doorway, turn and visual cue (transverse lines on the floor)) and dual
      task. These conditions represent everyday activities/environments which can be difficult for
      people with PD.

      This is not an interventional study as participants are not assigned to any specific
      interventions by the researchers, or followed up to re-assess outcomes other than for
      reliability testing of the eye-tracking devices used. The study has been ethically approved
      (NRES Committee North East - Newcastle & North Tyneside 1: 13/NE/0128) as an observational
      study as participants are assigned to pre-defined groups, and have behavioural measures
      (primarily visual sampling and secondly gait) observed in the gait laboratory under various
      walking conditions common to everyday environments.

      Study Hypotheses

      The over-arching hypothesis of this observational study is that visual sampling during gait
      in PD will be influenced by cognitive impairments. This study hypothesises that saccadic
      activity will be restricted in PD compared to controls during gait. Dual task and
      environmental challenge via a doorway, turn or visual cue will influence saccadic activity
      during gait.

      Specific study hypothesises are:

        1. Cognition will selectively impact on visuomotor control during gait

        2. Visual sampling strategies during gait will be related to selected domains of cognitive
           impairment

      Secondary questions include:

      1. Is the Dikablis mobile eye-tracker a reliable means of measuring saccadic activity in PD
      and healthy controls?

      After undergoing screening to confirm eligibility, subjects will be assigned into one of two
      groups:

        1. Older adult controls (HC; up to n = 40)

        2. People with PD (n = 60)

           Recruitment

           Participants will be recruited from Movement Disorder Clinics in Newcastle upon-Tyne.
           Research personnel will be available at clinics as required to invite participants to
           consider the study. If sufficiently interested, participants will be given a Participant
           Information Sheet (PIS) and letter concerning the study. The invitation will be followed
           up by a telephone call during the week to assess willingness to participate. If willing,
           a mutually convenient time for assessment will be organised, and the invitation to
           attend will be extended to a carer or spouse.

           The healthy control group will be recruited via advertisement using posters, which will
           be placed within neurology and geriatric departments. The advertisement will also be
           sent via the university email system to staff and students at Newcastle University, the
           recipients will be advised to pass on the poster to potential interested parties (i.e.
           family or friends). All participants will be evaluated at the Clinical Ageing Research
           Unit, Newcastle University, a purpose-build research facility.

           Testing Protocol

           Session 1; (up to 150min)

             -  Initial screening and baseline assessments (45-60min)

             -  Visual sampling during gait (60-90min)

           Session 2; (up to 60min)

           • 1st Reliability testing (45-60min) (if applicable; for a subgroup of PD and HC
           participants)

           Session 3; (up to 60min)

           • 2nd Reliability testing (45-60min) (if applicable; for a subgroup of PD and HC
           participants)

           Visual sampling during gait (session 1)

           Participants (n=100) will be assessed in the gait laboratory at the clinical ageing and
           research unit (CARU), where they will walk under different conditions, for example
           single task, dual task, through a doorway, whilst turning and with a visual cue
           (transverse lines on the floor 50cm apart) in place. Visual sampling will be assessed
           with a Dikablis head-mounted eye tracking and electrooculography (EOG) systems. Gait
           will be simultaneously assessed using a 3D motion capture system (Vicon), which will be
           synchronised with the eye tracking systems to provide simultaneous data collection.
           Infra-red markers will be taped to the body and limbs of the subjects using a small
           amount of double-sided tape, to allow for motion tracking. The Dikablis will also be
           taped to the forehead of each participant using a small amount of double sided tape.

           Reliability testing (subgroup) (session 2 and 3)

           In order to examine the test re-test reliability of mobile eye-tracking in people with
           PD and healthy controls, a subgroup of participants (PD and HC; up to n=25) will return
           for a second (within approx. 1 week) and third visit. They will be asked to repeat some
           of the walking tasks outlined above and to sit (with chin rest), stand and walk (on a
           treadmill) while performing several eye movements to visual targets (horizontal and
           vertical visual angles such as; 5, 10, 15, 20 degrees) in time with an auditory cue (a
           60bpm metronome). Participants will return for the third visit approx. 1 week after the
           second visit and repeat the reliability testing (as above).

           Sample Size

           This is an exploratory study and therefore few specific previous examples are available
           to guide the sample size required. The sample size estimate is based on results from
           previous work in this research area (PD; n=21) (Galna et al., 2012), other previous
           similar studies and preliminary pilot work with the Dikabilis mobile eye-tracker, which
           is a new instrument. Similar studies in this research area have used similar sample
           sizes (n=2-26), demonstrating that differences between PD and HC groups will been
           evident.

           Statistical Analysis

           Analysis Common to all Studies

           Statistical analysis will be undertaken using SPSS version 19 or more recent versions
           (SPPS, Inc. an IBM company). Data checks of all data collected will be carried out
           independently by two members of the Human Movement Science Team at the Clinical Ageing
           Research Unit to ensure that data is accurate.

           All statistical tests will be carried out at the 5% two-sided level of significance.
           Demographic characteristics and baseline data will be summarized using descriptive
           statistics, including means, standard deviations, median, minimum, maximum and
           inter-quartile ranges for continuous or ordinal data and percentages for categorical
           data. The descriptive statistics will be tabulated and presented graphically for
           clarity.The assessments recorded at pre-testing will be taken as baseline values.

           One-sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests will be used to check for normally distributed data.
           Non-normally distributed continuous distributions will be transformed where appropriate
           to meet the requirements of parametric tests; otherwise equivalent non-parametric tests
           will be adopted.

           Further Analysis

           To analyse visual sampling during gait Pearson's correlations will be used to test the
           strength and direction of the relationships between clinical, gait and saccadic
           outcomes. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to analyse the effect of group (PD,
           HC), dual task (single task, dual task) and environmental challenge (Straight walk,
           Door, Turn, Visual cue) on visual sampling during gait.

           To analyse reliability repeated-measure t-tests, Bland and Altman plots, intra-class
           correlation coefficients (Model 2, 1) and Pearson correlations (or non-parametric
           equivalents) will be used to assess bias, agreement and consistency of saccadic outcomes
           measured with the Dikablis eye-tracker on two separate occasions a week apart.
    
  