
    
      Rationale: Despite numerous studies supporting adverse outcomes associated with low physical
      activity (PA), there is insufficient insight in the amount of PA of acutely hospitalized
      Dutch elderly ≥ 70 years. PA can be objectively measured by accelerometers, but it is time
      consuming and expensive to provide every patient with an accelerometer. We need to be able to
      predict which elderly patients are likely to spend low amounts of physical activity during
      hospitalization. Because of the association between PA and functional decline it is expected
      that functional assessment tests like the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) or
      Activity Measure for Post-Acute Care (AM-PAC) could be used as a screening tool to determine
      which patients will be at risk of low amounts of PA.

      Objective: The primary objectives of this study are: 1) To assess the amount of PA of acutely
      hospitalized elderly ≥70 years during hospitalization and to create reference values
      regarding the amount of time patients are standing and walking per day and the number of
      breaks in sedentary time (BST) per day. 2) To be able to predict the probability of low
      amounts of physical activity during hospitalization for acutely hospitalized elderly ≥70
      years.

      Study design: This is a single center, observational, prospective cohort study.

      Study population: 165 patients aged ≥70 years that are acutely hospitalized at the department
      of internal and geriatric medicine in the Maastricht University Medical Center (MUMC+).

      Method: PA will be monitored with an accelerometer from inclusion (t0) until the day of
      intended discharge (t1). A functional assessment (SPPB and AM-PAC) will be performed at t0.
      Medical and demographic data will be obtained from the medical record and by patient report.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Mean number of minutes spent physically active (standing and
      walking) per day, dichotomized into a low and high amount of time spent physically active per
      day during hospitalization for the prediction model. Mean number of BST per day, dichotomized
      into a low and high number of BST per day during hospitalization for the prediction model.
    
  