
    
      Influenza is one of the leading causes of acute respiratory infection and results in
      significant increases in average life-years lost, hospital lengths of stay and outpatient
      clinic visits, representing an enormous economic burden for many countries. Healthcare
      personnel are at particularly high risk of exposure to influenza as they are exposed in both
      the community and in the workplace. Influenza vaccination for healthcare personnel has been
      shown to reduce patient mortality in long-term care facilities as well as employee
      absenteeism and financial costs in acute care settings. The Canadian National Advisory
      Committee on Immunization (NACI) recommends that influenza immunization programs strive to
      immunize at least 90% of eligible recipients. In fact, NACI regards influenza immunization of
      healthcare personnel with direct patient care responsibilities as an essential component of
      the standard of care for the protection of patients. They consider the refusal of healthcare
      personnel without contraindications to receive influenza vaccine as a failure in their duty
      of care to patients. Despite national recommendations and proven effectiveness, influenza
      immunization coverage rates among healthcare personnel remain disappointingly low. In Canada,
      coverage rates among healthcare personnel range from 26-61% while in the US only 38% of
      healthcare personnel were immunized in 2002.

      The decision to accept or refuse influenza vaccine each year may be a difficult one for many
      healthcare personnel. Decisional conflict, a term used to describe the difficulty experienced
      by an individual who simultaneously tends to both accept and reject a given course of action,
      occurs in many medical decisions where the best choice often differs depending on how
      individuals weigh the risks and benefits, and has been shown to contribute to poor vaccine
      uptake. In a review of literature from 1985 to 2004, it was found that healthcare personnel
      experience decisional conflict related to misperceptions about influenza, its risks, the role
      of healthcare personnel in its transmission to patients, and the importance and risks of
      vaccination.

      Patient decision aids are tools that help people become involved in decision making by
      providing information about the options and outcomes, and clarifying personal values. They
      are designed to complement, rather than replace, counselling from a health practitioner. The
      use of decision aids has been shown to decrease decisional conflict and result in improved
      knowledge, more realistic expectations of benefit/risks and more active participation of
      individuals in decision-making. To date, no decision aids have been published that focus on
      influenza vaccination and none have been developed for healthcare personnel. Furthermore, the
      effect of a decision aid on the uptake of vaccine in healthcare personnel is unknown.

      The peer-reviewed Ottawa Influenza Decision Aid (OIDA) was developed to respond to the
      aforementioned misconceptions and identify barriers of vaccine uptake in healthcare
      personnel. The OIDA presents evidence-based information and guides the individual through the
      decision-making process, including deliberation of personal values and beliefs.
    
  