
    
      This randomized, controlled study will evaluate the effectiveness of a health management (HM)
      and supported rehabilitation (SR) intervention for 180 older persons (age 50+) with serious
      mental illness. We will address the following specific aims and hypotheses:

      Specific Aim 1- To compare the effectiveness of SR/HM to UC in improving independent living
      skills and health management. We hypothesize that compared to older individuals with SMI
      receiving UC, individuals receiving SR/HM will have better independent living skills and
      health management, evidenced by:

        1. Better community living skills and better social skills based on performance-based
           measures and self-reports of functioning, and

        2. Better medication management skills based on performance-based and self-report measures
           and greater use of preventive and routine primary health care (including annual
           check-ups with a primary care provider and participation in preventive health care).

      Specific Aim 2- To compare the effectiveness of SR/HM to UC in decreasing the use of
      high-cost acute and long-term institution-based services. We hypothesize that compared to
      older individuals with SMI receiving UC, individuals receiving SR/HM will use fewer high cost
      services, including emergency room visits, acute hospitalizations, and nursing home care. In
      addition, the reduced use of high cost institution-based services will be associated with
      better independent living skills and health management practices resulting from the SR/HM
      intervention.

      We will also evaluate the following secondary, exploratory hypotheses:

        1. The SR/HM intervention will be associated with better general health status.

        2. The effectiveness of SR/HM in improving living skills and community functioning will be
           greatest for individuals with low levels of cognitive impairment.

      In addition, we will describe outpatient service utilization for SR/HM and UC models within
      each study site in order to present a more comprehensive account of services used by study
      participants.

      Little is known about how to provide effective rehabilitation and health management services
      to older persons with serious mental illness (SMI) to decrease the use of high-cost
      institution-based services. To address this need, we developed a supported rehabilitation and
      health management (SR/HM) intervention for older persons with SMI that addresses functioning
      in two areas essential for preventing hospitalizations and long-term institutional care: (1)
      enhanced independent living skills and (2) improved health management. The supported
      rehabilitation (SR) component consists of skills training aimed at improving competence in
      everyday functioning, including community living skills and social skills. The health
      management (HM) component consists of training in health management skills and health case
      management by nurses who monitor and facilitate routine preventive and acute health care.
      Results from a pilot study indicate that SR/HM is effective in improving independent living
      skills and health management for older persons with SMI.

      The aims of this study are to test the effectiveness of the SR/HM intervention in improving
      the functioning and health care of older persons with SMI and in reducing the use of high
      cost, acute and long-term institution-based care. The proposed research will compare the
      SR/HM intervention to usual care (UC) in a randomized, controlled study of 180 individuals
      age 60 and older with SMI living in the community.
    
  