
    
      Hyperglycemia is an independent risk factor for poor outcomes in diabetic patients
      experiencing sudden cardiac death, myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular accident. During
      surgery, activation of the neuroendocrine system by surgical stress releases stress-induced
      hormones such as cortisol, glucagon, epinephrine, and growth hormones and it leads to hepatic
      glucogenesis and glycogenolysis. Acute perioperative hyperglycemia induces decreased
      microvascular reactivity to dilatory agents like bradykinin, increased inflammatory
      cytokines, and impaired neutrophil activity. This impaired neuroendocrine and immune system
      leads to increased inflammation and multiple organ system dysfunction.

      Thomas and Alberti showed postoperative use of 1 litre of Hartmann's solution was associated
      with a 7.5 mmol/L increase in plasma glucose concentrations, compared with an increase of 2.1
      mmol/L in diabetic patients who received no intravenous fluids. Since then, normal saline has
      been preferred over Hartmann's solution in fear of acute hyperglycemia during postoperative
      period.

      However, a recent review suggested that the maximum increase in glucose concentration with 1
      L of Hartmann's solution would be about 1 mmol/L (about 18 mg/dL) ,with a much lower effect
      on blood glucose in clinical practice.

      In fact, according to 2012 National Health Services (NHS) diabetes guideline for the
      perioperative management of the adult patient with diabetes, Hartmann's solution is used in
      preference to 0.9% saline. Excess use of normal saline could yield complications such as
      hyperglycemia and metabolic acidosis.

      To date, a few studies have examined the effects of preoperative blood glucose levels on
      outcomes in patients undergoing surgery, and no prospective randomized investigations have
      been reported. The investigators are going to find out if Hartmann's solution actually raises
      postoperative glucose and insulin level by comparing two groups of diabetic patients using
      either Hartmann's solution or normal saline. The investigators expect the result to broaden
      the choice of fluid for diabetic patients undergoing surgery and hopefully to diminish the
      side effects manifested by the excess use of normal saline.
    
  