
    
      Cognitive Stimulation - The Motivational Chess (MC) was designed to stimulate executive
      cognitive functioning. The idea of combining Motivational Interviewing (25) with chess game
      was to stimulate discrepancy, motivation, and support self-efficacy. Volunteers will be
      submitted to 10 sessions of 90 minutes, over three weeks (total 15 hours: 10 hours of chess
      practice and 5 hours of motivational interviewing). At the beginning of each session the
      participants will be divided into pairs and received a sheet containing the game rules (that
      sheet worked as a kind of working memory aid). During the game practice, there will be a
      therapist (coordinator) observing, helping, and motivating the participants for goal-directed
      behaviors. The therapist interventions will be focused on patient's behavior, analyzing if
      they know the game rules, are able to follow the rules, have visual perception of the pieces,
      and use strategies considering short or long-term consequences. Another relevant role of the
      therapist will be empathic with the patients and to help them deal with their own resistance
      to change or to adapt to new situations.

      The last 30 minutes of MC will be divided into three stages: 1) a short presentation on the
      cognitive deficits due to CD (Giving Information); 2) participants will report their
      impressions about their performance in chess linking it to real life situations such as
      drug-related events, difficulty monitoring and directing behavior, controlling craving and
      relapse (Developing Discrepancy); 3) discussions encouraging healthy decision making,
      focusing on future and favorable real-life long-term behaviors, as opposed to immediate and
      high risk behaviors (Supporting Self-Efficacy).

      Control Group - The Active Control (AC) group will occur exactly on the same conditions of
      the MC group. It consists of one hour of recreational activities to stimulate more basic
      cognitive functions, such as simple attention (for example, to follow a simple sequence of
      actions), motor coordination and visual functions. Ten activities were structured using
      cardboard, paper, crayons, among others. In the last 30 minutes, there will be a presentation
      also based on Motivational Interviewing, but limited to providing information about basic
      cognitive functions (Giving Information) and promoting motivation to engagement to the
      activities.

      Procedures To enroll in this study, the participants must have a positive urine test for
      cocaine and will answer to semi-structured clinical interviews (SCID and ASI-6) on the first
      week. When the urine test becomes negative (mean in days: 9.48 ± 3.06), the pre assessment
      will be applied (Neuropsychological and Psychopathological Assessment, Functional Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging, Brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels and Cortisol levels) . Then the
      participants will participate in 10 sessions of MC or AC for approximately 3 weeks. At the
      end, if the urine test remains negative, the post assessment will be applied (about one month
      of abstinence of cocaine use). The urine toxicology test will be used to have an objective
      measure of recent use and abstinence.
    
  