
    
      Ovarian cancer is considered a chemo-responsive neoplasm, with initial response rates to
      systemic chemotherapy exceeding 80% when integrated with primary cytoreductive surgery
      Despite this, over 50% of women diagnosed with epithelial ovarian cancer eventually go on to
      die from their disease. Six major trials published over the past 15 years report that the
      median PFS for patients with advanced disease ranges between 16 and 23 months while the
      median OS lies between 31 and 65 months.The majority of patients who achieve a Complete
      Response with first-line chemotherapy ultimately develop recurrent disease. These patients
      can be subdivided into platinum-sensitive or platinum-resistant groups. In platinum-sensitive
      patients, disease recurrence occurs more than 6 months after cessation of initial
      platinum-containing chemotherapy. Platinum-based therapies are typically used to retreat
      these patients, in light of clinically meaningful responses observed in these patients
      following a second platinum-based treatment.Currently, there is no optimal treatment strategy
      for platinum-resistant patients whose disease recurs within 6 months of completing initial
      platinum-based chemotherapy.Despite a wide range of available treatments, prolonged survival
      has not been shown in this setting, and ORR is generally less than 20%. As resistant-disease
      is not curable, the goals of treatment for these patients include palliation of symptoms and
      improvements in quality of life. Platinum-resistance is therefore a significant clinical
      problem for which improved treatment regimens are needed. In this regard, molecular targeted
      therapeutic agents herald a new era for cancer treatment. In the setting of epithelial
      ovarian cancer, a growing body of evidence supports the use of anti-angiogenic
      agents.Platinum-resistant ovarian cancer patients are often treated with sequential lines of
      single-agent chemotherapy. Commonly used agents include topotecan, pegylated liposomal
      doxorubicin (PLD), weekly paclitaxel and gemcitabine.Topotecan is topoisomerase I inhibitor
      well established as therapy for recurrent ovarian cancer, with demonstrated efficacy in
      platinum-resistant populations. PLD is licensed in the US and Europe for use in ovarian
      cancer after failure of platinum chemotherapy and is recommended by the NCCN as a treatment
      option in this setting. PLD and topotecan have been compared in a Phase III study of 474
      patients with tumours that were recurrent or refractory to platinum-based chemotherapy. In
      the subgroup of patients with platinum-resistant tumours treated with PLD (n=130), the ORR
      was 12.3%, and median PFS and OS were 2.1 and 8.2 months, respectively. The 124
      platinum-resistant patients who received topotecan achieved median PFS and OS of 3.1 months
      and 9.5 months, respectively, which were not significantly different from the PLD group. For
      platinum-resistant patients, outcomes were not significantly different between treatment
      groups so whatever treatment option is acceptable.In a recent study in platinum-resistant
      recurrent ovarian cancer patients, topotecan monotherapy showed and ORR of 19% and 9% when
      used as conventional or weekly schedule, respectively. Angiogenesis is known to play a
      critical role in the growth of ovarian tumours and may represent an important target. For
      example, several studies have demonstrated that increased microvessel density in primary
      ovarian tumours is associated with VEGF expression and predicted worsened survival rates.
      Likewise, circulating VEGF levels were significantly higher in ovarian cancer subjects with
      an advanced stage at diagnosis, poorly-differentiated tumours, or increased levels of ascites
      as compared to subjects with an early stage, well-differentiated tumour(s), and less ascites.
      Tumour-derived VEGF may play a role in ascites formation. Angiogenesis has been shown to be a
      negative predictive factor for overall survival and disease-free survival in women with
      advanced ovarian cancer 18. Blockade or inhibition of VEGF (eg, using bevacizumab) or VEGFR
      (using TKIs) have been shown to be effective in Phase II studies in ovarian cancer. For
      example, single-agent bevacizumab has shown a 16-21% overall tumour response rate (ORR) in
      two studies of previously treated patients with ovarian cancer.Pazopanib is a potent,
      multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) of VEGFR-1, -2, -3, PDGFR-α and -β and c-Kit.
      Pazopanib has shown evidence of antitumor activity in clinical studies of ovarian cancer.
      VEG104450 is a Phase II study of pazopanib in subjects with ovarian, fallopian tube, or
      primary peritoneal cancers who had responded to first-line chemotherapy and who were at high
      risk of clinical recurrence (as evidenced by rising CA-125 levels). 36 subjects were
      enrolled, of which 22 (61%) had a sensitive platinum relapse and a previous chemotherapy
      regimen. Final results obtained recently indicate the following:10 out of 36 (28%) subjects
      experienced a CA-125 response to pazopanib with responses occurring shortly after start of
      pazopanib administration (median time to response 29 days) with a median duration of response
      of 113 days 21.Taking into account theses results, pazopanib is one of the promising
      antiangiogenic therapies to be studied against ovarian cancer
    
  