
    
      This is a randomized (participants will be assigned by chance to study treatments),
      open-label (all participants and study personnel will know the identity of the study
      treatments), active-controlled (none of the study treatments are placebo), parallel-group
      (both treatment arms will run at the same time), multicenter study. In this study,
      daratumumab, lenalidomide, and low-dose dexamethasone (DRd) will be compared with
      lenalidomide and low dose dexamethasone (Rd) in participants with relapsed or refractory
      multiple myeloma. Participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either DRd or Rd.
      The study will include a Screening Phase, a Treatment Phase (involving treatment cycles of
      approximately 28 days in length), and a Follow-up Phase. The Treatment Phase will extend from
      the administration of the first dose of study medication until disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Participants will also discontinue study treatment if: they become
      pregnant; have their dose held for more than 28 days (or if 3 consecutive planned doses of
      daratumumab are missed for reasons other than toxicity); or for safety reasons (for example,
      adverse event). The Follow-up Phase will begin at the end of treatment and will continue
      until death, loss to follow-up, consent withdrawal for study participation, or study end,
      whichever occurs first. Eligible participants from Rd group who have had sponsor confirmed
      disease progression will be offered the option for treatment with daratumumab monotherapy (of
      28 days cycle).The primary endpoint will be progression-free survival (PFS). Analysis of the
      primary endpoint was performed at a pre-specified point determined by PFS events with a
      clinical cutoff of March 27th, 2016 when 169 events of death or progression had occurred.
      Study end is anticipated at approximately 6 years after the last participant is randomized.
      Blood and urine samples will be obtained at time points during the study, together with bone
      marrow aspirates/biopsies and skeletal surveys. Participant safety will be assessed
      throughout the study.
    
  