
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Demonstrate that after complete transurethral resection of all papillary tumors, one
           third dose BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guerin vaccine; OncoTICE) is equivalent to full dose
           BCG and short term maintenance is equivalent to long term maintenance with respect to
           duration of disease free interval, recurrence rate, percentage of patients with an
           increase in T-category to greater than T1, and the incidence of carcinoma in situ during
           follow-up.

        -  Demonstrate that one third dose BCG and short term maintenance are associated with fewer
           local and systemic side effects.

      OUTLINE: This is a prospective randomized study.

      At 7-15 days after transurethral resection, patients will begin receiving one of the
      following four regimens:

        -  Regimen 1: One third dose Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccine plus short term
           maintenance. Patients receive a one third dose of BCG instilled once a week for 6 weeks,
           followed by three weekly instillations at months 3, 6, and 12.

        -  Regimen 2: Full dose BCG plus short term maintenance. Patients receive a full dose of
           BCG instilled once a week for 6 weeks, followed by three weekly instillations at months
           3, 6, and 12.

        -  Regimen 3: One third dose BCG plus long term maintenance. Patients receive a one third
           dose of BCG instilled once a week for 6 weeks, followed by three weekly instillations at
           months 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 30 and 36.

        -  Regimen 4: Full dose BCG plus long term maintenance. Patients receive a full dose of BCG
           instilled once a week for 6 weeks, followed by three weekly instillations at months 3,
           6, 12, 18, 24, 30, and 36.

      The patient is followed every 3 months for the first 3 years, and every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 1288 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  