
    
      A.Screening / Baseline visit (V1; Day 0) After signing the informed consent form, patients'
      DSM-IV multiaxial examination, physical examination, vital sign, pregnancy test, BMI will be
      conducted. The demographics, medical history, and concomitant medication will be recorded.
      After evaluating all variables obtained, the eligible patients will be enrolled into
      study.Patients who fulfill the inclusion / exclusion criteria will be performed the
      laboratory tests, PANSS, EPS (AIMS & BARS), menstrual function, sexual function (Arizona
      sexual experience scale) and prolaction. Afterwards, the treatment period will be started to
      add-on with first medication (7.5 or 15 mg daily by patient, which was prescribed by
      investigator) to current antipsychotics at this visit. Besides, drug accounting and adverse
      events will also be recorded at this visit. Patients are maintained on current doses of
      antipsychotics, and all other medicines.

      B.Treatment phase (V2~V3; 2~4 Week finished; 14±3~28±3 Day finished) The vital sign, physical
      examination, BMI, laboratory tests (at V3), PANSS, EPS (AIMS & BARS), menstrual function,
      sexual function (Arizona sexual experience scale), and prolactin will be carried out.
      Concomitant medication, adverse events, and drug accounting will also be recorded at this
      visit. Study drug could be titrated with a flexible dose from 7.5 to 30 mg QD. All dose
      adjustments should be made with the approval of the investigator.

      C.Completion visit (V4; 8 Week Finished; 56±7 Day finished, or Early termination) The vital
      sign, physical examination, pregnancy test, BMI, laboratory tests, PANSS, EPS (AIMS & BARS),
      menstrual function, sexual function (Arizona sexual experience scale), prolactin will be
      carried out. Concomitant medication, adverse events, and drug accounting will also be
      recorded at this visit.
    
  