
    
      Chronic Rhinosinusitis (CRS) is a common inflammatory condition of the upper respiratory
      tract lasting more than 8 to 12 weeks. Major symptoms include facial congestion/fullness,
      facial pain/pressure, nasal obstruction/blockage, purulent nasal drainage, and reduction or
      loss of smell. The diagnosis must include two major symptoms and either endoscopic evidence
      of polyps, edema or mucopurulent discharge from the middle meatus and/or CT changes in the
      mucosa of sinuses or ostiomeatal complexes.

      CRS has an estimated prevalence of 5% in the Canadian population, and up to 16% in some adult
      populations in the United States. Sinusitis is associated with a major societal health care
      burden, costing billions of dollars a year in North America. The medical treatment of CRS
      includes topical saline and corticosteroid sprays, systemic steroids and antimicrobials.
      Specifically, sinonasal saline irrigation is a safe, nonpharmacologic treatment, and an
      important and efficacious component in the management of CRS. Sinonasal saline irrigation can
      vary by concentration (e.g. hypertonic, isotonic, hypotonic), pressure (e.g. passive or
      active), and volume (e.g. high and low).

      A recent evidence-based review by Rudmik et al. recommended sinonasal saline irrigation in
      the early postoperative period following endoscopic sinus surgery. Although 'daily' sinonasal
      saline irrigations are recommended, the ideal frequency is unknown since there have been no
      studies evaluating this topic.

      This is a prospective, randomized, single blind study evaluating the subjective and objective
      outcomes of different sinonasal saline irrigation frequencies in patients who receive ESS for
      medically refractory CRS. Both disease-specific quality of life (QoL) and endoscopy scores
      will be measured at 1 week, 3 weeks, and 2 months postoperatively. The expected total number
      of patients to be enrolled in this study is approximately 75 (25 per arm), with a planned
      completion time of two years.
    
  