
    
      Familiarization: Subjects would come to the Human Performance lab for a study orientation to
      be informed of the goals of the study, have anthropometric data collected (InBody770, In
      Body, Cerritos, CA) and familiarized with all testing and data collection tools. The purpose
      of this is to collect anthropometric data, review the study procedures and study
      requirements.

      Determination of menstruation date: After study familiarization instructions will be given to
      contact the research team and come back to the lab on the first day of menstruation to
      establish the individual study timeline. An ovulation kit will be provided. The ovulation kit
      would then be started at the end of the first reported menstrual cycle and be used daily
      until the 2-4 days of high estrogen (ovulation) are established.

      Baseline data: After menstruation date is established, for the first two months of the study,
      subjects would come to the lab on the first day of menstruation and the day after ovulation,
      have their knee laxity measured (GNRB dynamic laximeter, Prothia, Worcester, MA) and salivary
      analysis to determine estrogen levels. The first two months would determine normal changes in
      knee laxity and estrogen levels throughout the cycle within each subject.

      Intervention: Following the second ovulation testing day and once baseline values are
      established, subjects would be provided with 3 months of MSM or placebo control (rice flour)
      and instructed to take 2g each morning for the subsequent 3 months. Month 3 would serve as an
      MSM loading month and subjects would return to the laboratory throughout months 4 and 5 (day
      14 and first day of menstruation) for mechanical and estrogen testing.

      MSM or placebo treatments: The study will be a randomized double-blinded placebo-controlled
      trial. MSM or placebo capsules would be provided in a double blinded manner following the
      second mechanical test. Each individual would consume 2g of either the MSM or placebo control
      for the remainder of the study.

      Intervention Product and Preparation Intervention: MSM (OptiMSM®) is a pure, generally
      recognized as safe (GRAS) designated product. MSM can be found in small amounts in corn,
      tomatoes, tea, coffee, milk.

      Placebo: Rice flour is a commonly ingested food or additive. Intervention and placebo will be
      encapsulated in 1g vegetarian capsules (Hypromellose Capsule).

      Both intervention and placebo capsules are identically transparent with white powder inside.
      Capsules containers with 805 capsules (2g per day for each month plus extra) will be
      prepared, packaged by Bergstrom nutrition and transported with blinded code (A or B) so only
      individuals responsible for intervention and placebo preparation are removed from conducting
      the study and are off site (Vancouver, Washington).

      Product will be labelled by Bergstrom Nutrition. Subject ID and month (3, 4, or 5) will be
      filled in manually by University of California, Davis researcher upon randomization.

      Determination of knee laxity: Knee laxity will be determined using a GNRB dynamic laximeter
      following established protocols. Briefly, with the femur held in place, a controlled pressure
      will be applied to the calf. The pressure increases from 0 to 200 Newtons and a sensor
      measures kneecap displacement (laxity) in millimeters.

      Determination of estrogen levels: Salivary samples will be taken on the first day of
      menstruation and one day following ovulation for the 4 months of testing (month 1, 2, 4, 5).
      Estradiol levels in the saliva will be determined using the Estradiol Saliva ELISA kit (Rocky
      Mountain Diagnostics, CO) as per manufacturer's instructions.

      Data Collected:

        -  Record of menstrual cycle

        -  Salivary estradiol levels as described above

        -  Measurements of knee laxity
    
  