
    
      This study aims to assess the feasibility of a novel standard of care technique for
      intrauterine insemination (IUI) in HIV-discordant couples in the United States. This study
      will involve couples in which the male partner is HIV positive, but the female partner is
      negative.

      The investigators will institute a protocol similar to those used presently throughout Europe
      with good success. To date, no HIV seroconversions have occurred in over 4000 inseminations
      performed in HIV serodiscordant couples.

      All male subjects will be on stable HAART and have undetectable serum viral loads prior to
      insemination. For semen samples, seminal fluid will be separated from sperm using a density
      gradient/swim-up separation technique. The purified sperm sample will be washed, and screened
      for HIV RNA using sensitive real-time RT-PCR. Samples with detectable traces of HIV RNA will
      not be used for insemination. Samples with no detectable traces of HIV RNA will be used for a
      standard intrauterine insemination of the female partner.

      Female subjects will be followed post-insemination for seroconversion and pregnancy. Infants
      will be followed for seroconversion at birth through 3 months of age.

      The data being collected in this pilot feasibility study will be mostly descriptive, lacking
      sample size to achieve statistical power for testing. However, the investigators will use
      case-control analysis to compare couples who achieve pregnancy with those who do not across
      demographics and markers of HIV disease progression. Additionally, the investigators have
      developed a 14 item, 5-point Likert scale to assesses the psychosocial impact of reproductive
      health issues stemming from HIV-discordance in both the female and male participants.

      The expected duration for any unique subject couple is 3 to 12 months, depending on
      pregnancy. It is expected that the interventional portion of this study will continue for up
      to 2 years, depending on pregnancies.
    
  