
    
      Children who have undergone cardiac surgery are at high risk of neurological disability.
      Adequate cerebral perfusion during the surgery is paramount to minimise the risk of brain
      injury which is a well-documented complication. Whilst this is easily identifiable through
      brain imaging post-operatively, less is known about intracerebral vascular reactivity that
      arise due to inadequate cerebral perfusion during and immediately following surgery which may
      result in long-term neurological deficits. Some of these changes have been observed solely
      through long term evaluation of childhood behaviours, as is seen in the Boston Circulatory
      Arrest Trial.

      Aortic arch surgical repair surgery is performed in acynotic patients with conditions like
      Hypoplastic Aortic Arch or Interrupted Aortic Arch, or in cyanotic patients for diagnosis
      such as Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome, where a single ventricle repair is undertaken by
      means of a Norwood type operation.

      Aortic arch surgery is performed with the aid of cardiopulmonary bypass and requires stopping
      the body's circulation for the time employed to repair the aortic arch. In order to provide
      protection to the body and to the brain, the patient's temperature is reduced to 18-25C to
      minimise metabolic requirements. This is particularly important for the brain so circulation
      can be stopped while operating on the aortic arch in a bloodless field. In recent years,
      techniques aimed at preserving brain perfusion during circulatory arrest have been developed.
      Antegrade cerebral perfusion of cold blood (18-25C) via the right internal carotid artery has
      been successfully employed and it is routinely used at Alder Hey Children's Hospital.
      Nevertheless, target brain temperature, the rate of cooling, perfusion pressure and PCO2 in
      arterial blood significantly influence cerebral vascular reactivity and perfusion. The
      optimal temperature to ensure neuroprotection is currently unknown and the temperature for
      cooling is based on surgeon preference rather than solid evidence.

      Currently, clinical practice in the UK is to employ near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) as an
      index of cerebral perfusion. Whilst this is a simple and non-invasive tool, it only measures
      oxygen levels in the frontal lobes, and is purely indicative of oxygenation, not absorption
      of oxygen by the cerebral tissue. An injured brain will continue to show normal levels of
      saturation on NIRS despite hypoxia (lack of oxygen) induced injury. Novel imaging techniques
      are now available that can provide more in-depth information on real time cerebral perfusion
      and quantify the magnitude of changes during and following surgery in children. One research
      study has employed Transcranial Doppler to monitor cerebral velocity during aortic arch
      surgery whilst on cardiopulmonary bypass with the aim of maintaining cerebral velocity during
      surgery at a level similar to before cooling. More recently, duplex ultrasound to image the
      cerebral vessels through the fontanelle has been employed to obtain perfusion data from both
      hemispheres of the brain during aortic arch surgery. Taken together, these measurement
      techniques provide unique novel insight into the cerebrovascular changes which occur during
      the surgical and post-operative period.
    
  