
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) at the end of 2 cycles for intravenous (IV)
      ascorbic acid (AA) added to standard salvage therapy compared to standard salvage therapy
      plus normal saline in patients with relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL)
      who have relapsed within the first 24 months of end of their therapy. (Arms A versus [vs] B)
      II. To determine the ORR at the end of 2 cycles of AA plus standard salvage chemotherapy in
      patients with other types of relapsed lymphomas not eligible for Arms A/B (peripheral T-cell
      lymphoma [PTCL], double-hit high grade, and Hodgkin lymphoma [HL]). (Arm C)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the adverse event profile of IV AA added to salvage therapy versus salvage
      therapy plus IV saline in patients with DLBCL using both the Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (CTCAE) and Patient-Reported Outcomes (PRO)-CTCAE. (Arms A and B) II. To
      compare the progression-free survival, overall survival, clinical benefit rate (those not
      progressing), and percentage (%) transplant eligible patients proceeding to transplant of AA
      added to salvage therapy versus salvage therapy plus IV saline in patients with DLBCL. (Arms
      A and B) III. To compare the ORR at the end of 4 cycles for those with minor response/stable
      disease at the end of cycle 2 who proceed to receive the additional 2 cycles of rituximab,
      dexamethasone, cytarabine and cisplatin (RDHAP) with either AA or normal saline (NS) as
      previously assigned. (Arms A and B) IV. To evaluate the adverse event profile, rate of
      febrile neutropenia, overall survival, progression-free survival, and clinical benefit rate
      of AA added to salvage therapy in patients with relapsed lymphoma. (Arm C)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Will include baseline AA levels (at Mayo Clinic Research [MCR]) and staining of pre/post
      treatment biopsies for markers of oxidative stress generation and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)
      methylation. (Correlative Research on blood and tumor tissue)

      OUTLINE: Patients with DLBCL are randomized to Arms A or B. Patients with other lymphomas are
      assigned to Arm C.

      Arm A: Patients receive ascorbic acid IV on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, 12, 15, 17, and 19, and
      rituximab intravenously (IV), ifosfamide IV, carboplatin IV and etoposide IV on days 1-3.
      Patients who achieve minor response (MR) or stable disease (SD) after 2 cycles may receive
      rituximab IV or PO, cisplatin IV or PO, cytarabine IV or PO, and dexamethasone IV or PO.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive placebo (normal saline) IV on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, 12, 15, 17, and
      19, and rituximab intravenously IV, ifosfamide IV, carboplatin IV and etoposide IV on days
      1-3. Patients who achieve MR or SD after 2 cycles may receive rituximab IV or PO, cisplatin
      IV or PO, cytarabine IV or PO, and dexamethasone IV or PO. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive ascorbic acid IV on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, 12, 15, 17, and 19. Patients
      also receive ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide IV or PO, or cisplatin, cytarabine, and
      dexamethasone IV or PO, or gemcitabine hydrochloride, dexamethasone, and cisplatin IV or PO,
      or gemcitabine hydrochloride and oxaliplatin IV or PO, or oxaliplatin, cytarabine, and
      dexamethasone IV or PO according standard regimen schedule. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      who achieve MR or SD after 2 cycles may switch to an alternative chemotherapy regimen.

      In all arms, patients who achieve complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or MR may
      undergo stem cell transplantation.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months, then every 6
      months after progressive disease for up to 2 years.
    
  