
    
      Over 1 million people suffer from IBD in the United States. Although the exact pathogenesis
      is unclear, IBD results from an inappropriate inflammatory response to intestinal microbes
      which is influenced by the environment in a genetically susceptible host. IBDs can be
      classified as conventional (Crohn disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC)) and unclassified
      (early onset, difficult to treat, associated with monogenic disorders and PIDDs). Among the
      200 IBD susceptibility loci identified in genome-wide association studies (GWAS), overlap
      with aberrations identified in PIDDs has been observed, thereby supporting the study of PIDDs
      to better understand conventional IBD pathogenesis, while recognizing PIDD-associated IBDs as
      distinct disease entities requiring specialized management.

      The prevalence of PIDDs worldwide is estimated at 1 in 2000 live births and encompasses a
      growing list of over 300 PIDDs. Despite the fact that GI disease is the second most common
      complication in patients with PIDDs (rates ranging from 5-50%), little is known about
      PIDDspecific

      IBD pathogenesis and even less is understood about the role of the microbiota both as a
      consequence and modulator of immune response in these inherited disorders. Moreover, there
      may be a time-limited period ("immunological window of opportunity"), coinciding with the
      maturation of the host s microbiome, during which early immune education may have long-term
      effects on predisposition to aberrant immune responses and inflammatory dysregulation. The
      primary objective of this study is to determine if PIDDs result in intestinal dysbioses,
      which alter local and systemic immune responses. Our long-term goal is to comprehensively
      investigate the immunological window of opportunity as it relates to PIDD-associated IBDs to
      define time-sensitive immunoregulatory targets for therapeutic intervention. We will pursue
      this goal through a prospective, longitudinal study of pediatric and adult patients with
      PIDDs (with and without IBD) before and after treatment and/or diagnostic interventions,
      including but not limited to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Findings from
      subjects with PIDDs will be compared to those from subjects with IBD as well as healthy
      volunteers. This multifaceted study will complement primary patient protocols while allowing
      for the direct interrogation of specific arms of innate and adaptive immunity in the context
      of host-microbiome interactions. Patients will be studied over time through the collection of
      clinical metadata, blood, stool, urine, saliva, skin swabs, and biopsies obtained from
      clinically-indicated endoscopies in age-appropriate patients. PIDDs of interest include but
      are not limited to: CGD, CTLA4 and LRBA protein deficiency, hypomorphic RAG deficiency, and
      IPEX syndrome.
    
  