
    
      The RI-AIR ACIP is community-based; it addresses community needs and gaps in care by: 1)
      enhancing asthma outcomes with services tailored to the child's level of asthma risk, 2)
      decreasing family burden by delivering services in homes and the local community, 3)
      enhancing communication between school, HCPs, and family, and 4) utilizing the RI-AIR
      Information Data System (IDS) to integrate data sources and generate a tailored referral.
      This study uses a randomized, stepped wedge trial (SWT) design to evaluate the effectiveness
      of the RI-AIR ACIP at both the individual and community levels. In an SWT, groups of
      individuals receive the intervention at different time points, the order in which they
      receive the treatment is randomized, and data are collected from groups over time.

      In this study, groups will be randomized at the community level. Selected high risk
      communities are geographic school catchment areas with the highest asthma utilization rates.
      High-risk areas will be randomly allocated to the "Step," or year of active trial using a
      random numbers table. Thus, the year each catchment area receives intervention (i.e.,
      participates in the active trial phase) will be randomized, and all families in this SWT will
      participate in both control (standard care) and intervention (active trial). This SWT design
      allows us to evaluate both individual-level outcomes as well as community-specific outcomes.
      During the active trial phase, families of children with asthma within the randomly selected
      communities will receive an asthma intervention. Families of children with asthma will be
      assigned to an intervention based on the child's level of asthma control. Individual-level
      data will be assessed over the course of the year of the active trial phase, while
      community-level data will be assessed annually over the study period.
    
  