
    
      Background:

        -  There is a growing body of evidence that points to genetic heterogeneity of the EGFR
           pathway in non-small cell lung cancer among different ethnic groups and that underscores
           the need for consideration of these differences in patient management and in the design
           of future trials of agents that target the EGFR pathway.

        -  Activating mutations in EGFR have been found in about 15% of NSCLC patients from North
           America and Europe, 40% of Asian and 2% in African-Americans.

        -  However, there is no data on the frequency of EGFR mutations in U.S. Hispanic and Latin
           American patients with NSCLC.

      Primary Protocol Objectives:

        -  To determine the frequency of EGFR mutations in Hispanic/Latinos with non-small cell
           lung cancer according to gender and smoking status.

        -  To study the association between the frequency of EGFR mutations and the percentage of
           American Indian ancestry, as defined by genetic ancestry analysis, in Hispanic/Latinos
           with non-small cell lung cancer.

      Secondary Protocol Objectives:

      -To evaluate the association between EGFR mutations and other clinical variables such as wood
      smoke exposure, age, stage at presentation, nationality and response to EGFR TKIs.

      Eligibility:

        -  Hispanic or Latino patients with histologically confirmed non-small cell lung cancer.

        -  Tissue samples from Hispanic or Latino individuals with histologically confirmed
           non-small cell lung cancer

      Design:

        -  Paraffin embedded tumor samples from Latino patients with non-small cell lung cancer
           will be collected at the NIH s clinical center and the participating institutions.

        -  Samples and clinical data will then be sent to the molecular pathology laboratory for
           EGFR mutation analyses. The remainder DNA will then used for genetic ancestry analysis.
    
  