
    
      Autoinflammatory diseases are illnesses characterized by episodes of inflammation that,
      unlike autoimmune disorders, lack the production of high titer autoantibodies or
      antigen-specific T cells. There is growing genetic and clinical evidence that Interleukin-1
      (IL-1) plays a pathogenic role in several of these diseases. This exploratory study aims to
      examine the utility of the experimental drug candidate, XOMA 052 (XOMA (US), LLC) in the
      treatment of adult subjects with the autoinflammatory disorders familial cold
      autoinflammatory syndrome (FCAS) or Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS) associated with mutations in
      cryopyrin-encoding CIAS1 and in adult subjects with Behcet's Disease (BD), a disease which
      may be responsive to IL-1 blockade. XOMA 052 is a human recombinant IL-1beta antibody with
      picomolar affinity for IL-1beta and a beta half-life of 22.4 days in humans. This agent is
      currently in Phase 2 clinical studies for the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes and initial
      studies have shown activity against clinical and biochemical indicators of inflammation.

      This pilot study is designed to address: 1) the utility of XOMA 052 in the treatment of FCAS
      / MWS, in a disease known to respond to IL-1 blockade (FCAS / MWS) as shown by a response to
      treatment with anakinra (Kineret(Registered Trademark), recombinant IL-1 receptor
      antagonist), rilonacept (Arcalyst(Registered Trademark), IL-1 Trap, a fusion protein of the
      IL-1 receptor and the Fc portion of IgG), and canakinumab (Ilaris(Registered Trademark),
      IL-1beta blocking antibody); the latter two FDA approved for the treatment of this condition;
      2) the pharmacokinetics and dynamics of treatment with XOMA 052 in FCAS / MWS; 3) the effect
      of XOMA 052 on laboratory biomarkers in BD; and 4) an exploratory assessment of the utility
      of XOMA 052 in the treatment of BD.

      For FCAS / MWS, biochemical and clinical correlates of autoinflammatory disease will be
      measured at baseline following withdrawal of currently used IL-1 inhibitors. Subjects will
      receive a course of therapy with XOMA 052 that is predicted to provide an estimated 4 weeks
      of anti-inflammatory activity. If a favorable response is obtained, the continuation phase
      will last twelve months. For BD, subjects will receive XOMA 052 for three to six months and
      patients with a positive response will then be randomized to withdrawal or continuation of
      drug for six months. Clinical and biochemical correlates of inflammation will be measured in
      both patient groups at appropriate intervals to assess response and to further elucidate
      disease mechanisms.
    
  