
    
      Atrial fibrillation(AF) is the most common sustained arrhythmia. It can cause reduced heart
      function and increase the risk of thromboembolism. About 60% of patients with rheumatic heart
      disease have persistent AF.AF surgery is an effective intervention for patients with all
      types of AF undergoing concomitant cardiac surgery. AF surgery can reduce the risks of heart
      of stroke and heart failure and promote longer survival. Bipolar radiofrequency ablation is
      one of the most effective ways. But in the investigators' early study we find that there are
      technique blind spots in the left atrial ablation and right atrial ablation. In the bipolar
      left atrial linear ablation performed along the lower edge of interatrial groove incision up
      to the mitral annulus, there is a gap between the ends of the ablation line to the mitral
      annulus. And if the investigators use bipolar radiofrequency pliers it may injure the lcx
      left circumflex artery and left ventricular. In the bipolar right atrial radiofrequency
      ablation, the linear ablation performed along the lower edge of the coronary sinus ostium up
      to the inferoseptal commissure and the linear performed through the vertical incision on
      anterior wall of the right atrium up to the tricuspid annulus, there is also a gap between
      the end of the end of the ablation line and the tricuspid annulus. These gaps are one of
      factors of the recurrence of AF.

      Argon beam coagulator is one of the most common hemostasis tools in heart surgery. It can
      also cause coagulation necrosis of the myocardium and do not do harm to the nearly myocardium
      the same as bipolar radiofrequency ablation. In the investigators' early study the
      investigators use the coagulation de plasma argon to burn the endocardium. And in the
      investigators' 6 mouth follow up, the rate of cardioversion is 90%. In this study the
      investigators plan to use argon beam coagulator to ablate these gaps.

      The objective of the study is to make up the technique blind spots of the bipolar
      radiofrequency ablation in the surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation with rheumatic heart
      disease by using argon beam coagulator. And to improve the rates of cardioversion of atrial
      fibrillation after surgery, to decrease the long-term recurrence rate of atrial fibrillation
      and to compare the early term and long term outcomes of bipolar radiofrequency ablation and
      bipolar radiofrequency plusargon beam coagulator ablation.
    
  