
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess clinical activity of the gamma-secretase inhibitor RO4929097 in patients with
      non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who have recently completed front-line chemotherapy for
      advanced disease.

      II. To assess whether percent change in tumor size 6 weeks after initiation of RO4929097
      correlates with tumor expression of Notch pathway markers and stem cell markers and/or with
      host genotype polymorphisms for selected components of the Notch pathway.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether response by RECIST criteria and TTF correlate with tumor expression of
      Notch pathway markers and stem cell markers and/or with host genotype polymorphisms for
      selected components of the Notch pathway.

      II. To compare tumor expression of Notch pathway and stem cell markers in this patient
      population with expression of these markers in tumors from our tumor bank from chemo-naive
      NSCLC patient.

      III. To correlate expression of Notch pathway markers with expression of stem cell markers.

      IV. To correlate host genotype polymorphisms for selected components of the Notch pathway and
      other stem cell pathways with tumor expression of Notch pathway and stem cell markers.

      V. To correlate the presence of tumor EGFR activating mutations with: a) notch expression, b)
      stem cell marker expression, and c) response to RO4929097.

      VI. To assess change in expression of Notch pathway markers and stem cell markers over the 3
      days of therapy in a subset of patients and to correlate this with: a) subsequent response to
      therapy and TTF, b) changes of each marker over the first 3 days of therapy with changes in
      the other markers of interest and with changes in level of tumor cell apoptosis by TUNEL
      assay.

      VII. For patients in whom pre chemotherapy tissue can be obtained, we will compare the post
      chemotherapy (pre RO4929097) expression of Notch pathway and stem cell markers to those
      observed in the pre chemotherapy tissue.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive oral gamma-secretase inhibitor RO4929097 once daily on days 1-3, 8-10, and
      15-17. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Blood and tumor tissue samples are collected for pharmacogenetic, pharmacodynamic, and
      biomarker studies by IHC, FISH, and TUNEL assay.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  