
    
      OSA patients will be invited for participation in this study when they fulfil the
      predetermined inclusion criteria and exclusion criteria. The number of OSA patients that will
      be included for this study will be 25 based on a power analysis with a power of 80% and a
      significance level of 5% (two-sided). Informed consent will be obtained by signing form
      approved by the ethics board of the Université de Montréal.

      The patients will be instructed to wear the mandibular advancement appliance (MAA) every
      night upon delivery. After a habituation period of three to six months patients will undergo
      two follow-up polysomnographic (PSG) recordings (see below).

      The study has a randomized controlled crossover design, in which two experimental conditions
      (with MAA in situ versus without MAA in situ) will be compared in random order. A washout
      period of one week will be used for the MAA therapy.The study consists of three PSG
      recordings per patient: a baseline recording for the inclusion/exclusion of patients, and two
      follow-up recordings. The first and second follow-up nights will be used to establish, in a
      random order, the baseline for masseter muscle activity and arousals, and the effects of the
      MAA on these parameters. The two follow-up recordings will be performed within one week.

      The ambulatory follow-up PSG recordings will be obtained at home. The mounting will be
      performed by a trained sleep technician. PSG recordings are made using surface electrodes
      according to the standard technical protocol used in previous OSA studies at the same
      laboratory.

      The PSG recordings will be scored manually in 30-s epochs, and standard sleep and respiratory
      outcome variables will be obtained. All data analyses will be performed under blind
      conditions for the PSG recordings (with or without an MAA in situ) by one technician.
    
  