
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To define the maximum-tolerated dose of the combination of temozolomide and veliparib in
           patients with recurrent glioblastoma previously or not treated with temozolomide. (Phase
           I*)

        -  To determine the efficacy of the combination of temozolomide and veliparib (using a
           5-day vs 21-day schedule) as measured by the 6-month progression-free survival rate in
           patients with recurrent glioblastoma previously treated with temozolomide. (Phase II*)

      Secondary

        -  To characterize the safety profile of the combination of temozolomide and veliparib.
           (Phase I*)

        -  To determine the adverse event profile and tolerability of the combination of
           temozolomide and veliparib (using a 5-day vs 21-day schedule) in patients with recurrent
           glioblastoma. (Phase II*)

        -  To determine the efficacy of the combination of temozolomide and veliparib (using a
           5-day vs 21-day schedule) as measured by objective response in patients with measurable
           disease. (Phase II*)

        -  To determine the overall survival of patients treated with the combination of
           temozolomide and veliparib (using a 5-day vs 21-day schedule). (Phase II*) Note: *Phase
           I was closed and phase II was opened on 3/6/12.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I* dose-escalation study followed by a phase II*
      randomized study. Patients enrolled in the phase II portion are stratified according to
      bevacizumab (BEV) status (bevacizumab-naive vs bevacizumab-failure), age (< 50 years vs ≥ 50
      years), Karnofsky performance status (70-80% vs 90-100%), and recent resection (yes vs
      no/biopsy only).

        -  Phase I:* Patients receive oral temozolomide once daily and oral veliparib twice daily
           on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Phase II:* Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive temozolomide and veliparib as in phase I.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive oral temozolomide once daily and oral veliparib twice
                daily on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 1 year,
      every 26 weeks for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      Note: *Phase I was closed and phase II was opened on 3/6/12.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 240 patients (28 for phase I* and 212 for phase II*) will be
      accrued for this study.
    
  