
    
      Propofol is an intravenous anaesthetic agent used for both induction and maintenance of
      anaesthesia. It is widely employed due to its quick onset of action, short half life and
      rapid recovery. An important adverse effect is the significant fall in blood pressure.
      Although the exact mechanism of propofol induced hypotension is not known, venodilation,
      decreased peripheral resistance and decrease in cardiac output has been suggested.2 Though
      the hypotension is transient, it can produce devastating effects. Hence there is a need to
      prevent it. Moreover, several attempts at treating propofol induced hypotension have been met
      with variable and limited success.

      Hypotension following spinal anaesthesia is also a frequent problem. It is generally treated
      with intravenous fluids and vasopressors. Simple and non pharmacological measures like leg
      elevation and leg wrapping with Esmarch bandage were reported to be successful.3 These reduce
      the incidence and severity of hypotension associated with spinal anaesthesia by improving the
      venous return.

      The mechanisms of hypotension following intravenous propofol and spinal anaesthesia are
      almost similar. Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that leg elevation and wrapping can
      be attempted to reduce propofol induced hypotension. They are simple and cost effective
      techniques that will reduce the need for pharmacological measures to control hypotension. As
      the literature search did not reveal any information regarding the usefulness of these
      techniques in propofol induced hypotension, the current clinical study will be done to
      determine the efficacy of leg elevation and wrapping in reducing the incidence and severity
      of propofol induced hypotension in patients undergoing general anaesthesia.

      The current study will compare the efficacy of leg elevation and leg wrapping in reducing the
      incidence and severity of propofol induced hypotension in terms of incidence of hypotension,
      magnitude of decrease in systolic, diastolic and mean arterial blood pressures, need for
      pharmacological measures to treat hypotension, changes in heart rate and adverse clinical
      outcomes, if any. It will be a prospective randomised controlled open label study from
      January 2016 to August 2017 involving 150 adult patients undergoing general anaesthesia.

      For statistical analysis, descriptive statistics - minimum, maximum, mean and standard
      deviation will be used. Independent sample t test for data following normal distribution and
      for data not following normal distribution, Mann-Whitney U test will be used. P value less
      than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. To study relationship between
      hypotension and other variables, Pearson's correlation will be used. Confidence interval will
      be calculated to 95%.
    
  