
    
      OBJECTIVE: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder of unknown
      etiology in which several underlying pathophysiological mechanisms including proteasomal
      degradation, mitochondrial dysfunction, inflammation, oxidative stress, and excitotoxicity
      may contribute to cell death. No treatment is known to cure or delay progression of PD, thus
      there is a need to investigate measurable biologic markers for the purpose of diagnosis,
      monitoring disease progression and effect of treatment. This study will focus on alpha
      synuclein and its metabolic pathways as a potential biomarker, to assist in evaluation of
      pathogenesis and future diagnostic and therapeutic options.

      STUDY POPULATION: In this pilot study we plan to include 30 patients with Parkinson's disease
      (PD), 30 patients with Parkinson plus disorders, and 30 control patients without neurologic
      disease or autoimmune disorders.

      DESIGN: Samples of serum, plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) will be collected from all
      patients for analysis at the beginning of the study. The assay will be performed for various
      proteins including cytokines primarily related to the alpha synuclein (AS) pathway. A repeat
      CSF, plasma and serum analysis will be performed in patients with PD, and Parkinson plus
      disorders at the end of one and two years to follow changes of protein expression profiles
      with disease progression.

      ASSESSMENT OF RISKS AND BENEFITS: This study will carry the risk associated with venepuncture
      and lumbar puncture.

      OUTCOME ESTIMATE AND POTENTIAL MEANING FOR THE FIELD: The primary outcome measure is to
      correlate the changes of alpha synuclein phosphorylation in CSF, plasma and serum with
      changes in UPDRS motor score in patients with PD over the period of 2 years, compared to
      controls. The secondary aim of the study is to compare the protein expression profiles
      between different synucleinopathies including PD, Multiple System Atrophy (MSA) and Dementia
      with Lewy Bodies (DLB) with time. There are currently no validated surrogate disease markers
      in PD or other related neurodegenerative disorders. Our work would hopefully help understand
      pathophysiologic mechanisms in patients with PD, monitor disease progression using specific
      biologic markers, and in future development of targeted therapies.
    
  