
    
      Orthodontic treatment has become a widely accepted procedure in dentistry. The benefits
      include improved oral health, function, esthetics and quality of life. Significant
      disparities exist among income strata regarding access to orthodontic services. The sources
      of these disparities are complex and may reflect differences in the disease prevalence,
      gender, cultural biases, perception of problems by this population, economic imperatives and
      negative perceptions of these patients by orthodontists. The primary objective of this study
      is to examine the usefulness of early orthodontic intervention as a means of increasing
      access to orthodontic services for children of low-income families.

      Aim 1. To compare orthodontic outcomes, facial body image, and quality of life between
      Medicaid participants who receive early orthodontic treatment and those who do not. 1.a To
      compare the level of understanding and compliance between early treatment subjects given
      information about the goals, risks and benefits of the planned treatment one-on-one by an
      orthodontist, with subjects who also use an interactive CD-ROM to provide this information.
      This will be referred to as the Informed Consent Study and should not be confused with the
      routine informed consenting process used to enroll subjects into the overall study.Aim 2. To
      compare orthodontic outcomes, facial body image, and quality of life between Medicaid-funded
      and private-pay patients who receive full orthodontic treatment at adolescence.Aim 3. To
      compare orthodontic outcomes, facial body image, and quality of life between Medicaid-funded
      patients who receive early orthodontic treatment only and Medicaid-funded participants who
      receive full orthodontic treatment at adolescence. Relationship of this project with the
      Disparity Center theme. Two of the goals of the Northwest and Alaska Center for Oral Health
      Disparity are met by this study. The first is to conduct clinical research to evaluate the
      efficacy of interventions to prevent and treat oral diseases and conditions in children. The
      second is to develop community-based research that translates existing knowledge and new
      information regarding children and their caretakers into new technologies and interventions
      that hold promise for reducing disparities. Today, children of low-income families have very
      limited access to orthodontic treatment. We also know that some relatively simple
      interventions done during the mixed dentition can be effective at reducing the severity of
      malocclusion. This study is designed to examine how effective these early orthodontic
      interventions are in a Medicaid population. It will also examine how outcomes from early
      treatment in Medicaid patients compare to the more complex approach of complete orthodontic
      treatment in the permanent dentition. Many orthodontists perceive that Medicaid patients are
      at risk for poor outcomes, and limit access as a consequence. The follow-up component of this
      study will address this issue by making a comparison between Medicaid and private-pay
      patients treated in similar environments. We expect that significantly greater access to
      orthodontic services could be provided for Medicaid patients by the more widespread use of
      simpler, more timely interventions. This study will provide data on the trade-off between
      simple, timely partial treatments, versus complete full treatments. In response to the second
      theme of the Disparity Center, the use of interactive CD-ROMs that provide treatment
      information at the comprehension level of young patients and their parents, and in a
      culturally appropriate manner, will be examined. We expect this approach will improve patient
      and parent understanding of the proposed treatment, as well as enhancing compliance with
      treatment procedures in order to assure successful outcomes.
    
  