
    
      This study is evaluating the role of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and CyberKnife therapy in
      increasing the number of patients who are able to successfully undergo definitive surgical
      management of their pancreatic carcinoma. In addition, we will evaluate the associated
      therapeutic toxicities and gather data regarding the quality of life indicators at similar
      time intervals for an improved overall assessment of the effects of this course of treatment
      on our patients.

      Surgery is deemed the only curative technique for pancreatic cancer. Unfortunately, more than
      80% of patients who present with the disease cannot be cured by resection.

      The literature reports median survival for resectable patients on the order of 19 months,
      with a 20% 5 year survival rate. For patients unable to undergo surgical resection, the
      median survival in the literature is approximately 11 months. In the absence of the proposed
      protocol, this patient population would be treated as per the standard of care for locally
      advanced non-metastatic surgically unresectable pancreatic malignancies, which would include
      a combination of chemotherapy and radiation therapy. The anticipated Grade 4 and above
      toxicity would be approximately 3-5% from this regimen. The rate of G 4 and above toxicity is
      not known with the use of this neoadjuvant regimen, and, therefore, this constitutes the
      major risk associated with this protocol therapy. The associated benefit, however, is the
      anticipated improvement in median survival that these patients may derive from the ability to
      successfully undergo surgical resection. A secondary proposed benefit is the potential for
      reduction in the treatment associated toxicity with this altered multimodality schedule when
      compared to traditional multimodality care or non-surgical care of locally advanced
      pancreatic malignancy.
    
  