
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Complete clinical response (cCR) rate of patients with clinical T3 and/or node-positive M0
      rectal cancer being treated with short-course radiation therapy (SCRT) followed by 16 weeks
      of modified leucovorin, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin (mFOLFOX)/capecitabine and oxaliplatin
      (CapeOX).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. 1-year local recurrence free survival and 1-year progression free survival of the entire
      cohort, the cohort that initially undergoes non-operative management (NOM), and the cohort
      that initially undergoes total mesorectal excision (TME).

      II. Physician-reported acute and late >= grade 3 toxicity rates. III. 1-year post-treatment
      patient health-related quality of life and anorectal function as per Patient Reported
      Outcomes Measurement and Information System (PROMIS).

      IV. Explore how Signatera's residual disease test correlates with patient's cCR rates, local
      recurrence, progression-free, and overall survival rates.

      V. Explore radiomics features from longitudinal diffusion weighted magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) (diffusion weighted imaging [DWI]) data and build a predictive model for treatment
      effect (complete response) in rectal cancer patients undergoing SCRT.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo SCRT in the form of intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) over 5
      fractions daily for 5 consecutive days. Beginning 11-18 days after the last day of radiation
      therapy, patients receive either oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) and leucovorin IV on day 1
      and fluorouracil IV on days 1-3 (mFOLFOX6) or oxaliplatin IV on day 1 and capecitabine orally
      (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14 (CapeOX). Treatment with mFOLFOX6 repeats every 2 weeks
      for up to 8 cycles, and treatment with CapeOX repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. At 8-12 weeks after completion of
      all therapy, patients with residual tumor undergo TME. Patients with cCR undergo NOM.

      After completion of study treatment, patients who underwent NOM are followed up every 3
      months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years. TME patients are followed up every 3-6
      months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  