
    
      Potential subjects will be systematically approached during a 3 years enrollment period to
      recruit a consecutive sample of the patient population receiving care at a tertiary care
      epilepsy center (Toronto Western Hospital). After an 8 week period to establish baseline
      measurements the proposed trial will allocate study subjects to an A/R intervention group or
      a relaxation/meditation control group or a usual care control group (N1=N2=N3=10) per their
      preference due to the fact that internalization of the therapeutic principles is an active
      process that requires continuous motivation and compliance of the patient with the
      intervention. If a subject displays high intrinsic motivation to engage in self-care
      enhancing activities but does not indicate a preference, he or she will get randomized to
      either the A/R intervention or the relaxation protocol. This trial design allows for
      measuring effect sizes in regard the potential effect of choice, and also whether there is
      any interaction between preference and treatment.

      This trial will determine the following:

      I. The fraction of (a) seizure-free subjects and (b) subjects with clinically meaningful,
      i.e. ≥ 90% or ≥ 50 reduction of seizure frequency, II. Changes of the subjective perception
      of disability as indicated by Subjective Handicap of Epilepsy Scale (SHE), III. Changes of
      seizure self-efficacy as indicated by Multidimensional Health Locus of Control (M-HLOC), Form
      C and Epilepsy Self-Efficacy Scale (ESES), IV. Changes in common psychopathologic
      comorbidities and stress as indicated by (a) Neurological Disorders Depression Inventory in
      Epilepsy (NDDI-E), (b) State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), (c) Profile of Mood States (POMS
      brief), and (d) Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), V. Changes in quality of life as indicated by
      (a) Quality of Life in Epilepsy (QOLIE-89), (b) individually identified descriptors of
      various domains of life and (c) individually identified epilepsy-related distresses.
      Continuous measures (aims I and III b) will be obtained during months 9 and 10 after initial
      subject enrollment. All other measures will be obtained at the end of month 10.

      Intervention Protocols: During months 3-5 the A/R intervention protocol devotes one
      face-to-face counseling session to each of the 11 chapters ("steps") of the workbook "Taking
      control of your epilepsy" which will be followed by weekly phone calls during months 6-8. A/R
      treatment plans include daily activities: Journaling (10 min), CD-guided relaxation (10-30
      min), Workbook (10 min) to promote functional analysis of seizure context and development of
      coping strategies. The trial will be used for knowledge-translation as trainees delivering
      the intervention will be supervised by Donna Andrews, PhD, co-developer of the AR
      intervention. The relaxation and meditation protocol will consist of weekly 30 min session
      during months 3-5 and bi-weekly 60 min sessions during months 6-8.

      All subjects are instructed to document seizure occurrences (number and type) and compliance
      with AEDs. They will continue to see their treating neurologist and adjustment of their
      antiepileptic medication will be made if necessary. Medication changes will be included in
      outcome analyses. Regular serum levels will be drawn to monitor drug compliance. Study
      subjects will be approached at 12, 24 and 36 months after the end of the pilot trial to
      obtain follow-up data. The sample size determination the investigators based on literature
      review, assuming the remission rate for the usual care group was 5% and 35% for the A/R
      intervention group and inflated by 30% to account for loss to non-compliance. Outcomes will
      be compared as found in groups as a whole.
    
  