
    
      Meniere's Disease is an inner ear disease characterised by progressive, fluctuating hearing
      loss and dizziness. Pathologically, it is characterised by endolymphatic hydrops. The
      diagnosis of Meniere's Disease can be elusive since it relies on the subjective reporting of
      symptoms and there is no definitive diagnostic test. Non-specific symptoms can occur in the
      early stages of Meniere's Disease and the disease progression can also fluctuate
      unpredictably. The cochlear and vestibular compartments may be differentially involved so
      there maybe clinical variability characterised by solely audiological or vestibular symptoms
      (1).

      The structural correlate of MD is endolymphatic hydrops, in which the central smaller
      endolymphatic compartment of the inner ear (including the cochlear duct, saccule and utricle)
      expands into the surrounding peri-lymphatic chambers. Pathological studies of temporal bones
      in subjects with MD have demonstrated EH in most cases of Meniere's Disease (2) and its
      presence is required for, the diagnosis of 'certain Meniere's Disease' according to 1995
      American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery (AAO-HNS) guidelines(3). An accepted
      in vivo biological marker for endolymphatic hydrops has yet to be established. Recent
      developments in MRI technology and techniques have however allowed the demonstration of EH
      and the clinical application of these imaging studies is now being explored.

      High resolution T2-weighted sequences are widely used for the demonstration of labyrinthine
      anatomy and pathology however they are unable to distinguish the endolymphatic from
      perilymphatic compartments and hence are generally unable to depict endolymphatic hydrops.
      The potential role of gadolinium in discriminating the endolymphatic chamber alone first
      became apparent in animal studies, since gadolinium was seen to accumulate in the perilymph
      but was excluded from the endolymph by the impermeable tight junctions. Intra-tympanic
      administration of gadolinium was initially explored, whereby high concentrations could enter
      the labyrinth through round window diffusion, however the evolution of clinically applicable
      high resolution sequences at 3T has allowed for gadolinium to be administered by the less
      invasive intravenous route. Delayed (4 hours post administration) gadolinium enhanced high
      resolution imaging is now used at a number of centres worldwide for the evaluation of
      Meniere's Disease patients, although acquisition and analysis methods continue to evolve.
      This is most frequently performed with 3D Fluid Attenuated Inversion Recovery with variable
      flip angles turbo spin echo sequence (3D SPACE FLAIR) or 3D real inversion recovery sequence
      (3D real IR.

      The identification of cochlear or vestibular hydrops by MRI in vivo may support the diagnosis
      of Meniere's disease in cases with incomplete phenotypes and where there are other diagnostic
      considerations such as vestibular migraine or autoimmune ear disease. It may also facilitate
      early identification, thus guiding future treatment options for patients who have
      traditionally been required to take a watchful waiting approach to see how their symptoms may
      evolve or "trial-and-error" approach to management. The identification of bilateral
      endolymphatic hydrops in a patient with unilateral fluctuating aural symptoms might predict
      future bilateral disease and potentially influence therapeutic approaches. Establishing
      imaging as a biomarker in Meniere's disease may allow a contribution to diagnostic criteria
      and to define homogenous cohorts for longitudinal studies of natural history and treatment
      response.

      The degree of hydrops in each cochlea and vestibule is semi-quantitatively graded (4,5) and
      the saccule to utricle ratio index (SURI) is routinely recorded . SURI is a qualitative
      comparison of the volume of the saccule relative to the utricle for which a combination of
      oblique sagittal and axial reformats are used .MRI assessment of SURI has proved a reliable
      qualitative marker being 50% sensitive and 100% specific for MD and this is felt to be due to
      the preferential enlargement of the more compliant saccule in EH (6). Additional features
      recorded include any asymmetric cochlea enhancement and asymmetry in size of the
      endolymphatic structures.

      However there are deficiencies with this MRI approach which we would like to address with an
      exploratory study of Meniere's disease patients on 7 Tesla MRI:

        1. Gadolinium has an excellent safety record when used at low doses (0.1-0.3 mmol/kg) in
           patients with normal renal function. However a causative relationship between
           gadolinium-based contrast agents and nephrogenic systemic fibrosis is described in
           patients with renal insufficiency, and there is also increasing evidence that they
           deposit in the human brain after multiple administrations, although the clinical
           significance of this remains uncertain (7). Therefore the development of non-contrast
           enhanced MRI techniques using high resolution 3-dimensional (3D) Fourier transform MR
           imaging sequences such as constructive interference in steady state (CISS) is of
           considerable interest. In this regard, some groups have explored the utility of
           measuring saccular height on T2w sequences as a marker of endolymphatic hydrops,
           although the reliability and reproducibility of these techniques requires confirmation
           (8,9). We could speculate that high resolution T2w imaging at 7 Tesla provides increased
           SNR so may allow superior definition of these small endolymphatic structures of the
           inner ear, allowing increased confidence and reproducibility of the observations, and
           allowing better discrimination of endolymphatic hydrops from normal ears. Correlation
           with the location of endolymphatic structures on contemporary delayed post gadolinium
           inversion recovery sequences would add validation to the interpretation of the T2w
           imaging appearances.

        2. Due to the small size of the inner ear structures being imaged and susceptibility
           effects arising from the adjacent aerated temporal bone, the SNR and resolution are
           currently limited on 3D delayed post gadolinium IR imaging at 3T, making accurate
           delineation of some of the structures (e.g. the cochlear duct) extremely difficult, and
           hence limiting diagnostic confidence. This is particularly relevant in the early phase
           of the disease when the structures are less dilated, which is unfortunate since the
           clinical diagnosis is also most challenging at this stage. The lack of clear delineation
           also impacts on the precision and inter-observer agreement of minor (semi-quantitative
           lower grade) hydrops diagnosis. There is potential for increased spatial resolution and
           SNR at 7T MRI with better depiction of the endolymphatic structures on the delayed post
           gadolinium 3D IR sequence. This may result in differing semi-quantitative scoring and
           quantitative measures of the internal inner ear structures and improved discrimination
           of symptomatic from asymptomatic ears compared with 3T MRI.

      It is hypothesized that HR T2w imaging at 7T will allow the reliable and reproducible
      detection of internal inner ear structures, which correlate with the size of endolymphatic
      structures on 3D post gad IR imaging and which may be used to distinguish symptomatic from
      asymptomatic ears in patients with unilateral MD.

      A cohort of 16 adult patients with unilateral Meniere's disease audio-vestibular symptoms
      which satisfy 2015 Barany criteria and which would be referred for delayed post gadolinium
      clinical MRI scanning as per the current standard clinical protocol at GSTT.
    
  