
    
      The rapid rate at which childhood mental health and behavioral (MHB) disorders are being
      identified in primary care practice represents a public health crisis that demands critical
      examination. Approximately 20% of children and adolescents suffer from a MHB disorder each
      year. The most commonly recognized childhood MHB disorder is attention deficit hyperactivity
      disorder (ADHD). Since 2001, when clinical care guidelines were published to help primary
      care physicians identify ADHD early and initiate psychotropic treatment, ADHD identification
      has rapidly increased. Children with ADHD are at increased risk of having co-morbid
      disorders, such as anxiety and depression, oppositional defiant disorder, and learning
      disabilities, with ADHD symptoms presenting first. Primary care physicians encounter children
      with symptoms as severe as those in psychiatry clinics; yet a majority in primary care
      physicians feel ill-equipped to handle MHBs other than ADHD. Two particularly common and
      vexing problems that can co-occur or masquerade as ADHD are learning disabilities and
      anxiety. ADHD and anxiety often share behaviors of inattention as the presenting complaint,
      yet the treatment is quite different. Pediatric anxiety is even more prevalent than ADHD, but
      often goes undetected and untreated.

      In order to improve the detection of ADHD and co-morbidities and prevent undue polypharmacy,
      validated screening tools are essential in the primary care setting. However, general
      pediatric practice is fast paced and high volume. Clearly, the ideal diagnostic evaluation of
      children with symptoms of inattention would involve concurrent administration of validated
      screening tools for ADHD and anxiety, despite the constraints of a busy pediatric practice.
      The investigators believe health information technology combined with ongoing quality
      improvement with input from providers and families can achieve this ideal.

      At our institution, we have a computer decision support system, the Child Health Improvement
      through Computer Automation (CHICA) system that routinely conducts surveillance and screening
      of commonly encountered pediatric topics. The investigators will build upon the existing ADHD
      CHICA module, which conducts annual surveillance for inattentive symptoms and integrate
      validated screening tool for anxiety, associated surveillance items and prompts for the
      pediatrician to begin to improve the identification of ADHD and anxiety.

      Aim 1: Expand and modify the CHICA decision support system to improve the diagnostic
      processes for screening of children with inattention, including screening in the waiting
      room, physician prompts, and tailored diagnostic and brief counseling tools.

      Aim 2: Improve physician awareness of identification and referral patterns for children
      presenting with inattentive symptoms by providing run charts for each physician of their
      screening, referral and medication prescribing patterns paired with facilitated discussion to
      share strategies to improve diagnostic process and obtain preliminary feedback for future
      health information technology development of a comprehensive anxiety module.

      Aim 3: Examine the effect of the CHICA anxiety module on the diagnostic processes of
      physicians when screening children with inattentive symptoms.

        -  Sub-aim 3(a): Evaluate the agreement between positive anxiety screening results obtained
           by the Vanderbilt and a validated anxiety-specific screening tool.

        -  Sub-aim 3(b): Evaluate the actions taken by pediatricians when prompted to results of a
           positive screen.

        -  Sub-aim 3(c): Compare rates of ICD-9 diagnoses of anxiety and ADHD using billing data
           and rates of psychotropic medication (stimulants for ADHD versus anxiolytics for
           anxiety) using e-prescribing data.
    
  