
    
      Study Rationale: People who have a mutation in the GBA gene have a higher risk of developing
      Parkinson's disease (PD) and, if they have PD, are more likely to have cognitive decline and
      dementia. Cognitive problems in people with PD is related to dysfunction of the brain
      chemical acetylcholine and likely to the accumulation of the tau protein in the brain.
      Another observation in previous studies is that analyzing the patterns of typing into a
      computer can help differentiate healthy people from people with PD.

      Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that people with GBA-related PD will have higher
      acetylcholine dysfunction and tau accumulation compared with non-GBA patients, and that these
      changes may start in the asymptomatic phase (i.e., people with the mutation but without
      symptoms of PD). The investigators also believe that the investigators will be able to detect
      subjects with higher degree of dopamine loss just by analyzing the way they type into a
      computer.

      Study Design: The investigators will recruit 25 subjects with a GBA mutation (10 subjects
      with PD and 15 asymptomatic carriers). All the participants will have a clinical evaluation
      and a typing session, and subsequently will undergo a brain MRI and three PET scans with a
      tau tracer, an acetylcholine tracer, and a dopaminergic tracer. A blood sample will also be
      taken for the analysis of GCase (the enzyme related to the GBA mutation).

      Impact on Diagnosis/Treatment of Parkinson's Disease: The results will help understand the
      changes that take place in the brain of people with GBA-related Parkinson's disease, and
      hopefully will shed light also on the pathophysiology of non-GBA-related Parkinson's, as well
      as on the molecular correlates of cognitive decline, especially in its early stage. The
      typing data along with dopaminergic imaging will clarify the possible role of using typing
      patterns to identify subjects with early stage Parkinson's disease.

      Next Steps for Development: The findings of this study may help identify biomarkers for
      cognitive decline in early Parkinson's disease, with a potential role in clinical trials.
      Also, if the hypothesis on the typing is confirmed, this approach may be studied in larger
      cohorts for early diagnosis of Parkinson's in other at-risk populations.
    
  