
    
      Background:

        -  Immune-based approaches in colorectal cancer have unfortunately with the notable
           exception of immune checkpoint inhibition in microsatellite instable (MSI-hi) disease
           been largely unsuccessful. The reasons for this are unclear but no doubt relate to the
           fact that in advanced disease colorectal cancer appears to be less immunogenic, as
           evidenced by the lack of infiltrating lymphocytes with advancing T stage

        -  Pexa-Vec (JX-594) is a thymidine kinase gene-inactivated oncolytic vaccinia virus
           engineered for the expression of transgenes encoding human granulocyte- macrophage
           colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and beta-galactosidase. Apart from the direct
           oncolytic activity, oncolytic viruses such as Pexa-Vec have been shown to mediate tumor
           cell death via the induction of innate and adaptive immune responses

        -  Tremelimumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to CTLA-4 expressed on the
           surface of activated T lymphocytes and causes inhibition of B7-CTLA-4-mediated
           downregulation of T-cell activation. Durvalumab is a human monoclonal antibody directed
           against PD-L1.

        -  The aim of the study is to evaluate whether the anti-tumor immunity induced by Pexa-Vec
           oncolytic viral therapy can be enhanced by immune checkpoint inhibition.

      Objective:

      -To determine the safety, tolerability and feasibility of Pexa-Vec oncolytic virus in
      combination with immune checkpoint inhibition in patients with refractory metastatic
      colorectal cancer.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically confirmed metastatic colorectal cancer.

        -  Patients must have progressed on, been intolerant of or refused prior oxaliplatin- and
           irinotecan-containing, fluorouracil-based, chemotherapeutic regimen and have disease
           that is not amenable to potentially curative resection. Patients who have a known KRAS
           wild type tumor must have progressed, been intolerant of or refused cetuximab or
           panitumumabbased chemotherapy.

        -  Patients tumors must be documented to be microsatellite-stable (MSS) either by genetic
           analysis or immunohistochemistry OR microsatellite-high with documented disease
           progression following anti-PD1/PDL1 therapy.

        -  Patients must have at least one focus of metastatic disease that is amenable to pre- and
           ontreatment biopsy.

        -  Willingness to undergo mandatory tumor biopsy.

      Design:

        -  The proposed study is Phase I/II study of Pexa-Vec oncolytic virus at two dose levels in
           combination with immune checkpoint inhibition in patients with metastatic colorectal
           cancer.

        -  Patients will receive Pexa-Vec, administered IV every 2 weeks for 4 doses, in 4 separate
           arms A1, A2, B1, and B2. The first administration will be on Day (minus) 12, followed by
           administration on Days 2, 16 and 30 (i.e. 4 doses in total).

             -  Arms A1 and A2: In addition to the oncolytic virus patients will also receive
                durvalumab at a flat dose of 1500 mg beginning on Day 1 followed by q28days until
                off-treatment criteria are met.

             -  Arms B1 and B2: In addition to the oncolytic virus patients will also receive
                tremelimumab 300 mg and durvalumab 1500 mg on Day 1 followed by q28days subsequent
                continuation of the durvalumab alone until off-treatment criteria are met.

        -  All patients will undergo a baseline tumor biopsy and a post treatment biopsy.

        -  Accrual ceiling will be set at 35 to allow for patients replaceable for reasons other
           than toxicity.

        -  Patients will be restaged every 8 weeks +/- 3 days
    
  