
    
      This study seeks to investigate the levels of parental stress across different demographic
      subgroups in the general parental population during the strict social distancing
      government-initiated non-pharmacological interventions (NPI's) related to the COVID-19
      pandemic, including school and kindergarten lockdown. The study also seeks to examine the
      predictors of parental stress rates related to these non-pharmacological interventions
      (NPI's). In addition, the research will investigate the association between parental stress
      and psychopathology symptoms (i.e., depression and generalized anxiety) during the social
      distancing interventions.

      The aim of the project is to:

        -  Inform the policymakers, the general public, scientists, and health practitioners about
           the psychological associations of the COVID-19-related government-initiated measures on
           parental stress, with special focus on the school and kindergarten lockdowns.

        -  Provide a foundation for policymakers and health-care professionals to employ
           interventions that protect families against possibly increased psychological stressors.

        -  Help policymakers and health-care professionals to better understand the association of
           demographic variables and other predictors on parental stress and parent-child
           dysfunction, information necessary in evaluating the psychological impact of social
           distancing measures on parental stress and thus the framework under which decisions
           about school/kindergarten lockdowns are made.

      Hypothesis/Research Questions Hypothesis related to parental stress during the COVID-19
      pandemic

        1. H1: Gender (female), higher age, higher number of children, and having a pre-existing
           psychiatric diagnosis will be associated with more parental distress.

           a. We assume to find differences in parenting stress during the COVID-19 pandemic based
           on the existing literature on gender differences on parental behavior and distress
           (Scott & Alwin, 1989; Hildingsson & Thomas, 2013; Deater-Deckard & Scarr, 1996; McBride
           et al., 2002; Skari et al., 2002). The literature further suggests that higher age and
           higher number of children is associated with higher parental stress (Lavee et al., 1996;
           Östberg & Hagekull, 2000). Psychopathology symptoms, as reflected by having a
           pre-existing psychiatric diagnosis, is also found to be associated with parental stress
           (Pripp et al., 2010; Crugnola et al., 2016; Vismara et al., 2016; Leigh & Milgrom, 2008;
           Prino et al., 2016; Rollé et al., 2017).

        2. H2: Worry and rumination in general, low self-efficacy, difficulty with working from
           home, burnout, low social support, and higher anger expression related to children are
           all associated with more parental distress, when age, number of children, gender and
           pre-existing psychiatric diagnosis are controlled for.

           a. Existing research literature have highlighted that perceived personal control is
           found to be directly related to parental stress (Guterman, 2009), and that women's
           levels of parental stress is related to parenting self-efficacy (Suzuki, 2010). Sepa and
           colleges (2004) also reported that lack of confidence/security were linked to parental
           stress. Reduced social support is also found to be associated with higher rates of
           parental stress (Östberg & Hagekull, 2000; Crnic et al., 1983; Suzuki, 2010; Koeske &
           Koeske, 1990; Sepa et al., 2004). Furthermore, anger expression is also found to be
           associated with parental stress in the existing research literature (Lam, 1999). We also
           hypothesize that burnout, worry and rumination in general and difficulty with working
           from home will be associated with higher parental stress, relations not previously
           explored in the existing literature.

        3. H3: More parental distress will be associated with more depressive symptoms and anxiety
           symptoms, when gender, pre-existing psychiatric diagnosis, age and number of children
           are controlled for.

             1. Previous studies have found that parents with psychological problems, such as
                depression and generalized anxiety disorder, are at greater risk for parenting
                stress, and that parental stress may result in depression and anxiety (Pripp et
                al., 2010; Crugnola et al., 2016; Vismara et al., 2016; Leigh & Milgrom, 2008;
                Prino et al., 2016; Rollé et al., 2017).

      Exploratory: Additionally, we will investigate the differences in levels of parental distress
      across different demographic subgroups in the sample.

      Participants were asked to fill out a set of validated questionnaires including demographic
      variables, psychological symptoms, situational factors related to the consequences of the
      COVID-19 virus, personality-trait and, and worry, in a random order. Some questionnaires are
      given as a whole, whereas other questions include theoretically driven selections of items
      from validated questionnaires, based on a panel of clinical experts, with the goal of
      avoiding topological overlap. This study is part of a 'The Norwegian COVID-19, Mental Health
      and Adherence Project' involving multiple studies. In order to not overwhelm and burden the
      participants with long questionnaire, and due to the mentioned empirical concerns of
      topological overlap (i.e., overlap in item content) between similar items (for network
      analysis purposes), in some scales involving large item-content overlap, single items were
      chosen in a theory-driven manner by three independent clinical psychologists and clinical
      specialists in adult psychopathology.

      Data collection started during the time-period with the strictest and equal number of
      government-initiated non-pharmacological interventions (NPI's) in Norway, and data collection
      was stopped once these NPI's were modified or new information about NPI's were added. The
      data include one directly identifiable variable (contact information) for participants in
      accordance to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) law in EU, which is to give the
      participants the opportunity to have their data deleted upon request. Data are thus kept on a
      safe server belonging to the University of Oslo and will be accessed first following
      de-identification. Stopping rule for data collection: Stopping rule: 1) At once if
      government-initiated NPI's are modified or novel information are given about NPIs (to control
      for cognitive variables) and/ or 2) once we reach enough participants given the power
      analysis.

      Measures: PHQ-9; GAD-7; parental stress; demographic variables (gender; age; civil status;
      employment status; education level; number of children in household); situational variables
      (difficulty to work from home; burnout; anger expression related to children; social support;
      worried or ruminated on problems); person-trait variables (self-efficacy ("I can always
      manage to solve difficult problems if I try hard enough) and whether one has a psychiatric
      diagnosis or not. The self-efficacy item is chosen from The General Self-Efficacy Scale
      (Tambs & Røysamb, 2014). The parental stress subscale is based on three items from the Danish
      Parental Stress Scale (Potoppidan et al., 2018).

      The outcome variables are Parental Stress, consisting of a total score of parental stress
      based on items from the Danish parental stress scale; PHQ-9; GAD-7. The other variables are
      predictors of these three outcome variables. For the parental stress regression analyses we
      will include the following variables: age, gender, number of children in household,
      psychiatric diagnosis, difficulty to work from home, worry and rumination; anger expression
      related to children, social support and self-efficacy. The other two multiple regression
      analysis will investigate whether parental stress is associated with depression and anxiety
      symptoms while controlling for the following variables: gender, age, number of children in
      household and psychiatric diagnosis.

      Inference criteria:

      Given the large sample size, the investigators pre-defined our significance level:

      p< 0.01 to determine significant.

      Sample size estimation:

      The mentioned 'Norwegian COVID-19, Mental Health and Adherence Project' involves multiple
      studies, where some involve a Complex Systems (Network analysis) approach. These mutlivariate
      analyses require large samples and power analysis was conducted accordingly. Following power
      analysis guidelines by Fried & Cramer (2017), it is recommended that the number of
      participants be at the very least three times larger than the number of estimated parameters.
      However, more conservative recommendations by Roscoe (1975) for multivariate research,
      recommends sample size that is ten times larger than the number of estimated parameters.
      Thus, with the more conservative estimates by Roscoe, an optimal sample size for the specific
      study on parents included more than 2530 individuals. According to the stopping rule
      mentioned above, due to the importance of keeping the NPI variable constant, we would stop
      data collection even if we did not obtain our target N. Fortunately, sufficient sample was
      reached during a period with identical NPIs across the country.

      Statistical analyses:

      Three multiple regression analysis will be conducted; one with parental stress; the second
      and third with PHQ-9 and GAD total scores as dependent variables. Specific predictors for
      these three multiple regression analyses are listed above (hypothesis section).
      Multicollinarity and other assumptions will be checked; if the multicollinearity is violated
      (if VIF > 5 and Tolerance > 0.2; Hocking, 2003); O'Brian, 2007).

      Note that this the project outline, study plan and analysis was registered upon application
      to the Regional Committees for Medical and Health Research Ethics (REC) and Norwegian Centre
      for Research Data 10 days prior data collection, two committees which evaluate the rational
      for data collection and hypotheses as well as evaluate the ethical aspects of the study
      before allowing the data to be collected. The study is registered on clinicaltrials.gov after
      completed data collection, although this registration is prior to any analysis of the data.
    
  