
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival and progression-free survival in patients with stage IIIC
           or IV ovarian epithelial, peritoneal, or fallopian tube carcinoma treated with
           neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery versus upfront
           cytoreductive surgery followed by chemotherapy with or without interval debulking
           surgery.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the different treatment complications in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center, method of biopsy, stage, largest tumor size before surgery, and intent
      to also randomize on EORTC-55012. Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo upfront maximal cytoreductive surgery followed by cisplatin or
           carboplatin IV every 3 weeks for 3 courses. Patients with non-optimal primary debulking
           may undergo interval debulking surgery at the physician's discretion. All patients then
           receive an additional 3 courses of the same regimen of chemotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive chemotherapy as in arm I. Patients with stable or responding
           disease undergo interval debulking surgery followed by an additional 3 courses of the
           same regimen of chemotherapy.

      Second-look surgery is allowed for both arms if clinically indicated.

      Quality of life (QOL) is assessed prior to treatment, after the third and sixth course of
      chemotherapy, and at 6 and 12 months after study. Patients who are also randomized on
      EORTC-55012 follow the QOL assessment schedule for EORTC-55012 only.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 704 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  