
    
      Background Measurement of shoulder function is a controversial issue. There is a great
      variety of measurement tools but none of them has been universally accepted. There is
      therefore a need to develop extensively validated and convenient measurement tools.

      Embedded computerized movement analysis can potentially meet these requirements for
      measurement of shoulder function. Ambulatory measurement devices allow application in various
      clinical conditions, display adequate precision and accuracy, and are considerably more
      straightforward than laboratory-based systems.

      Using a Physilog ® II embedded system, Coley (2007) developed a relatively simple score of
      shoulder function (P Score). The method is based on arm power measurement by
      three-dimensional accelerometers and gyroscopes during seven consecutive shoulder movements.
      It demonstrated reliability, responsiveness and criterion-based validity. However, additional
      knowledge and technological progress could now contribute to further simplification of the.

      A secondary analysis of Coley's study data based on principal component analysis and multiple
      regressions highlighted that a procedure including only two selected movements produces
      comparable results to P Score. Moreover, the development of wireless systems considerably
      simplifies set up. Consequently, simpler but equivalent measurement procedure can now be
      considered.

      However some important issues have to be clarified before an extensive validation study can
      be undertaken. The simplicity of the testing procedure allows test replication. However, the
      number of movement replications needed to obtain a reliable outcome is presently unknown.
      Relevance of testing procedure and study feasibility have also to be evaluated. A pilot study
      is needed to clarify these issues.

      Aim The aim of this pilot study is to determine the number of movement replications needed to
      obtain a reliable result using a simplified cinematic shoulder measurement procedure as well
      as to evaluate testing procedure and study protocol.

      Methods Measurement will be carried out with four groups of patients presenting with frequent
      shoulder conditions (rotator cuff condition, shoulder instability, diaphyseal or subcapital
      humerus fracture, frozen shoulder). Measurement procedure includes two consecutive
      measurements, alternatively conducted by two evaluators. Currently used functional
      questionnaires will be completed at both stages.

      Statistical analysis will address outcome variability according to number of replications and
      reproducibility.
    
  