
    
      Egypt is considered one of the countries with large liver disease burden in the world being
      endemic with bilharziasis and hepatitis C for decades. Limitations in health care resource
      further augment the magnitude of the problem allowing the development of disease specific
      complications in absence of effective treatments over the past. With discovery of
      anti-schistosomal therapy and implementation of the national program for eliminating
      bilharziasis; bilharzial liver disease incidence regressed markedly. However; complications
      of bilharzial liver disease are still present. The situation has been repeated with hepatitis
      C which is still a major health problem in Egypt regardless of the availability of highly
      effective interferon free antiviral regimens. This is mainly due to the large number of
      infected patients (estimated to be more than 6 million) [1], re-infection and presence of
      complications that needs further management. The need for addressing these major health
      problems in Egypt provoked a lot of research in the field of hepatology. Egyptian and
      non-Egyptian researchers have published a lot of scientific reports about liver diseases in
      Egypt. Since the ancient age of the pharaohs there were written evidence about liver disease
      in Egypt. It was reported in the Ebres Papyrus (around 2600 BC) that hardness of the liver
      occurs secondary to excess alcohol ingestion [2]. This was one of the oldest documented
      detailed medical literatures in the history of mankind. In the recent age there were a lot
      reports from Egypt about bilharziasis and other parasitic infestations as the one published
      by Cobbold in 1982 about injurious parasites in Egypt [3]. Further enormous amount of
      publications has been released afterwards. Reviewing this evidence and creating an indexed
      data base for it could be of value for the national and international hepatology platforms. I
      aim with other colleagues at reviewing all published evidence in the field of hepatology from
      Egypt up to January 2016 and classifying it by different key words to build a data base of
      liver disease evidence in Egypt. This data base will be continuously updated by published
      data after January 1st 2016 and will be the reference for researchers from Egypt and rest of
      the world. The data base will invite all authors from Egypt to provide their raw data of
      published articles to be available for further analyses by other researchers. Moreover the
      data base work team will start a series of systematic reviews and meta analyses for the
      available relevant data aiming at addressing the areas of strength and areas of weakness in
      liver disease research in Egypt making further recommendations to the research authorities
      about what is missing and how it is better to be addressed in their future research calls.
      This pilot research work can be reproduced elsewhere by other researchers in their own
      countries making use of their published data and advising their local research authorities to
      fill up the gaps in liver research in their own countries. Hopefully in the near future we
      will have these groups working together in a network driving liver research globally.
    
  