
    
      Participants will be required to attend three sessions (isometric, isotonic, or walking)
      within a maximum of two weeks. The order in which the participant completes the sessions will
      be randomised.There will be a minimum of 48 hours between sessions. To account for potential
      time of day differences in terms of pain, all sessions will be performed within ±1 hour (e.g.
      if the first session is performed at 10 AM the remaining two sessions will be performed
      between 9 and 11 AM). After diagnosis, randomisation of the order of which the sessions will
      be performed, and have their pain during an aggravating activity examined (aggravating
      activities will be static stance, half squat or heel raise). Subsequently the participants
      will be instructed in performing either isotonic or isometric heel raise or walking,
      (determined according to the randomisation) by a physiotherapist.

      All statistical analyses will be performed according to a pre-established analysis plan using
      STATA ver. 14. The assumption of negligible carryover effects is investigated with a
      preliminary test. The primary analysis will test the presence of a difference in EIH between
      isotonic and isometric exercise and walking and a 3 X 2 repeated measures ANOVA will be
      performed. Independent factors will be exercise type (isometric vs. isotonic vs. walking) and
      time (pre vs. post). If an interaction is found, post-hoc paired t-tests will be performed.
      The standardised mean difference (effect size) and its confidence intervals will be
      calculated and presented in a forest plot. Apriori it has been determined that no conclusions
      will be made favouring either of the exercises nor walking if pain is reduced less than the
      clinically important difference of 19 mm VAS. In addition, the proportion of clinically
      relevant pain reductions (i.e. a pain reduction of at least 19 mm VAS) will be calculated.
      EIH by pain experienced during the aggravating activity before the exercises and walking will
      also be presented in a plot.

      Secondary analyses using a 3 X 2 repeated measures ANOVAs will test if there is a difference
      in the thickness of the plantar fascia and a difference in PPTs from before to after either
      of the exercises or walking and a difference in pain experienced during the exercises or
      walking. If interactions are found post-hoc paired t-tests will be performed. A paired t-test
      will be performed to investigate potential differences in plantar fascia thickness from
      before to after the initial PPT and pain aggravating activity are performed. Effect sizes
      will be calculated for the difference in pressure pain threshold and plantar fascia
      thickness. The association between thickness of the plantar fascia and the difference in pain
      from before to after the exercise activities will be investigated using Pearson's correlation
      coefficient.
    
  