
    
      The investigators propose a matched, pair-cluster randomized controlled trial to measure the
      efficacy of school-based nutrition education in improving dietary diversity among Bangladeshi
      adolescent girls. After screening, based on exclusion criteria the investigators will prepare
      two separate lists (one for urban and one for rural) of schools in Rangpur district. From
      each list, clusters (schools) will be paired based on monthly tuition fees provided by the
      students (as a proxy indicator of socio-economic status of the students) and infrastructure
      of the schools. The investigators will randomly select one pair from each list and within
      each pair one school will be assigned to intervention arm and another one will be assigned to
      control arm through randomization. Randomization will be done by computer-generated random
      numbers using STATA. Eleven to fifteen years old adolescent girls studying in grade six,
      seven and eight will be recruited from four selected schools (2 urban and 2 rural schools).
      Nutrition education will be given in intervention arm and information on water, sanitation
      and hygiene (WASH) and iron-folic acid will be provided in both the arms. Although the
      investigators will provide intervention to all the students in each grade, the investigators
      will select an equal number of girls from each grade to assess the outcomes of intervention.
      The investigators will also conduct surveys at the households of those selected girls to
      capture data on household level dietary diversity, water, sanitation and hygiene, and
      socio-economic status. Three surveys will be conducted among the same adolescent girls and at
      their household level at three different time points-before rolling out of the intervention,
      after accomplishment of the intervention and after three months of completion of
      intervention. At the end of intervention, in-depth interviews with some purposively selected
      adolescent girls will be conducted to explore the barriers and facilitators which may
      influence the intake of diversified food among the adolescent girls.

      At the beginning of the intervention, the investigators will arrange a parents' meeting at
      the schools. In parents' meeting, a facilitator (research team member) will discuss about the
      objective of the study, overview of dietary diversity, health benefits of dietary diversity
      (DD) on adolescent health and parent's role in ensuring intake of diversified food of
      adolescent girls. An hour-long nutrition education session will be conducted to each
      class/grade of the schools under intervention arm. Eight such educational discussion sessions
      will be held in first 2 months and during month three the previous eight education sessions
      will be repeated. Nutrition education session will be delivered using audio-visual techniques
      (audio-visual presentation). In addition, the investigators will arrange quizzes to inspire
      them and to reduce monotony of the sessions. The investigators will provide pamphlets for
      their remembrance. Components of eight educational sessions will include overview of 16 food
      groups of individual dietary diversity score (IDDS) chart, detail description of 16 food
      groups presenting dietary diversity, overview of basic food components, importance of
      consuming diversified foods, strategies to select a diversified meal and remove monotony in
      food, proper timing and frequency of taking meals during 24 hours, selecting diversified meal
      in low expense, consequences of absence or scarcity of dietary diversity in meal.

      Following national guideline, weekly iron-folic acid (IFA) supplementation will be provided
      to both intervention and control arm for 3 months. The investigators will provide capsule
      Ferocit Z (provided by government of Bangladesh in different government medical college and
      healthcare facilities) as Iron-folic acid (IFA) supplementation. It contains ferrous sulphate
      - 150Mg, folic acid - 0.5Mg and zinc sulphate monohydrate - 61.8Mg. Iron-folic acid (IFA)
      supplementation will be provided among the girls of each class/grade (six, seven and eight)
      of all selected schools regardless of intervention and control arm of the study. In the
      intervention arm, apart from nutrition education the adolescent girls will also receive
      messages of water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH). But in control arm, the girls will receive
      messages on WASH only (along with IFA). The message on WASH will include safe source of
      drinking water, improved toilet facility and how to maintain good sanitation and five
      critical times of handwashing.

      The "State of Food Security and Nutrition in Bangladesh, 2015" reports the nationwide
      prevalence of inadequate dietary diversity among 10-49 years old women to be 66%. Considering
      this prevalence, the investigators assume that this intervention would reduce 20 percentage
      points. However, considering this study as a superiority trial and an effect size of 10
      percentage point the investigators also estimated sample size using the formula for sample
      size estimation in superiority trial. It yields the equal sample size, 93 in each arm. It
      will also represent the sample size calculated based on the effect size of 20 percentage
      point using the formula of sample size estimation for conventional cluster randomized control
      trial. After considering design effect 1.5 and 5% attrition rate, desired sample size will be
      148 in each arm. Since the investigators will have two schools in each arm, the investigators
      will collect data of 74 girls from each school. Thus, to reach the desired sample size the
      investigators will collect data of 25 girls from each grade in a school.

      Dietary diversity scores will be calculated by summing up the number of food groups consumed
      by the individual participant over the last 24 hours. There is no established cut off point
      in terms of food groups to indicate adequate or inadequate dietary diversity for the IDDS and
      HDDS. So, it is recommended to use the mean score for analytical purpose. Dietary diversity
      scores have been validated for several age/sex groups including non-breast-fed children,
      adolescents and adults. Categorical variables will be presented as frequency and percentage.
      Continuous variables will be presented as mean with standard deviation. To see the
      relationship with study group, t-test and Mann-Whitney test (skewed data) will be used.
      Linear mixed effect model- a longitudinal data analysis technique will be used to measure the
      role of intervention on individual dietary diversity and household level dietary diversity.
      Intention-to-treat and per protocol analysis will be done to assess the effect of nutritional
      education on changes in the mean dietary diversity scores among the participants. The
      investigators will perform pairwise comparison tests to see whether the baseline survey data
      are comparable between intervention and control groups. If the baseline survey reports are
      found to be not comparable, the investigators will adjust the variables using
      difference-in-differences analysis.

      The transcripts of the interviews will be read thoroughly for familiarity with the data.
      Furthermore, the field impression notes or memos will be sent to the investigator by the
      interviewers in order to get feedback on what issues they need to investigate more in-depth.
      The investigator will provide feedback on those immediately so that the interviewers can
      investigate more in-depth on those issues from the next interviews. In this iterative way,
      initial analysis will begin during data collection. After data collection, recorded in-depth
      interviews will be transcribed and read thoroughly for familiarity with the data. Team
      members will code these data from transcripts based on a priori and inductive code. A priori
      code will be based on topic guide considering existing literature. Coded transcripts will be
      exchanged to check consistency. Common patterns will be identified from coding and data will
      be analyzed thematically.

      Study data collection and administrative forms will be identified by coded number to maintain
      participants' confidentiality and to enable tracking throughout the study. All information
      regarding study subjects will be kept in password-protected computer files or in locked file
      cabinets that can be accessed only by authorized study personnel. Chart information and
      information from study records will not be released without written permission from the
      participant's legal guardian (school headmaster). These records will be kept in locked file
      cabinets. However, records may be reviewed by representatives from the Research Review
      Committee and Ethical Review Committee of icddr,b. All study related documents will be kept
      in locked cabinets in locked rooms with limited access. Information in the electronic
      database established at icddr,b will be password protected and access will be available only
      to authorized research team members, any information printed from the database will be stored
      in locked files until its use is complete and then shredded. The study investigators will be
      responsible for ensuring complete and accurate documentation for the study and for each
      subject including records detailing each participant's progress through the study, signed
      informed consent forms, correspondence with IRB (s), adverse event reports and information
      regarding participant's discontinuation and completion of the study.
    
  