
    
      SMA is an autosomal-recessive disorder, characterized by progressive muscle weakness and
      atrophy with an incidence of 1/10,000. The condition is caused by a homozygous deletion or
      mutation in the survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1), resulting in reduced expression of the
      survival motor neuron (SMN) protein. This leads to the degeneration of motor neurons in the
      spinal cord and brain stem. A nearby related gene, survival motor neuron 2 (SMN2), could
      partially compensate the loss of SMN1. Individuals with a higher copy number of SMN2 do in
      general have a milder phenotype. New therapeutic approaches, e.g. nusinersen (spinraza©), an
      antisense oligonucleotide medication that modulates pre-messenger RNA splicing of the
      survival motor neuron 2 (SMN2) gene, are promising to help the formerly incurable disease.
      However, most clinical trials lack primary outcomes other than clinical testing. Preliminary
      work shows that new methods such as multispectral optoacoustic tomography (MSOT) and magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) detect tissue changes very sensitively. Multispectral optoacoustic
      tomography (MSOT) is capable of visualizing the distribution of endogenous absorbers by
      initiating laser-induced thermoelastic expansion and detection of resulting pressure waves.
      This imaging technique enables the label-free detection and quantification of different
      endogenous chromophores. In addition to this technology, MRI imaging has advanced in the
      field of muscle diseases, with 23Na-MRI being the first example. With both methods, the
      molecular composition of muscle tissue can be determined non-invasively and quantitatively at
      the same time. In this first pilot study on patients with SMA, the investigators will now
      assess whether the differences in the muscle composition of SMA patients with or without
      therapy can be quantified and whether they can be used simultaneously as markers during
      therapy with nusinersen (spinraza©) . Ideally, both techniques can complement or validate
      each other. In the future, this could generate a completely new, non-invasive method for
      evaluating endogenous biomarkers for therapy response.
    
  