
    
      Background MDD is one of the leading causes of disability worldwide [5]. A substantial
      proportion of patients do not achieve adequate remission despite multiple antidepressant
      trials and augmentation strategies. TRD is defined as an insufficient response to at least
      two adequate antidepressant trials. Many of these patients are referred to somatic treatment;
      e.g. electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) and
      Vagal Nerve Stimulation (VNS), all of which can cause side effects, and are not always
      efficacious.

      Ketamine has been safely used for decades for the induction and maintenance of anesthesia and
      more recently for chronic pain. Ketamine is a noncompetitive, high-affinity antagonist of the
      NMDA type glutamate receptor, with additional effects on dopamine and μ-opioid receptors.
      During the last decade, 4 meta analyses summarizing over 22 controlled trials have been
      published, showing the rapid and impressive effect of ketamine in TRD patients [6-8]. These
      trials show that a single slow IV ketamine sub-anesthetic dose (0.5 mg/kg) over 40 minutes
      dramatically improves depressive symptoms. Across studies, a clinically significant
      antidepressant response was maintained for up to 72 hours in approximately half of the
      patients; only a minority had relapsed within the first two weeks post-ketamine infusion [9,
      10]. aan het Rot et al. [11] showed that repeated IV ketamine infusions prolong the duration
      of improvement.

      D-cycloserine (seromycin) is a broad spectrum antibiotic, in use for over thirty years in the
      treatment of tuberculosis, DCS functions as a partial agonist at the NMDA-R glycine site,
      with agonist effects predominating at low dose and antagonist effects at high dose. Low DCS
      dosages, such as 50-500 mg/d have been implemented in anxiety patients for memory and
      learning enhancement. Beneficial antidepressant effects have been reported when higher
      dosages (500-1000 mg/day) were used [3]. DCS regimens in TRD patients suggest that high dose
      DCS may indeed be beneficial in the treatment of MDD. However, a previous study using a lower
      dosage (250mg/d) did not show significant difference over placebo [3]. The antidepressant
      effects of DCS seem to derive from its ability to inhibit NMDA-R function, similarly to
      ketamine. One recent study demonstrated a beneficial effect of DCS after ketamine infusion in
      bipolar depression patients [12]. Due to the potential neurotoxicity of ketamine in prolonged
      administration. Other NMDA antagonist should follow ketamine infusion [13]. Therefore we
      reason that DCS post-ketamine administration will considerably reduce relapse in TRD patients
      when compared to placebo.

      Study Design

        1. Patients will undergo 6 ketamine infusions within a 3-week period.

           Intravenous ketamine will be administrated by a senior anesthesiologist and under the
           supervision of a senior psychiatrist hence ensuring patient safety. We believe that
           sub-anesthetic ketamine infusion will be safer and will cause fewer side effects than
           ECT. The procedure will be explained in detail to each patient, and written consent will
           be obtained.

           After a psychiatric and medical evaluation by a senior psychiatrist and a senior
           anesthesiologist, patients will be given ketamine infusion added on to their
           antidepressant therapy. A slow ketamine infusion of 0.5mg/kg over 40 minutes will be
           given to the patients. Patients will be monitored by the experienced staff which
           includes a senior anesthesiologist and a nurse as well as a psychiatrist who will be
           available nearby. All patients will be monitored continuously for heart rate and rhythm
           and oxygen saturation, and blood pressure will be measured at 10 minutes intervals.
           Heart rate variability will be measured and analyzed after ketamine treatment.
           Measurements will be performed during the ketamine infusion at baseline, after 3 and 6
           treatments. Depressive symptoms will be measured using Montgomery Asberg Depression
           Scale (MADRS). In addition Clinical Global Severity Scale (CGI-S) and Clinical Global
           Improvement (CGI-I) will be performed 2 hours after treatment. In many cases, patients
           with depression also suffer from alexithymia: inappropriate identification of emotions.
           Alexithymia will be measured at baseline after 3 and 6 treatments. Ketamine infusion
           will be stopped in cases of a 20% or above increase in blood pressure or in heart rate
           over baseline values and/ or an acute dissociative state.

           Patients will be discharged to their homes at least three hours from end of infusion.
           Due to the potential effect of ketamine each patient will need to be escorted to and
           from the hospital by a family member or a friend.

        2. For patients who will meet response criteria (MADRS≥25%) after 6 ketamine infusions,
           ketamine administration (weeks 1-3: days 1-21) will be stopped and patients will start
           receiving DCS or placebo titrated slowly up to 1000mg/d over the next 8 weeks [2] in the
           following manner:

             1. Week 4: Days 22-24 - 250mg/d, one pill per day Well-being assessment and adverse
                effect evaluation before drug elevation.

             2. Mid-week 4 to end of week 6: Days 25-42 - 500mg/d, two pills per day

             3. Week 7: Day 43-49 - 750mg/d, three pills per day

             4. Weeks 8-11: Days 50-77 - 1000mg/d four pills per day

        3. Pyridoxine 200-300mg/d will be prescribed for all patients at the beginning of the
           study.

        4. Patients who did not improve after 6 ketamine treatments will be removed from the study.
    
  