
    
      The primary object is to determine the feasibility of treating patients diagnosed with either
      CIC/PBS or rUTI with daily hyperbaric oxygen for a total of 40 treatment sessions during an
      8-10 week time period. We wish to better understand the demand and degree of adherence for
      daily HBOT in these two patient populations to inform future planning and design of
      randomized, sham controlled and double-blind studies. Given the refractory nature of these
      two diagnoses, a secondary objective of this study is to determine if there is symptomatic
      improvement following HBOT compared to pretreatment symptoms using standardized patient
      symptomology questionnaires' (Global Response Assessment-GRA and Patient's Overall Rating of
      Improvement in Symptoms-PORIS questionnaires).

      Patient selection will be carried out by the respective co-investigators based on standard
      disease definitions. CIC/PBS is defined as urinary tract pain or discomfort and dysuria that
      is present of > 6 months and is not due to acute urinary tract infection, stones or other
      pathology. These patients will be identified and recruited by Dr. C. Lowell Parsons,
      Co-investigator for the study. rUTI is defined as greater than 2 urinary tract infections in
      6 month or greater than 3 urinary tract infections in one year. These patient will be
      identified and recruited by Dr. Emily Lukacz, Co-investigator. Each study will enroll 20
      individuals. The study design is an observational pilot study to determine feasibility and
      limited efficacy. Thus the primary outcomes will be the number of patients that enroll in the
      study relative to the number offered enrollment and the percentage of individuals completing
      the prescribed 40 treatment sessions. For the secondary outcome, limited efficacy, each
      patient's pre-treatment clinical status will be compared to their post treatment clinical
      status. Thus for the CIC/PBS study both the global response assessment (GRA) and the
      patient's overall rating of improvement of symptoms (PORIS) will be obtained and comparison
      between the pre and post treatment scores will be performed. For the UTI study, the time in
      days to subsequent acute urinary tract infection and total number of acute UTI's during one
      year following completion of HBOT will be recorded and compared to that individual's prior
      clinical history. The dosing algorithm to be used is based on the current standard of care
      for the treatment of radiation cystitis for which 2.4 ATA x 90 minutes is provided daily, 5
      days per week. The total duration of treatment can range from 30-60 minutes depending upon
      the individual patients severity of illness and response to therapy. Patients are routinely
      reassessed after every 10-20 treatments. Therefore we are planning to provide 2.4 ATA x 90
      minutes with 2 air breaks daily, x 5 days per week x 8 weeks total for both CIC/PBS and rUTI
      patient population. We will allow the 40 treatments to be administered over an 8-10 week time
      period to provide some degree of scheduling flexibility for patients.

      For this feasibility study we will determine the demand as measured by the number of patients
      accepting the treatment vs the total number of patients offered enrollment. We will determine
      the percentage successful completion of the 40 prescribed treatment sessions as the primary
      outcome variable. The results of the symptom questionnaires obtained at the conclusion for
      HBOT and by follow up telephone survey at 1, 6 and 12 months following completion of HBOT
      will be the secondary outcome variable. Finally, adverse events will be gathered on this
      patient population as per routine clinical practice. The incidence and severity of otic
      barotrauma, hyperoxic myopia, confinement anxiety and generalized seizures will be determined
      and compared to the same events experienced by the general hyperbaric patient population
      being treated during the same period of time.

      Symptom Survey Instruments Global Response Assessment (GRA) The GRA measures overall
      improvement with therapy. It is now used as the primary end point in clinical trials of
      therapies for CIC/PBS. The assessment asks: "As compared to when you started the study
      [treatment], how would you rate your interstitial cystitis symptoms now?" The seven point
      scale is centered at zero (no change): markedly worse; moderately worse; slightly worse; no
      change; slightly improved; moderately improved; and markedly improved. Responders will be
      defined as those individuals with scores falling in the moderately and markedly improved
      categories.

      Patient's Overall Rating of Improvement of Symptoms (PORIS) The PORIS has three questions
      that address the overall change in CIC/PBS, pain, and urgency after treatment as worse, no
      better (0% improvement), slightly improved (25%), moderately improved (50%), greatly improved
      (75%), or symptoms gone (100% improvement). Responders will be defined as those individuals
      with scores falling into the moderately or greatly improved or no symptoms categories.
    
  