
    
      CVD is the leading cause of death worldwide and accounts for almost 40% of deaths each year
      in the United States. In a person with CVD, oxygenated blood is not adequately distributed
      throughout the body because of impaired function in the heart and blood vessels. This
      restricted blood flow can eventually lead to organ damage, heart attack, and stroke. Risk
      prediction for CVD, which is largely associated with SA, relies on the use of certain
      traditional risk factors. The widely used Framingham risk score (FRS) has provided excellent
      risk discrimination and reliable estimates of 10-year risk for CVD, but it does not account
      for the genetics behind SA. Although numerous studies have investigated novel genetic
      biomarkers to attempt to add predictive value to the FRS, no single biomarker to date has
      been able to improve risk prediction in a meaningful way. A multi-marker approach that
      identifies several novel markers unrelated to traditional risk factors may be more effective
      in improving the identification of those at risk for CVD. This study will first construct a
      multi-marker approach that is based on patterns of gene expression in peripheral blood
      leukocytes (PBLs) and that can serve to identify people with substantial SA. The study will
      then use this approach to determine whether gene expression patterns of PBLs in people with
      SA are distinct from those in people without SA.

      This study will use previously collected data and specimens, including blood samples and SA
      imaging, from participants in the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) trial and from
      healthy female participants from Northwestern University. Blood samples will be used for
      analysis of patterns of gene expression in PBLs. There will be no new study visits for this
      study.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "Completed Date"
      entered in the Query View Report System (QVR).
    
  