
    
      Metabolic surgery has proven to be a viable long-term solution in the treatment of morbid
      obesity and its comorbidities. It induces rapid remission of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
      Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus is present in one quarter of patients at the bariatric outpatient
      clinic. Non alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is present in 80% of all morbidly obese
      subjects and is a major risk factor for development of insulin resistance and non alcoholic
      steatohepatis (NASH), with the latter becoming the major indication for liver transplantation
      in the USA. It is increasingly recognized that the immune system, possibly driven by innate
      lymphoid cells (ILC's), and the intestinal microbiome are major players in this obesity
      related disease and the switch from benign to malign (insulin resistance and T2DM) obesity.
      However, the exact mechanisms of action behind the surgery-driven switch back from malign to
      benign obesity are unknown. Also, it is undecided which metabolic surgery grants best results
      in the remission of T2DM and which procedure does that at the lowest rate of surgical
      complications, long term difficulties and side effects. The Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y Gastric
      Bypass (LRYGB), an efficient but complex procedure, is the golden standard in the
      Netherlands. The Laparoscopic Mini Gastric Bypass (LMGB) is technically less challenging and
      has been introduced to overcome some of the limitations of LRYGB. It has been hypothesized
      that the LMGB has a more rapid and durable glycaemic control, possibly due to the altered
      constitution and the augmented length of the biliary limb. There is reason to believe that
      the improved glycaemic control might become apparent within the first year of surgery and
      that it might remain thereafter. However, it is unknown what order of magnitude is to be
      expected and whether subgroups of T2DM patients will benefit the LMGB more. Also, it is
      unknown whether and to what extent intestinal microbiota and immunological tone can predict
      the metabolic response (improvement in insulin sensitivity) and NAFLD/NASH reduction and
      whether differences are expected between these two surgeries. Increased understanding of the
      pathophysiological mechanisms as well as their relationship to metabolic disturbances are
      thought to be of crucial importance to discover new diagnostic and therapeutical targets in
      obesity associated insulin resistance/T2DM and NAFLD/NASH. Primary objective is to evaluate
      and compare the glycaemic control in T2DM within the first year of LRYGB and LMBG. Secondary
      aim is to gain insight in the pathophysiological mechanisms that drive the conversion of
      malign to benign obesity.
    
  