
    
      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) steatohepatitis represents a spectrum of disease
      occurring in the absence of alcohol abuse. It is characterized by the presence of steatosis
      and may represent a hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome (including obesity,
      diabetes and hypertriglyceridemia). NAFLD is linked to insulin resistance, it causes liver
      disease in adults and children and may ultimately lead to cirrhosis (Skelly et al., 2002).
      The histologic spectrum of NAFLD ranges from the relatively benign isolated predominantly
      macrovesicular steatosis (i.e., nonalcoholic fatty liver or NAFL) to steatohepatitis (NASH)
      (Angulo, & Lindor, 2002). The latter is characterized by the histologic presence of
      steatosis, cytological ballooning, scattered inflammation and pericellular fibrosis(Contos &
      Sanyal, 2002). Estimates of prevalence among children can be inferred from pediatric obesity
      data and the knowledge that 85% of children with NAFLD are obese. Data from the National
      Health and Nutrition Examination Survey has revealed a threefold rise in the prevalence of
      childhood and adolescent obesity over the past 35 years; data from 2000 suggests that 14-16%
      children between 6-19yrs age are obese with a BMI >95% (Fishbein, Miner, Mogren & Chalekson,
      2003), and also the fact that 85% of children with NAFLD are obese.

      Treatment of NASH currently revolves around the reduction of the two main pathogenetic
      factors, namely, fat accumulation within the liver and excessive accumulation of free
      radicals causing oxidative stress. Glutathione (gamma-glutamyl-cysteinyl-glycine; GSH) is a
      major endogenous antioxidant and its depletion is implicated in the development of
      hepatocellular injury (Wu, Fang, Yang, Lupton & Turner, 2004). Glutathione itself is does not
      enter easily into cells, even when given in large amounts. However, glutathione precursors do
      enter into cells and have been shown to be effective in the treatment of conditions such as
      acetaminophen toxicity by preventing significant GSH depletion (Prescott & Critchley, 1983).
      Examples of GSH precursors include cysteine, N-acetylcysteine, methionine and other
      sulphur-containing compounds such as cysteamine (Prescott, Park & Proudfoot, 1976). Studies
      have demonstrated that orally and intravenously administered cysteamine in mice and humans is
      effective in acetaminophen-induced hepatocellular injury (Prescott, 1972; Prescott, Stewart &
      Proudfoot, 1978; Mitchell, Thorgeirsson, Potter, Jollow & Keiser, 1974). Another study where
      N-acetylcysteine was used to treat NASH over a period of 4-12 weeks demonstrated improved
      amniotransferase levels (Pamuk & Sonsuz, 2003), suggesting that increasing GSH levels may
      have a hepato-protective role and may be useful in the treatment of NASH. A possible mode of
      action of cysteamine is that it might react with extracellular cystine to form cysteine which
      then is readily taken up into the cell and transformed into GSH.

      Recent studies have suggested that the essential amino acid cysteine is a major limiting
      factor for GSH synthesis and that factors (e.g., insulin and growth factors) that stimulate
      cysteine uptake by cells generally result in increased intracellular GSH levels (Lyons et
      al., 2000; Lu, 2000).

      Cysteamine, a GSH precursor, is currently available and is used in the treatment of
      cystinosis, an intra-lysosomalcystine storage disorder. In cystinosis, cysteamine acts by
      converting cystine to cysteine and cysteine-cysteamine mixed disulfide which are the both
      able to leave the lysosome through the cysteine and lysine porters respectively (Gahl, Theone
      & Shneider, 2002). Within the cytosol the mixed disulfide can be reduced by its reaction with
      glutathione and the cysteine released can be used for further GSH synthesis. The synthesis of
      GSH from cysteine is catalyzed by two enzymes, gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase and GSH
      synthetase. This pathway occurs in almost all cell types, with the liver being the major
      producer and exporter or GSH. The reduced cysteine-cysteamine mixed disulfide will also
      release cysteamine, which, in theory is then able to re-enter the lysosome, bind more cystine
      and repeat the process (Dohil et al., 2006). In a recent study in children with cystinosis,
      enteral administration of cysteamine resulted in increased plasma cysteamine levels, which
      subsequently caused prolonged efficacy in the lowering of leukocyte cystine levels (Dohil et
      al., 2006). This may have been due to "re-cycling" of cysteamine when adequate amounts of
      drug reached the lysosome. If cysteamine does act in this fashion, then GSH production may
      also be significantly enhanced.
    
  