
    
      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including
      evaluations and follow up visits. It is expected that about 60 people will take part in this
      research study.

      There are 3 study groups participating in this study and each group receives different study
      drugs. After screening, participants will be randomized into one of three study groups.

      Participants will receive one of the following study treatments prior to undergoing surgery
      for tumor removal:

        -  Group A receives nivolumab plus ipilimumab

        -  Group B receives nivolumab plus placebo-ipilimumab

        -  Group C receives two placebo infusions, placebo-nivolumab plus placebo-ipilimumab

      Neither the participant nor the research doctor will know which study drugs the participant
      will receive prior to surgery.

      After recovering from surgery, participants will receive doses of study medication based on
      the study group:

        -  Group A receives nivolumab plus ipilimumab every 3 weeks for 3 doses followed by
           nivolumab every 4 weeks

        -  Group B receives nivolumab every four weeks

        -  Group C receives nivolumab plus ipilimumab every 3 weeks for 4 doses followed by
           nivolumab every 4 weeks

      This research study is a Phase Ib clinical trial, which tests the safety and effectiveness of
      an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease.
      "Investigational" means the drug is being studied.

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved the use of nivolumab or
      ipilimumab for your specific disease, but it has been approved for other uses.

      Both nivolumab and ipilimumab are antibodies (types of human protein) that work to stop tumor
      cells from growing and multiplying by immunotherapy.

      Immunotherapy is trying to have the body's own immune system work against tumor cells.
      Nivolumab and ipilimumab have been used in other research studies, and information from those
      other research studies suggest these drugs may help to stop glioblastoma cells from growing.
    
  