
    
      Amyloidosis is rare systemic disorder characterized by the extracellular deposition of
      misfolded protein in various organ system, including heart. Among the several types of
      amyloid fibrils, the light chain and transthyretin amyloid proteins most commonly affect the
      heart.

      Cardiac amyloid deposits result in increased ventricular wall thickness and produce a
      restrictive cardiomyopathy presenting primarily as biventricular congestive heart failure.
      Anginal symptoms and signs of ischemia have been reported in some patients with cardiac
      amyloidosis without obstructive epicardial coronary artery disease (CAD). Autopsy studies
      have shown amyloid deposits around and between cardiac myocytes in the interstitium, the
      perivascular regions, and the media of intramyocardial coronary vessels. Amyloidosis is thus
      a prime example of a disorder with the potential to cause coronary microvascular dysfunction
      via 3 major mechanisms: (1) structural (amyloid deposition in the vessel wall causing wall
      thickening and luminal stenosis), (2) extravascular (extrinsic compression of the
      microvasculature from perivascular and interstitial amyloid deposits and decreased diastolic
      perfusion), and (3) functional (autonomic and endothelial dysfunction).

      Previous basic research presented that adipose arteriole or atrial coronary arterioles showed
      endothelial dysfunction even after brief exposure to physiologic amounts of light chain, and
      also showed increased oxidative stress, reduced NO bioavailability, and peroxynitrite
      production. All these previous evidences imply that coronary microvascular dysfunction and
      subsequent global ischemic insult can be precursor of overt diastolic or systolic dysfunction
      in patients with cardiac amyloidosis.

      However, there have only 1 study which evaluated microvascular function in vivo using
      N13-ammonium positron emission tomography (PET). In that study, Dorbala et al. demonstrated
      that amyloidosis patients showed depressed global resting myocardial blood flow (MBF), stress
      MBF, and CFR and higher minimal coronary vascular resistance, compared with patients with
      left ventricular hypertrophy. However, low availability, high cost, and limited resolution of
      N13 ammonium PET precludes the generalizability of the results.

      Since thermodilution-derived coronary flow reserve and index or microcirculatory reserve
      using pressure-temperature wire has been well validated prognostic index in assessment of
      patients with coronary artery disease or functionally insignificant epicardial coronary
      stenosis, invasive physiologic assessment might more specifically assess macro- and
      microvascular function in patients with cardiac amyloidosis. Moreover, adding physiologic
      measurement in the current frame in diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis might enhance risk
      stratification of patients.

      Therefore, the current study will perform physiologic assessment including fractional flow
      reserve, coronary flow reserve, and index of microcirculatory resistance in patients with
      cardiac amyloidosis, and explore correlation among the physiologic indices and conventional
      measurements of echocardiography, perfusion MRI, serum light chain amount, or NT-proBNP. In
      addition, the differences of physiologic indices according to disease severity of cardiac
      amyloidosis, which measured by endomyocardial biopsy findings will be also explored. Since
      there was no previous study which performed invasive physiologic assessment in amyloidosis
      patients, this study will be performed as pilot study. Target sample size will be at least 30
      patients.
    
  