
    
      Where patients express an interest in the A.M.I. Protector Band, they will be given a Patient
      Information Sheet which will form the basis of a discussion with the attending physician.
      Patients opting for the Protector Band will be told that their anonymised clinical data will
      be stored in a secure database and used for research purposes. They will also be required to
      attend for regular follow-up (see below) for a period of three years after implantation.

      Following this initial consultation, a minimum period of 2-weeks will be required before the
      patient is listed for surgery. This will provide a suitable period during which the patient
      can consider the options and seek clarification on any points about which they are unclear.

      In the case of the A.M.I. Protector Band the surgery will be performed in two locations:

        -  Spire Hospital Parkway (Birmingham)

        -  Spire Hospital Manchester

      All band procedures will be performed by one of two surgeons; Mr. Paul Super and Prof. Franco
      Favretti according to a standard protocol.

      In all cases, informed consent will be obtained prior to surgery.

      Patients will remain in hospital overnight and be discharged the following day.

      On discharge, patients will be given comprehensive written instructions regarding optimal
      nutritional and physical activity. They will also be provided with a 24-hour, Emergency
      Helpline number in the event of problems.

      All patients will be followed for a period of three years, with a formal review at 5 weeks
      and then at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24 and 36 months. However, patients will be free to attend
      additional clinics between the formal reviews should they wish. At each visit the patient's
      weight, height, waist/hip ratio and blood pressure (BP) will be recorded. In addition, a
      range of blood tests will be carried out at baseline, at 12, 24 and 36 months. A
      self-administered Quality of Life questionnaire will be completed prior to surgery and then
      at 12, 24 and 36 months of follow-up.

      At the completion of the 3-year study, patients will be able to transition into our usual
      care gastric band programme for long-term follow-up.
    
  