
    
      It is estimated that there are approximately 155,000 living with metastatic breast cancer in
      the US and the number is estimated to increase over the next years (SEER data). Although
      their median survival has improved over the last 2 decades from 17 months to approximately 24
      months attributed to newer treatments, there is an ongoing need for additional strategies and
      research to improve survival and quality of life.

      Many studies have explored the connection between hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism and
      breast cancer with varied results ranging up to one third prevalence. Low T3 and elevated TSH
      levels have been detected in newly diagnosed breast cancer patients. Other studies have
      suggested that some of the common symptoms reported by breast cancer survivors such as
      fatigue and depression can be attributed to subclinical hypothyroidism.

      L-thyroxine (T4) is the most commonly prescribed agent for the management of hypothyroidism
      in the US. However, there are data suggesting that T4 is a potent pro-oncogenic agent.
      Proposed mechanisms include stimulation of mitogenesis, angiogenesis and resistance to
      apoptosis, opposition of anti-PDL-1 and radiation effects. It has been postulated that the
      avbeta3integrin that is universally expressed on cancer cells harbors a thyroid hormone
      receptor and T4 interacts with it.

      Triiodothyronine (T3) on the other hand, is significantly less oncogenic and less mitogenic
      and is downstream of T4 which is a T3 pro-hormone. Therefore, exogenous supplementation of T3
      would decrease the T4 levels creating the desired state of euthyroid hypothyroxiemia.

      The rationale of this study is to replace L-thyroxine (T4) with Triiodothyronine (T3) in
      hypothyroid patients with metastatic breast carcinoma while they continue to receive standard
      systemic therapy, titrating the dose to achieve a state of euthyroid hypothyroxinemia which
      is turn would result in a lower risk of disease progression and improved survival by lowering
      the concentration of T4.
    
  