
    
      Kidney transplantation is the greater renal replacement therapy and, compared with
      dialysis,is associated with better quality of life and reduced costs over time. However, it
      is well known that significant weight gain and obesity are very common after kidney
      transplantation, mainly during the first year after transplant. Besides, obesity is a risk
      factor for the development of cardiovascular complications, new-onset diabetes after
      transplantation and it is associated with graft loss. The use of immunosuppressive
      medications, the break of dietary restrictions associated with dialysis period and
      improvements in appetite are acceptable causes for weight gain. However, there is a lack of
      evidence for effective nutritional interventions to prevent weight gain after kidney
      transplant.

      In this context, it is well known that high-protein and low glycemic index diets are
      effective for body weight loss and subsequent weight maintenance. Moreover, protein generally
      exerts a better satiety effect than carbohydrates and lipids. So that, considering that there
      is a need to develop effective interventions to minimize the negative impact of weight gain
      and obesity on kidney transplant outcomes, a randomized clinical trial, that evaluate the
      effect of a high protein and low glycemic index diet (as a nutritional intervention) is
      likely to be effective in preventing weight gain after kidney transplantation.

      This study is a randomized clinical trial, which will follow and evaluate kidney transplant
      recipients during one year after transplantation. There will be two groups: a control group
      (60 patients) and the intervention group (60 patients). The dietitian visits will happen
      monthly at the first six months and twice in the last six months. The study assessments
      (weight, anthropometry, body composition and biochemistry) will be performed during these
      visits. Potential participants will be identified during their initial two months following
      transplantation. Eligible transplant recipients will be invited to participate, given
      detailed information about the trial and, if agreeable, will be asked to provide written
      informed consent. Participants will be randomized to receive either nutrition intervention
      with a high-protein and low glycemic index diet or an standard nutrition protocol. This
      randomization will be performed by a statistical consultant using randomization.com site. The
      length of the study will be 1 year for each patient, so that the assessment of anthropometry,
      including measures of weight (monthly) and body composition (every three months) will be
      performed by one specialist renal dietitian. Laboratory staff will perform all laboratories
      testing, including serum and urine creatinine (monthly), glycemia, cholesterol,
      HDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, glycated hemoglobin and uric acid (each three months),
      high-sensitivity C- reactive protein (baseline and 6th month) and 24-h urine test with
      albumin, protein, creatinine and urea excretion (every three months for intervention group
      and at baseline, 3rd, 6th and 12th month for control group). Demographic and clinical data
      will be assessed at the first dietitian visit. Body weight and height of patients will be
      obtained and body mass index (BMI) (kg/m2) will be calculated. Waist circumference will be
      measured midway between the lowest rib margin and the iliac crest, with flexible,
      nonstretched fiberglass tape. This evaluation will be made every visit (monthly in the first
      6 months and twice in the last 6 months). Body fat percentage (assessed each three months)
      will be measured by using tetrapolar bioimpedance and basal metabolic rate will be evaluated
      by indirect calorimetry at baseline and 6 months later. All the anthropometric assessment
      will be performed with the patient fasting, wearing light clothing, without contact with
      metals and without shoes. The prescription of the diet will be calculated by using
      nutritional table by software version. It will be considered 1,3g /kg/day of protein and the
      glycemic index will be estimated with glucose as standard food. Energy intake will be
      assessed by a 24-h recall on the day of each dietitian visit by the research dietitian. Diet
      composition also will be analyzed by using nutritional table by software and will be made in
      every visit. Satiety levels will be assessed each three months for intervention group and
      only at baseline for control group by using a visual analogue scale of appetite.
    
  