
    
      Specific aim 1: To determine acceptability of a clinical trial in which participants are
      randomly allocated to either a placebo or azithromycin 500 mg 3 days a week for 6 months for
      adults with SCD who have FEV1<80%.

      To assess acceptability of this intervention, investigators will measurement recruitment
      rate, retention and adherence to the study medication. Recruitment will be assessed by
      proportion of eligible participants that agree to be randomized. Retention will be measured
      as proportion randomly allocated who complete the trial. Dropout due to toxicity will be
      categorized using a questionnaire. Medication adherence will be assessed using the previously
      validated 8 item modified Morisky medication adherence scale (MMAS-8), where responses are
      categorized: high adherence (8 points), average adherence (6-7 points), and poor adherence
      (0-5 points). If recruitment rate is < 60%, the retention rate < 80%, or average adherence
      rate is ≤5 points, the original protocol will be examined and alternative strategies to
      enhance recruitment, retention, and adherence will be considered.

      Specific aim 2: To evaluate the effect of 6 months of low dose azithromycin therapy on FEV1
      and respiratory symptoms in patients with SCA. Baseline FEV1 testing with a portable,
      in-office spirometer will be completed at study enrollment and at the end of the study period
      (6 months). The previously validated American Thoracic Society (ATS-DLD-78 for adults)
      questionnaire will also be used to evaluate respiratory symptoms at baseline and end of the
      study. Under a separate protocol, investigators will calculate the coefficient of variation
      for FEV1% predicted in adults with sickle cell disease in order to define the within-subject
      variability for tests of respiratory function in this specific population, which has not been
      previously described within the medical literature. Calculation of the coefficient of
      variation for FEV1 % predicted will be essential for the interpretation of clinically and
      statistically meaningful changes in spirometry for participants who are treated with
      azithromycin to improve their baseline pulmonary function when compared to controls.
    
  