
    
      End-stage liver disease is one of the major diseases leading to death. With advancement of
      transplantation surgery and perioperative anesthesia management, liver transplantation has
      become an effective method to recover patients' liver function, thus saving their lives and
      improving their quality of life. Serious disorders of fluid balance, such as blood
      coagulation dysfunction, electrolyte disequilibrium, hypoalbuminaemia, low hematocrit, low
      hemoglobin and acid-base imbalance etc. exist in end stage cirrhosis patients with liver
      transplantation. Such abnormalities in the internal milieu could cause or worsen
      cardiovascular and pulmonary dysfunction, thus making perioperative management more
      difficult.

      Albumin and blood plasma are conventionally used as plasma volume expanders in clinical
      practice. At the same time, the level of albumin concentration is also used as an important
      criterion of prognosis. When the level of albumin concentration in serum is below 35 g/L,
      postoperative mortality rates and complications will increase significantly. In fact, it has
      been the focus of debate for many years whether albumin should be used for volume replacement
      in critically ill patients. Boldt and his colleagues demonstrated that albumin has little
      positive influence on the prognosis of critically ill patients. However, Shwe deemed albumin
      beneficial to critically ill patients. Simon suggested that albumin is given mainly for
      treating hypovolemia instead of increasing the level of albumin concentration in serum.
      However, at the same time, he admitted there is no advantages of albumin in comparison to
      other colloid solutions and, furthermore, it is more expensive.

      Voluven (130/0.4) is a medium molecular weight hydroxyethyl starch (HES) produced by Beijing
      Fresenius Kabi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. It is a novel HES preparation with optimized
      molecular weight and molecule distribution, has a lower degree of substitution (DS) (0.4),
      and a narrower molecular distribution profile (C2/C6) than other available HES specifications
      which make it more suitable for volume replacement therapy. Some studies have revealed that
      Voluven (130/0.4) has a comparable efficacy with HAES-steril (average molecular weight
      200.000 dalton, degree of substitution 0.5). Because of its improved pharmacological profile,
      Voluven (130/0.4) is used to avoid capillary vessel leakage and improve oxygenation of
      tissues. In addition, Voluven (130/0.4) does not accumulate in plasma or tissues even after
      multiple dosing (maximal dose 50 ml/kg), and has an improved HES safety profile in terms of
      coagulation and kidney function.

      The current study is designed to assess the efficacy, safety, and pharmaceutical economics
      characteristic of perioperative volume replacement with Voluven (130/0.4) in patients
      undergoing liver transplantation compared with patients who received volume therapy with
      albumin. The objective of this study is to supply appropriate regimens for patients
      undergoing liver transplantation, considering clinical efficacy, safety, and costs.
    
  