
    
      Peripheral vascular disease is common in end-stage renal failure (ESRF) affecting 24-77% of
      patients (Stack, 2005). Critical ischaemia (pain at rest caused by insufficient blood supply
      to a limb) is notoriously difficult to treat in this patient group. Advanced disease and
      extensive co-morbidities limit surgical revascularisation options of proximal vessels
      (Blankensteijn et al., 1996) and calciphylaxis (a process of calcification within the small
      vessels unique to patients with end-stage renal failure) has few effective treatments (Ng &
      Peng, 2011). Often the only treatment option is symptomatic relief with strong analgesics.

      Effective pain relief in patients with end-stage renal failure can be difficult to achieve.
      The active metabolites of many opiates are renally-excreted and side effects are more common
      in patients with end-stage renal failure. In particular, confusion and drowsiness limit their
      use. Similarly drugs commonly used for neuropathic pain, such as gabapentin, have not be
      investigated in clinical trials in patients with end-stage renal failure (Kurella et al.,
      1993).

      A drug which is not renally excreted, has minimal systemic absorption and does not require
      dose adjustment in renal failure, is an attractive treatment option for patients with renal
      failure.

      Qutenza (topical capsaicin 8%) is an advanced dermal application system designed for rapid
      delivery of capsaicin into the skin. The high concentration of capsaicin results in
      reversible desensitisation of TRPV-1 expressing cutaneous sensory nerve endings and reduction
      in nerve fibre density in the epidermis (Noto et al., 2009). The resulting pain relief is
      long-lasting (12 weeks after a single application) (Backonja et al., 2008); Simpson et al.,
      2008). Previous phase III studies have demonstrated a significant reduction in neuropathic
      pain in patients with post-herpetic neuralgia (Blonsky et al., 2009) and HIV neuropathy (Noto
      et al., 2099; Simpson et al., 2008) with a good tolerability profile and it is now licensed
      for use in treatment of neuropathic pain in these patient groups.

      The efficacy and tolerability of Qutenza (topical capsaicin 8%) has been evaluated in over
      1,600 patients within clinical trials, with a reduction in pain scores at 8 weeks from 30-32%
      to 20-24% compared to an active control (capsaicin 0.04%) (Simpson et al., 2008). Patients
      frequently developed mild irritant symptoms of erythema and itch at the site of application,
      but significant side effects of blistering were rare occurring in <5%.

      Currently Qutenza (topical capsaicin 8%) is not licensed for the treatment of diabetics
      however there is evidence from a moderate number of diabetics enrolled into clinical trials
      that Qutenza is both safe and effective in this patient group also. Webster et al, (2011)
      treated a total of 91 patients with painful diabetic nephropathy and found a 31.5% reduction
      in mean pain scores during weeks 2-12 post treatment. There was no difference in the
      incidence of local side effects experienced by diabetics and non-diabetics (Backonja et al,
      2011). One patient did develop an ulcer in the area of treatment however it is unclear
      whether this related to the treatment or not (Webster et al, 2011).

      Diabetic patients will be enrolled into this trial due to the frequency of diabetic patients
      with renal failure and the contributing role of diabetes in small vessel disease leading to
      critical ischaemia. The distinction between painful diabetic neuropathy and digital critical
      ischaemia can be difficult to make clinically and it may be that a small proportion of
      patients recruited for this study also have an element of diabetic neuropathy in addition to
      their critical ischaemia. In view of the concern with ulceration of the feet in diabetics
      treated with Qutenza, patients with diabetic neuropathy causing a loss of sensation will be
      excluded from having their feet treated.

      Pain from critical ischaemia is multi-modal and notoriously difficult to treat particularly
      in patients with established renal failure in whom other analgesic agents are poorly
      tolerated. A drug such as Qutenza (topical capsaicin 8%) which is not renally excreted, has
      minimal systemic absorption and does not require dose adjustment in renal failure, is an
      attractive treatment option for patients with renal failure.

      This is a single centre, prospective observational trial evaluating efficacy and tolerability
      of Qutenza (topical capsaicin 8%) for the treatment of digital critical ischaemia in patients
      with end stage renal failure.

      Primary Objective:

      • To evaluate the safety and efficacy of Qutenza (topical capsaicin 8%) in relieving chronic
      neuropathic pain from digital critical ischaemia in patients with end stage renal failure

      Secondary objective:

      • To evaluate Quality of Life (QoL) measures in patients with end stage renal failure who
      have chronic neuropathic pain from critical ischaemia treated with Qutenza (topical capsaicin
      8%)
    
  