
    
      Rationale:

      Delirium is a common and severe complication after neurosurgical procedures. Music before,
      during and after surgical procedures has proven its effectiveness in reducing pain, anxiety,
      stress and opioid medication in surgical patients. These symptoms belong to the main
      eliciting factors for developing delirium. Effective preventive therapy for delirium is not
      available. The investigators hypothesize that music listening, being a sustainable
      intervention with negligible risk of side effects, can lower delirium incidence among
      neurosurgical patients, resulting in reduction of in-hospital stays, healthcare costs and
      post-operative morbidity and mortality.

      Objective:

      To assess the effect of peri-operative music on post-operative delirium in patients
      undergoing a craniotomy.

      Hypothesis effect and sample size:

      The investigators expect an incidence of delirium in our control group of 30%. This is based
      on literature documenting incidence of delirium in neurosurgical patients in a northern
      European population of 29-33%.The expected effect cannot be based on previous literature
      since no adequate trials exist on the effect of music on delirium. Other non-pharmacological
      interventions in delirium prevention mention a relative reduction of 36-77%. The
      investigators will consider the intervention clinical relevant if a relative reduction of 60%
      with an absolute reduction of 18% is achieved. Taking into account the incidence of delirium
      of 30%, a power of 80%, a two-sided significant p-value of <0,05 in a 1:1 randomization leads
      to a sample size of 90 patients per arm. The investigators expect a loss to follow-up of 5%
      and will therefore include 189 patients.

      Interventions:

      Patients will be randomly allocated to either the intervention (music) or control (standard
      care) group. Participants in the music group will receive headphones with music 30 minutes
      before surgery. Patients will be able to choose music from a preselected list composed by a
      team consisting of researchers and dedicated music therapists. The headphones will be removed
      just before entering the operating room. Once in the operating room they will receive
      earphones after intubation, compatible with the Mayfield and site of operation. The
      intraoperative music intervention will be continued during the surgical procedure and
      discontinued just before detubation. The duration of the intraoperative music intervention
      depends on the duration of surgery and will be documented. After surgery, during recovery at
      the post-operative care unit (PACU) another 30 minutes of music through headphones will be
      given. The following 3 days at the neurosurgical ward they will receive music twice per day
      for 30 minutes.

      Primary outcome: The primary outcome measure is presence or absence of postoperative delirium
      within the first 5 days after surgery. All participating patients on the ward will be
      screened using the Delirium Observation Screening (DOS) scale. Additional to the DOS, in case
      of raised suspicion of delirium, a psychiatrist is consulted to confirm or reject clinical
      diagnosis of delirium based on the DSM-V criteria.

      Secondary outcome:

        -  Severity and duration of delirium (DRS-R-98)

        -  Pre-operative anxiety (VAS-A)

        -  Activation of the parasympathetic nervous system measured with HRV.

        -  Depth of anaesthesia registered with Bispectral Index (BIS).

        -  Peri-operative medication use.

        -  Postoperative pain (NRS).

        -  Patients with postoperative complications (AE/SAE's).

        -  Hospital length of stay (days).

        -  Cognitive function (MoCA).

        -  Patient functional outcome (KPS).

        -  Patient functional outcome (mRS).

        -  Mortality and readmission rate.

        -  Patient-reported outcome (EORTC-QLQ-C30)

        -  Patient-reported outcome (EORTC-QLQ-BN20)

        -  Patient-reported outcome (EQ-5D).

        -  Patient satisfaction (VAS).

        -  Economic evaluation / cost-effectiveness (iPCQ).
    
  