
    
      Prior to the kinematic captures, all patients selected in the study received 20 sessions of
      NMES therapy, twice a week, with 10 weeks of duration. The strengthening sessions plus
      training prior to the kinematic study of movement strategies has the objective to condition
      the paretic muscles to the functional activity.

      Twenty sessions was divided in 10 sessions of strengthening and 10 sessions of the functional
      training of reaching and grasping assisted with electrical stimulation.

      The strengthening sessions consisted of 20 minutes of electrical stimulation on triceps,
      extensor carpi radialis longus, extensor digitorum communis, lumbricalis, flexor digitorum
      superficialis and opponens pollicis muscles.

      The functional training sessions was performed through movements the reach and palmar grasp
      with NMES of the several cylindrical and conical objects of different weights (30 minutes
      sessions). The NMES was used to facilitate movements of reach (triceps muscle), opening
      (extensor carpi radialis longus and extensor digitorum communis muscle), positioning
      (extensor carpi radialis longus, flexor digitorum superficialis and lumbricalis muscle),
      palmar grasp (extensor carpi radialis longus, flexor digitorum superficialis, opponens
      pollicis muscle) and releasing (extensor carpi radialis longus and extensor digitorum
      communis muscle). Since the temporal organization varied among tetraplegics, some of them
      required more time to some stages of the sequence.

      For NMES, the eight-channel stimulator, controlled by a microcomputer was used with pulse
      frequency, 25 Hz; pulse duration, 300 milliseconds; on/off duration 2/2sec; maximum pulse
      width fixed at 250 microampere, and the amplitude individually adjusted to achieve the
      excitability threshold for each muscle. The amplitude was adjusted throughout the training,
      in order to produce the desired muscle contraction. This parameters was used in all of
      therapies and in the kinematic assessment. The stimulation was applied with self-adhesive
      surface electrodes taped to the skin.

      For kinematic captures, the participants performed reach and grasp with the dominant arm
      (right), assisted and not assisted by NMES. The subjects had no restriction for trunk
      anterior shifting but for safety reasons were kept seating upright in their own daily use
      wheelchair (the one they were more adapted to) and the non-dominant arm (left) was left
      resting over the abdomen in an attempt to minimize the influence of the non evaluated member
      on postural control.

      For the initial position, the dominant arm was held at the side of the trunk, with the elbow
      flexed at 90ยบ and the forearm in neutral position on the table. Tetraplegic subjects were
      seated in front of a task-table with the cylinder on it. They were instructed to reach and
      grasp three different cylinders (object A :200g weight, 115 mm height, 40 mm diameter; object
      B: 270g, 115 mm e 50 mm; and object C: 480g, 115 mm e 60 mm), one at a time and bring it to
      the initial hand position.

      The analysis of kinematic data was performed from the beginning of the movement (starting
      position), until the early return of hand position (with or without the cylinder). The
      cylinder was positioned in front of the subject sternum, with a distance equal to the arm's
      length (from the medial border of axilla to the distal wrist crease).

      The subjects were asked to perform five repetitions of each task for all three cylinders, in
      a total of 15 repetitions assisted and 15 not assisted by NMES. Once the experiment started,
      the subject could not touch the table with the forearm, until the task was finished. The
      command used to start the experiment was "GO", and they were instructed to perform the
      movement naturally and not to worry about the velocity and time of duration. Patients were
      evaluated in the two situations (with and without NMES) with stimulation electrodes placed in
      the skin surface and the cables connected to the stimulator.
    
  