
    
      This is a phase I double blinded randomized control clinical trial. The procedures for
      participation in both Aims of the study are described below in chronological order.

      Aim 1 and 2: Explanation of the consent form and study procedures/protocol will be performed
      in the Neurolocomotion laboratory (room 1382), with subjects and their families provided
      ample time for questions. Subjects are provided substantial time to choose to participate,
      and are provided the laboratory phone numbers/emails to contact the PI and research personnel
      with any potential questions. In situations where the subject is unable to be transported to
      the laboratory, the PI will explain the consent form at a time and location convenient for
      the subject and/or their family. Subjects will then undergo a screening procedure to
      determine if they are eligible to participate in the study based on inclusion/exclusion
      criteria.

      Aim 1:

      Modified Ashworth scale (mod Ash, no units) will be used to detect velocity-dependent
      resistance to passive muscle stretch/joint rotation. The modAsh will grossly assess
      spasticity at bilateral knee extensors and knee flexors, with scores from 0-5 (1+ scores will
      be converted to 2 and higher scores increased accordingly).

      Spinal Cord Assessment Tools for Spasticity (SCATS, no units) will be employed to assess
      flexor and extensor spasms and clonic activity of the plantarflexors (Benz et al. , 2005).

      Independence in walking ability will be assessed at each assessment period using the Walking
      Index for SCI II (WISCI II, which is a 21 point (0-20) ordinal scale which assigns a score
      based on amount of physical assistance, bracing, and assistive device used to ambulate.
      Notably, subjects will not be allowed to ambulate with braces extending above the knee. Six
      minute walk test (m) will be assess walking around a continuous hall-way at subjects'
      self-selected velocity, with distance determined each minute and summed over the entire six
      minute duration (van Hedel et al. , 2005). Subjects will be asked to "walk at your (their)
      normal, comfortable pace" with minimal physical assistance and bracing/devices as needed This
      measure is significantly association with measures of community walking in subjects with
      incomplete SCI (Saraf et al. , 2009).

      BERG balance test will be administered. Gait Mat testing will be performed to guage
      spatiotemporal aspects of walking. 6 minute walk test will be performed. Lower Extremity
      Motor Score, Peak treadmill speed (m/s)

      Aim 2:

      Same as above including strength evaluations : Ankle, knee, hip flexors/extensors tested
      bilaterally (Biodex®).

      Subjects in Aim 2 will be tested at initial evaluation, after four weeks of initial training,
      and will be repeated after each four weeks of training on either the placebo or study
      medication.

      Subjects in Aim 2 will additionally be requested to return for follow up testing after one
      year.

      Subjects will be offered to participate in audio, videotaping and/or photography.

      Women who are of childbearing age and are contemplating becoming pregnant will be required to
      submit a pregnancy test and must notify the principal investigator immediately.
    
  