
    
      This study will treat amblyopia (lazy eye) using 3-D computer technology and active shutter
      glasses. Computer games and DVD's are viewed through the active shutter glasses and are
      specially prepared to preferentially stimulate the lazy eye; the child can only play the
      games accurately if they are using their lazy eye. The study is funded by the NIHR and will
      be undertaken as a randomised control trial to compare this against normal computer games and
      DVD viewing combined with continuing refractive adaptation (a process that is known to occur
      for up to 30 weeks). Patients will receive 6 weeks of treatment (recommended 30 mins minimum
      of play time per day for 6 weeks in the treatment arm) and level of vision will be assessed
      after 6 weeks and the visual improvement (they will be wearing glasses and also undergoing
      refractive adaptation) compared with the control. Patients will return to standard care after
      the trial period which, at 6 weeks, should not affect the final visual outcome in a negative
      way. The participants will be recruited from patients currently attending one of the 4 trial
      sites and will have a diagnosis of amblyopia, and be aged between 3 years 6 months and 9
      years 11 months. Current treatments for amblyopia include wearing an eye patch over the good
      eye for up to 6 hours per day, or using eye drops to blur the image in the good eye for
      periods of 4 weeks at a time. The aim is both to avoid the need for patching or penalisation
      (which are unpopular treatments) and to get an improved visual outcome.

      Assessment study: A study on 62 patients where the investigators will compare the visual
      acuity, angle of strabismus, stereoacuity and depth of suppression as estimated by I-BiT
      against measurements made at orthoptic assessment. This data will help interpret the results
      of the randomised controlled trial and help direct future development.
    
  