
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the progression-free survival of patients with locally advanced squamous cell
           carcinoma of the head and neck treated with induction chemotherapy comprising docetaxel,
           cisplatin, and fluorouracil followed by concurrent cetuximab and radiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Assess the objective response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Assess the best overall response rate, overall survival, local-regional control, and
           distant failure in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Assess the acute and long-term toxicity associated with this regimen in these patients.

        -  Assess quality of life and swallowing in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the accuracy of PET/CT scan in evaluating objective response; in detecting
           residual disease at primary sites and nodes; in guiding the recommendation for salvage
           surgery or for neck dissection; and in early detection of recurrent or metastatic
           disease.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to nodal status (N2b-c or N3 vs N0-2a), tumor
      characteristics of invasiveness (present vs absent), human papilloma virus (HPV) status
      (positive vs negative), and primary tumor site (hypopharynx vs larynx vs oropharynx).

      Patients receive induction chemotherapy comprising docetaxel IV over 1 hour and cisplatin IV
      over 1 hour on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-4. Treatment repeats every 3
      weeks for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Beginning 3-4 weeks after completion of induction chemotherapy, patients receive cetuximab IV
      once weekly for 7 weeks. Beginning 1 week after the first dose of cetuximab, patients undergo
      concurrent intensity-modulated radiotherapy or conventional 3-dimensional radiotherapy once
      or twice daily 5-6 days a week for up to 6 weeks. Patients with persistent disease undergo
      salvage resection of the primary tumor and/or neck dissection approximately 3 months after
      the completion of radiotherapy.

      Patients undergo quality of life and swallowing evaluations periodically.

      Patients undergo PET/CT scan at baseline, before beginning radiotherapy, at 6-8 weeks after
      completion of study treatment, every 6 months for 5 years, and then annually thereafter.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 and 8 weeks, every 2 months
      for 2 years, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  