
    
      PROTOCOL SUMMARY AND/OR SCHEMA

      To determine whether administration of a PNB at time of vaginal reconstructive surgery can
      reduce use of narcotics and reported pain scores in the immediate postoperative period within
      the setting of multimodal postoperative pain control of ERAS. Women >18yo undergoing vaginal
      reconstructive surgery without a hysterectomy will be randomized to either standard of care
      with typical use of local anesthetic during their surgery versus perioperative PNB in
      addition to typical use of local anesthetic during their surgery. PNB will be performed with
      0.5% bupivacaine and 10cc will be injected bilaterally. All patients will be on a standard
      preoperative and postoperative multimodal pain regimen. Patients will be followed until 6
      weeks after surgery.

      OVERVIEW OF STUDY DESIGN/INTERVENTION

      This will be a prospective blinded randomized controlled trial. We will recruit women who are
      undergoing vaginal prolapse repair surgery with a Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive
      Surgery fellowship-trained provider within the UCLA Health System. Women will be recruited
      prior to undergoing vaginal reconstructive surgery. They will then be randomized to control
      group with standard of care with local anesthesia used during surgery (Group 1) or PNB in
      addition to use of local anesthesia typically used during surgery (Group 2).

      All pain medication will be standardized. Preoperative medications per our ERAS protocol will
      include oral acetaminophen 1000mg, gabapentin 600mg, and celecoxib 400mg. During surgery the
      patient will undergo their randomized intervention as either Group 1 or Group 2.
      Postoperative medications per our ERAS protocol including scheduled acetaminophen 1,000mg PO
      every 6 hours and ketorolac 30mg IV every 6 hours. For supplemental pain medication patients
      will have the following available: tramadol 50mg PO every 6 hours as needed for moderate pain
      (pain 4-6/10 on NRS scale), tramadol 100mg PO every 6 hours as needed for severe pain (pain
      7-10/10 on NRS scale), and oxycodone 5mg PO every 4 hours as needed for breakthrough pain as
      supplemental pain medication. If the above regimen does not allow for sufficient pain control
      then additional hydromorphone IV 0.2mg or morphine IV 2mg can be ordered by the provider as
      needed, but will not be standard in the postoperative order set. The providers will know what
      intervention the patients underwent, but the patients and the care team obtaining pain scores
      in the hospital will be blinded to the intervention.

      The patients' pain scores on the numeric rating scale (NRS) and supplemental opioid use
      measured in morphine milligram equivalent (MME) will be tracked during their hospitalization,
      which is typically a 23-hour observation. They will then be called at 48 hours for further
      follow-up on pain score by NRS and asked how much opioid medication they have taken since
      leaving the hospital and their overall satisfaction with their pain control. To help with the
      determination of supplemental pain medication used and pain scores, the patients will be
      provided a worksheet upon discharge that outlines their recommended medication routine,
      allows them to record their supplemental opioid medication use with dose and time, and also
      provides space for them to record their pain score at 48 hours post operatively. The patient
      will then be contacted at 2 weeks after surgery to determine if they have returned to normal
      activities (walking, sitting, and performing daily household tasks comfortably) and if so at
      what point this occurred, as well as their overall satisfaction with their postoperative pain
      control again. The two week contact will be either a phone call or clinic visit depending on
      the provider's preference for patient follow-up. The last point of contact will be at 6 weeks
      to determine time to return to normal activities, if they had not met this milestone at the
      2-week contact, and again assess their overall satisfaction with their postoperative pain
      control. If a patient is discharge same day instead of admitted for 23-hour observation they
      will also receive a call at 24 hours postoperative to check on pain score and supplemental
      pain medication used.
    
  