
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To develop a mechanism to collect and distribute tumor specimens to various investigators,
      and a system to prioritize and develop quality-control measures for central data reporting of
      studies undertaken.

      II. To determine the prognostic significance of translocation subtype in Ewing sarcoma; to
      determine the prognostic significance of translocation negative Ewing sarcoma.

      III. To determine the prognostic significance of MRD detection in bone marrow specimens by
      RT-PCR determination of EWS-ETS fusion genes.

      IV. To determine whether serum levels of IGF1, IGFBP3 are of significance in the outcome of
      patients with Ewing sarcoma.

      V. To determine whether RNA expression profiles performed on diagnostic specimens will allow
      for the identification of newer prognostic categories and potentially new molecular targets
      for treatment in Ewing sarcoma.

      VI. To identify new treatment targets for therapy. Further testing of these potential targets
      will be carried out in hopes of expediting translation of these findings to the clinic.

      VII. To establish a bank of Ewing sarcoma xenografts in SCID/Beige mice. VIII. To establish
      clinical proteomics as a resource for investigations of altered signaling molecules in the
      pathogenesis of Ewing sarcoma.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo various specimen collections, including bone marrow aspirate,
      paraffin-embedded blocks of tumor tissue or slides of tumor tissue, and blood specimens.
      These specimens are collected before, during, and after any chemotherapy regimens, during
      follow-up, and at time of recurrence. Translocation studies are performed on specimens to
      identify fusion genes, specifically EWS-ETS. Serum IGF1 and IFGBP3 levels are determined.
      Bone marrow is assessed for minimal residual disease using reverse-transcriptase polymerase
      chain reaction.
    
  