
    
      Background and Rationale With the rapid development of the technology of reproductive
      medicine, in vitro fertilization embryo transfer (IVF-ET) and its related derivatives have
      become the most important means for the treatment of infertility. IVF-ET pregnancy rate
      increased from the initial 10% to current more than 50%, but the repeated implantation
      failure (RIF) has occurred occasionally, which has become a difficult that perplex IVF-ET
      clinical practices. There is no uniform definition of RIF at present. Coughlan et al called
      that the women below 40 years old who experienced at least 3 fresh or frozen periods and
      failed to transplant 4 and more than 4 high-quality embryos as RIF in 2014 [1]. At present,
      most of the patients have started the reason screening and inspection spontaneously if the
      transplantation fails after of transplanting 2 high-quality embryos. But the embryo
      implantation is a complex process, the etiology of RIF can be roughly summed as the embryo
      factors, uterine factors, genetic factors, immunological factors and so on, the symptomatic
      treatment according to different causes can improve the success rate of re-transplantation
      system [2]. However, in most cases, the etiology of RIF still cannot be explained [3].

      In recent years, the influence of uterine contraction on embryo implantation has attracted
      more and more attention. Studies have shown that no matter it's natural menstrual cycle or
      fertility cycle, moderate Uterine Contraction (UC) is conducive to embryo implantation, but
      excessive or strong UC will have a negative impact on embryo implantation, and even the
      embryos to be implanted to the fallopian tube, cervical or vaginal, and even be discharged of
      the uterus [4-6].

      The estrogen levels of excessively physiological state during the process of ovulation
      induction of IVF can induce the production ofoxytocin in the endometrial cells, and
      indirectly lead to the synthesis and release of prostaglandin PGF2α, resulting in increased
      uterine contraction frequency [7-9]. In 1998, Fanchin et al. found that the frequency of
      uterine contraction of about 30% of the embryos transplantation patients was higher than 5
      times /min, which was significantly correlated to the success rate of low pregnancy [5]. The
      follow-up studies confirmed by ultrasound showed that the frequency of endometrial
      contraction induced by ovulation induction cycle of IVF[10] is 5-6 times of the natural
      cycle. Therefore, in addition to the soft operation of the transplant process, the reduction
      of uterine excessive contraction by drugs may be an effective measure to improve the success
      rate of IVF pregnancy.

      Atosiban is the antagonist of mixed receptor of pitressin VIA and oxytocin, it competes the
      oxytocin receptor located on the uterine muscle cell membranes, foetal membrane and deciduas
      with oxytocin to inhibit contraction of the uterus; at the same time, it inhibits the
      generation of oxytocin induced uterine endometrial prostate element PGF2 α to increase the
      endometrial blood flow perfusion. Pierzynski et al first applied Atosiban to the field of
      reproduction in 2007 for the first time, which made the uterine contraction frequency of a
      RIF patient who failed to transplant for seven times before the oocyte donation embryo
      transplant decreased significantly, and successful became pregnant [11]. This report
      immediately caused the reproductive scientists to apply Atosiban to the clinical study of in
      vitro assisted reproduction. For the general population, there are still disputes on whether
      use Atosiban during the embryo transplant [12-14]. The prospective and randomized study of He
      Ye et al showed that Atosiban can significantly reduce the oxytocin of patients with
      endometriosis and serum concentrations of PGF2 α, reduce the frequency of uterine contraction
      and improve the implantation rate of quality blastocyst after freeze-thaw treatment and
      clinical pregnancy rate [15]. In the RIF population, the retrospective study and prospective
      cohort studies have shown that using low doses of Atosiban during IVF-ET can increase the
      implantation rate of fresh and thawed quality embryos and clinical pregnancy rate [16-18],
      which may improve pregnancy outcomes in patients with RIF. But these studies were not
      randomized placebo-controlled studies, and their conclusions are still to be verified.

      Atosiban is currently a safe and effective tocolytic drug for uncomplicated preterm patients,
      the patients had accelerated heartbeat, nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, flushing,
      anxiety, tremor and other side effects occasionally. Randomized and double blind controlled
      trial showed that the side effects with application of Atosiban and placebo in the maternal
      and child was similar, the difference was not statistically significant [15]. Preclinical
      studies haven't found that Atosiban has any toxicity to human sperm motility or embryo
      development in rabbits [20]. It hasn't found the literatures that report the fetal congenital
      malformations associated with the application of Atosiban. Therefore, the therapeutic dose of
      Atosiban should be able to be safely used in embryo transfer.

      In summary, this study intends to carry out a prospective, randomized, double blind and
      controlled study to compare the influence of Atosiban and placebo on uterine contraction
      frequency, endometrial blood flow perfusion, oxytocin and serum concentration of PGF2α,
      embryo implantation rate and clinical pregnancy rate on the RIF population after fresh embryo
      transfer, so as to further clarify the curative effect of Atosiban in the treatment of RIF
      and provide evidence-based basis for Atosiban for application in RIF population.
    
  