
    
      Improvement in the treatment of infertility by Assisted Reproductive Techniques (ART) allows
      single embryo transfer to be applied without compromising pregnancy rates after the first in
      vitro fertilization (IVF) or Intra Cytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI) attempt in women less
      than 36 years old with good embryo quality. The policy of transferring more than one embryo
      after IVF or ICSI has been the main reason for the numerous twin or triple pregnancies
      reported in Europe and United States over the past 15 years. These multiple pregnancies are
      the main disadvantage of ART because of their negative impact on obstetrical, neonatal and
      economic outcome. In the past, embryos were replaced in the uterus on either Day-2 or 3 of
      development at the cleavage stage. With the development of physiologically-based sequential
      culture media, it has also been suggested that extending embryo culture to Day-5 in order to
      transfer the embryo at the blastocyst stage would enhance the likelihood of pregnancy.
      Nevertheless, it has been observed higher pregnancy rate after the transfer of fresh
      blastocyst but not after the transfer of thawed blastocyst frozen by slow freezing procedure.

      However a recent embryo freezing technique (vitrification) seems to show significant higher
      pregnancy rates when blastocyst are frozen by this method. To our knowledge, no publications
      have reported the outcome of single embryo transfer at blastocyst stage by a prospective
      randomized and comparative study including the results of fresh and frozen/thawed blastocyst
      by these two methods (slow freezing vs. vitrification) in case of single embryo transfer .

      Therefore, the aim of our study is to analyze whether extended culture of Day-2 top embryos
      to blastocyst-stage may improve the cumulative delivery rate in an in vitro fertilization
      program with Single Embryo Transfer policy in a prospective and randomized study integrating
      the transfer of fresh and frozen/thawed embryos using a slow freezing versus vitrification
      procedure.
    
  