
    
      Patients applying for orthodontic treatment with braces in the orthodontic unit of the Rennes
      dental center will be offered to participate in the study. For each patient, the inclusion
      and non-inclusion criteria will be checked, and consent and a document explaining the course
      of the study will be delivered to them personally. The duration of the study will be 6 months
      for each of them. Each will be randomized to one of three study groups. Throughout the study,
      patients in groups 1 and 2 will have to make 5 appointments. Group 3 patients must honor 6
      appointments.

      Patients in group 1 (control group) will receive oral hygiene advice given orally in the
      chair during the bonding appointment and at each check-up appointment. Patients in group 2
      will receive these same oral advice, associated with a demonstration of brushing methods in
      the sink with active participation (use of plate developer and then the Oral B electric
      toothbrush with special orthodontic head) during the bonding appointment as well than at each
      check-up appointment. Patients in group 3 will receive the same treatment as those in group 1
      but will have an additional appointment between the device bonding appointment and the first
      check-up. This is a 15-minute session dedicated to teaching oral hygiene. This session will
      include watching of an educational video followed by a quiz, as well as the application of
      the methods taught in the sink (using plate developer and the Oral B electric toothbrush with
      special orthodontic head).

      At the end of the appliance bonding appointment (first appointment) each patient (from each
      group) will leave with a hygiene kit including an electric toothbrush with two orthodontic
      heads, an Oral B toothpaste, from orthodontic wax and the analgesic prescription
      conventionally performed when installing a device.

      The plaque index readings, i.e. the taking of 3 macrophotographic shots (with reflex camera,
      allowing the MOP plaque index to be assessed in a second step), and the clinical index of
      gingival inflammation will be performed at each appointment (except during the dedicated
      session of group 3) by an examiner who will be blind from the group belonging to each
      patient.

      Exception made for the day of bonding, during which the plate index reading will be made just
      before the placement of the multi fasteners via the Loë and Silness plate index (which is an
      index adapted to patients not fitted).
    
  