
    
      Overall purpose:

      The Overall purpose is to develop a multi-institutional database comprising information
      regarding surgical, clinical and oncological features of patients undergoing surgery for
      gastric cancer with robotic, laparoscopic or open approaches and subsequent follow-up at
      participating centers.

      General study design:

      The registry will be established by retrospectively identifying subjects with gastric cancer
      treated at the participating centers.

      Information gathered will be obtained from existing data and records, diagnostic tests and
      surgical interventions.

      Information will be collected and recorded by all institutes through a specific online shared
      system.

      Main objectives:

        -  To determine the surgical, clinical, and oncological outcomes in both the short and long
           term

        -  To compare results according to the type of intervention, device used and manner of
           execution of different surgical phases

        -  To relate results of different surgeries with baseline characteristics of patients and
           stage of disease

      Clinical relevance:

      Studies that reported results of minimally invasive surgery for gastric cancer and recent
      meta-analysis emphasize the need for large trials.

      A further consideration in this field regards the need of numerous patients to reach a
      statistical significance on surgical, clinical and oncological outcomes, in order to fully
      assess the effectiveness and the differences between the different surgical approaches.

      At present, a multicenter registry may represent the best research tool to assess the role of
      minimally invasive approaches by comparing the methods with traditional open surgery.

      Therefore, for this project, a large registry will be created by collecting data from the
      different participating centers to create a working basis for analyzing outcomes of interest
      and obtaining directions for further investigation.

      The data collected will clarify the role of laparoscopic and robotic surgery versus the open
      approach in terms of:

        -  safety and feasibility based on the intraoperative outcomes

        -  respect of oncological principles in relation to the stage and location of the tumor

        -  recovery of gastrointestinal function considering the outcomes measured during the
           postoperative hospital stay

        -  incidence, types and severity of postoperative complications

        -  overall survival and disease-free survival

      Duration of study:

      The beginning of the trial is scheduled for January 2015. It is expected to end the chart
      review within one year.

      Type of data collection:

      In the present study, the following information will be collected:

        -  Patient Demographics

        -  Surgical Procedure details

        -  Tumor characteristics

        -  Operative findings

        -  Post-operative clinical findings

        -  Post-operative complications

        -  Follow-up details

      Statistical analysis:

      The dichotomous variables will be expressed as numbers and percentages, while continuous
      variables will be expressed as mean and standard deviation (SD) or median and interquartile
      range (minimum and maximum values).

      Continuous variables, will be compared using one-way ANOVA with post hoc multiple comparison
      by Tukey's procedure. Pearson's χ2 test or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate, will be used
      for analysis of categorical data.

      For each of these tests a value of alpha (α) < 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant.

      Potential risks and safety management:

      Participation in the research registry involves the potential risks of a breach of
      confidentiality of the medical record information and associated privacy of the participants.

      Such risks will be minimized by the use and the establishment of appropriate information
      technology services.
    
  