
    
      Aims

      The primary aims of this pilot trial are to investigate rates of maternal recruitment and
      retention, and adherence with a MD during the latter two trimesters of pregnancy (i.e. weeks
      12 to 36). The secondary aims are to determine whether there is any subsequent measurable
      change in the Mediterranean Diet score and whether the dietary advice and diet modifications
      are acceptable.

      Research questions

        1. What are the recruitment and retention rates of pregnant mothers whose infants are at
           high risk of atopic disease?

        2. Is the advice and dietary modification acceptable to participants?

        3. To what extent are mothers able to adhere to a MD?

        4. Can a MD score be increased in pregnancy?

        5. Can a measurable change in a biomarker of oxidative stress be detected as a result of
           adherence to a MD?

        6. Can any increases in MD be sustained during pregnancy?

      Design

        1. Trial design This is a two-arm pilot RCT. Trial participants will be recruited from 2-3
           hospitals/community treatment centres in Scotland.

        2. Participant recruitment

           Pregnant women aged 16 years and above will be sent a letter of invitation, information
           for participants, and a consent form for the trial with their dating scan appointment by
           the hospital. Interested participants will be invited to contact the researcher by text,
           phone or email to discuss the project and answer any questions they may have; they will
           then be screened for eligibility to take part in the trial.

           Eligibility of high risk women is defined as: those with one or more first degree blood
           relatives with atopic dermatitis (eczema), a food allergy, allergic rhinitis (hay fever)
           or asthma, using the question 'Do you, the mother, or the father or sibling of the baby
           have an allergic disease: eczema, a food allergy, hay fever or asthma?' Responses will
           be recorded on the screening questionnaire.

           The researcher will send to the participant a food frequency questionnaire for
           completion at home and a urine container with instructions to fill the container on the
           day of the scan and bring it, with the Consent form and the completed FFQ along with
           them to hand over to the researcher. The urine specimen will be used for the analysis of
           markers of oxidative stress, antioxidant activity and nitric oxide (NO) synthesis. The
           researcher will greet the participant in the waiting area of the clinic prior to their
           dating scan where their consent form, urine sample and FFQ will be collected. After
           their scan, consenting eligible participants will complete a baseline MD questionnaire.

        3. Intervention

           The intervention is a 15 minute dietary advice session directed at increasing the MD
           score, with subsequent telephone support sessions throughout the pregnancy.

           Intervention arm

           Mothers randomised to the intervention arm will meet with the project researcher when
           visiting the hospital for their first dating scan. After the scan, participants will
           receive a 15 minute dietary advice session, encouraging the consumption of particular
           foods that are consistent with the MD, and the key messages will be supplemented through
           written/visual materials, and through regular supportive telephone calls. No energy
           restrictions will be suggested. A £10 supermarket voucher will be given to the
           participants.

           The first follow-up by the researcher will be by telephone 12 weeks post-baseline MD
           questionnaire to inform them they will receive the second MD questionnaire and reply
           envelope for completion and return. A further supermarket voucher to the value of £10
           will be sent to the participant on receipt of the completed form.

           Two weeks prior to the 24 weeks post-baseline MD questionnaire the project researcher
           will contact participants by phone and arrange a home visit. When visited at home by the
           researcher, a third MD questionnaire and second FFQ will be completed and handed to the
           researcher and a urine sample will be obtained.

           Free and continuous telephone access to the researcher will be available throughout the
           study.

           Control arm

           Mothers randomised to the control arm will meet with the project researcher when
           visiting the hospital for their first dating scan. The participant will not receive the
           15 minute dietary advice session. A £10 supermarket voucher will be given to the
           participants. The first follow-up by the researcher will be by telephone 12 weeks
           post-baseline MD questionnaire to inform them they will receive the second MD
           questionnaire and reply envelope for completion and return. A further supermarket
           voucher to the value of £10 will be sent to the participant on receipt of the completed
           form.

           Two weeks prior to the 24 weeks post-baseline MD questionnaire the project researcher
           will contact participants by phone and arrange a home visit. When visited at home by the
           researcher, a third MD questionnaire and second FFQ will be completed and handed to the
           researcher and a urine sample will be obtained.

        4. Randomisation

           Allocation to the intervention or control arm will be via pre-randomised sealed
           envelopes, based on a predetermined random number allocation, restricted by recruitment
           site. This restricted randomisation will be carried out by an independent statistician.

        5. Follow-up Participants will be enrolled for a total of ~7 months (i.e. from 12-36 weeks
           of pregnancy).

      Outcome measures

        -  Recruitment rate (i.e. the proportion of those invited to take part compared with the
           number of consenting women)

        -  Retention rate (i.e. the proportion of those starting the study to those finishing)

        -  Change in MD score from baseline to 24 and 36 weeks of pregnancy

        -  Change in oxidative stress and whole-body NO production

        -  Acceptability of dietary advice and diet modifications
    
  