
    
      Cognitive impairment, including disabling cognitive, behavioral, and social dysfunction,
      continues to be a major problem faced by HIV-infected people taking antiretroviral therapy
      (ART). Research is needed to develop treatment that can be given alongside ART to prevent or
      lessen cognitive impairment caused by ART. Minocycline, an antibiotic commonly used for the
      treatment of acne and rheumatoid arthritis, has demonstrated anti-inflammatory and
      neuroprotective properties in previous studies. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of
      24-week therapy with minocycline in lessening the cognitive impairment of HIV infected adults
      taking ART.

      This study will last at least 24 weeks and has two steps. Patients will be stratified by HIV
      viral load and their neurocognitive state at study screening. In Step I, patients will be
      randomly assigned to one of two groups. Group 1 participants will receive twice-daily
      minocycline for 24 weeks; Group 2 participants will receive placebo. At the end of Phase I,
      study participants will be offered to enter Step II; all participants in Step II will receive
      twice-daily minocycline for an additional 24 weeks.

      There will be a total of 8 study visits: 5 visits for Step I (including the entry visit) and
      3 visits for Step II. Medical history will occur at all visits. Blood collection will occur
      at all visits. Participants who have positive nonreactive rapid plasma regain (RPR) values at
      screening will have mandatory lumbar punctures; for those with negative serum RPR results
      lumbar punctures are optional. Participants who test positive for syphilis will also have a
      lumbar puncture at their discretion to determine if syphilis has affected the brain. A
      neurological exam, other neuropsychological, dementia, and depression scale assessments, and
      urine collection will occur at most visits. Patients will be asked to complete a
      questionnaire on daily living at study entry and Weeks 12 and 24. Patients who have a lumbar
      puncture at Week 24 will receive a phone call 2 to 5 days after the procedure to report any
      adverse effects. Some participants may also have an electrocardiogram (ECG) during the study.
      For participants not on atazanavir some procedures and sample collections are optional.
    
  