
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the 6 months (mo), 1, 2, 3, and 5-year biopsy confirmed ipsilateral breast
      tumor recurrence rate (IBTR, invasive, and/or in situ) among patients who do not undergo
      surgery.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the number (%) of patients where final biopsy reveals residual disease and
      quantify the residual disease (residual cancer burden, RCB) determined by routine pathologic
      examination of surgery specimens.

      II. To assess baseline, 6 months, 1, 3, and 5 years decisional comfort of clinical trial
      participation using the Decisional Regret Scale (DRS).

      III. To determine patient-reported cosmetic outcome, breast pain, and functional status using
      the Breast Cancer Treatment Outcomes Scale (BCTOS) at baseline, 6 months, 1, 3, and 5 years.

      IV. To determine the 6 mo, 1, 2, 3, and 5-year incidence of ipsilateral breast and nodal
      recommendation and performance of biopsy based on breast imaging follow-up.

      V. Correlate "liquid biopsy" analyses (after neoadjuvant systemic therapy [NST], 6 months and
      one year postradiotherapy or surgery) among protocol participants with pathologic complete
      response (pCR), utilizing circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and circulating
      tumor-deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA).

      VI. Among patients who decide to proceed with routine surgery, record the results of final
      biopsy compared with routine pathologic examination of surgery specimens.

      VII. To determine patient-reported quality of life using the Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy-Breast version 4 (FACT B+4) instrument at baseline, 6 months, 1, 3, and 5 years after
      treatment.

      OUTLINE:

      Within 12 weeks of completing neoadjuvant systemic therapy, patients undergo whole breast
      irradiation over 15-25 fractions on consecutive days. Patients then undergo external beam
      radiation therapy (EBRT) boost over 7 fractions on consecutive days beginning the day
      following completion of whole breast irradiation.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  