
    
      Since it is assumed that the neuraxial anesthetic is placed prior to transition to active
      phase of labor, the patient will receive the intervention when they report breakthrough pain.
      Prior to administration of the intervention, the adequacy of the existing neuraxial
      anesthetic will be verified as bilateral decreased discrimination to cold from T8 to the
      sacrum. Four tuberculin syringes, each containing 0.1 mL of the assigned solution labeled
      "study drug" will be prepared. Patients allocated to the study group will receive sterile
      water, and those allocated to the control group will receive sterile normal saline solution.

      The area to be injected will be prepared with chlorhexidine wipes to ensure sterility. In the
      sitting position, study subjects will receive a total of 0.4 mL of "study drug" via four
      injections: bilateral injections at the posterior superior iliac spine on and bilateral
      injections at 1 cm medial and 1-2 cm inferior to the first point.

      Patients will be asked to rate their overall labor pain using a 0-100 mm visual analog scale
      (VAS) for pain prior to study drug administration and every 30 minutes until commencement of
      pushing. They will also be asked to specifically rate low back pain with the VAS. Analgesia
      administration data from the time of study drug injection, including maintenance epidural
      solution volume, time of first patient controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA) bolus request,
      number of PCEA bolus requests and delivered doses, total PCEA bupivacaine dose, time to first
      request for manual rebolus, number of manual bolus doses, manual bolus bupivacaine dose,
      total bupivacaine dose and total fentanyl dose.

      Additional recorded data will include maternal age, height, weight, cervical dilation at
      initiation of neuraxial analgesia and at study drug administration, duration of labor
      (initiation of analgesia to delivery), maximum oxytocin infusion rate during labor, and mode
      of delivery. A "total labor pain score" will be assessed approximately 60 minute after
      delivery, as well as satisfaction with labor analgesia using a 100-mm VAS.
    
  