
    
      CALGB 80203 was activated on December 15, 2003. In February 2004, based on the results of the
      randomized trial of IFL +/- cetuximab showing a significant improvement in overall survival
      with cetuximab, cetuximab was approved by the FDA for use as front-line therapy for patients
      with metastatic colon cancer. In response to this action, the Data Safety and Monitoring
      Board recommended closure of CALGB 80203. CALGB 80203 was subsequently closed to accrual in
      January 2005 with 238 of the originally targeted 2200 patients enrolled. A final decision was
      to "replace" CALGB 80203 with a three-treatment arm randomized trial of chemotherapy (FOLFOX
      or FOLFIRI) with and without cetuximab and/or bevacizumab. The protocol was amended to allow
      analysis of the data from CALGB 80203 as a randomized phase II trial and reporting of the
      results.

      Patients were stratified according to prior adjuvant chemotherapy (yes vs no) and prior
      pelvic radiation (yes vs no). Patients must have completed any major surgery or radiotherapy
      (eg, chest or bone palliative RT or pelvic RT) ≥ 4 weeks from registration and completed any
      minor surgery ≥ 2 weeks from registration. Patients must have fully recovered from the
      procedure and/or radiotherapy. Patients must have initiated treatment within 7 days of
      registration. Patients were randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms, please see a description of
      the treatment regimens in the "Arms" section. In addition, patients received concomitant and
      supportive therapy as appropriate per the protocol.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

      1. To determine if the addition of C225 to FOLFIRI or FOLFOX chemotherapy prolongs survival
      of patients with untreated, advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer.

      Secondary

        1. To determine if the FOLFIRI and FOLFOX regimens are equivalent in terms of survival as
           front-line therapy for advanced colorectal patients.

        2. To determine the level of EGFR expression in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.

      Patients were followed up to 3 years post-treatment.
    
  