
    
      Local anesthetic:

      Local anesthetics are widely used in dentistry for different procedures and are chemical
      substances that block nerve conduction, temporarily and irreversibly in order to avoid pain
      and are placed in specific sites of the body, for example in oral tissues.

      Pharmacology of local anesthetics related to effectiveness and safety

      Latency time It is defined as the time that elapses between the infiltration of the
      anesthetic substance in the tissue until the first signs of insensibility are felt. It is
      influenced by the distance of the route the anesthetic must travel, with the ability to cross
      the membrane of the nerve cells.

      Duration of the anesthetic effect Also known as the duration of the action, related to the
      capacity of fixation of the anesthetic substance to the nerve cell proteins and with lipid
      solubility.

      pH of anesthetics It is one of the factors that influence the action of blocking nerve
      conduction, and is the factor that conditions the movement of the anesthetic from the site
      where it is administered to the nerve fiber, that is why the tissues that are infected make
      the effectiveness is decreased, since the pH would turn acidic. In addition, the pH varies
      according to whether or not it has a vasoconstrictor.

      Power Anesthetic capacity to pass the lipids of the nerve membranes, the greater the
      liposolubility, the greater the anesthetic power, depending on how the power is the
      classification of the action time, low power with short action, intermediate power with
      action medium and high power with long action.

      Diffusion It is related to the minimum concentration required to inhibit nerve conduction,
      given by the transfer of molecules or ions from an anesthetic solution from the point where
      it infiltrates to the membrane of the nerve cell.

      Articaine

      Articaine is a short-acting local anesthetic, belonging to the group of amides, it has an
      additional ester group that is rapidly hydrolyzed by plasma esterases, which exhibits a lower
      toxicity compared to other drugs of the same family. This dissolves better than other amides
      in the soft tissues and bone, for this reason, it is especially indicated for dental use.

      Articaine is introduced in 1972 in the market of local anesthetics. Prepared for the first
      time by Rusching et al in 1969, it changed its generic name to articaine when it began to be
      used in clinical practice in Germany in 1976. Its use gradually expanded, until it entered
      the market of the United States and Canada, in 1983 and in the United Kingdom in 1998.

      Articaine with vasoconstrictor (epinephrine) is administered submucosally. The onset of
      anesthetic effects is observed between 1 to 6 minutes and the duration of anesthesia is
      approximately one hour and is recommended for long procedures. After administration, maximum
      concentrations are reached after 20 minutes, approximately between 60 and 80% bind plasma
      proteins, in particular albumin and gamma globulins, and are easily distributed in soft
      tissues.

      Its main metabolite is the articainic acid, which is metabolized by the isoenzymes of the
      cytochrome P450, between 5 and 10% of the articainic acid; this causes the increase of the
      elimination, half-life to 90 minutes. The drug is eliminated in the urine as articainic acid,
      as glucuronide of the articainic acid and as articaine without metabolizing.

      The administration of vasoconstrictors such as epinephrine, together with an anesthetic,
      could cause increases in blood pressure or heart rate due to higher plasma levels, however,
      these adverse effects are uncommon.

      Patients receiving local anesthesia for dental treatments may experience side effects at the
      level of the Central Nervous System (CNS), in case of receiving an intra-arterial injection
      with reflux into the cerebral circulation. Patients with peripheral vascular diseases and
      hypertension may experience an exaggerated response when treated with articaine-epinephrine
      due to the vasoconstrictive effects of epinephrine, which can be especially intense in the
      elderly.

      Because of its bisulfite content (as a preservative of epinephrine), the preparations of
      articaine-epinephrine are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to bisulfite. In
      addition, patients with asthma are usually more susceptible than others to this
      hypersensitivity.

      There are few studies evaluating the pharmacokinetics of articaine in the elderly or in
      patients with renal or hepatic insufficiency, although caution is advised when administering
      articaine-epinephrine to patients with liver diseases, as these patients are more susceptible
      to the drug's potential toxicity and Dose reductions may be necessary. It should also be
      administered with caution in patients with a history of drug abuse because the adverse
      reactions are dose-related and in elderly patients should be dosed with the minimum effective
      dose.
    
  