
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for
      PiC-D therapy (pomalidomide, ixazomib [ixazomib citrate], clarithromycin, and dexamethasone)
      in patients with multiple myeloma who are bortezomib and lenalidomide refractory. (Phase I)
      II. To determine the complete response (CR) and stringent CR (sCR) rate for PiC-D therapy in
      patients with multiple myeloma who are bortezomib and lenalidomide refractory. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of PiC-D therapy. (Phase I) II. To characterize
      the pharmacokinetics (PK) in plasma of oral ixazomib in combination with pomalidomide,
      clarithromycin and dexamethasone. (Phase I) III. To assess preliminary evidence of clinical
      activity. (Phase I) IV. To assess the effects of PiC-D therapy on quality of life (QOL).
      (Phase I) V. To assess the effects of PiC-D therapy on immune status (phenotypic analysis and
      cytokine profiling).

      VI. To evaluate the safety of PiC-D therapy. (Phase II) VII. To determine the overall
      response rate (ORR) (ORR; CR, sCR, partial response, and very good partial response. (Phase
      II) VIII. To determine the clinical benefit rate (CBR) (CBR; minimal response + ORR). (Phase
      II) IX. To determine the disease control rate (DCR) (DCR; stable disease + CBR). (Phase II)
      X. To determine the duration of response (DOR) in patients achieving a partial response or
      better. (Phase II) XI. To determine the time to next treatment (TNT). (Phase II) XII. To
      determine progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). (Phase II) XIII. To
      assess the effects of PiC-D therapy on quality of life (QOL). (Phase II)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the effects of PiC-D therapy on immune status (phenotypic analysis and cytokine
      profiling). (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of clarithromycin followed by a phase II
      study.

      Patients receive pomalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21; ixazomib citrate PO
      on days 1, 8, and 15; clarithromycin PO twice daily (BID) on days 15-21 of course 1 and days
      1-21 and courses 2-6; and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every
      28 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY:

      Patients receive pomalidomide, ixazomib citrate, and dexamethasone as above and receive
      clarithromycin PO BID or QD. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2-3 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  