
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) affects men and women of all racial and ethnic groups and accounts
      for more than 600,000 deaths per year, globally. Current treatment options may involve
      surgery, chemotherapy (both adjuvant and neoadjuvant), radiation therapy, and palliative
      care, each with trade-offs between disease management and patients' quality of life.
      Unfortunately, significant disparity exists in the quality of care, and so outcomes delivered
      across institutions for each treatment modality, suggesting that unwarranted variation in the
      provision of care occurs for patients with CRC. Hence, there is a need for standardization to
      ensure high-value health care for all patients, regardless the hospital where they present.

      This study evaluates the introduction of a Value-Based Health Care (VBHC) patient-centered
      framework in CRC treatments. VBHC is an innovative approach that aims to improve health care
      by identifying and systematically measuring both medical and patient-reported health care
      outcomes. By applying sets of disease-specific outcomes measurements, health care providers
      (HCP) can compare care strategies and make informed choices with regard to optimization of
      care, necessary investments and possible cost reductions. The need to move toward a more
      patient-centered approach has been highlighted to be crucial in the context of quality care.
      Patient-centered care is a key component of a health system that ensures that all patients
      have access to the outcomes that matter for them.

      The adoption of a VBHC patient-centered approach may have a significant impact on therapeutic
      areas constituting a major disease and cost burden for the global health care, such as CRC.
      CRC causes significant morbidity and mortality, being the third most common cancer and the
      fourth most common cause of cancer deaths worldwide and the second most common cause of
      cancer deaths in Europe. The 5-years relative survival rate is 47% in Europe and 60% in the
      US. Moreover, the economic burden of CRC is expected to increase in the future, partly due to
      changing demographics and the introduction of new and resource-demanding treatments and
      screening methods. In this scenario, the introduction of VBHC-based clinical pathways has the
      potential to improve cancer care planning, monitoring, and management of patients, by
      promoting better communication and shared decision making by patients and healthcare
      providers.

      Research Hypothesis In general, an essential requirement to be able to apply a VBHC approach
      is the clear definition of the disease-specific outcomes, both clinical and patient-reported.
      Clinical outcomes can be measured by activity data such as complication rates, type of
      surgery, re-hospitalization rates, or by agreed scales and other forms of measurement. A
      patient-reported outcome measurement (PROM) is defined as any report about a health condition
      and well-being (quality of life) that comes directly from the patient using a self-reported
      measure, without interpretation of the patient's response by a physician or anyone else.

      PROMs are being advocated for use in routine clinical cancer practice and for the early
      detection of patient distress. The use of a tailored pathway including PROMs has been shown
      to improve both quality of life (QoL) and survival in cancer patients. The QoL, by assessing
      physical function and symptoms such as pain, and social functioning are known to be
      independent prognostic factors for overall survival of metastatic CRC patients.

      Another essential requirement of VBHC approach is the outcome monitoring, to allow HCP
      accessing to evidence-based, simplified information on the hospital clinical practice and
      potentially increase health value for both patients and HCPs. It has been demonstrated that
      facilitation of data interpretation can improve medical care quality. In particular, a Dutch
      nationwide study showed that, by providing continuous feedback of benchmarked performance
      information to colorectal surgeons, clinical outcomes of patients undergoing colorectal
      cancer surgery improves and cost decreases.

      For patients with CRC, the International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement (ICHOM)
      developed a comprehensive patient-centered outcomes measurement set that could be used in the
      clinical practice to monitor patients' status. Therefore, an exploratory study collecting
      ICHOM set of data could provide useful information to evaluate the feasibility, benefits and
      barriers of a VBHC approach for CRC.

      The purpose of this study is then to evaluate the introduction of a VBHC approach in CRC
      treatments, using a validated VBHC set of clinical outcomes and PROMs, to understand which
      practice would be most effective in achieving patient-centered care. The underlying
      hypothesis is that a periodic analysis of these outcomes could increase health value for both
      patients and HCPs. The study will first explore the most accurate feasible trend of the
      Global Health Status (Quality of Life evolution) of patients but also clinical outcomes and
      other PROMs trends over time, the cause(s) of these trends, and whether any outcomes'
      predictors can be found. Furthermore, a general assessment of the impact of the VBHC approach
      on CRC treatments will be performed, in terms of general satisfaction and knowledge in
      medical care. Finally, cost associated with performed procedures and complications will be
      estimated ambispectively using the Time-driven Activity-based Costing (TDABC) methodology,
      where applicable. Additional participating sites shall be free to apply the same methodology
      or to measure costs derived from traditional hospital cost accounting systems.
    
  