
    
      Over the last decade, optical coherence tomography (OCT) has become a critical component to
      the evaluation of ophthalmic disease. Similar to ultrasound, OCT uses light to reconstruct an
      image of the tissue of interest. In effect, OCT has become to function as a light biopsy,
      allowing clinicians to visualize subtle pathologic changes in the tissue, such as macular
      edema or subretinal fluid. The use of OCT in the clinic setting has become the standard for
      monitoring diseases such as macular degeneration and diabetic retinopathy. It has quickly
      become the most frequent ordered diagnostic test in ophthalmology.

      Due to restraints in the size and structure of the imaging equipment, the use of OCT in the
      operating room has been limited. More recently, modifications to OCT table-top models as well
      as the development of hand-held OCT probes have allowed for the translation of OCT technology
      into the operating room. The high resolution anatomic information that is gained from OCT
      imaging is a natural complement to the ophthalmic surgeon. Using OCT during vitreoretinal
      surgery has revealed subtle changes in the microarchitecture of the retina in diseases such
      as retinal detachment, macular hole, and optic pit, that were not previously known. Using OCT
      during lamellar corneal transplant procedures, anterior segment surgeons have been able to
      image proper placement of the graft that was previously unattainable with a standard surgical
      microscopic view.

      Using information gained from OCT, surgeons may be able to improve surgical decision making
      and improve clinical outcomes. For this study, subjects undergoing ophthalmic surgery,
      including vitreoretinal surgery and anterior segment surgery, would have OCT imaging
      performed in the perioperative period, intraoperative period, or both to document
      architectural changes in the ocular tissues. This information would be prospectively
      collected and reviewed for associations with anatomic and functional outcomes.

      A microscope-mounted OCT system will be used to assess feasibility and utility of imaging
      during ophthalmic surgical milestones.
    
  