
    
      Depression is a common and costly disorder with high prevalence rate and high suicide rate.
      Antidepressants are the first-line treatments for depression. However, approximately 50% to
      60% of the patients have not achieved adequate response following antidepressant treatment.

      A large body of evidence well confirms that electro-acupuncture is effective in improving
      depression and reducing anti-depressant treatment-caused side effects, including pain,
      nausea, dizziness, fatigue, anxiety and sleep disturbance.

      Based on the combination of ancient and modern literature and famous traditional Chinese
      medicine practitioners' experience, the Evidence-based Guidelines of Clinical Practice with
      Acupuncture and Moxibustion-Depression (ZJ/TE003-2014) recommended Baihui (DU20) and Yintang
      (DU29) as main acupoints in treating patients with depression via electro-acupuncture.

      Our research team have completed a series of clinical trials, including electrical
      stimulation on cranial and auricular acupoints for treating depression, postpartum
      depression, post-stroke depression, and depression with somatic pain. These studies found
      that cranial-auricular acupoint stimulation, as well as transcutaneous electrical
      stimulation, can improve depressive symptoms and accompanying symptoms in patients with
      depression significantly.

      Unlike traditional acupuncture, transcutaneous electrical stimulation does not need needles
      to penetrate the skin. It places electrodes on the skin of the corresponding acupoints. In
      this way, traumatic pain and fear of acupuncture can be avoided. And it is more easily
      accepted for patients and more convenient for clinical operation. Therefore, the
      investigators plan to build a novel transcutaneous electrical stimulation
      therapy--Transcutaneous electrical cranial-auricular acupoint stimulation (TECAS).

      In the proposed study, a combination of transcutaneous electrical cranial and transcutaneous
      electrical auricular acupoint stimulation will be employed to treat patients with
      mild-to-moderate depression compared with antidepressant Escitalopram, to confirm the
      clinical effectiveness of TECAS in mild-to-moderate depression.
    
  