
    
      Background

      In recent years there has been an increase in the elderly population. This fact has led to a
      significant number of people suffering from diseases which are associated with old age,
      amongst which is dementia.

      The medical treatment of dementia is limited in its effectiveness and thus it is important to
      investigate other methods of therapy. One of the possible options to preserve the cognitive
      function is to apply cognitive exercise. If these exercises can improve cognitive expertise,
      it would open new vistas of treatment for dementia patients.

      From a few research projects that have taken place on the subject, it has not been proved
      that cognitive exercising has been of use to patients suffering from mild dementia mainly
      because of methodological restraints. Thus it is necessary to undertake controlled random
      research on the subject.

      The assessment of the cognitive state and the change in its status demands sensitive
      measurements. Objective and accurate computerized neuro-physiological testing like
      "Mindstream ®" and computer hardware are readably available. This technique enhances
      motivation and encourages participation.

      Purpose of the work:

      To evaluate the influence of computerized cognitive exercise on the cognitive function of the
      elderly suffering from mild dementia.

      Methods:

      IA randomized controlled study using a crossover AB/BA design will be performed. The
      intervention group will participate in a 12-session twice weekly intervention using the
      "Savyon" computerized cognitive training program (developed by the Melabev organization
      Jerusalem), which includes memory, language, arithmetic exercises and puzzles matching colors
      and shapes. The control group will continue with usual activities with no additional
      cognitive stimulation. Following a 4-week "washout" phase the groups will be switched in an
      AB/BA crossover design. A total of 150 subjects with mild cognitive impairment or early
      dementia will be included. Primary outcome measure will be the Mindstreams® (NeuroTrax Corp.,
      N.Y.) computerized cognitive assessment battery performed initially, at 12 weeks, 16 weeks,
      28 weeks.

      For each Mindstreams ® index, the differences were compared the testing within each group
      utilizing "Wilcoxon Signed Ranks test" and between the groups utilizing "Mann-Whitney U
      test".
    
  