
    
      Ultrasonography has become a ubiquitous feature of Intensive care nowadays, with its
      influence ranging from various diagnostics to various therapeutic interventions. It is
      readily available at the bedside and is non-invasive, making it an ideal tool in the hands of
      the intensivist. It has excellent safety profile, and hence can be performed repeatedly.
      These days it has become an indispensable tool in the intensive care units owing to its
      potential utility in the process of weaning a critically ill patient from mechanical
      ventilator support.

      A neurosurgical patient is different from any other post-operative or critically ill
      patients. Their altered cerebral physiology, specific goals of therapy, varied response to
      usual management protocols, put them in a different league whole together. The primary aim of
      care for these patients is to detect and prevent any secondary neurological insult while
      supporting systemic and neurological homeostasis. Hypoxia and hypercarbia are factors which
      need to be absolutely avoided while caring for such patients. A good proportion of these
      patients will have respiratory instability, airway compromise and altered sensorium, which
      makes them prone to hypoxia and hypercarbia. To avoid these secondary insults to the
      neurological system, endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation is instituted in
      patients who are at high risk. Mechanical ventilation is continued until the patient is
      clinically stabilized and primary neurological damage has been taken care of. Subsequently
      the transition from control ventilation to spontaneous ventilation begins

      The weaning process from mechanical ventilation involves sequential reduction of ventilatory
      parameters, assessment of readiness of the patient for extubation and when all these
      criterias are acceptable, then finally extubation. Daily, meticulous evaluation of clinical
      and neurological conditions and completion of spontaneous breathing trial (SBT) should be
      considered in order to recognize and facilitate the process of withdrawal of the mechanical
      ventilation. Extubation is considered as a success when the ventilator prosthesis is removed
      after the patient passed the SBT and there is no need for reinstitution of the MV in the next
      48 hours. The entire process of weaning can be categorised as a six step process:

        1. Taking care of the primary event

        2. Deciding whether to start weaning

        3. Assessing the readiness to wean

        4. Spontaneous breathing trial (SBT)

        5. Extubation

        6. Assessment of probable reintubation6

      Several parameters have been instituted for assessing the capability of weaning. These
      include: Rapid Shallow Breathing Index, which is the ratio of respiratory frequency to tidal
      volume (RSBI=f/VT), Pulmonary gas exchange (like: PaO2/FiO2, PaCO2), Vital Capacity (VC),
      Minute Ventilation and Static Compliance. Weaning may not always have a successful outcome.
      Difficult weaning may in fact be due to different or mixed etiologies, the diagnosis of which
      requires meticulous monitoring of various physiologic and objective parameters. Assessment of
      lung aeration by ultrasonography is rapidly gaining significance in weaning protocol. Apart
      from lung ultrasonography, the role of transthoracic echocardiography in successfully
      predicting weaning capability have been investigated in the recent times. Cardiac related
      weaning failure may be due to systolic LV dysfunction or isolated diastolic dysfunction. By
      this study we are trying to evaluate the scope of ultrasonography in detection of lung
      aeration and cardiac systolic and diastolic function in mechanically ventilated neurosurgical
      patients undergoing weaning; and whether they can be used as a good diagnostic tool to detect
      those who are likely to fail weaning in this specific subset of patient population.
    
  