
    
      Following severe burn injury in human patients the mitochondrial fat oxygenation capacity is
      decreased in muscle. This is associated with a corresponding progression in the severity of
      the resistance to the action of insulin on glucose disposal and protein synthesis and
      breakdown in muscle, regenerating wound and liver.

      Fatty acids or their active intracellular products ( e.g. Diacylglycerol, acyl- Coenzyme
      A(CoA) or acylcarnitine) are the direct inhibitors of insulin action, rather than tissue
      triglycerides(TG) itself. In other words, impaired mitochondrial fatty acid oxygenation is
      the mechanism that causes altered lipid metabolism that ultimately contributes to insulin
      resistance.

      Accumulation of active fatty acid products, such as Diacylglycerol, acyl-CoA or acylcarnitine
      esters in muscle cells is due to the rate of uptake of plasma free fatty acids(FFA) exceeding
      the rate of oxygenation within muscle due principally to a reduced capacity of mitochondria
      to oxidize fatty acids.

      Decreasing insulin sensitivity in muscle is related to impaired insulin signaling. This will
      be reflected by increased activity of protein kinase C (PKC). Because PKC is thought to exert
      its regulatory effect primarily on either tyrosine kinase activity on the insulin receptor or
      downstream kinase insulin receptor substrate (IRS) phosphorylation, these elements of the
      insulin signaling cascade will be decreased. In turn, elements of insulin signaling related
      to the response of muscle glucose (PI3 Kinase) and protein (P70S6k)metabolism will be
      reduced. The investigators propose that increased tissue PKC activity will be associated with
      increased tissue concentration of Diacylglycerol, acyl-CoA or acylcarnitine. The
      investigators hypothesize that the treatment of patients with the peroxisome
      proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha antagonist fenofibrate will improve
      mitochondrial capacity to oxidize fatty acids. Insulin sensitivity in muscle, skin and liver
      in terms of both glucose and protein metabolism will be improved by fenofibrate treatment.
    
  