
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Sorafenib is designed to stop the cell growth and to block the formation of new blood vessels
      (the tubes that carry blood around the body), which are involved in the growth and
      development of tumors.

      Temozolomide is designed to kill cancer cells by damaging DNA (the genetic material of
      cells). The damaged DNA may cause tumor cell death.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to 1 of 4
      groups based on when you joined this study. You will remain in the same group for the entire
      study. In this study, the dose of the study drugs is different from group to group, and the
      doses are also different during and after radiation. During radiation, the study drugs and
      doses are as follows:

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will take temozolomide.

        -  If you are in Groups 2 or 3, you will take temozolomide and the lower dose of sorafenib.

        -  If you are in Group 4, you will take temozolomide and the higher dose of sorafenib.

        -  During radiation, all the groups will take the same dose of temozolomide.

      After Radiation:

        -  If you are in Groups 1 or 2, you will take the higher dose of temozolomide on a shorter
           cycle and the higher dose of sorafenib.

        -  If you are in Group 3, you will take the lower dose of temozolomide on a longer cycle
           and the lower dose of sorafenib.

        -  If you are in Group 4, you will take the lower dose of temozolomide on a longer cycle
           and the higher dose of sorafenib.

      The amount of study drugs you receive may change if you experience side effects. If at any
      time you experience any intolerable side effects, tell the study doctor right away.

      Study Drug Administration:

      During Radiation:

      As a part of standard of care, you will receive radiation therapy Monday-Friday for a total
      of 30 radiation treatments (about 6 weeks).

      Every day while you are receiving radiation, you will take the temozolomide by mouth once a
      day (up to a maximum of 7 weeks). On Monday-Friday, you will take temozolomide 1 hour before
      radiation therapy. On Saturday and Sunday, you will take temozolomide in the morning.

      You should swallow temozolomide whole, one right after the other, without chewing them. If
      you vomit while taking temozolomide, you cannot take more capsules before the next scheduled
      dose. They should be taken on an empty stomach (at least 1 hour before and 2 hours after
      eating) with 1 cup (about 8 oz.) of water.

      Every day while you are receiving radiation, you will take sorafenib by mouth 2 times a day
      (in the morning and evening) (up to a maximum of 7 weeks). You should take sorafenib without
      food (1 hour before or 2 hours after eating), with at least 1 cup (8 oz.) of water. If you
      are in Group 1, you will not take sorafenib.

      After Radiation:

      You will not take the study drug(s) for about 4 weeks after the radiation therapy ends.

      After 4 weeks:

        -  If you are in Group 1 or 2, on Days 1-5 of every 28-day study cycle, you will take
           temozolomide by mouth once a day.

        -  If you are in Group 3 or 4, on Days 1-21 of every cycle, you will take temozolomide by
           mouth once a day.

      Every day of each cycle, all groups will take sorafenib by mouth 2 times (in the morning and
      evening).

      Study Visits:

      During Radiation:

      Once a week while you are receiving radiation therapy, you will be asked about any drugs you
      may be taking and if you have experienced any side effects. Your blood pressure will be
      measured. Blood (about 3-4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      After Radiation:

      About 3-4 weeks after the end of radiation therapy, you will have a MRI scan to check the
      status of the disease.

      On Day 1 of every cycle, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and if you have experienced any side
           effects.

        -  Blood (about 3-4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Days 7, 14, and 21 of Cycle 1 and on Days 7 and 14 (or 21) of Cycles 2 and beyond, blood
      (about 3-4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Day 1 of every other cycle (Cycles 3, 5, 7, and so on), you will have a MRI scan to check
      the status of the disease.

      Every week of Cycle 1, your blood pressure will be measured.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for about 15 months total. You will be taken off study early if the
      disease gets worse or you experience intolerable side effects.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      After you go off study, you will have an end-of-study visit. At this visit, the following
      tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  You will be have a performance status evaluation.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and if you have experienced any side
           effects.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  You will have a MRI scan to check the status of the disease.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      This is an investigational study. Temozolomide is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of brain tumors. Sorafenib is FDA approved and commercially available for the
      treatment of kidney cancer, but it is experimental for use in brain tumors. In addition, the
      combination of temozolomide and Sorafenib is experimental for use in brain tumors. At this
      time, the combination is only being used in research.

      Up to 51 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  