
    
      Subject population:

      Outpatient and inpatient male and non-pregnant females ≥18 years old, diagnosed with COVID-19
      in the emergency department or admitted to the hospital but not requiring invasive mechanical
      ventilation or in the ICU.

      Approximately 420 subjects will be randomized (2:1 ratio), 280 in the EnteraGam® arm and 140
      in the control (standard of care) arm.

      Nutritional intervention:

      ImmunoLin is the active ingredient in EnteraGam®, a medical food developed and marketed by
      Entera Health in the US since 2013. ImmunoLin is an edible bovine plasma-derived
      immunoglobulin concentrate developed in 2001 as an immunoglobulin enriched plasma preparation
      for the human dietary supplement market. ImmunoLin is Generally Regarded as Safe (GRAS)
      following a letter of no objection from the US FDA in 2008. Physicians have prescribed
      EnteraGam® for patients with a variety of GI-related conditions.

      Statistical methodology:

      Efficacy: Based on per protocol analysis. Subjects lacking an assessment at Week 2 will be
      included in the analysis using the last available post-baseline data. Three pre-specified
      secondary analyses will be performed: 1) restricted to subjects with a comorbidity considered
      a major risk factor for hospitalization and disease severity (diabetes, cardiovascular
      disease, chronic lung disease, chronic renal disease, immunocompromised state); 2) restricted
      to age ≥ 50 years; 3) by inpatient only and outpatient only subgroups.

      Additional analysis of covariance models with adjustment for Baseline characteristics and
      interactions may be examined in supportive or exploratory analyses.

      Safety: All safety analyses will be based on all subjects who are randomized to EnteraGam and
      subsequently receive at least 1 packet of investigational product. Safety assessments will be
      analyzed by frequency of events/abnormalities for categorical values or summarized using
      descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation, median, range, and number of observations).
    
  