
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the initial and total local and distant failure rates in patients with anal
           canal cancer treated with either fluorouracil (5-FU) plus mitomycin concurrently with
           radiotherapy or 5-FU plus cisplatin followed by 5-FU plus cisplatin concurrently with
           radiotherapy.

        -  Identify any differences in local control and colostomy rates at 2 years in patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine any difference in colostomy free, disease free, or overall survival in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the prognostic effects of tumor markers P53 overexpression, human papilloma
           virus status, and enzyme HAP1 in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to gender, nodal
      status (positive vs negative), and primary tumor size (greater than 2 cm to 5 cm vs greater
      than 5 cm). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive fluorouracil (5-FU) IV continuously over 96 hours beginning on
           days 1 and 29 and mitomycin IV on days 1 and 29 with concurrent radiotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive induction chemotherapy comprising 5-FU IV continuously over 96
           hours beginning on days 1, 29, 57, and 85 and cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 29,
           57, and 85. Beginning on day 57, patients receive concurrent radiotherapy.

      In both arms, radiotherapy is administered daily, 5 days a week, for 5-6.5 weeks. Patients
      with T3, T4, or N+ lesions or T2 lesions with residual disease receive additional
      radiotherapy to a reduced field.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 650 patients will be accrued for this study within 5 years.
    
  