
    
      Pre-treatment phase (one week) Day 1 Participants will arrive at Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical
      Center (TASMC) and receive an explanation regarding the study and protocol and will sign
      informed consent. They will then be asked to fill demographic and psychological
      questionnaires assessing emotion regulation abilities (ERQ), state and trait anxiety (STAI),
      and questionnaires measuring symptoms of stress, anxiety and depression such as BDI. They
      will also be interviewed using clinically structured interviews (SCID, CAPS).

      All participants will undergo psychiatric evaluation in the trauma clinic at TASMC. The
      evaluation would also entail medication monitoring.

      The participants would be randomized to the three groups NF-T group (N=20), NF-N group (N=20)
      and treatment as usual (N=20), based on: age (under/over 40) and time since traumatic event
      (over or under 5 years).

      Day 2 All participants will undergo a brain-imaging scan to characterize brain network
      responses associated with emotional arousal and regulation. Participants will be scanned for
      functional and structural MRI, which will include ROI localizer for the neurofeedback (NF),
      resting state and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). Following which participants of the NF
      treatment groups will have 1 session of real-time-functional MRI-electric fingerprint
      neurofeedback (rt-fMRI-EFP NF) session.

      Prior to this session a research staff member will explain the course of the MRI testing to
      the participant, and will enter with the participants into the mock simulator to verify that
      he or she is lying on their back properly and feel comfortable. During scanning the patient
      will be presented with visual and auditory stimuli, as well as short video clips. Auditory
      presentation: stimuli will be heard via MRI -compatible headphones. Visual displays: the
      participants will view the stimuli through a mirror and projected onto a screen in the magnet
      room. In between blocks the participants will be given time to rest. Participants will be
      asked to avoid moving as much as possible during the scans.

      The total duration of testing, from participant arrival to departure, will take approximately
      90-180 minutes (20-30 minutes to fill out forms and undergo training, 30 minutes for
      explanations and a break, and 60 minutes of imaging). Participants will remain in the MRI for
      about 60 minutes, and under no circumstances will remain longer than 90 minutes.

      Treatment phase (12 weeks) The duration of the treatment phase will be 12 weeks. All groups
      will receive 1/2 sessions per week.

      Treatment as usual sessions: Participants will obtain their regular treatment regimen
      (pharmacological and/or psychological) and meet with a psychologist/psychiatrist following
      the common practice in the clinic.

      NF-EFP sessions: For the duration of each NF-EFP session the participant will be seated
      comfortably in front of a computer screen. A staff member will explain the goal of the
      meeting to the participant, present the equipment to be used and describe the course of the
      meeting. Following the above explanations, the staff member will place the EEG cap on the
      participants head and ensure that he/she feels comfortable. The EEG-NF practice will consist
      of about five-minute segments repeated for up to 30 minutes. During each practice segment the
      participant will be asked to modify visual or auditory media that provides feedback on the
      degree of successful brain training. For example, during visual feedback the participants
      will be asked to slow the speed of a skateboard presented on the computer screen or
      alternatively, via auditory feedback, to reduce the intensity of auditory stimuli audible
      through the headphones. The duration of one session is approximately 45 minutes.

      NF-EFP sessions for the NF-N group: The participants will receive about one or two sessions
      per week as described above. All training sessions will be held in a neutral, non
      trauma-related, context.

      NF-EFP sessions for the NF-T group: The use of trauma-related context in this group will be
      done gradually to ensure participants gain control over the feedback training. In the first
      phase that will include about 6 out of 12 sessions, the participants will train in NF
      sessions identical to those of the NF-N group. Participants who succeed in lowering EFP
      signal during training (compared to baseline) in 4 out of 6 sessions, or in the last 3 out of
      5 sessions, will qualify to continue to the next phase of training. In the second phase,
      participants who succeed as described above, will train in the context of their traumatic
      story. In the first session, the participants will listen to a recording of their trauma,
      accompanied by one of the team members with relevant training, and will immediately train on
      emotional regulation using NF in a neutral context. Participants that succeed in down
      regulation of their EFP signal in at least one session will continue to the next
      trauma-context sessions. In these sessions, the feedback indicating the EFP signal would be
      the volume of the trauma-recording. That is, a successful reduction of EFP signal would
      reduce the volume of the trauma recording. Participants who don't succeed in down regulating
      their EFP signal (with the neutral context) immediately after listening to the
      trauma-recording will try again in the following NF-N session.

      Midpoint assessment (one week) All participants will receive a second psychological
      evaluation (plus medication monitoring), will complete the questionnaires described in the
      pre treatment phase.

      Post treatment phase (one week) Day 1 All participants will undergo a final psychiatric
      evaluation, and medication monitoring.

      Day 2 All participants will be scanned for functional and structural MRI which will include
      the resting state DTI and the NF session. They will then complete the same questionnaires as
      in the pre treatment phase.
    
  