
    
      Objective

      A major component of understanding the pathogenesis of mood and anxiety disorders is expected
      to involve elucidation of abnormalities in brain structure and function associated with these
      conditions. Historically post-mortem histopathological and neurochemical assessments
      constituted the primary methods for investigating abnormalities of brain structure and
      function in psychiatric disorders. However, the significance of the results from such studies
      has been limited by the relatively poor availability of specimens from subjects with mood and
      anxiety disorders who had been unmedicated and clinically well-characterized antemortem. By
      allowing for in vivo human studies, medical imaging technologies provide efficient, accurate,
      and non-invasive alternatives for characterizing brain structure and function. The recent
      rapid development of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technology, in particular, has provided
      powerful tools for assessing a wide range of cerebral physiological and morphological
      characteristics. To optimally exploit the potential of these rapidly evolving MRI scanning
      and hardware capabilities in investigations of mood and anxiety disorders, new techniques and
      applications must be developed and tested. The technical development protocol proposed herein
      will assess new imaging techniques and hardware, and will develop novel cognitive tasks for
      application in the study of mood and anxiety disorders.

      The primary objective of this protocol is the development of MRI experiments for
      characterizing the physiological correlates of mood and anxiety disorders. In addition, the
      pilot projects encompassed within this protocol involve the optimization of existing MRI
      pulse sequences, the application of new pulse sequences for structural and functional MR
      imaging, and the development of new functional MRI (fMRI) tasks that can elucidate neural
      function within the cognitive-behavioral domains affected in mood and anxiety disorders. This
      protocol will also allow testing of existing imaging hardware that can increase the spatial
      resolution, contrast, and sensitivity of MR images. Such hardware includes the use of
      multi-channel radio frequency (RF) coils and patient monitoring equipment. Development of
      these techniques and applications will directly enhance the sensitivity and specificity of
      MRI studies of mood and anxiety disorders.

      Study population

      This study will involve 250 healthy volunteers and 90 patients with major depressive
      disorder.

      Design

      This technical development protocol will assess new imaging techniques and hardware, and will
      develop novel cognitive tasks for application in the study of mood and anxiety disorders.
      Subjects will have the option to participate in one or several procedures conducted under
      this protocol, including fMRI, Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS), Magnetoencephalography
      (MEG), behavioral tasks, and rating scales.

      Outcome measures

      Primary outcome measures on neuropsychological tests will include parameters such as accuracy
      and reaction time. Secondary outcome measures will include differences in reaction time or
      accuracy between different testing conditions. Outcome measures from MRI scanning sessions
      will include signal-to-noise ratio, contrast-to-noise ratio, structural volumes, metabolite
      concentrations (in the case of MRS), relaxation times (in the case of relaxometry), and BOLD
      time series (in the case of fMRI).
    
  