
    
      For the purposes of this study, patients are treated with the presentation of botulinum toxin
      type A which is marketed in the U.S. as BOTOX® by Allergan. BOTOX® is a purified neurotoxin
      complex supplied as a sterile, vacuum dried purified botulinum toxin type A, produced from
      fermentation of Clostridium botulinum type A.

      A primary aim of this study is to determine the molecular effects of BoNT-A injection on
      human BPH tissues. While the majority of BoNT-A injections in humans target BPH in the
      transition zone, innervation is most abundant in the peripheral zone of the prostate where
      the majority of prostate cancers develop. In fact, recent studies have demonstrated the
      importance of neurogenesis and axogenesis in the spread of human prostate cancer. In
      addition, in vitro studies have shown that BoNT-A has antiproliferative effects on human
      prostate cancer cell lines.

      Thus, a second aim of this proposal is to determine profile changes in high-grade prostatic
      intraepithelial neoplasia (HGPIN) and prostate cancer following BoNT-A injection into the
      peripheral zone. The investigators will also determine the effects of BoNT-A on the genetic
      profile of normal tissue. The investigators study population will be men with clinically
      localized prostate cancer. Men will be injected on one side in both their transition and
      peripheral zones with 100U BoNT-A (i.e. Botox®, Allergan, Inc.), respectively, one month
      prior to their scheduled radical prostatectomy. Sham saline injection of the other side of
      the prostate (transition and peripheral zones) will be used as an internal control. The
      investigators will inject the other lobe of the prostate with saline to account for any
      denervating effects of "wet needling." Patients will undergo radical prostatectomy without
      any changes to standard of care. The strategy has been used in the investigators Institution
      previously to determine the efficacy of gene therapy 22 and targeted drugs. However, and
      unlike the investigators previous neoadjuvant trials, the investigators will not power this
      study to look at the effects of Botox on biochemical recurrence free survival. This study
      only has biologic endpoints and no survival endpoints."

      A third aim of the study will be to examine changes in vas deferens function following
      prostate treatment with BoNT-A. The investigators plan to harvest a 2.5 cm segment from the
      distal vas deferens on either side (i.e. Saline treated and BoNT-A treated) before entry into
      the prostate will be isolated and placed in oxygenated krebs solution for transport to the
      research laboratory.

      Patients will have 3 visits to the clinic and two telephone calls during their participation
      in this study. The last visit is about 4 weeks after the injection.
    
  