
    
      All patients will be submitted to clinical and radiographic examination. Once selected,
      patients will receive hygiene instruction and will be submitted to full mouth scaling one
      week before the procedure with an ultrasonic device (CavitronR - Dentsply). The random
      allocation of patients will obey the order obtained in the computerized program Allocation
      1.0 Software© (Isfahan, Iran, 2004). All patients should have the prothrombin time (PT) and
      INR, active thromboplastin partial time (aTPT) and platelet counts tests on the day of
      surgery. Patients who present INR< 2.0 e > 4 will be assessed by the medical team about the
      possibility of change in the dose of medication to the surgical procedure. Patients with
      predisposing heart conditions the bacterial endocarditis will receive antibiotic prophylaxis
      as recommendations from American Association of Cardiology (AHA) of 2007. All extraction
      procedures will be performed by non-traumatic conventional surgical techniques, under local
      anesthesia (2% lidocaine and epinephrine 1: 100,000). Just one extraction will be performed
      in each surgical procedure, by the same surgeon. All patients will receive digital
      compression of socket with sterile gauze for 5 minutes (Chompret 's manoeuver) and suture
      with non-resorbable wire, silk 3.0 type . Everyone will receive the base analgesic
      prescription Paracetamol 750 mg (Tylenol© - Johnson & Johnson), 01 tablet every 6 hours, by
      oral administration, for control of postoperative pain. Patients are divided into two groups:

      Group 1 (EACA) - patients will receive the intra-alveolar application of a 500 mg tablet of
      the epsilon-amino caproic acid (EACA - Ipsilon® - Nikko Brazil, RJ) crushed in 0.9% saline.
      Additionally, they will be instructed to rinse with 500mg EACA tablets macerated and diluted
      in 2 tablespoons of water three times a day, in the two days after the extraction.

      Group 2 (control) - patients will receive routine postoperative care.

      Classification of Bleeding will be performed by the professional on the day of surgery at two
      times: one time (immediately after extraction) and time 2 (after 20 minutes). The bleeding
      will be classified as follows:

        -  No bleeding

        -  Light bleeding - blood in saliva

        -  Moderate Bleeding - bleeding controlled with local measures

        -  Severe Bleeding - when surgical intervention is required

      Late bleeding will be recorded by the patient through daily questionnaire. The bleeding will
      be classified as follows:

        -  No bleeding

        -  Blood stained saliva

        -  Bleeding that stopped after compression bandage and ice pack for 20 minutes

        -  Bleeding stopped only after professional intervention
    
  