
    
      This open pilot RCT will enroll healthy children aged 12 to 42 months coming to the
      Odonto-stomatology Unit at Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital and Research Institute (OBG) with
      their parents, who seek help in stopping their children continue the NNS habit. This RCT will
      last 3 years. In the first year, patient enrollment will be completed, and the analyses
      needed to measure the primary and secondary outcomes conducted. The RCT will test the
      efficacy of NNS in improving balance and gait after a two-year follow-up. Patient registries
      will follow internal ad hoc OBG procedures for good-clinical practice (GCP) in trial
      conduction (Prot. 01.01.99 published in the OBG intranet site on 5th April 2017) including
      patients' data registered in case report forms (CRF) in electronic and paper records. After
      children's parents give their consent signing the information sheet approved by the OBG
      Institutional Review Board (OBG-IRB), namely Comitato Etico, every eligible child will be
      coded with a computerized randomization code and identified in the CRF with this code, their
      name, surname and date of birth (RCT protocol approved on 10th September 2018, OBG-IRB Prot.
      N. 960). The RCT includes two parallel arms, the intervention arm and the control arm.
      Children in the intervention arm will suck a pacifier of identical shape and type produced by
      Artsana S.P.A., and will be allowed other NNS habits (finger-thumb). Children in the control
      arm will be induced by the OBG odonto-stomatologists (DDSs) to stop sucking and their parents
      will receive from the DDSs an ad hoc information sheet advising them how to stop their
      children's NNS habit. Children in both arms will undergo a computerized photometric postural
      balancing measure and gait control assessment, done by a physiotherapist (PT) delegated by
      the PI, every 6 months over 24 months at the Neuro-rehabilitation Unit in the OBG site at
      Palidoro (Rome). After enrollment, children in both arms will also undergo an
      electroencephalogram (EEG) while sucking, done by an EEG technician (EEG tech) delegated by
      the PI. Two years later, children will undergo a second EEG. Parents will report in a diary
      their children's time spent on pacifier or finger-thumb sucking, crying time, afternoon- and
      night-time sleep induction, awakenings, and daily sleeping time duration. Every 6 months,
      parents will bring their children and diaries to the DDSs. DDSs will visit the child and
      report data from oral examination findings and from parents' diaries in hospital electronic
      medical records and paper CRF. In accordance with the European Medicine Agency (EMA),
      Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), International Conference on
      Harmonization (ICH) guidelines for GCP(EMA/CHMP/ICH/135/1995), Italian Ministry of Health law
      (15th July 1997) and the OBG-IRB approved RCT protocol, the OBG (acting as the Promoter for
      this clinical trial) and the PI are responsible for the quality assurance plan including all
      the enrolled children's data validation and patient registry. The PT, DDSs and the EEG tech
      will record also the results in an ad hoc sheet. All the variables included in the PT
      evaluation, orthognathic findings, parents' diary and EEGs will be recorded in an Excel file
      by the PT, DDSs and the EEG tech delegated by the PI. The PI is responsible for comparing and
      validating the data recorded and the data registered in an Excel file for the statistical
      analysis.

      The postural balance and gait assessment, oral diagnostic examinations and EEG results
      detailed in every electronic and paper CRF for the children enrolled will be reviewed without
      undue delay by the research team including the PI, DDS members, a PT and an EEG tech
      delegated by the PI. These personnel will check concordance between the results and source
      data (electronic medical records). The PI will check, sign and date the signature on the
      paper CRF. If the results concern the patient's safety, the research team will inform the PI.
      In accordance with the OBG hospital's internal GCP protocol (Prot. OBG 01.01.11), the PI will
      notify adverse events to the Health Management Board and OBG-IRB. The research team will be
      responsible for creating a data dictionary that contains detailed descriptions of each
      variable used in the RCT study and CRF, including the source of the variable, coding
      information used and relevant ranges for outcome measures. Following the standard operating
      GCP procedures approved by the OBG promoter (Prot. OBG 01.01.11 and 01.01.99), the PI will
      archive all the documents including authorizations, contracts and all the essential documents
      in a trial master file in electronic and paper versions. The PI and delegate collaborators
      will be responsible for maintaining the CRF trace in electronic and paper forms as a locked
      archive in the Epidemiology Unit where the PI works. According to the internal OBG GCP
      procedures and always in the presence of the PI, the OBG-IRB will monitor the CRF and all
      documentation archived with independent monitoring activities on-site, so as to survey and
      assess periodically this RCT protocol and study conduction. These on-site audits will ensure
      that all activities related to the RCT protocol and all other data will be registered,
      analyzed and accurately maintained in accordance with the OBG GCP standard operating
      procedures specified in the foregoing. The PI will also record in the CRF every change in
      trial management and update the protocol in the clinicaltrial.gov website. As requested by
      the Italian Drug Agency, Agenzia Italiana Farmaco (AIFA), the European Medical Agency (EMA)
      and Food and Drug Administration (FDA), all procedures and their documentation referred to in
      this protocol will be made available to inspection. As specified in the aforementioned OBG
      GCP protocols, the electronic and paper investigator file including all the trial
      documentations will be kept for at least 15 years.

      Sample size - Given the lack of studies investigating NNS efficacy for the primary outcome
      (evaluating the proprioceptive and exteroceptive benefits of NNS), to define the sample size,
      we analyzed the data for the incidence of instinctive NNS from all the children brought by
      their parents to the Odonto-stomatology Unit at Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital to
      investigate prolonged NNS during the year 2015. The power analysis, based on these data,
      estimated that 4000 children in the 12 to 42 months age group will yield an incidence rate of
      2% of children (n = 80) who come for their first dental visit because of prolonged NNS.
      Estimating that gait (width, frequency and speed of steps, cadence, step/stride length,
      step/stance time, and number of falls during walking along a walkway that records
      spatio-temporal features) will improve in 30% of the children in the interventional arm and
      no children in the control arm, a study sample of 50 children will be needed to obtain a
      significant X2 test with α 0.05 and β of about 0.20. Assuming that 15% of the children
      enrolled will be lost to follow-up, sample size calculations estimate that the study needs to
      enroll 64 children (32 in each arm) to demonstrate a significant effect. Every 6 months after
      enrollment, the 64 children will attend for their dental visits. At one year after
      enrollment, it is estimated that reduced overbite and increased overjet, with or without
      stopping NNS habits, will be detected in 60 to 70% of children. It is also estimated that
      overbite, if present, will diminish every year by 3 mm in 40-56% of these children aged from
      42 to 66 months, yielding an α of about 0.05 and β of about 0.20.

      Data on outcome measures will be inserted in the RCT database progressively. Retrospective
      data for variables reported in the parents' diaries, or electronic and paper CRF will also be
      inserted in the RCT database. Missing data (unavailable, un-reported, uninterpretable or
      considered missing owing to data inconsistency or out-of-range results) in the RCT database
      will be retrieved whenever possible by the PI by interviewing parents or by re-evaluating
      outcome measures with PTs, DDSs or the EEG tech, and will be registered in electronic and
      paper CRF. Data remaining unavailable will be considered as missing.

      Intellectual property and publications - Artsana S.P.A. and OBG (Promoter) signed a funding
      agreement (7 August 2018). They agreed that OBG is the sole owner of data and of direct and
      indirect RCT results. The PI is the only person responsible for the data entry and
      documentation archive and will follow the study as specified in the OBG-IRB protocol and its
      possible amendments, without disclosing any data analyses or results to Artsana S.P.A. before
      their publication. In future published papers, Artsana S.P.A. and OBG have agreed to state
      that "Artsana S.P.A. has helped to fund the RCT activities".

      Practical implications and future developments - The findings obtained in this open pilot RCT
      should provide information on the proprioceptive, exteroceptive and muscle-relaxation
      benefits of NNS in children enrolled at 12 to 42 months of age and followed for 3 years
      (maximum age when the 3-year follow-up ends, 66 months = 5 years and 6 months). In all
      children follow-up will end before mixed dentition erupts.The information obtained from the
      EEG results should help in designing the following new research projects. For example, it
      will help in studies designed to identify and assess in children who prolong NNS, the
      pediatric population older than 36 months to enroll in a later study on diagnostic accuracy
      using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) without sedation (during NNS lasting at
      least 10 minutes) to define which neuroreceptor transmitters stimulate NNS. The fMRI findings
      should also help in developing a differentiated genomic analysis for girls and boys.

      Statistical analysis plan - The statistical analysis will start by analyzing descriptive data
      for all the quantitative variables (means, medians and standard deviations) and for
      categorical data obtained from the electronic medical records and parents' diaries. Data
      frequencies and percentages will be calculated with STATA® 13 software. Various multivariate
      regression analyses will calculate the risk of malocclusion (Cox regression) considering as
      independent variables age at enrollment, sex, age at standing without support, postural
      balance, gait assessment and stratifying the RCT population according to possible
      malocclusion. The statistical significance of possible NNS-related changes in the initial
      malocclusion (reduced overbite and increased overjet) will be evaluated in children in whom
      NNS correlates with dental problems at 12, 24 and 36 months after enrollment. The statistical
      analysis will also assess the various types of malocclusions and correlation coefficients (r)
      for the psycho-social variables, including times for inducing and maintaining sleep and other
      variables collected in the database during a 48- to 66-month follow-up for the primary and
      secondary outcomes.
    
  