
    
      This proposal is a collaborative effort between MedShape and the University of Alabama at
      Birmingham. This is a prospective investigation to assess the clinical outcomes of patients
      with a tibiotalocalcaneal arthrodesis with the sustained Dynamic Compression Intramedullary
      Nail (DynaNail). We are planning on enrolling 30 patients.

      Patients with end-stage tibiotalar (ankle) and talocalcaneal (subtalar) joint arthritis from
      any etiology will be asked to enroll in the study. After informed consent, the patients will
      be asked to complete the following patient reported outcomes questionnaires (standard of care
      for all patients in the Foot and Ankle section): 100mm Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for pain,
      Short form-36 (SF-36), and the Foot and Ankle Ability Measure (FAAM). After informed consent,
      they will then be scheduled for surgery in a routine fashion.

      The following surgical procedure is standard of care. The surgical procedure will involve
      both tibiotalar and talocalcaneal joint preparation through any approach (lateral, posterior,
      anterior with sinus tarsi). The use of supplemental bone graft is at the discretion of the
      treating surgeon but must be documented. The MedShape DynaNail will then be inserted
      according to the manufacturer's technique. The patient will be placed in a short leg splint
      and kept non-weight bearing. The patient will be discharged from the hospital when medically
      ready and follow-up in two weeks.

      At two weeks, the patient will return to clinic and their splint will be removed. Non-weight
      bearing radiographs of the hind foot will be taken to assess the amount of travel of the
      compressive element. The patient will be placed in a non-weight bearing cast. The patient
      will then be asked to return in four weeks (6 weeks post-operatively). At this time
      additional non-weight bearing radiographs will be taken to assess the amount of travel of the
      compressive element. The patient will be asked to return at 12 weeks, 24 weeks, and one year
      after surgery. At 24 weeks, a CT scan will be obtained to assess healing and fusion. At each
      of these time-points, the same patient specific outcome questionnaires will be administered.

      Patients will be identified in the clinic by an attending orthopaedic foot and ankle surgeon
      or his physician assistant based on clinical exam and radiographic findings. Inclusion
      criteria include anyone over age 18 who has ankle and subtalar arthritis and has failed
      nonoperative management. Typically, these patients have multiple medical comorbidities and
      therefore the exclusion criteria will be patients who are not healthy enough to undergo
      surgery. Additional exclusion criteria include non-English speakers, and patients that are
      blind, illiterate, or are prisoners. Patients of all racial, religious, and cultural
      backgrounds will be included in this study.
    
  