
    
      Growth factor signals are important in carcinogenesis and progression of prostate cancer, and
      fibroblast growth factors (FGF) have important roles in this regard. FGF ligands (FGF1, -2,
      -6, -8, and -17) and FGF receptors (FGFR1 and FGFR4) have all shown to be significantly
      overexpressed in prostate cancer1-5. And, the recent studies have demonstrated that the
      critical roles of the FGF family members are mediated by the signaling between epithelial and
      stromal compartments, thus, promoting epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)6,7. Moreover, a
      recent study has shown that FGF-2 is a mediator of second wave angiogenesis and tumor
      progression in men during the formation of castration-resistant tumors. Therefore, inhibition
      of signaling via FGF axis might be a viable strategy for the treatment of
      castration-resistant prostate cancer.

      TKI258, an oral multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) inhibitor is known to potently
      inhibit the class III, IV, and V RTKs, showing biochemical 50 percent inhibitory
      concentration(IC50) values <20 nmol/L for VEGFRs (VEGFR-1, VEGFR-2, and VEGFR-3); the
      platelet-derived growth factor receptor-β (PDGFR-β); fibroblast growth factor receptors 1, 2,
      and 3 (FGFR-1,2,3); fetal liver tyrosine kinase receptor 3 (FLT-3); and KIT Ret, tyrosine
      kinase A (TrkA), and csf-1 RTKs. Due to the unique inhibitory activity on FGF pathways,
      TKI258 has shown significant activity in a variety of tumor xenograft models in athymic mice,
      including acute myeloid leukemia, multiple myeloma, and colon- and prostate-derived models9.

      Castration-resistant prostate cancers (CRPC) are one of the challenges in oncology practice.
      Although there have been advances in chemotherapy10, new hormonal agents11, and
      immunotherapeutics12, patients in this subgroup still have limited life expectancy.
      Therefore, there is an urgent need to identify therapeutic targets and clinical development
      of target agents for the treatment of CRPC. For this end, sorafenib has been tested in
      multiple phase II studies earlier13-17; however, the clinical efficacy was very limited. The
      low efficacy of sorafenib might be partly explained by the lower potency in inhibition of
      RTKs. Considering nanomolar concentration range of IC50 for TKI258 compared with micromolar
      concentration for other multi-TKIs, the efficacy of TKI258 should be evaluated in CRPC
      patients.
    
  