
    
      Urinary tract infection (UTI) is a common cause of hospitalization worldwide, the prevalence
      throughout the life of UTI has been reported in about 50,000 cases per 100,000 women and
      13,000 per 100,000 men in the United States. Hospitalization for community-acquired UTI is
      about 33%. Furthermore, the UTI related to bladder catheterization during hospitalization is
      the most common type of infection acquired, representing 40% of all nosocomial infections.
      UTI hospitalization is associated with a high cost to the healthcare system.

      The diagnosis of UTI is based on demonstrating the presence of bacteria urine in patients
      with suggestive clinical manifestations and verifying the host's inflammatory response to
      infection. The most common etiological agents include Escherichia coli, Klebsiella spp, and
      Proteus spp, with different prevalence and antibiotic susceptibility profiles among different
      populations.

      Currently the appropriate treatment of UTI is a growing concern in the medical community
      because Gram-negative, specifically Enterobacteriaceae, bacteria have acquired genes encoding
      antibiotic resistance mechanisms. The β-lactamase spread spectrum (ESBL) are documented with
      increasing frequency among microorganisms causing UTI. Current treatment options for ESBL
      bacteria include nitrofurantoin, fosfomycin, piperacillin-tazobactam, carbapenems, and
      aminoglycosides.

      Carbapenems and piperacillin-tazobactam are antibiotics used in medical practice for many
      years, both therapies are licensed for the treatment of non-bacteremic UTI; however, so far
      there is not enough evidence to discriminate the best choice for the treatment of
      non-bacteremic UTI (although carbapenems are considered drugs of choice for infections caused
      by these microorganisms), but carbapenems use has been associated with an increased risk of
      "collateral damage" related to the generation of resistant germs.

      The investigators will compare between piperacillin/tazobactam and carbapenems the
      effectiveness in achieving clinical cure for non-bacteremic UTI caused by ESBL
      microorganisms. Researchers principal hypothesis is that Piperacillin/tazobactam is not
      inferior to carbapenems in achieving clinical cure in the targeted treatment of UTI caused by
      non-bacteremic due to E. coli or K. pneumoniae ESBL in adults requiring hospitalization.
      Researchers will verify too if Piperacillin/Tazobactam is not associated with increased risk
      of adverse events during the targeted treatment of non-bacteremic ITU caused by E. coli or K.
      pneumoniae ESBL in adults requiring hospital admission, compared with Carbapenems therapy.

      To perform the protocol researchers follows the recommendations for the design of trials
      investigating treatment options for resistant bacteria multidrug (Uncomplicated Urinary Tract
      Infections: Developing Drugs for Treatment) of the United States Agency for Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA).

      Participants will be included in the study with informed consent. The study variables will be
      obtained by patient interview and review of medical history. Variables will be recorded in a
      computerized database developed specifically for this study, with exclusive access for the
      researchers.

      The estimated project duration is 2 years expected to begin in april of 2019.
    
  