
    
      Metabolic acidosis is a frequent occurrence following major surgery. Monitoring acid base
      disturbances and in particular diagnosing the aetiology of the acidosis are important parts
      of assessing a patient's cardiovascular status following surgery. The presence of a metabolic
      acidosis is frequently attributed to anaerobic metabolism leading to the generation of lactic
      acid due to hypovolaemia and poor tissue perfusion. This commonly results in clinicians
      treating postoperative patients with a metabolic acidosis by administering intravenous fluids
      containing 0.9% saline or Hartmann's solution (compound sodium lactate). If the cause of the
      metabolic acidosis is not hypovolaemia, treatment with intravenous fluids may actually
      exacerbate the acidosis by causing hyperchloraemia. An often overlooked cause of metabolic
      acidosis after surgery is starvation leading to ketoacidosis. All patients are starved for a
      minimum of six hours prior to general anaesthesia due to the potential risk of aspiration of
      gastric contents into the bronchial tree. Many patients are in fact fasted for much longer
      periods than this. There is, however, little data describing the incidence of ketoacidosis
      following surgery. In addition, there may be other causes of acidosis after surgery which
      often overlooked but can be determined using equations and mathematical models. The aim of
      this study is to define the incidence and nature of acidosis after major cancer surgery using
      using equations to directly determine acids. This study will also aim to compare the ability
      of commonly used indirect measures (base deficit, anion gap, corrected anion gap and lactate)
      to identify the presence of tissue acids in this population. The incidence of postoperative
      ketoacidosis as a contributor to tissue acidosis will be assessed through the use of point of
      care urinalysis.
    
  