
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To investigate the effects of selenomethionine and/or finasteride on key androgen
           receptor signaling biomarkers (prostate-specific antigen, kallikrein 2, and NKX3.1) in
           prostate tissue samples from patients with stage I or II prostate cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To analyze the effects of selenomethionine and/or finasteride on apoptosis induction in
           benign prostate tissue samples from these patients.

      Tertiary

        -  To determine whether responsiveness to selenomethionine and/or finasteride is related to
           the level of Prx1 in prostate cancer cells.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral selenomethionine and oral finasteride once daily for 4-5
           weeks. Patients then undergo prostatectomy or brachytherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo and oral finasteride once daily for 4-5 weeks.
           Patients then undergo prostatectomy or brachytherapy.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive oral selenomethionine and oral placebo once daily for 4-5
           weeks. Patients then undergo prostatectomy or brachytherapy.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive two oral placebos once daily for 4-5 weeks. Patients then
           undergo prostatectomy or brachytherapy.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and on the day of prostatectomy or brachytherapy.
      Samples are analyzed for testosterone and 5-α-dihydrotestosterone levels by capillary gas
      chromatography-mass spectrometry; genetic polymorphisms in the type 2 5-α reductase gene by
      PCR and sequencing analyses; and selenium levels by atomic absorption spectrophotometry.
      Additional blood samples will be stored for future analysis of alpha and gamma tocopherol,
      lycopene, and other vitamin levels. Toenail samples are also collected to provide an
      indicator of long-term selenium status. Prostate tissue samples are collected during and
      after prostatectomy or prior to brachytherapy. Samples are analyzed for expression of
      biomarkers (e.g., prostate-specific antigen, kallikrein 2, and NKX 3.1) by quantitative
      RT-PCR and apoptosis by TUNEL assay, immunohistochemistry, and ELISA.
    
  