
    
      Background: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death in women in India, and
      the prevalence of cardiometabolic disorders is rising. Women in rural India (where two-thirds
      of the population live), are particularly vulnerable due to limited knowledge and healthcare
      access. Pregnancy-related conditions including hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDPs) and
      gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) carry independent risks for future cardiovascular disease
      in women. Early identification, referral and management of pregnant women at increased risk
      of future cardiometabolic disorders may offer opportunities for prevention. Innovative
      solutions are required to address the needs of rural women, particularly during the
      transitions between antenatal and postpartum care and adult health services.

      Objective: To determine the feasibility and acceptability of the SMARThealth Pregnancy
      intervention to improve the detection, referral and management of pregnant women at high-risk
      of future cardiometabolic disorders in rural India.

      Study design: This is a pilot study, using an un-blinded, parallel group, cluster randomised
      controlled study design.

      Study Sites: Jhajjar District, Haryana and Guntur District, Andhra Pradesh, India.

      Primary outcome: The primary objective of this pilot study is to address the uncertainties
      around feasibility: (i) how many PHCs accepted the invitation to participate in a trial; (ii)
      whether the intervention is feasible with respect to participant recruitment rates, (iii)
      retention of pregnant women in the trial to 6 weeks postpartum; (iv) acceptability and
      feasibility of outcomes measures (to measure the efficacy within a definitive trial); (v)
      fidelity to the study protocol.

      Secondary outcomes include: (i) Acceptability of the intervention. (ii) Process evaluation
      measures including rates of detection, referral and follow-up of high-risk pregnant women.
      (iii) Clinical outcomes of mean haemoglobin and mean systolic and diastolic blood pressures
      at 6 weeks postpartum.

      Randomisation: Cluster randomisation will be conducted at the level of the PHC. Staff related
      to each PHC will be allocated to either intervention or control groups. The study will
      recruit 200 pregnant women across all 4 PHC clusters; 100 CHWs (known as ASHAs and ANMs) and;
      up to 8 Primary Care Physicians (affiliated to the PHC clusters). The villages selected under
      each intervention and control PHC will be non-contiguous to avoid contamination.
    
  