
    
      In patients undergoing adjuvant radiotherapy for breast cancer, radiation-induced skin
      toxicities are a common occurrence and adversely impact patients' quality of life (QOL).
      Patients with large breasts or patients receiving chest wall radiation may be more likely to
      have worse skin reactions following radiation. In the last decade, there have been no
      significant advances in preventing or treating radiation-induced skin toxicities. Recently, a
      phase III randomized trial by Herst et al. (n=78) in New Zealand showed that the prophylactic
      use of Mepitel Film prevented moist desquamation (26% vs. 0%, p < 0.001) and reduced skin
      reaction severity by 92% (p < 0.001) compared to skin treated only with aqueous cream.
      Another study by Moller et al. (n=101) in Denmark reported a non-significant improvement in
      observer-rated radiation dermatitis with the film (p=0.1) compared to cream, and significant
      improvements in several patient-reported outcomes. Moreover, patients with breast cancer
      complain of hyperpigmentation in the radiated area during and after radiation.

      Mepitel Film has not been widely adopted in North American clinical practice. To further
      study and validate the efficacy of Mepitel Film in preventing acute skin reactions caused by
      breast radiation and elucidate its efficacy in preventing poor cosmetic outcomes, a phase II
      efficacy study of three patient populations will be conducted:

        1. Patients with large breasts

        2. Patients with small or medium sized breasts

        3. Patients with chest wall radiation

      The results of the phase II efficacy study can guide the development of a subsequent
      multi-centre phase II and III trials to further validate the use of Mepitel film and increase
      its adoption rate.

      The primary objective is to examine the efficacy of Mepitel film in the prophylaxis of
      radiation-induced skin reactions. Secondary objectives include an evaluation of
      patient-reported and healthcare professional (HCP)-reported skin toxicities including moist
      desquamation with the use of Mepitel film.

      Radiation oncologists will first introduce the study to their patients in their breast
      clinic, showing a sample of the product and also pictures from the trial conducted in New
      Zealand. Patients if interested may be provided a patient information sheet to review at
      home. Then, patients will be approached by a CRA at their radiation planning appointment to
      review all information and obtain informed consent.

      All patients will receive Mepitel film for the duration of treatment. Radiation treatment
      will be delivered as prescribed by the treating radiation oncologist and may include a
      variety of techniques and beam modifiers.

      Trained clinical research assistants (CRA) or the radiation review nurse will apply the
      Mepitel film for patients prior to their first radiation treatment at a designated clinic
      room and will check daily prior to radiation that the breast/chest wall has not been
      distorted by the film. If the film needs to be readjusted, the CRAs or nurses will remove
      peeling sections of film and reapply where needed. The film will be removed two weeks post
      radiation treatment.

      Patients will complete evaluations once a week at their regular review clinic visit and will
      be assessed by an HCP or CRA. At the last treatment or last review appointment, a photo of
      the patient's breasts/chest wall will be taken, and they will be asked to complete an
      assessment. An HCP will also conduct an assessment.

      After completion of radiation, patients will be called at week 1 and weeks 3-6 to assess
      endpoints. Patients will be asked to return for a 2-week, 3-month, and 6-month follow-up
      assessment where photos of their breasts/chest wall will be taken, and they will complete
      their personal assessments. The film will be removed at the 2-week follow-up appointment. The
      3-month follow-up assessment will occur at the same time as their regular clinic follow-up
      with their radiation oncologist. At the 3-month and 6-month follow-up assessment, an HCP will
      also an assessment.
    
  