
    
      End-stage renal disease (ESRD) represents the final common pathway for all progressive renal
      disease. As of December 2014, 58,968 people in the UK were receiving renal replacement
      therapy (RRT), of which almost half were receiving maintenance haemodialysis (HD; UK Renal
      Registry Report (2014)). The Wessex Kidney Centre cares for ~1,600 patients receiving RRT, of
      which >700 receive HD. The median age of our cohort is 66.7 years, similar to that of all
      incident UK-based patients in 2014 (64.5 years). The RRT recipient population is however
      growing and, increasingly, patients are more elderly with comorbidities. These individuals
      are unlikely to receive transplantation and will therefore depend on dialysis indefinitely.
      Optimising their quality of life (QoL) should be a priority.

      Currently, a standard HD prescription includes a specific volume of ultrafiltration, set to
      achieve a clinically derived estimate of 'target weight'. Acutely, hypervolaemia (fluid
      overload) can be life threatening, whilst chronically it is associated with hypertension and
      an increased cardiovascular risk. Accordingly, target weight is typically prescribed to allow
      for interdialytic weight gains. The sequential reduction of target weight to achieve the
      lowest possible target weight (dry weight probing), thought to improve blood pressure (BP)
      control, left ventricular mass index and long-term outcomes, is favoured by many
      nephrologists. However, this results in dehydration and is associated with increased
      intradialytic symptoms, including intradialytic hypotension, which itself brings an increased
      risk of cardiac death. Local data from the Wessex Kidney Centre suggests that patients
      experiencing a greater drop in systolic BP pre- to post-dialysis are more likely to
      experience symptomatic hypotension during dialysis. Intradialytic BP variability is also
      detrimental to long-term outcomes. Achieving ideal hydration is therefore important for not
      only reducing symptomatology, but also improving BP control and cardiovascular health in
      these patients. Poor cardiovascular health contributes to the reduced physical function
      characterising this group, which along with physical (in)activity is associated with a poorer
      prognosis in this patient group. Furthermore, increased rates of depression and
      cardiovascular disease have been associated with poor physical function in this group.

      There is, however, little research documenting how dehydration impacts individuals undergoing
      dialysis. Specifically, few studies have assessed the link between (de)hydration and frailty,
      although better physical function has been associated with a higher pre-dialysis BP, which
      may simply reflect better hydration. Experience from the Wessex Kidney Centre suggests that
      dehydrated dialysis patients suffer from increasing intradialytic symptomatology and a
      prolonged dialysis recovery time, during which they complain of prolonged fatigue. However,
      no studies have documented whether improving the hydration of dialysis patients improves not
      only their intra- and interdialytic symptomatology, but also their physiological/cognitive
      function, fatigue, physical (in)activity and, ultimately, QoL. Establishing the relationships
      between dehydration and these outcomes is essential, since hydration status can be easily and
      rapidly adjusted. One reason there is limited research in this area is that hydration status
      of individuals undergoing dialysis is difficult to objectively assess, which itself warrants
      further investigation.
    
  