
    
      Stroke may result in lower extremity spasticity, which interfere with motor voluntary
      function and activities of daily living. Botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) has been shown to
      improve lower extremity spasticity of stroke patients. There are no researches to compare the
      efficiency of BTX-A injection by different guidance methods in the deep muscles of lower
      extremity for stroke patients. The aims of investigator's study were to compare the
      effectiveness of BTX-A injection by different guidance methods (palpation of anatomical
      landmarks, electric stimulation, ultrasonography direct and indirect methods) in deep spastic
      muscles of lower extremity for stroke patients with varus spasticity and spastic claw toes ,
      and to study the correlation between muscles spasticity and elastic properties by the
      sonoelastography/acoustic radiation force impulse imaging and follow the change of elastic
      properties in spastic muscles after BTX-A injection. We will enroll 80 hemiplegic stroke
      patients with varus spasticity / spastic claw toes and duration more than 6 months. Under
      different guidance methods (palpation of anatomical landmarks, electric stimulation,
      ultrasonography direct and indirect methods), BTX-A will be injected to the flexor digitorum
      longus and posterior tibialis muscles. If the patients have moderate hallucis spasticity,
      flexor hallucis longus muscle will be injected. The BTX-A dose is 50 units for each muscle.
      Outcome measures include Modified Ashworth Scale, Brunnstrom stage, muscle power, range of
      motion, the visual analog scale of pain, Stroke Impact Scale, Barthel index and lower
      extremity function tests, balance test, Goal Attainment Scale, sonoelastography and acoustic
      radiation force impulse imaging. All the assessments will be performed before BTX-A injection
      and followed up at 1 months, 2 months, 3 months and 6 months after injection. After
      performing all the assessments, investigator will investigate the efficiency of BTX-A by
      different guidance methods.

      Two of arms:

        1. ultrasonography direct-guidance: To inject Botulinum toxin type A on the spasticity
           lower extremity for stroke patients by Ultrasonography direct-guidance.

        2. surface anatomy landmark: To inject Botulinum toxin type A on the spasticity lower
           extremity for stroke patients by surface anatomy landmark.
    
  