
    
      Knowing that a socket and suspension system should be donned and doffed few times during the
      day and night, it is important to measure ease of donning and doffing. Effortless donning and
      doffing does appear to have a posi- tive effect on satisfaction with a prosthesis. The socket
      and suspension systems require different methods of don and doff, some of which are
      time-consuming and necessi- tate more hand strength and cognitive effort than others. The
      pin/lock suspension needs few re-adjustments of residual limb within the socket so that the
      pin is fully locked distally. The seal-in system, for example, needs a longer period as first
      the amputee needs to spray either the inner socket or the seals, and then remove the socket
      valve and push the limb into the socket and put back the valve. Instruments are available to
      evaluate socket comfort such as the socket comfort score, yet to the authors' knowledge no
      instrument has been developed that focuses on donning and doffing quality of prosthesis. The
      clearer the insight into suspension systems, the easier will be the selection for
      prosthetist.

      There are different questionnaires in the fields of prosthetics and orthotics such as
      Prosthetic Evaluation Questionnaire (PEQ), Trinity Amputation and Prosthesis Experience
      Scales (TAPES), Orthotic Prosthetic User's Survey (OPUS), Houghton scale of prosthetic use,
      and Amputee Body Image Scale (ABIS) However, few of these instruments address donning and
      doffing of prosthesis. There is no questionnaire in Turkish available to evaluate the donning
      and doffing procedures of suspension systems. Thus, the aim of this study is to investigate
      the Reliability and construct validity of the Turkish version of the Prosthesis donning and
      doffing questionnaire in transtibial amputees.

      After obtaining permission from the developers of the Prosthesis donning and doffing
      questionnaire, the Turkish version of the instrument will be developed. For the translation
      process, established guidelines for patient reported outcome (PRO) instrument translation and
      include both forward and backward (reverse) translation of instructions, items, and response
      options by independent translators; review by bilingual experts; reconciliation of
      translations; and cognitive testing of the translated instruments, as described by Eremenco
      et al., 2005 or Reeve et al., 2013 were followed.The necessity of performing a cultural
      adaptation for the use of the Turkish version among Turkish amputees will be assessed. Level
      of education part of the manuscript is planned to be changed bacause it doesn't fit the
      education system in Turkey). After discussions between the study investigators and
      translators, a Turkish version of the Prosthesis donning and doffing questionnaire that
      corresponded as closely as possible to the original survey will be produced. Each subject
      will be asked to complete the Turkish version of the Prosthesis donning and doffing
      questionnaire twice (1-3 days apart). To evaluate the validity of the Turkish version of the
      Prosthesis donning and doffing questionnaire, the Nottingham Health Profile(NHP),
      Satisfaction with Prosthesis -SATPRO surveys will be used.

      Satisfaction with the prosthesis has the following subscales: aesthetic satisfaction with the
      prosthesis, weight satisfaction with the prosthesis and functional satisfaction with the
      prosthesis. The weight satisfaction subscale has just one item, which is answered with a
      5-point Likert-type scale, whereas both aesthetic satisfaction and functional satisfaction
      with prosthesis have five items, each answeredwith a 5-point Likert-type scale.

      The Turkish version of Nottingham Health Profile(NHP), a generic quality of life measurement
      tool, has been showed to be a valid and reliable outcome measurement. For this reason it will
      be used to analyse the construct validity of the Prosthesis donning and doffing
      questionnaire. NHP (translated by Küçükdeveci et a.) includes the following six subdomains:
      energy level, physical activities, pain, sleep, emotional reaction and social isolation. The
      sum of the scores of each subdomain equals.12 The SATPro is a 15-item questionnaire that
      measures general satisfaction with a prosthesis. The Turkish version of the questionnaire,
      developed by Simsek, was used. Each item on the questionnaire is scored between 0 and 3.
    
  