
    
      In our clinic, cesarean operation is performed with blunt and sharp dissections in the
      abdomen followed by transverse incision of the lower segment to the uterus. After uterotomy,
      the incision will be closed with single or double layer suture. The single layer suture
      technique will be performed with suturing by taking approximately 1 cm of tissue from the
      upper and lower segments where the mucosa and muscular layer are stitched together and
      locking them continuously at intervals of about 1 cm. On the first layer of the double layer
      suture technique, about 0.5 cm of tissue is taken from the upper and lower segments and the
      mucosa is closed by locking about 1 cm intervals. On the second layer, about 1 cm of tissue
      is taken from lower and upper segments of the muscle layer and both sides will be sutured
      with continue non-locking suture technique. The uterotomy incision will be closed with
      multifilament, synthetic, braided, suture that absorbable in about 60-90 days. In both groups
      prophylactic intramuscular 1 gr Cefazolin and 20 intravenous units of oxytocin will be
      administered intravenously.

      Randomization will be done according to the patient's ID numbers. Patients who have a single
      digit of the end of ID number will be closed with continuous locking with suture, and
      patients who have a single digit of the end of ID number will be closed with double suture.
      The suture technique used and the number of additional hemostatic sutures will be obtained
      from the operation note. In addition, demographic characteristics of the patients, duration
      of operation, hemoglobin changes within 24 hours post-operatively, infant birth weight,
      hospitalization time, estimated blood loss during surgery will be examined in the study. The
      estimated blood loss will be recorded from the level of the initial aspirator bag after the
      surgery.

      Enrolled patients will be called for control 6 months after surgery. It will be evaluated by
      a single obstetrician in a supine position under standard conditions, with empty bladder,
      with transvaginal ultrasonographic device. Measurements will be made when the endometrium,
      lower uterine segment and cervix are visible in the sagittal section of the uterus during
      transvaginal ultrasonography. Scar defect will define as a hypoechoic wedge-shaped image that
      causes discontinuity in the structure of the endometrium which extending downward from the
      anterior line to the serosa. The width and depth of the sagittal plane of the defect and the
      axial length of the axial plane will be measured. Ultimately, these measurements will be
      taken volumetrically.
    
  