
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate the objective response rate (RR) of ziv-aflibercept among patients with advanced
      pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (NET)s according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.

      II. Test the following hypotheses: that baseline perfusion computed tomography (CT)
      parameters can predict which patients with advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pNETs)
      will respond to treatment with ziv-aflibercept.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate progression free survival (PFS) duration among patients treated with
      ziv-aflibercept.

      II. Evaluate the relationship between response rate and baseline blood volume (BV) and
      between response rate and baseline permeability surface (PS).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether post-treatment changes in BV expressed as relative change from baseline
      correlate with response to ziv-aflibercept.

      II. Determine whether post-treatment tumor blood flow (BF) (absolute measurement) correlates
      with response to ziv-aflibercept.

      III. Determine whether post-treatment changes in BF and, BV, expressed as relative change
      from baseline, correlate with relative change in sum of tumor diameters (RECIST 1.1
      measurements).

      IV. Determine the effect of ziv-aflibercept therapy on post-treatment blood flow (BF), BV,
      mean transit time (MTT), and PS at 4 weeks after treatment.

      V. Evaluate the changes in tumor perfusion parameters at time of progression.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive ziv-aflibercept intravenously (IV) over 60-120 minutes on day 1. Courses
      repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      undergo computed tomography perfusion imaging at baseline, day 21 of course 1, and at time of
      progression.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  