
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To demonstrate whether combination therapy of nivolumab and cabozantinib s-malate
      (cabozantinib), or of nivolumab and cabozantinib, and ipilimumab as compared to nivolumab
      alone, extends progression-free survival (PFS) for this patient population with non-squamous
      non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the overall survival for each arm of the trial. II. To estimate the best
      overall response rate for each arm of the trial. III. To estimate the progression free
      survival of the targeted therapy arm of the trial.

      IV. To describe the toxicity profile of monotherapy with nivolumab, and the combination of
      nivolumab and cabozantinib, and the combination of nivolumab and cabozantinib and ipilimumab,
      in this patient population with non-squamous NSCLC.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To adjust progression free survival for each arm based on PD-L1 tumor status.

      IMAGING OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe time point tumor response assessment, overall best response and
      progression-free survival using the conventional Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) 1.1 criteria and the exploratory uni-dimensional immune response criteria (iRRC) and
      the imaging (i)RECIST criteria with all measurements performed by the central review.

      II. To compare RECIST 1.1 imaging response assessment measurements (time point response
      assessment and overall best response) assess by site study personnel to those performed by
      central review.

      EXPLORATORY TOBACCO USE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effects of tobacco, operationalized as combustible tobacco (1a), other
      forms of tobacco (1b), and environmental tobacco exposure (ETS) (1c) on provider-reported
      cancer-treatment toxicity (adverse events (both clinical and hematologic) and dose
      modifications).

      II. To determine the effects of tobacco on patient-reported physical symptoms and
      psychological symptoms.

      III. To examine quitting behaviors and behavioral counseling/support and cessation medication
      utilization.

      IV. To explore the effect of tobacco use and exposure on treatment duration, relative dose
      intensity, and therapeutic benefit.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms. Patients with ROS1 gene rearrangement, MET
      exon 14 splice mutations, MET high amplification, or RET gene rearrangement are assigned to
      Arm T.

      ARM A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 and cabozantinib s-malate
      orally (PO) daily on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1, cabozantinib s-malate PO daily
      on days 1-28, and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every 8 weeks. Cycles for nivolumab and
      cabozantinib s-malate repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM T: Patients with ROS1 gene rearrangement, MET exon 14 splice mutations, MET high
      amplification, or RET gene rearrangement receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 and
      cabozantinib s-malate PO daily on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  