
    
      Hospitalization for bleeding peptic ulcers has declined over past decades [1]. Bleeding from
      peptic ulcers however remains the commonest diagnosis in those who present with acute upper
      gastrointestinal bleeding (AUGIB). The incidence has been around 60-80/100,000 population.
      Endoscopic hemostatic therapy is the first treatment to those with active bleeding and major
      stigmata of bleeding. Endoscopic therapy stops bleeding and reduces rate of further bleeding,
      requirement for surgery and importantly deaths [2]. Adjunctive intravenous infusion of a high
      dose proton pump inhibitor (PPI) further reduces rebleeding. In a multicentre international
      placebo controlled trial that involved 767 patients with bleeding peptic ulcers, a PPI
      infusion reduced the rate of further bleeding (10.3 to 5.9% at 72 hour, P=0.026) In a
      subgroup analysis of a Cochrane meta-analysis over use of PPI in bleeding peptic ulcers, the
      adjunctive use of PPI in those who underwent endoscopic hemostatic treatment, when compared
      to those without PPI therapy, was associated with a reduction in deaths (17/954 vs. 32/ 969;
      OR 0.54; 95%CI 0.3-0.96) [ 4 ] . Despite of aggressive endoscopic therapy and maximal acid
      suppression using a PPI infusion, further bleeding occurs in around 8% of patients. Further
      bleeding is the single most important adverse prognostic factor and is associated with a 4
      fold increase in mortality. From a National United Kingdom Audit on the management of
      patients with AUGIB, those who needed surgery for further bleeding and failed endoscopic
      control had a mortality of 28% [ 5 ]. In addition to initial control of bleeding with
      endoscopic therapy, the prevention of further bleeding is an important objective.

      The use of routine second look endoscopy with re-treatment has been evaluated in several
      clinical trials. A recent meta-analysis [ 6 ] of these clinical trials concluded that the use
      of routine second look endoscopy confers a modest reduction in rate of further bleeding. In
      this pooled analysis of 8 trials and 938 patients, the absolute risk reduction was 6.8% (16.5
      to 9.7%). The number to treat to prevent one episode of recurrent bleeding was 15. Only one
      of these trials used high dose PPI infusion and epinephrine injection alone was used as
      endoscopic treatment. The use of epinephrine injection is no longer considered an optimal
      treatment. A second modality should be added to induce vessel thrombosis [ 7 ]. Clinical
      practice in the reported trials was considered not contemporary. In the modern practice of
      combination endoscopic treatment and maximal acid suppression, the use of routine second look
      endoscopy cannot be recommended as the NNT to prevent further bleeding would likely be
      higher. A policy of routine second look endoscopy is generally not recommended as suggested
      by an International Consensus Group [ 8 ].

      Second look endoscopy in those at high risk of further bleeding is however a logical
      approach. The NNT to prevent further bleeding diminishes as risk of further bleeding
      increases. For instance, an ulcer > 2 cm in size with Forrest I or Forrest II a bleeding
      would be associated with a re-bleeding risk of 15-20% even with high dose PPI infusion. Saeed
      et al. reported a study consisted of a small number of patients (n=40) and showed that
      endoscopic re-treatment in selected high risk patients based on a Baylor College score led to
      significant reduction in further bleeding (0 vs. 24%). This selective approach warrants
      investigation and could represent a dominant strategy in addition to high dose PPI infusion
      as a pre-emptive management of patients at high risk of further bleeding. A prerequisite to
      this approach is a risk score that predicts further bleeding in patients after endoscopic
      hemostasis and PPI infusion. This risk score needs to be derived from a large cohort of
      patients after uniform endoscopic treatment and acid suppression. The score will have to be
      validated in a prospective cohort of patients with bleeding peptic ulcers again after the
      same aggressive treatment. Furthermore, a randomized controlled trial on the use of second
      look endoscopy in high risk patients as identified by this risk score is required.
    
  