
    
      Esophageal cancer is one of the most aggressive malignancies in the world, which accounted
      for an estimated 572,034 new cases and 508,585 deaths in 2018 worldwide. The incidence and
      mortality of esophageal cancer is ranked first in China and esophageal squamous cell
      carcinoma (ESCC) is the main histological subtype of esophageal cancers in China. Correct
      preoperative evaluation of whether the tumor has reached any lymph nodes is important for
      management. Various methods have been used to detect primary and lymph node metastases in
      esophageal cancer patients, including computed tomography (CT), endoscopic examinations, and
      endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). However, even such advanced imaging modalities do not
      always reliably identify lymph node metastasis prior to surgical resection and pathological
      examination.

      The appearance of lymph nodes with morphological imaging procedures is classified by their
      shape, size, density and, if applied, contrast enhancement. BLN usually tend to have a fatty
      hilum, an oval shape and frequently do not measure more than 1 cm in the short axis diameter.
      However, the use of size as the most important criterion for differentiation of benign and
      malignant lymph nodes has limitations: small metastases without an increase in lymph node
      size are frequently missed. Positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) is
      increasingly used as single "one stop shop" method, which the combination of morphological
      and functional imaging represents the optimal approach for lymph node staging and general
      staging. A radioactive tracer，2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-glucose (18F-FDG) currently used is based
      on the increased glucose metabolism, which may be reported with semiquantitative standard
      uptake value (SUV). Routinely, 18F-FDG is intravenous injected and PET/CT scan is performed
      after 60 min. The static imaging in differentiation of inflammatory from MLN may be
      problematic. Because inflammatory lymph nodes goes along with an increase in glucose
      metabolism, and thus may manifest increased 18F-FDG uptake. It was reported that PET-CT
      sensitivity and specificity for the detection of loco-regional metastases were moderate, but
      sensitivity and specificity were reasonable for distant metastases. Many researchers found
      there is a correlation between the 18F-FDG uptake and time. In malignancy, the uptake of FDG
      uptake continues to increase for several hours after FDG injection whereas such prolonged
      period of FDG uptake is rare in inflammatory/infectious or normal tissues. Shum et al ever
      assessed clinical usefulness of dual-time FDG PET/CT in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma,
      which turned out the sensitivity of FDG PET-CT in detecting the primary ESCC with combination
      of early maximum standard uptake value (SUVmax) ≥2.5 or retention index (RI) ≥10% was 96.2%.
      However, for loco-regional lymph node detection, there was no significant difference using
      dual-time 18F-FDG PET/CT assessment. Dynamic 18F-FDG PET/CT allows quantitative assessment of
      lesion in vivo by using a Patlak model to obtain the influx constant (Ki), and the glucose
      metabolic rate (MRglu). The purpose of the study is to determine whether the dynamic 18F-FDG
      PET/CT imaging (0-60 min) add additional value in differentiation MLN from BLN.
    
  