
    
      Introduction

      Gastric cancer is the fifth most frequent cancer and the third cause of death due to cancer.
      The increase in life expectancy cause it to be diagnosed more and more in elderly people,
      with an average age at diagnosis of 68 years in the West.

      Surgery is the main treatment for gastric cancer and is associated with a high rate of
      postoperative complications and mortality, which is even higher in elderly patients (data
      from the ACS-NSQIP between 2007 and 2013: 30-day severe morbidity from 16.3% in 80 years and
      30-day mortality from 1.2% in 80 years).

      Generally, advanced chronological age is considered a negative prognostic factor for
      complications and hospital stay in major surgery. Age per se, however, seems to be
      responsible only in part for the increased risk of postoperative complications.

      Greater risks seem to be associated with other factors such as comorbidities, so, in the
      preoperative evaluation, variables such as the Charlson comorbidity index have been
      introduced. Another variable that has emerged recently for the estimation of perioperative
      risk is frailty, which is defined as "a medical syndrome with multiple causes and
      contributors that is characterized by a decrease in strength, endurance and physiological
      capacity, which increases the risk of the vulnerability of the individual and/or death".
      Surgery is a major stress factor that can disrupt physiological homeostasis; therefore,
      frailty has a clinical significance when considering surgery in elderly patients.

      There are two main ways to measure frailty: one by clinical definitions of a fragile
      phenotype and another by frailty indexes that assess the accumulated deficits in multiple
      domains. Measures to assess frailty are numerous and this is a limitation when standardizing
      and comparing studies; among the most used there are the Fried criteria, the frailty index of
      the Canadian Study of Health and Aging (CSHA-FI) and the modified frailty index of Velanovich
      (mFI: modified Frailty Index).

      Other indices widely used in the clinic are the Geriatric 8 (G8), which is recommended above
      all in elderly patients with cancer and the Groningen index (GFI: Groningen Frailty
      Indicator). The prevalence of frailty in elderly patients (65 years or older) is highly
      variable, probably due to the diversity in the definitions of frailty (4.0-59.1% in community
      residences, 10.4-56.0% in patients who are candidates for elective surgery) (18, 19, 20). The
      prevalence of frailty increases in females and with age (being 15.7% in patients aged 80-84
      years and 26.1% in patients older than 85 years).

      Frailty appears in several studies as a more important indicator than chronological age with
      respect to postoperative results. There are evidences that relate frailty, evaluated with
      different indices, with the increase of postoperative complications, hospital stay, need of
      discharge to convalescence centers, health costs, short and long term mortality, after major
      surgery.

      Therefore, it is important to identify fragile patients to implement prevention programs
      through global geriatric assessments (CGA Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment). Just by having
      more clinical attention for more fragile patients after major surgery there can be better
      results of short and long-term postoperative mortality. Likewise, as demonstrated in
      randomized clinical studies, prehabilitation and global geriatric assessment programs improve
      the results in terms of postoperative complications and hospital stay.

      The CGA is an established method to evaluate and optimize the physical state, the
      psychological, functional and social problems in elderly patients in order to improve the
      results of the treatments. It implies an interdisciplinary evaluation of multiple domains,
      followed by planning for analysis, treatment, rehabilitation and long-term follow-up.

      This allows, in the first place, to intervene before an operation, to increase the
      physiological reserve of a patient, especially with exercise and nutrition. In addition, the
      therapeutic decision can be guided by adapting the surgical recommendations to the
      physiological capacity of the patient; second, the knowledge of the increased risk of
      complications and the possible need for transfer to institutions (especially in patients who
      live alone) prepares patients and their families for postoperative evolution.

      The majority of studies published in the literature on the relationship between frailty and
      postoperative results are retrospective studies, which evaluate populations of patients
      undergoing major surgery and who, in general, analyze short-term results (30-day mortality).
      None of these takes into account the impact of surgery on the quality of life of this group
      of patients. Among all these studies there is very little information about the influence of
      frailty in gastric cancer surgery. There is only one retrospective study that focuses only on
      gastric cancer surgery, using the Groningen index and revealing an increase in in-hospital
      mortality and serious complications (Clavien-Dindo complications score ≥ 3) in fragile
      patients.

      Objective

      The aim of the present study is to assess the impact of frailty on the results of gastric
      cancer surgery (long-term postoperative morbidity and mortality, hospital stay, readmissions,
      need of transfer to institution of medium or long stay and quality of life).

      Methods

      This is a prospective and multicenter cohort study, within the Spanish EURECCA
      Esophagogastric Cancer Project, to investigate the impact of frailty on the postoperative
      results of surgery for gastric cancer in elderly patients.

      Participation in the study will be offered to all centers that are currently part of the
      Spanish EURECCA Esophagogastric Cancer Registry. Those hospitals that show their desire to
      participate must sign the Letter of Commitment.

      The impact of the frailty on different outcome variables will be evaluated. The main outcome
      variable will be 90-day mortality after the intervention. Other secondary outcome variables
      will also be evaluated: incidence of serious complications (Clavien-Dindo complications score
      ≥ 3), Complication Comprehensive Index (CCI) score, hospital stay, incidence of death in
      patients suffering from a complication (failure-to-rescue), hospital readmission within the
      first 30 days after the discharge, destination of the patient after discharge from hospital
      [home, social health centers, or geriatric residence], mortality at 12 months after the
      intervention, quality of life before the intervention and at 12 months.

      For the assessment of frailty (frailty screening), two questionnaires will be used:

        -  Questionnaire G8: This is a questionnaire with 8 questions, easy to use, with a total
           score that varies from 0 to 17 points. Previous studies suggest the score ≤ 14 as a
           cut-off point to identify the fragile patient, with a sensitivity of 92% and specificity
           of 52%.

        -  Modified frailty index: This index was described by Velanovich et al., based on a
           previously validated simplification of the frailty index CSHAFI (Canadian Study of
           Health and Aging Frailty Index), which was specifically designed to analyze data
           included in the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program of the American College of
           Surgeons (ACSNSQIP). It consists of 11 questions with 1 point assigned to each of them
           on the functional, endocrine, respiratory, cardiovascular and neurological status of the
           patient. It allows to divide the patients into 4 groups: without frailty (FI = 0),
           slightly fragile (FI = 1), moderately fragile (FI = 2) and severely fragile (FI ≥ 3).

      Postoperative complications will be classified according to the recommendations proposed by
      the European Chapter of the International Gastric Cancer Association (EGCA) (unpublished
      data), its severity through the classification of Clavien-Dindo and the CCI. In particular,
      the CCI will be calculated using the free application that can be found on the website:
      www.assessurgery.com/calculator_single/.

      Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) will be evaluated with the validated Quality of Life
      questionnaires of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC-QLQ),
      QLQ-C30 (30 items Core Quality of Life Questionnaire, version 3.0) and with the specific
      module for gastric cancer QLQ-STO22 (22 items Stomach Quality of Life Questionnaire). The
      permission for its use by the EORTC is available.

        -  The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire that reflects the multidimensionality of HRQoL in
           patients with cancer. It is composed of 30 questions distributed in five functional
           scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional and social), three scales of symptoms
           (fatigue, pain and nausea and vomiting), a global health scale and a series of
           additional questions to evaluate symptoms commonly referred by patients diagnosed with
           cancer (dyspnea, loss of appetite, insomnia, constipation and diarrhea) and the
           perceived financial impact.

        -  The EORTC-QLQ-STO22 questionnaire contains 22 structured items in five domains
           (dysphagia, food restrictions, pain, reflux and anxiety) and four specific items (dry
           mouth, alteration of taste perception, body image and hair loss) related to the symptoms
           of the disease.

      The calculation of the sample size is based on the primary objective of comparing fragile
      versus non-fragile patients with respect to postoperative mortality at 90 days after the
      intervention. Based on mortality data previously published in a retrospective study by
      Mosquera et al., it is estimated that mortality for the group of non-frail patients is 0.6%
      and for the group with frailty 4.3%. From the data of the literature, a prevalence of 23% of
      frailty is calculated in the population of patients with gastric cancer and age ≥ 70 years
      undergoing gastrectomy.

      For a power of 80% and a level of significance of 95% in a unilateral analysis, it is
      estimated that 276 non-fragile patients and 92 fragile patients would be needed to detect as
      statistically significant the difference between the proportion of patients who die between
      both groups.

      The characteristics of fragile and non-fragile patient groups will be compared through
      frequency tables. The Chi-square test will be used to compare the differences between the
      categorical variables and the ANOVA test for the continuous variables. Different analyzes are
      proposed according to the study variables that are to be analyzed. For dichotomous type
      response variables (90- day mortality, 12-month mortality, incidence of serious
      complications, incidence of in-hospital death in patients with complications, and hospital
      readmission at 30 days after discharge), a multivariate logistic regression will be used to
      evaluate the risk (odds ratio) of these variables. For continuous response variables (ICC
      score) at 30 days after the intervention, and number of days of hospital stay), linear
      regression models will be used. For the variable categorical response of the patient after
      hospital discharge, an ordinal logistic regression model will be done. All regression models
      will be adjusted for age, sex, body mass index (BMI), type of gastrectomy, center volume,
      neoadjuvant treatment and degree of frailty. Regarding HRQoL analysis, the mean scores and
      95% confidence intervals for the different domains of preoperative HRQoL and one year after
      surgery will be calculated. Changes of more than 10 points on a scale from 0 to 100 will be
      considered clinically relevant as previously suggested in other publications.
    
  