
    
      Research procedures in chronological order:

        1. Baseline clinical variables will be prospectively determined and then obtained
           retrospectively from the clinical assessment of individual pulmonary hypertension team
           physicians via chart review. The most recent transthoracic echocardiogram will also be
           evaluated and routine clinical variables including tricuspid annular plane systolic
           excursion (TAPSE), RV fractional area change (FAC), RV outflow tract (OT) and LVOT
           velocity time integral (VTI), and ejection fraction (EF) will be extracted.

        2. All patients will have cardiac MRI performed prior to the procedure to allow precise
           measurement of right ventricular volumes as well as LV volumes, RVEF, and LVEF.
           Gadolinium enhancement using gadolinium contrast will be measured.

        3. Standard of care right heart catheterization (RHC) will be performed on the day of the
           research procedure.

        4. Radial arterial pressure will be used for periprocedural monitoring as well as for
           sampling of arterial oxygen content and arterial oxygen lactate.

        5. Myocardial energetics will be assessed via sampling of coronary sinus venous blood with
           measurement of oxygen saturation and lactate.

        6. Following the standard of care RHC, endocardial mapping will be performed. After
           pressure-volume measurements are obtained (step 7), pacing will be performed from the
           right atrium (RA), His bundle, and RV at the site of the latest activation with repeat
           measurements of pressure-volume relationships.

        7. Once endocardial mapping is complete, a 7-French Millar conductance catheter will be
           placed into the RV and used to obtain pressure-volume data for the RV using the INCA PV
           signal processor. The Valsalva maneuver will be used to generate a series of PV-loops
           reflecting preload reduction subsequently allowing for the calculation of a load
           independent measure of contractility, the end systolic pressure volume relationship
           (Ees). RV afterload will be measured as effective arterial elastance (Ea) and V-A
           coupling will be assessed by the ratio of Ees/Ea. Myocardial energetics will be assessed
           via PV area (PVA) and calculation of the transmyocardial arteriovenous oxygen
           extraction.
    
  