
    
      The NHLBI Stem Cell Transplantation program is exploring ways to make allogeneic
      transplantation safer and more widely applicable. Prior NHLBI transplant protocols have
      evaluated the strategy of using T cell depleted marrow transplants followed by delayed
      lymphocyte add-back to control or prevent GVHD while conserving useful donor immune function
      against residual leukemia and infectious agents. Over the past ten years, a number of
      increasingly efficient methods have been used to deplete T cells but retain stem cells, and
      we have shown the safety and utility of the delayed T cell add-back approach. We have also
      found a positive relationship between administration of higher CD34+ cell doses and outcome.
      Investigation of highly purified grafts with add-back of specific T cell populations is
      ongoing, and the ability to test new purification approaches and devices on clinical-scale
      PBSC products is critical to the continued development of new transplantation approaches in
      our program. This requires testing the approaches on G-CSF mobilized PBSCs collected by
      apheresis from healthy donors, since this is the cell source that will be used in all
      clinical allogeneic transplantation protocols in our program.

      Therefore, the primary intent of this protocol is to provide a mechanism for mobilizing,
      collecting, storing, and analyzing G-CSF mobilized apheresis samples from healthy volunteers.
      Cells will be used to develop a method of processing the cells that are collected after
      stimulation with G-CSF, by removing the lymphocytes, which can mediate GVHD while retaining
      the stem cells which are necessary for hematopoietic reconstitution. At the same time we will
      study whether G-CSF administration has an effect on the lymphocyte, function which may
      influence the immune reactions occurring in allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.
      Furthermore the CD34+ cells collected will be a valuable resource for experimental studies of
      lymphocyte-stem cell interactions in our laboratory.
    
  