
    
      Critically ill patients, especially those that require endotracheal intubation, have the
      greatest risk of any hospitalized patient for acquiring nosocomial pneumonia. Nosocomial
      pneumonia, in this population, produces a substantial increase of mortality and morbidity.
      The literature suggests the causative pathway is aspiration of oropharyngeal pathogens found
      in dental plaque. The build-up of dental plaque has been significantly associated with
      subsequent nosocomial respiratory infections. Thus, prevention of pathogens colonization in
      the oropharyngeal cavity could be an effective infection control measure.

      Dental plaque once it reaches a critical thickness, acts as a reservoir for both aerobic and
      anaerobic pathogens. Failure to remove plaque begins a complex cascade of biological activity
      by which pathogens adhere to mucosal and tooth surfaces and pathogen overgrowth ensues.
      Additionally, neglected or insufficient mouth care is the foremost predisposing factor to
      oral conditions such as gingivitis, mucositis, and stomatitis which supply additional ports
      of entry for pathogens.

      There are only a handful of studies that compare the frequency and type of oral hygiene
      required to prevent or decrease oropharyngeal colonization. A recent pilot study, 01-CC-0207,
      compared oral care provision in two intensive care units (ICU) in the Clinical Center. The
      test ICU offered meticulous oral hygiene through a system of regular oral assessments taught
      by a dentist and dental hygienist. The score from the assessment determined the type and
      frequency of oral care. The control ICU gave standard care typical of the ICU community.
      Plaque and saliva assays were collected from the enrolled patients. Significantly lower Beck
      scores and lower colony forming organisms in the specimens was achieved in the test ICU on
      day 3, p less than 0.03 and p less than 0.001 respectively.

      This protocol will expand the pilot into a prospective randomized assigned trial conducted at
      four hospitals in the Washington D.C. area. These hospitals have ICUs more representative of
      ICU's nation-wide. This study will test the effectiveness of a comprehensive and systematic
      oral care program to reduce the oral assessment scores, mucosal plaque scores, and the amount
      of pathogen inoculum present in the saliva and plaque. Intubated and non-intubated patients
      will be compared as well as meticulous care with or without the addition of the oral
      antiseptic, chlorhexidine. Consistency of practice performance will also be evaluated when
      nursing staff has dentist/hygienist instruction and monitoring versus the traditional nurse
      instruction.
    
  