
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess progression-free survival of high-excision repair cross-complementing 1(ERCC1)
           patients with advanced or metastatic cancer of the esophagus, stomach, or
           gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) treated with FOLFOX comprising oxaliplatin, leucovorin
           calcium, and fluorouracil compared to those treated with irinotecan hydrochloride plus
           docetaxel.

        -  To assess progression-free survival of low-ERCC1 patients with advanced or metastatic
           cancer of the esophagus, stomach, or GEJ treated with FOLFOX compared to those treated
           with irinotecan hydrochloride plus docetaxel.

        -  To assess progression-free survival of low-ERCC1 patients with advanced or metastatic
           cancer of the esophagus, stomach, or GEJ treated with FOLFOX compared to high-ERCC1
           patients treated with FOLFOX.

        -  To assess overall survival of and toxicities in each of the two treatment arms in this
           group of patients.

        -  To assess the response probability (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial
           responses) in the subset of patients with measurable disease in each of the two
           treatment arms.

        -  To explore whether there is evidence of interaction between treatment arm and ERCC1
           expression in this group of patients. (Exploratory)

        -  To bank tissue and blood for future translational medicine studies; a) To explore the
           relationship of ERCC-1 and ERCC-2 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotypes with
           clinical outcome in these patients; and b) To explore the association between germline
           variations in these SNPs and ERCC-1 mRNA expression in these patients. (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to ERCC1 expression
      (high [≥ 1.7] vs low [< 1.7]), and disease site (esophageal vs gastric/gastroesophageal
      junction). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (FOLFOX): Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and leucovorin calcium IV
           over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1-2. Courses repeat
           every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes and docetaxel IV
           over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 8. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood and tumor tissue samples may be collected for ERCC1 expression analysis and future
      research studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  