
    
      The Light-Heart study is randomized, double-blind, controlled trial of 8 weeks of morning BWL
      therapy, compared with DRL in older, Stage B HF patients with clinically significant levels
      of depressive symptoms. The primary hypothesis of the proposed study is that compared to DRL,
      BWL therapy will be associated with a significantly greater reduction in depressive symptoms.
      Important information about compliance and tolerability associated with the BWL intervention
      in Stage B HF patients will also be gathered. The investigators will examine whether BWL
      therapy is associated with greater improvements in quality of life and subjective functioning
      compared to DRL. Finally, the researchers will investigate whether BWL is associated with a
      sustained improvement in depressive symptoms 2 and 4 weeks following the end of the
      intervention compared to DRL.

      One hundred twenty-two older adults (≥60 years) with Stage B HF and depressive symptoms (Beck
      Depression Inventory/BDI score ≥10) will be recruited from several University of California,
      San Diego (UCSD) and Veteran's Affairs (VA) cardiology clinics. The baseline assessment will
      include evaluation of depressive symptoms (BDI), quality of life (Quality of Life Enjoyment
      and Satisfaction questionnaire), subjective functioning (Short Form-36), and an assessment of
      patient expectations regarding the study intervention (single question, 5 point scale). These
      measures will be assessed again after 4 and 8 weeks of treatment and at 2 and 4 weeks
      following the end of the BWL therapy intervention along with side effects (Frequency,
      Intensity, and Burden of Side Effects Rating).

      Participants will be randomized to receive BWL (n=61) or DRL (n=61) light therapy boxes
      (Litebook® Elite; Litebook® Inc., Medicine Hat, CA) to use at home for 60 minutes each
      morning for 8 weeks. If participants are currently receiving treatment (e.g. antidepressant
      therapy), participants will continue their usual treatment while in the study. Participants
      will be told that the effects of a particular light therapy protocol on mood and functioning
      is being investigated. Participants will be made aware that there is a treatment condition of
      interest and a comparison condition and that participants will be randomly assigned to one or
      the other group. Participants will not be told that different colors of light are being used
      or that BWL is the treatment of interest. The Litebooks® will look identical except for the
      color of the light. Weekly telephone calls will encourage compliance, and compliance meters
      will record when the Litebooks® are turned on or off. A blood sample will also be collected
      from each patient to assess for biomarkers.
    
  