
    
      Under the general hypothesis that atherosclerosis is a systemic disease; the purpose of this
      protocol is to compare coronary artery atherosclerotic abnormalities with carotid artery
      abnormalities. This is an NHLBI sponsored sub study to the Pfizer sponsored trial comparing
      atorvastatin or the combination of atorvastatin/CETP inhibitor as treatments for patients
      with coronary heart disease. The primary study is a multicenter, randomized, double blind,
      active-controlled study which uses intracoronary ultrasound to measure coronary plaque volume
      during the course of treatment. The scientific value of the NHLBI sub study will be the
      comparison of atherosclerotic abnormalities in two different vascular beds, the coronary
      artery and the carotid arteries. This study will examine correlations between invasive
      coronary measurements by intravascular ultrasound (IVUS), with 2-dimensional measurements of
      wall thickness by carotid intimal medial wall thickness (IMT), and with 3-dimensional
      measurements of carotid wall volume by MRI and 3D ultrasound. Secondary analysis will probe
      whether carotid plaque characteristics can predict atheroma regression. Secondary analysis
      will also assess the ability of noninvasive carotid measures to predict the degree of
      coronary regression determined in the coronary arteries by IVUS. It is important to note that
      the NHLBI study design remains blinded to the treatment group a subject is enrolled in since
      the sample size for a single center study is too small to detect the conservatively estimated
      additional benefit of combination atorvastatin/CETP inhibitor treatment over the already
      effective atorvastatin alone. Thus, the NHLBI sub study is primarily a pathophysiological
      study correlating carotid and coronary atherosclerotic changes as well as a technological
      comparison of IVU, carotid IMT, and carotid vessel wall volume by MRI. If successful, this
      study could provide the framework for following treatment trials of this nature with
      noninvasive tools, either ultrasound or MRI, in place of the accurate but invasive IVUS.
    
  