
    
      Background and current knowledge in the area:

      Perinatal asphyxia is one of the commonest causes of neonatal death and long term disability,
      occurring in 20 per 1000 live births. Of these, approximately 2-3 per 1000 will go on to
      develop hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy (HIE) (1). In Ireland and the UK HIE is the third
      commonest cause of neonatal mortality, accounting for 9% of all deaths, and 21% of term
      deaths, while globally it is estimated to cause over 1 million neonatal deaths each year. For
      the survivors there is significant secondary morbidity associated, including cerebral palsy
      (15%), severe cognitive delay (11%), seizure disorders (8%), sensori-neural deafness (7%),
      and visual loss (3%)(2).

      HIE is an evolving process, which can be simplified into two insults. The initial insult is
      significant cerebral hypoxia and/or ischaemia which is followed by energy depletion, from
      anaerobic metabolism leading to the accumulation of lactate, and loss of cellular integrity.
      This sets in motion a cascade of events with the resultant formation of free radicals,
      proteases and caspases leading to cell damage and apoptosis, the secondary insult(3). The
      secondary energy failure has been shown to occur between 6-48 hours after the initial insult.

      Until recently no therapeutic intervention which could reduce the associated morbidity or
      mortality existed. However the recent publications of several international trials, and their
      subsequent meta-analysis has shown that early induced hypothermia is beneficial in HIE,
      improving survival and reducing neurological disability (4-5). Induced hypothermia has now
      become a standard of care in moderate/severe HIE. However to be effective it must be
      commenced within 6 hours of delivery, before the secondary energy failure occurs. In this
      narrow window of time the population who would benefit from treatment must be identified,
      resuscitated, stabilised and cooled.

      Unfortunately the ability to recognise and diagnose those who would benefit from therapy is
      not always possible within this time period. We have shown that the current standard methods
      to identify those at risk of HIE such as acid-base balance, lactate and Apgar score and
      initial neurological assessment are unreliable (6). Neonatal electroencephalography (EEG) is
      useful for the grading of encephalopathy and is an excellent predictor of long term outcome.
      In particular its evolution over the first 24 hours following delivery strongly correlates
      with outcome (7). However it requires a highly specialised skill set that is rarely available
      to the neonatologist in the acute setting. Amplitude integrated EEG is more widely used by
      clinicians, but its interpretation is user dependent, and the majority of neonatologists
      report they are not confident in their own interpretive ability (8). The need for early and
      reliable prediction of outcome in HIE has never been greater. A quick, cheap, reproducible,
      non-user dependent method for quantifying severity of HIE and likely prognosis is an urgent
      need. Many biochemical and haematological markers have been proposed in perinatal asphyxia,
      but none have led to clinical advances, or commercially viable bedside tests (9).

      Over the last 2 years, here in the Cork University Maternity Hospital, through the BIHIVE
      study (Biomarkers in Hypoxic-Ischaemic Encephalopathy study) we have identified potential
      biochemical markers in umbilical cord blood which can accurately identify those infants who
      will progress to moderate/severe encephalopathy (10,11). The BIHIVE study has adopted a
      multifaceted approach to identifying blood-borne biomarkers in HIE through 1) targeted
      proteomic profiling using Luminex technology 2) miRNA profiling 3) comprehensive mapping of
      the blood metabolome using both Mass Spectrometry and Nuclear Magnetic Resonance techniques.

      Our aim is to recruit a cohort of infants with clearly defined perinatal asphyxia and HIE,
      classified using both repeated neurological assessment and multichannel EEG. At the time of
      birth, umbilical cord blood will be drawn, processed and banked, using strict standard
      operating procedures (SOPs) which we have developed for this purpose. These procedures will
      ensure that all specimens will be suitable for later proteomic, metabolomic, transcriptomic
      and genomic analysis. Using a systems biology approach we have studied multiple proposed
      markers in the stored umbilical cord blood from our discovery cohort, initially focusing on
      the proteome and metabolome. Through this work we have already identified a number of
      biomarkers present in umbilical cord blood with the potential to predict the development of
      moderate/severe HIE. Our early data is extremely promising. Our initial metabolomic analysis
      has shown that we can differentiate between HIE and controls with an area under the curve
      (AUROC) of 0.92. Further analysis will be required to identify and quantify the exact
      metabolite peaks which produce this differentiation. We now wish to validate these findings
      in a further cohort of infants with perinatal asphyxia and HIE, and to validate our ability
      to predict longer term neurological outcome. Our pilot work examining microRNA changes in the
      cord blood of infants with moderate/severe HIE is also very encouraging with significant
      upregulation of a multiple studied miRNAs in both asphyxia and HIE. The most promising miRNAs
      are now being quantified using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplication and will be
      validated in the discovery cohort.

      Future cohort-BIHIVE2: To develop these markers further to the point where we have validated
      a marker with >90% sensitivity and specificity for moderate/severe HIE we will need to
      recruit a further cohort of carefully recruited infants with high quality biobanking at birth
      and detailed clinical phenotyping. This is the main work of this current application. We will
      require a further cohort of 300 infants with perinatal asphyxia, of whom 60 will develop HIE
      and 30 will develop moderate to severe HIE. We will also need to recruit 300 contemporary
      control infants. To recruit this number of infants with perinatal asphyxia we will need to
      study 30,000 live births. We have therefore expanded our study centres to include Karolinska
      University Hospital, Stockholm, a large state of the art maternity hospital with 10,000 live
      births per annum.

      Further validation will allow us to develop an algorithm of clinical and biochemical markers
      which will provide a sensitive and specific predictive test for moderate/severe HIE.
      Neurodevelopmental follow up of both cohorts will allow us to assess our ability to predict
      neurodevelopmental and behavioural outcome at 2 years.

      Lastly we will examine the exact timing of biomarker alteration using a timed animal model of
      hypoxic-ischaemic injury (HI). In clinical studies hypoxic-ischaemic injury is unpredictable
      and its timing is often impossible to estimate. Dr Tracey Bjorkmann in Queen's University,
      Brisbane has developed a piglet model of HI which produces HI induces seizures and a level of
      injury equating to moderate to severe HIE (12). She has agreed to collaborate with our
      programme and will provide piglet samples of serum taken at 0,1,2 and 12 hours following HI.
      These samples will be invaluable in examining the progression of biomarker derangement and
      will help us to time neonatal brain injury after delivery.
    
  