
    
      Melanoma is the first cancer in terms of increasing frequency in France. Prevention can be
      efficient in detecting melanoma with good prognosis but mortality remains unchanged and 15 to
      20% of patients still die from melanoma. Indeed metastatic melanoma is a heterogeneous highly
      and multiple mutations driven cancer which is highly resistant to conventional treatments.
      Significant survival benefit was demonstrated since 2011 with anti-CTLA4 and anti PD1
      antibodies and BRAF and MEK inhibitors .Future improvement of advanced melanoma prognosis
      will rely on clinico-epidemiological studies and on biological studies aiming to validate and
      identify new prognostic and predictive factors based upon clinico-epidemiological and
      histological data, genomic host and tumor alterations, tumor microenvironment
      characteristics, individual immunological profile and functional imaging. In the context of
      marketing of costly innovative molecules in this indication, an assessment of resource
      consumption is required, with prospective collection of economic data on treatment and
      toxicity. Large biobanks collecting data from cohorts of advanced melanoma are mandatory for
      such projects.

      The "Groupe Multidisciplinaire Français du Mélanome cutané" (GMFmel) group plans to build a
      prospective cohort enrolling advanced melanoma patients, MELBASE. MELBASE is a French
      national multidisciplinary project whose objectives are :

        -  To provide an annual instrument panel with a descriptive and correlative analysis of
           patients with advanced melanoma in France including epidemiological, clinical and
           biological socio-economic characteristics

        -  to validate and identify new clinical, epidemiological, and biological prognostic
           factors such as genomic host and tumor alterations, tumor microenvironment
           characteristics, individual immunological profile in advanced melanoma.

        -  to evaluate the risk-benefit, he impact on treatment on patient quality of life, the
           management cost of patients treated with the validated and future treatments of
           metastatic melanoma. If possible, cost-effectiveness ratios wil be calculated either in
           all treated patients or in selected populations of patients (based on clinical or
           biological criteria, like biomarkers), in order to identify the populations in which
           these new therapeutics will be the more cost-effective. The project also aims to define
           predictive biomarkers of response and toxicity including pharmacogenetics and tumor
           genetics alterations, tumor microenvironment characteristics, individual immunological
           profile.

      Patients with unresectable stage III or stage IV melanoma will be enrolled prospectively for
      6 years with a 5 years follow-up (a total of 2000 patients will be enrolled) from 26 French
      centers.

      A database of clinical monitoring of metastatic patients will be established and associated
      with a virtual tumor bank. The database will be issued from the use of biological, clinical
      and imaging databases already available in the centers and optimized for this project; this
      database will also results from the interaction with the INCa genotyping platform. The
      information collected in MELBASE will include clinical constitutional factors, factors linked
      to primary melanoma, factors linked to previous lymph node involvement, tumor kinetics
      informations, "American Joint Committee on Cancer" (AJCC) stage at inclusion and after
      various therapeutic intervention, serological markers, metastatic tumor genotyping (one or
      more sites, one or more time points), therapeutic interventions (medical, surgical,
      radiotherapy and palliative strategies) with evaluation of response, tolerance, medical
      direct costs, impact on quality of life, psycho-socio-economic variables including a specific
      a specific questionnaire, date of death, date of latest news.

      MELBASE will comprise a virtual Tumor bank collecting samples from the same unresectable
      stage III and stage IV patients enrolled in the study. These samples will be available in the
      Biological Resource Centers (BRC) of each participating center and will consist of the
      primary melanoma (mostly paraffin embedded), metastatic sample (s)(paraffin embedded and
      frozen) from at least 1 site at inclusion and during evolution, particularly before treatment
      modification if clinically required, DNA from peripheral blood mononuclear cells, plasma
      sampled at inclusion, every 6 months and at each new treatment line during 3 years.

      The computer data processing will therefore ensure the role of a data warehouse to generate
      clinico-epidemiological reports and analysis and that of a virtual catalog of biological
      material. MELBASE project will be consistent with the ethical chart of the hospital tumor
      banks published by Inca and will be managed by a chart ensuring each participating center
      management autonomy and availability of the data put into the database and made available. A
      multidisciplinary scientific advisory board will identify research priorities based on
      clinical practice and scientific knowledge.
    
  