
    
      Delirium is a very common and distressing neuropsychiatric syndrome in palliative care and a
      variety of other settings. It is associated with increases in morbidity, mortality, health
      care costs and most importantly in levels of patient and family distress. Inpatient
      palliative care is delivered in stand-alone hospice units and increasingly in designated
      units in acute care hospitals, where delirium occurrence rates of over 80% have been reported
      in the last hours and days before death. Most patients in these units have a cancer
      diagnosis. Given the increasing elderly proportion of the population, and that cancer is
      predominantly a disease of the elderly, there is a pivotal need to develop primary, secondary
      and tertiary preventative strategies for delirium in these patients.

      Although sleep-wake cycle disturbance is not a core diagnostic criterion for delirium,
      studies of delirium in cancer patients have reported occurrence rates of 75-100%. This most
      likely reflects a circadian rhythm disturbance. Recent research suggests that giving
      melatonin to patients who are admitted to hospital may prevent them from developing delirium.

      This feasibility study aims to inform a larger randomized, placebo-controlled, double blind,
      parallel-group, single-centre trial of an oral, daily administered single dose of melatonin
      to prevent delirium in patients with advanced cancer.

      The study will be conducted on the 31-bed Palliative Care Unit (PCU), a university teaching
      unit, at Bruyère Continuing Care. The intervention consists of a single daily sublingually
      administered tablet of either 3mg non-animal synthetic source or placebo at 21.00 hours (±1
      hour), starting on study day 1 and stopping on study day 28 of admission or earlier in the
      event of death or discharge. The study drug will be discontinued immediately if incident
      delirium occurs before day 28.

      Throughout the trial, multiple dimensions of feasibility will be evaluated such as
      recruitment, retention and acceptability of study procedures.
    
  