
    
      Integrin αvβ3 is an important member of integrin receptor family and expressed preferentially
      on various types of tumor cells and the activated endothelial cells of tumor angiogenesis,
      but not or very low on the quiescent vessel cells and other normal cells. Therefore, the
      integrin αvβ3 receptor is becoming a valuable target for diagnosis and response evaluation of
      malignant tumors.

      The tri-peptide sequence of arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) can specifically bind to the
      integrin αvβ3 receptor. Accordingly, a variety of radio-labeled RGD-based peptides have been
      developed for non-invasive imaging of integrin αvβ3 receptor expression via positron emission
      tomography (PET) or single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Among all RGD
      radiotracers, several PET imaging agents, including 18F-Galacto-RGD and 18F-AH111585, have
      been investigated in clinical trials for tumor diagnosis, and the results demonstrated that
      both radiotracers allowed the specific imaging of various types of tumors, and the tumor
      uptake correlated well with the expression of integrin αvβ3. Recently, serial RGD dimeric
      peptides with PEG linkers have been studied. The new types of RGD peptides showed much higher
      in vitro integrin αvβ3-binding affinity than the single RGD tri-peptide sequence, and
      importantly, they exhibited significantly increased tumor uptake and improved in vivo
      kinetics in animal models. As a representative, 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 could be easily prepared and
      exhibited excellent in vivo behaviors in animal models. No adverse reactions have been
      observed in animal models to date.

      For the further interests in clinical translation of 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2, an open-label brain
      PET/CT study was designed to investigate the diagnostic performance and evaluation efficacy
      of 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 in pre-surgery glioma patients.
    
  