
    
      ORIGIN® PS and VANGUARD® PS are total knee prostheses, intended to be used in primary Total
      Knee Replacement Arthroplasty (TKA). With the ORIGIN® PS implant being customized
      individually made (CIM) fitting a patient's anatomy, a more natural reconstruction of knee
      kinematics is anticipated and ultimately a higher patient satisfaction and lower revision
      rate are envisioned. To date literature providing data about CIM TKA is still scarce. A study
      assessing kinematics after TKA found that CIM TKA more closely resembled natural knee
      kinematics when compared to standard off-the-shelf (OTS) TKA. This resemblance allows for a
      more natural femoral rollback during knee flexion, the authors found. CIM TKA demonstrates
      knee kinematics more similar to a normal knee studying tibiofemoral kinematics using mobile
      fluoroscopy in vivo. Furthermore, CIM TKA has shown to provide a more accurate tibial fit and
      rotation, when compared to several standard TKA.

      A retrospective review of 621 TKA patients, 307 with CIM TKA and 314 with conventional
      implants, demonstrated a decreased estimated blood loss, decreased length of stay, decreased
      range of motion, and no discernible difference in surgical or tourniquet time. Albeit, the
      differences found were not deemed clinically relevant, the study underlined the safety and
      efficacy of the CIM TKA technique. Patients who received CIM TKA had lower transfusion rates
      and fewer adverse events.

      Four year data from the UK National Joint Registry showed a cumulative percent revision rate
      of 0.5% for CIM TKA versus a cumulative percent revision rate of 1.9% for all TKA.

      While all this data is encouraging, randomized controlled studies and assessments of patient
      reported outcomes are missing. Therefore, the current study aims to close this knowledge gap
      and provide Level I evidence for CIM TKA by comparing the two TKA Prostheses mentioned above
      and to evaluate their clinical performance and safety.

      This is a prospective, comparative, randomized, double arm, monocentric, observational,
      post-market study. The study is performed in Germany, in the University Medical Center of
      Johannes Gutenberg-University Mainz (UMC-Mainz).

      It is stated that 140 subjects implanted with either the ORIGIN PS or VANGUARD PS System will
      be included upon eligibility assessment. Subjects will be followed at one and two years after
      the procedure.

      Enrollment will occur at the time of the medical examination. It is assumed that the
      subjects' treatments and follow-up visits will be performed per standard of the
      investigational site in Germany.

      It is anticipated that enrollment will take approximately 18 months. As each implanted
      subject is to be followed for two years, the estimated study duration is approximately 48
      months, excluding the time required for preparing the final report. (A loss of approximately
      10% is expected at the end of the study)
    
  