
    
      Design:

      As CBT-T is anticipated to achieve faster improvement, due to its brief nature, than CBT-E
      this research study is not utilizing a non-inferiority design. That is, differences between
      the two interventions are anticipated, at least initially. Over time, the two interventions
      may become similar in some aspects (final remission rate for completers) but not others
      (final remission rate utilizing intention to treat).

      Hypotheses:

      CBT-T will produce higher rates of symptom abstinence initially as the treatment takes
      approximately half as long as CBT-E and then at post-treatment follow-ups that effect will
      disappear using completer analysis. However, as drop-out is expected to be lower in CBT-T it
      is expected that CBT-T will consistently produce superior results to CBT-E with intention to
      treat analysis.

      Recruitment:

      Individuals who have been assessed at the Adult Eating Disorders Service and meet eligibility
      criteria will be informed by the assessor that they are eligible to participate in a trial
      examining a new treatment. The assessor will provide the letter of information for the study
      and the study will be explained to the participants and any questions the participants have
      about the study will be addressed. The assessor will inform the staff psychometrist at the
      service that the participant is eligible to participate in the study. Participants will be
      asked to participate in the study once the participants name has reached the top of the
      treatment waitlist and a clinician is able to see them. Once the patient's name reaches the
      top of the treatment wait-list the participant will meet with the psychometrist in
      preparation for treatment, as part of routine procedure, and asked to participate in the
      study. Due to the significant waiting list (currently 5-6 months) as well as the tendency for
      some clients to end up not accessing care, study participation will be sought when it is most
      relevant.

      At the beginning of client's appointments with the staff psychometrist, patients will be
      reminded of the study, provided information about the study and asked if to participate in
      the study. If they indicate interest in participating, then the psychometrist will thoroughly
      review the letter of information with patients. If patients agree to participate and sign the
      consent form, study measures will be given. The psychometrist will then inform the assigned
      therapist that the client wishes to participate in the study. To ensure the psychometrist is
      not aware of randomization, Philip Masson (study PI) will randomize the client to one of the
      two interventions using the website random.org. Philip Masson will inform the therapist of
      the randomization, and the therapist will then proceed with the appropriate treatment
      intervention. The PI will then keep track of randomization assignment in a separate excel
      file that the psychometrist does not have access to. If clients do not wish to participate in
      the study, clients will be assessed using the clinic's standard program evaluation protocol
      and will receive treatment as usual (CBT-E). Once individuals are participating in the study
      only the assigned treatment will be received and this process will be clearly explained to
      participants. Participants can withdraw from the study at any time at which point their data
      collection would stop; however, participants would continue to receive their assigned
      treatment. If participants wish to end treatment, then participants will be able to reapply
      to the service after a 2-month waiting period, which is standard practice for the service.

      Interventions:

      CBT-E is a transdiagnostic eating disorders treatment based on the principles of cognitive
      behavioural therapy which has been developed over the past 40 years. The treatment focusses
      on tracking and modifying eating behaviours, providing psychoeducation, addressing
      overvaluation of weight and shape, body image, food restriction and restraint, emotion
      regulation, and relapse prevention. For non-low-weight individuals, the treatment is designed
      as a 21 session treatment (one orientation meeting and 20 treatment sessions). The adult
      eating disorders service has been utilizing this treatment approach on an outpatient basis
      for the past two years. All staff members have reviewed the reading material associated with
      the treatment, participated in online training for CBT-E and participate in weekly peer
      supervisions sessions where staff members support one another in utilization of the
      treatment. Therapists are encouraged to review relevant sections of the therapist manual as
      needed. The treatment is adhered to the manual as close as possible except for one major
      exception. In CBT-E the treatment is designed to be delivered twice weekly for the first 4
      hours. Instead, the service provides weekly sessions as the patients and staff found it too
      difficult to make twice weekly sessions fit into their schedule. After approximately 17
      weekly sessions then sessions drop down to every other week.

      CBT-T is a 10-session treatment based on cognitive behavioural therapy. It was developed
      based on clinical experience as well as core components of evidence-based versions of CBT for
      eating disorders, including CBT-E. The aim of the intervention is to provide only the
      hypothesized critical elements of CBT for eating disorders so that the interventions can be
      provided quicker. As rapid response to treatment in CBT for eating disorders has been shown
      to be a key predictor of outcome, it is possible that a briefer intervention may not be
      necessarily less effective. Further, briefer interventions may result in reduced drop-out
      which would allow more clients to fully access treatment. The key elements of this
      intervention are similar to CBT-E except there is a less explicit focus on emotion regulation
      and the psychoeducation is provided in the moment as opposed to being provided as a separate
      element of treatment. Further, in CBT-T treatment is initially only offered for four sessions
      and then extended only if the patient is actively engaging in treatment, which is similar to
      the session 8 progress review in CBT-E but occurs earlier and is framed differently. The
      therapy is delivered using a session by session checklist of core tasks to facilitate
      adherence. The clinicians at the service will receive training in CBT-T in the form of an
      8-hour workshop delivered by one of the creators of the intervention, Glenn Waller. Further,
      the treatment manual will also be provided to all clinicians and read prior to the workshop.
      The clinicians will also participate in group supervision for one hour per week focusing on
      effective delivery of CBT-T.

      Data Analysis:

      Data will be analyzed using SPSS (version 24). Treatment groups will be compared on baseline
      characteristics (e.g., eating disorder symptoms) using independent samples t-tests and
      chi-square for categorical measures. Percentage scores will be calculated to determine
      attrition rates at each stage of treatment and chi-square analyses will be used to compare
      attrition/drop-out between the two treatment conditions. A two-level hierarchical linear
      model will be used to examine the influence of the intervention on change in symptoms over
      time. Level 1 (within-subjects) will include repeated measures of the dependent variable
      (e.g., EDE-Q scores, ED symptoms) and level 2 (between-subjects) will include treatment
      condition (CBT-T or CBT-E) and the interaction between condition and time. Separate models
      will be conducted for different outcome variables of interest. Both an intention to treat and
      completer analyses will be performed. For the intention to treat analysis multiple imputation
      will be utilized to handle the resultant missing data.

      Power analyses: In accordance with recommendations for pilot RCTs by Rounsaville, Carroll, &
      Onken (2001), the investigators aim to have at least 20 participants per group (after
      attrition). Based on power analyses for repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) for
      between-within group differences using G*power 3, a total sample size of 40 would yield >80%
      power to detect medium effects (f2 >.20), which represents a conservative approach, given
      increased power of multilevel modeling over traditional repeated measures ANOVA. Based on
      prior studies of CBT-T, the investigators anticipate an overall attrition rate of
      approximately 30%; thus, they propose to enroll 60 participants (30 per treatment condition)
      to detect an attrition-adjusted medium effect.
    
  