
    
      The Institute of Medicine recognizes low back pain (LBP) as a top 15 priority condition,
      calling for health care organizations to develop new, evidence-based management strategies.
      Most patients with acute LBP are managed in primary care. Primary care management is
      characterized by high variability in decision-making, including referral to specialties such
      as physical therapy. In the face of this variability it is not surprising that the outcomes
      of management for patients with acute LBP are also inconsistent, with a considerable
      proportion going on to persistent or recurrent symptoms. Costs associated with patients who
      fail to recover quickly or completely can be substantial.

      Many patients with acute LBP are referred from primary care to physical therapy. Physical
      therapy management of patients with acute LBP is also highly variable in terms of the
      interventions used and the outcomes achieved. More effective and standardized management for
      patients with acute LBP could impact progression of the condition before the concerns
      associated with chronic pain become evident, and are therefore central to reducing costs and
      improving outcomes.

      Numerous practice guidelines have been developed to attempt to reduce variability and improve
      outcomes for patients with acute LBP managed in primary care. Current guidelines provide
      little direction for determining the optimal type of patient and timing for referral to
      physical therapy, other than a broad recommendation to delay referral for at least a few
      weeks. Within physical therapy there is an absence of validated decision-support tools to
      reduce inappropriate variation in care and improve outcomes. The Investigators have developed
      and validated a clinical decision rule identifying a subgroup of patients with LBP likely to
      experience rapid and sustained improvement with a brief, standardized physical therapy
      intervention delivered early in the course of care, suggesting it may be more cost-effective
      to manage this subgroup with early referral to physical therapy. The impact of integrating
      this rule into routine clinical care has not been assessed.

      We will conduct a randomized clinical trial examining outcomes and costs associated with
      integrating the decision rule into primary care management of patients with LBP. Patients
      with LBP who fit the decision rule criteria will be randomized into one of two groups; one
      managed with usual care based on current practice guidelines; the other managed based on the
      decision rule with early, standardized physical therapy. Patients will be followed for 6
      months. Outcomes will include measures of disability, pain, satisfaction, and costs.
    
  