
    
      An important mechanism responsible for clinical recovery after neurological damage of
      different types is synaptic plasticity. Nervous tissue can enhance or de-energize
      inter-neuronal transmission at synaptic level in a lasting way. By increasing the efficiency
      of synaptic transmission, through long-term potentiation (LTP), it is possible to compensate
      for the loss of synaptic pulses on survived neurons due to brain damage and to restore their
      function.

      At synaptic level, LTP is mainly regulated by NMDA receptors. In animal models induction of
      plasticity in surviving neurons through the stimulation of NMDA receptors has been shown to
      limit the clinical manifestations of neuronal damage. Endogenous NMDA is synthesized by
      methylation of D-aspartate (Asp) by D-aspartatoartate methyltransferase . Moreover, Asp acts
      as a neurotransmitter capable of activating the NMDA receptor, since its biosynthesis,
      degradation, absorption and release occurs in the pre-synaptic neuron, and its release
      determines a response in Post-synaptic neurons. The expression of Asp in the SNC is very
      abundant during the embryonic period and in early years, whereas it is significantly reduced
      in adulthood.

      Consistent with Asp ability of activating the NMDA receptor, recent studies have shown that
      oral administration of Asp increases LTP induction in mice. Preliminary studies by our group
      also showed an increase in LTP amplitude in subjects suffering from progressive forms of
      Multiple Sclerosis after 2 weeks of daily per os intake of 2660mg Asp.

      It is also well known that the therapeutic exercise that characterizes a rehabilitative
      treatment is able to induce various benefits to the physical-functional and the
      cognitive-emotional spheres. In this regard, it has been extensively demonstrated how
      repeatedly performing a motor task can increase cortical excitability through the induction
      of LTP mechanisms.

      Hypothesis Pharmacologically promoting the induction of cortical LTP by the intake of Asp in
      subjects with various types of brain damage (eg Multiple Sclerosis, Parkinson's Disease,
      Dementia) may favor the therapeutic effects of rehabilitative treatment.

      Specific Objectives A double-blind study to evaluate the effects of D-aspartate in improving
      the outcome of rehabilitative treatment resulting from brain damage of different origin (eg
      Multiple Sclerosis, Parkinson's Disease, Dementia). This will be made possible thanks to the
      specific skills of a multidisciplinary team of neurologists and physiatrists, healthcare
      professionals such as physiotherapists, occupational therapists, psychologists, speech
      therapists and the support of a biomedical engineer. These professional figures are already
      available at the UCK Neurosurgery of the IRCCS Neuromed directed by the proposer and actively
      collaborate to optimize the therapeutic exercise of patients with neurological damage.

      Population of the study This study aims to provide preliminary data on interaction between
      D-aspartate and therapeutic exercise in inducing LTP cortical phenomena. The sample estimate
      was made by analogy after a literature analysis. In view of the quite high risk of drop out,
      our intention is to recruit at least 100 subjects in a population of patients with cerebral
      injury of various origin, coming to the neurology department of IRRCS Neuromed, Pozzilli.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria are as specified below.

      Study design Double-blind prospective study, between randomized, placebo-controlled parallel
      groups.

      Recruited patients will be randomized to receive 2660 mg D-aspartate oral dosing once daily
      or placebo, in addition to the conventional treatment provided by the relevant staff, for a
      period of 6 weeks. Patients will also be undergoing a Therapeutic Exercise Program (ET). All
      conventional therapies taken by patients will be recorded by the operators. Patients will be
      evaluated at zero time before starting treatment (T-0W) after 6 weeks to evaluate the effects
      at the end of treatment (T-6W) , and at 12 weeks (T-12W) to evaluate the maintenance of
      long-term effects. Randomization will be balanced in accordance with age, sex and schooling.

      The physiotherapy and/or speech therapy approach will differ among patients considering the
      different types of brain damage and the different levels of disability, according to the
      rehabilitation unit team for each case.

      Expected results The present study aims to investigate whether the association between
      pharmacological treatment with D-aspartate and therapeutic exercise may be more effective
      than just therapeutic exercise in favor of synaptic plasticity and clinical recovery under
      it, in patients with various forms of brain damage.

      The expected result based on previous studies on mice (Errico, 2008, Errico, 2011) is that
      D-aspartate, promoting neuronal plasticity and acting in synergy with therapeutic exercise,
      strengthens the recovery of deficits in patients with various types of brain damage.
    
  