
    
      Associated with the worsening of functional capacity of older adult and the lack of guidance
      on how to care of them after stroke, the family caregiver starts to fell burden related to
      the care and the quality of life was affected by that burden. Besides that, the older adult
      began to use more frequently health services and had more hospitalizations by preventable
      conditionals with adequate care.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of educational interventions of care
      at home provide by nurses to family caregivers of older adult with stroke after hospital
      discharge, compared with usual care guidelines or no guidance, in one month follow up. The
      family caregivers of older adults post stroke with the first functional sequel from the
      Clinical Hospital of Porto Alegre (HCPA) will participate in the study. The randomization
      will be through the randomization list created by web page randomization.com.

      The intervention will involve systematic monitoring of nurses through home visits (HVs)
      during one month. Thus, will instrumentalize the family caregiver to care of older adult with
      stoke according the protocol developed in a research group and the needs of care of them. The
      control group won't receive the HVs and could have or not the usual care guidelines provide
      by health services that have access.

      Will be collect the identification, social and demographics data of the older adults and the
      caregivers at the moment of hospital discharge. Therefore, will be collect the clinical data
      of the older adults. After discharge and at the older adult's home, will be realized the
      first home visit (1ª HV) to all older adults and caregivers included in the study and will be
      applied to the family caregiver the Caregiver Burden Scale and the instrument WHOQOL-BREF
      that analyse the quality of life. Also, will be applied the Measure of Functional
      Independence (MIF) to identify the independence level of the older adults and the needs of
      care. In this moment, will be randomized by an extern member of research group through
      telephone contact. After this first HV, the older adults and caregivers included in the
      intervention group will received more three HVs, until 14, 21 and 30 days after discharge,
      respectively, by a pair of interventional nurses.

      The control group won't receive the home visits by nurses, but could have or not the usual
      care guidelines provide by health services that have access.

      All older adults and caregivers included in the study will received a fifth HV until 60 days
      after discharge. In this last HV will be applied to family caregiver the Caregiver Burden
      Scale and the instrument WHOQOL-BREF. In addition, will be applied a questionnaire related
      older adult's utilization of health services and rehospitalizations during this time and the
      MIF.
    
  