
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death in the United States. In a large
      percentage of cases, the risk factors for CVD are modifiable if the responsible patient's
      phenotype is identified and appropriately treated. In particular, the metabolic syndrome
      encompasses insulin resistance, central obesity, dyslipidemia and hypertension, which are all
      major risk factors for CVD. These risk factors also cause underlying vascular abnormalities,
      i.e. endothelial dysfunction, that leads to progression of CVD. Endothelial function is the
      balance between vasodilating and vasoconstricting substances produced by the endothelium.
      Endothelial dysfunction is a common feature of insulin resistance and hypertension. In
      addition, endothelial dysfunction represents a very early step in the process of
      atherosclerosis and is associated with increased adverse CVD outcomes.

      It has been well established that lifestyle modifications (changes in dietary intake and
      increase in physical activity) can effectively improve CVD risk factors associated with
      metabolic syndrome. The success of maintaining these lifestyle changes in humans over the
      long term is poor. Therefore, strategies to reduce prevalence of metabolic syndrome by
      pharmacological means have been adopted by practicing physicians. However, because of the
      widespread use of dietary supplements by the general public, nutritional supplementation that
      includes use of natural products that effectively modify the components of metabolic syndrome
      represent an attractive approach.

      A diet rich in fruits and vegetables clearly has been shown to have significant health
      benefits. In particular, increased consumption of blueberries has demonstrated beneficial
      health effects for CVD and certain components of the metabolic syndrome, such as
      hypertension, insulin resistance and/or type 2 diabetes. These health benefits from
      blueberries may be attributable to their phenolic bioactive compounds, such as anthocyanins,
      which also have antioxidant properties. Although both human and animal studies demonstrated
      the anti-diabetic effect of blueberries, there is a paucity of data detailing the efficacy of
      increased blueberry consumption upon CVD risk factor modification in human subjects. Thus,
      given the concern regarding the ability to significantly increase and maintain an
      individual's fruit and vegetable consumption long-term, the role of dietary supplementation
      with bioactive components contained in whole blueberries becomes not only an attractive, but
      a feasible daily dietary intervention.

      Our lab has previously shown that obese, nondiabetic and insulin-resistant human subjects
      that consumed blueberry powder once a day (in the form of a blueberry smoothie) for 6 weeks
      improved their insulin sensitivity when compared to their counterparts that consumed a
      placebo smoothie. Unfortunately, definitive blood pressure measurements were not conducted in
      this study. The investigators used a single clinic measurement which did not show any blood
      pressure lowering effects with consuming the blueberry smoothies. An 8-wk preclinical trialin
      spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone rats, however, showed that supplementation with
      blueberry powder lowered systolic blood pressure. Thus, it is plausible that blood pressure
      lowering effects were not seen in our previous study because the investigators did not
      evaluate a suitable population (with hypertension) and did not use a more precise technique.

      Therefore, based on the positive results in our prior human study with the use of blueberry
      powder increasing insulin sensitivity and given the relationship of CVD risk factors to
      insulin resistance, this project's overall objective is to examine the role of dietary
      supplementation with blueberry powder on CVD risk factors in subjects with metabolic
      syndrome. In particular, the investigators will evaluate changes in insulin sensitivity with
      the use of the frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test (FSIVGTT), hypertension
      with the use of a precise ambulatory blood pressure monitoring system and vascular reactivity
      as a surrogate marker for underlying endothelial abnormalities. To our knowledge, no research
      studies have evaluated endothelial function and blueberries in humans. To accomplish our
      goal, the investigators will conduct a randomized, double-blinded and placebo-controlled
      clinical study with a fixed amount of blueberry powder in the form of a smoothie. The
      investigators hypothesize that increased daily consumption of blueberry powder will be
      effective in increasing insulin sensitivity, decreasing blood pressure, and improving
      vascular wall function in a population with metabolic syndrome that is at high-risk for CVD.
    
  