
    
      Annually, 60,000 people within the United States are diagnosed with PD.1 The cardinal
      features of PD include resting tremor, rigidity, asymmetric onset, and bradykinesia.2 These
      characteristics appear to affect balance. Balance is a complex system that involves
      maintaining posture, facilitating movement, and recovering equilibrium to control one's body
      within its limits of stability. Balance involves the coordination of vestibular, visual,
      auditory, motor, and high level premotor systems, many of which are compromised in PD.3
      Previous research found that 46% of the PD subjects fell within a three month period, and
      that 21% of subjects had their first fall during the three month period.4 Postural
      instability is a hallmark sign of PD that compromises balance control and increases the risk
      of falling.5,6

      Many falls in PD occur because of postural instability and their inability to organize
      sensory information. The SOT identifies abnormalities in postural control, somatosensory,
      visual, and vestibular sensory systems. It offers a composite score that is a percentage
      based on normal age controls. We recently presented an abstract at the World Parkinson's
      Conference in Montreal, Canada that showed individual's with PD (n=20) who were categorized
      as fallers, scored lower on the SOT than non-fallers with PD.7

      The pathogenesis of PD is a progressive neurologic depletion of dopaminergic neurons from the
      basal ganglia which manifests as common motor or extrapyramidal signs: tremor, bradykinesia,
      and rigidity. As the severity of PD progresses there is frequently postural instability and
      further disability. There have been relatively few studies investigating the effect of OMM on
      PD patients. One previous research study demonstrated that a single session of osteopathic
      manipulative medicine protocol on 10 PD subjects improved gait compared to age-matched
      sham-controls, particularly stride length, cadence, and maximum velocities of upper and lower
      extremities.8 Other studies on non-PD subjects have shown that OMM can improve subject
      balance. In a pilot study 20 elderly subjects with OMM protocol applied weekly for four weeks
      showed an improvement in postural instability, as measured by changes in anterior-posterior
      and medial-lateral sway on force plate observations.9 OMM has also been shown to improve
      subjects with dizziness. The outcomes were measured using the SMART Balance Master©. It was
      found that the composite score on the SMART Balance Master© significantly improved
      immediately after intervention as well as one week later. (P<.001)10

      OMM utilized in improving gait in PD patients addressed muscle hypertonicity and joint motion
      restrictions by using muscle energy and articulatory techniques for the spine and the
      extremities.8 OMM techniques that were used to address balance focused on removing muscle
      spasms and restrictions of the spine and cranium. Based on our experience of treating PD
      patients in our clinical practice and the improvement of symptoms in the forementioned
      studies we developed a PARK-OMM protocol to utilize in this study. The protocol starts with a
      CV4 technique, which helps to address cranial restrictions, and can potentially affect
      patient's autonomic function.11,12 The protocol then proceeds to address each major spinal
      region and the extremities by decreasing muscle hypertonicity and increasing joint range of
      motion with direct OMM articulatory and muscle energy techniques. These techniques were
      selected due to their document efficacy in improving joint mobility in the general population
      as well as in PD both in clinical practice and documented prior studies.13

      Hypothesis: OMM treatments twice a week over a 6-week period on PD subjects using a defined
      OMM protocol will produce a prolonged improvement in motor function measured by the Movement
      Disorders Society's Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) and balance measured
      by the NeurCom SMART Balance Master© Sensory Organization Test (SOT) leading to a reduced
      number of falls. We are also going to screen for serum biomarker changes to investigate the
      potential effects of OMM. We expect that the OMM cohort will have significantly improved
      motor function scores, balance, and an associated decrease in falls. This would help to
      establish the role of OMM in the treatment of PD. Positive findings may also lead to
      additional studies investigating how OMM impacts the quality of life in PD patients. It could
      also promote further investigation on the potential mechanisms of OMM amongst the PD
      population.
    
  