
    
      Breast cancer ranks as the top leading malignant tumors among females, and also accounts for
      the most common cause of tumor related mortality in female's worldwide . Approximately,
      20-30% of breast cancer (BC) cases develop metastasis, while 50% of patients will suffer from
      breast cancer liver metastases (BCLM) . The presence of liver metastasis has markedly
      worsened the prognosis of patients, and the median survival was reported to be 3.8-29 months.

      Metastatic breast cancer is considered to be a disseminated disease and many oncologists
      remain reluctant to include surgery within the multimodal treatment strategy of these
      patients . Although systemic treatments can achieve approximately 60% of responses in breast
      cancer recurrence, long-term survival is exceptional only with medical treatment . Without
      liver resection, the average survival reported after the first onset of liver metastases is
      distributed over a range from 1 to 15 months. Surgery is becoming more functional and
      effective than conservative treatment in improving the poor outcomes of patients with BCLM .
      However, there is no generally acknowledged set of standards for identifying candidates who
      will benefit from surgery. The proper indication for surgical treatment is still a matter of
      discussion; surgical resection should be assessed when the following premises are met: low
      surgical risk, low metastasis number, complete macroscopic liver removal, absence of proven
      extrahepatic disease by positron emission tomography and computed tomography, objective
      response to chemotherapy before surgery, and long disease-free interval. Breast cancer liver
      metastasis surgery (BCLMS) is included in an onco-surgical strategy.

      Most of the published series of patients with liver metastases of breast cancer who have
      undergone surgery come from a single center or few centers and there are hardly any long-term
      results, so we consider necessary to carry out a multicenter review of patients who underwent
      surgery in high volume centers across Europe belonging to the European-African
      Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Association (E-AHPBA) to asses survival and disease-free survival
      and to determine which patients may benefit from surgery.

      This retrospective multicenter cohort study in centers performing BCLMS aims to provide an
      assessment of the outcomes across E-AHPBA centers.
    
  