
    
      The investigators have completed the first R21 phase of this combined two phase grant.
      Essentially, the investigators succeeded in creating for the first time on planet Earth a
      fully working combined and integrated TMS-fMRI-EEG system, and then used that in healthy
      controls to show that the secondary effect of the TMS pulse is greater when it is delivered
      to the cortex during the rising phase of the EEG alpha wave for that person. The group then
      also showed that they can monitor a subject with EEG and then predict and time a TMS pulse to
      be able to hit this time window.

      The goal of the R33 phase of this R21/R33 grant is to test the hypothesis that synchronized
      stimulation has clinical implications; specifically that the increased rACC inhibition due to
      increased cortical activation of the DLPFC by synchronizing the TMS pulse application to an
      individual patient's alpha rhythm will have a significant effect on the anti-depressive
      treatment response rate for TMS, sufficient to justify a future, more extensive clinical
      trial.

      In this study, the investigators will look first at the BOLD activity from the rACC as a
      measure of target engagement because there is a substantial literature suggesting that
      reductions in activity in the rACC are an integral part of the depression network and may
      predict eventual antidepressant effect. 1-5 Moreover, the investigators and others have shown
      that stimulation of the left DLPFC causes a reciprocal change in rACC. 6-9. The studies
      proposed for the R33 will randomize a cohort of 60 medication free depressed patients to
      standard TMS treatment (NON-SYNC) or timing optimized TMS treatment (SYNC). For the later
      cohort the investigators will use the results of the R21 phase to measure the optimum timing
      of the TMS pulses with respect to each individual's EEG rhythms to maximize inhibition of the
      rACC following TMS. This will be done at entry into the trial and after the therapy is
      complete. Both experimental and control group will undergo these measurements but they will
      only be used in the former group. To enable the 4 week (5 days/wk) TMS treatment plan to be
      able to use this individually determined timing, the investigators will integrate a second
      EEG system with our treatment TMS unit. The R33 specific aims are:

      Specific Aim 1: Integrate a similar EEG system with our treatment TMS scanner with similar
      feedback circuitry as that in SA 3 in the R21.

      Specific Aim 2: Carry out a 4 week trial (2 extra weeks for responders but not remitters) of
      anti-depressive therapy randomized between optimum timed TMS (SYNC) and standardized
      non-synchronous TMS (NON-SYNC) in a cohort of depressed patients to estimate the success rate
      of such an optimized treatment.

      This study will provide the data needed for a go/no-go decision on a full clinical trial for
      this potential novel therapy.

      Hypothesis: In a double blind, randomized (1:1) trial enrolling only at MUSC over three years
      in 60 treatment resistant depressed patients, we hypothesize that daily prefrontal rTMS over
      4-6 weeks with the initial TMS pulse of each train synchronized to the subject's alpha phase
      (SYNC TMS), will result in improvement in depression, and that these improvements will be
      greater than the improvements seen using the same form of treatment but not with the initial
      pulse synchronized (NON-SYNC). As this work is a first ever use of this technology, the
      investigators wish to compare the antidepressant effects to standard therapy to see if
      synchronization boosts the clinical effect. A power analysis for this number of subjects
      exists but the investigators are really most interested in comparing the overall outcome
      between the two groups, and looking at response predictors. Thus it is not a formal efficacy
      or even inferiority trial, rather a comparative early phase trial.
    
  