
    
      BACKGROUND: Computed Tomography (CT) is the imaging reference standard for initial staging
      and response assessment in randomized, controlled clinical trials (RCT) dealing with
      metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). However, comparability of imaging data among recruiting
      centers in RCTs is highly hampered by diverging imaging protocols and different technical
      specifications. Over the last years, analysis of radiomic features in mCRC patients has
      gained increasing interest for image evaluation beyond the mere assessment of extent. Also,
      these radiomic features are highly susceptible to technical parameters such as slice
      thickness. Hence, comparability of radiomic features among recruiting centers are also highly
      limited due to diverging imaging protocols.

      AIMS: This prospective, multicenter imaging survey aims at assessing current differences
      regarding mCRC CT imaging protocols and technical specifications among large academic sites
      in Europe and at drafting a consensus imaging protocol endorsed by the European Organisation
      for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC).

      METHODS: This survey will be in close cooperation of the EORTC Imaging Group, EORTC
      Gastro-intestinal Tract Group, European Society of Oncologic Imaging (ESOI) and European
      Society of Gastrointestinal and Abdominal Radiology (ESGAR). Among the EORTC Imaging Group,
      EORTC Gastro-intestinal Tract Group, ESOI and ESGAR, imaging experts will be prospectively
      recruited and will serve as expert panelists in this prospective survey. Following the Delphi
      approach for survey conduction, several survey rounds will be performed. The answers of each
      survey round will be analyzed by the survey facilitators, blinded results will then be
      forwarded to the expert panelists prior to every following survey round. Statements / answers
      can then be modified by the expert panelists in the following survey round.
    
  