
    
      Single open-label randomised clinical trial with parallel control groups.

      The intervention group "joint crisis plan" benefits from a joint crisis plan in addition to
      the usual in-patient care. The active control group "crisis card" benefits from the crisis
      card in addition to the usual in-patient or out-patient care.

      OBJECTIVES:

      The study aims at evaluating the effectiveness of a joint crisis plan compared with crisis
      cards regarding the reduction of coercive measure in the following hospital admission.

      PROCEDURES:

      A weekly screening of all service users regarding eligibility will be carried out. Each
      eligible person will be approached by a trained staff member of the unit and invited to
      participate in the study, but not before the patient is capable of consenting to treatment.
      After informed consent has been obtained, a staff member conducts a baseline assessment using
      the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF), the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) and the
      Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS). Then participants will be randomly allocated to either
      intervention or control group and specific intervention will be carried out. Joint crisis
      plan: Due to the duration of the process, the facilitated preparations for the negotiation
      session should start immediately. For those treated as in-patients, intervention should be
      finish before their release from the hospital. Crisis card: The in-patient and the attending
      physician fill out a crisis card together when the patient is to be released from the clinic.
      Out-patient prepare a crisis card together with their clinic physician during a routine visit
      to the clinic doctor's office. After the 12-month-follow-up-period participants will be
      assessed again regarding received psychiatric in-patient care and experienced coercive
      measures in any clinic during this period. Additionally, the patient's case files are
      examined for documented coercive measures.

      HYPOTHESES:

      The primary hypothesis to be tested is whether JCPs significantly reduce the average of
      involuntarily spent days of hospitalization during the 12 month follow-up period, compared
      with the control group receiving crisis cards.

      Secondary hypotheses will be to determine whether compared with the control condition, JCP
      use will result in improvements regarding other common coercive incidents: involuntary
      medication, isolation, and physical restraint.

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION:

      The necessary sample size regarding the primary outcome criterion "days in accommodation" was
      calculated utilizing routine data of a random sample (N = 20) of in-patients. The following
      inclusion criteria were used for the population of patients:

        -  relevant period: 1st of January to 31st of December 2016

        -  at least one acute psychiatric inpatient hospital stay with admission and discharge in
           2016 (UKE: station PEAG)

        -  minimum length of in-patient treatment 3 days

        -  documented ICD-10 diagnosis: F2*/F3*

      A zero-inflated negative binomial regression was calculated to obtain the estimator for the
      average number of days in accommodation (15.69) and the estimator for the overdispersion
      (0.49). The sample size calculation was carried out with a type I error of 5% (two-tailed)
      and a power of 80%.

      The calculation was carried out with PASS 2008 (NCSS, LLC Kaysville, Utah). It led to a
      sample size of 151 patients per group (a total of 302 patients). Taking withdrawal and
      follow-up loss of combined approx. 20% into account an initial sample size of 374 patients
      (187 per group) will be necessary.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      In order to address primary and secondary objectives, an intention-to-treat analysis (ITT)
      will be calculated as a zero-inflated negative binomial regression. The group variable (JCP
      vs. crisis card) is included as a fixed effect into the model. Additionally, a per-protocol
      analysis (PP) will be performed to examine the actual interventional effect.
    
  