
    
      The gold standard treatment to achieve volume reduction of lymphedema is based on a
      Decongestive Lymphedema Therapy (DLT).that consists in 2 consecutive phases: the initial
      intensive phase which aim is to obtain maximal reduction of lymphedema volume and a second,
      the maintenance phase which aim is to maintain the initial volumetric reduction achieved
      during phase 1 as long as possible. The second maintenance phase mostly based on patient
      self-management of his treatment, is not strictly codified, but includes compression therapy,
      nutritional recommendations, skin cares, physical exercises and manual lymphatic drainage.

      24 hours compression using garments or bandages seems to be crucial for long term management
      of lymphedema.

      Garment and bandages prescriptions for daily treatment are a common practice in the
      maintenance phase but are often unsuitable for night treatment, as bandages are effective
      when well applied but are highly dependent on the patients' skills, and garments, due to
      their nature, can be poorly tolerated leading to low adherence from patients to
      self-management care. In the end, there is an unmet medical need for night treatment during
      maintenance phase. .

      In this context THUASNE developed a specific night-time garment, for lymphedema maintenance
      phase. It is a standard Auto-Adjustable Armsleeve using the MOBIDERM® technology.

      MOBIDERM® AUTOFIT is a standard self-adjusting compressive MOBIDERM® sleeve, with mitten.The
      sleeves are made of polyamide and elastane on the outside and adhesive non-woven fabric and
      polyethylene foam on the inside.

      Several small rigid straps are placed throughout the product to facilitate the passage of the
      arm, to adapt the garment to the morphology of each patient and to tighten it. MOBIDERM® foam
      squares are smaller on the thumb than on the arm to facilitate limb mobility. The product is
      a ready-to-use garment made in 6 different sizes, 2 lengths, left/right arm according to the
      size grid.

      The level of pressure is around 10-15mmHg. The patient will then be able to adjust the
      product more or less tightly in his everyday life.

      The product is currently marketed in many countries and is reimbursed in the following
      countries: the Netherlands, UK, Scandinavia, Slovakia, Korea, Japan, Cz Republic in the
      indication of the treatment of lymphedema.

      A first pilot randomized controlled study demonstrated some benefit to use MOBIDERM Autofit
      during night-time as an adjuvant treatment to daily compressive garment.

      The objective of this new study is to confirm, using a more robust methodology, the effect of
      Auto-Adjustable MOBIDERM® Autofit Armsleeve on maintenance phase treatment, worn during the
      night, within the period at risk for the so called rebound effect as reported in several
      observational studies.
    
  