
    
      Demographic and clinical features Perinatal variables were recorded for all infants,
      including GA, BW, sex, APGAR scores (at 1 and 5 minutes), prenatal steroids, pre- and
      post-treatment alanine aminotransferase (ALT)/aspartate aminotransferase (AST), second and
      third courses of paracetamol, PDA ligation, clinical variables including respiratory distress
      syndrome (RDS), IVH (grade ≥3), NEC (grade≥2), moderate or severe BPD, ROP requiring laser
      therapy, early-onset neonatal sepsis (EOS), late-onset sepsis (LOS), duration of non-invasive
      ventilation (NIV), mechanical ventilation (MV) and oxygen (O2) supplementation, day of full
      enteral feeding achievement, length of hospital stay, and mortality.

      Sepsis with onset at ≤72 hours was defined as EOS and at >72 hours as LOS in infants
      hospitalized in the NICU. RDS was defined as the need for surfactant administration [5]. IVH
      was diagnosed by cranial ultrasound in the first 7 days of life (intraparenchymal hemorrhage
      + IVH, large IVH). NEC diagnosis and staging were implemented by using Bell's criteria.
      Neonates that received positive pressure or ≥30% oxygen without pressure after a
      postmenstrual age of 36 weeks were diagnosed as having moderate or severe BPD [8]. ROP
      screening was done by ophthalmologists according to the International Classification of
      Retinopathy of Prematurity Revisited [9].

      Hemodynamically Significant Patent Ductus Arteriosus All neonates underwent Doppler
      echocardiography (ECHO) at postnatal 72 hours. Diagnosis of hsPDA was based on clinical and
      ECHO features [10]. ECHO evaluation was repeated at regular intervals. IV paracetamol was
      used as primary rescue therapy for hsDPA. If hsPDA persisted despite 3 courses of paracetamol
      therapy, surgical ligation was performed. The non-hsPDA group comprised non-hsPDA preterm
      infants selected using the same exclusion criteria. Infants with non-hsPDA were excluded from
      the study.

      Continuous and Standard Intermittent Bolus Infusion of Paracetamol IV paracetamol therapy was
      delivered as primary rescue pharmacological treatment to all neonates who had hsPDA during
      the study period. Standard IV intermittent bolus paracetamol therapy was administered in the
      form of 15 mg/kg doses as 1-hour infusions every 6 hours for 5 days, while continuous IV
      paracetamol infusion therapy was administered as a 60 mg/kg/day dose continuously for 5 days
      (Parol, Atabay Ilac Kimya San., Istanbul, Turkey). ALT and AST levels were analyzed before
      and after treatment . Infants received standard IV intermittent bolus paracetamol between
      January 1 and April 31, 2018, and continuous IV infusion paracetamol between May 1 - August
      31, 2018 for hsPDA medical treatment. Therefore, eligible infants were divided into two
      groups as the standard IV intermittent bolus infusion group and the continuous IV infusion
      group.
    
  