
    
      The study will take place as follows :

      The remote monitoring of the biomarkers (5 days a week, between 7am - 12 midday). The
      home-based monitoring of congestion by Hb and Hte, eGFR using the CKD EPI formula
      (creatinine) and potassium variables will be measured with point of care devices, after
      minimally invasive blood sampling operated by the healthcare professional who will manually
      enter the data in the Information System.

      2. ExpHeart is composed of an Information System (web application) and an algorithm, the
      Expert System, embedded on the information system. The Information System is a
      cyber-securised web application and the Expert System uses a proprietary therapeutic
      algorithm to optimize pharmacological HF treatment. The Expert System is based on the
      analysis of a continuously updated clinical database integrating the patient's electronic
      medical record (managed by the Information System). The Expert System will generate
      prescription recommendations directed to the treating investigator through the Information
      System. The Expert System recommendations are based on ESC clinical guidelines (Annex II).
      This evaluated solution Expheart is not CE marked yet.

      3. Decision on treatment update and/or optimization will be operated by physicians and
      healthcare professionals who will monitor compliance with the study protocol including the
      smooth functioning of bilateral patientinvestigator communication, i.e. (i) receipt by the
      investigator of recommendations from Expheart solution, (ii) adequate action/decision of the
      investigator and (iii) implementation of the appropriate action at the patient level.

      The Investigator will inform the patient's treating physician/General practitioner (by phone
      and mail) about the participation of his/her patient to the study and will inform him that
      any HF treatment prescription change will be performed by him/her during the study period.

      Moreover, in case of any technical difficulty, assistance will be provided by a dedicated
      call center, serviced daily by the promotor (Monday to Friday, support@cardio-renal.com).
    
  