
    
      Standard of care surgical site infection (SSI) antibiotic prophylaxis for elective
      hysterectomy is a single intravenous antibiotic. Despite use of intravenous antibiotic
      prophylaxis, pelvic infection including vaginal and urinary complaints and infections are
      still often noted after hysterectomy. For gynecologic surgery the burden of infection is not
      only from the skin but from the vagina and urinary tract. Hysterectomy involves a
      communication via the cervical or vaginal canal directly with the pelvis and thus can lead to
      a potentially increased risk of infection from both aerobic and anaerobic organisms.

      There has been scant retrospective data examining the use of metronidazole as an adjunct to
      standard antibiotic prophylaxis for hysterectomy. A few previous studies have examined the
      use of vaginal metronidazole in patients who had a documented overgrowth of normal bacterial
      flora (e.g. diagnosed with bacterial vaginosis) prior to hysterectomy in pre-menopausal women
      only and found a significant difference in prevention of infections.

      Vaginal metronidazole is a standard of care antibiotic for vaginal infections including
      bacterial vaginosis. Based upon small studies in the peri-operative setting, vaginal
      metronidazole may provide a benefit in decreasing surgical site infections and urinary
      infections in conjunction with standard infection prevention protocols.

      For post-operative patients, the symptoms of vaginal discharge, dysuria, pelvic pain and
      wound erythema/induration/drainage is not only distressing for the patient but leads to
      additional phone calls, patient visits, laboratory and radiology evaluation and possibly
      additional pain, and antibiotic prescriptions. This increased use of health care services can
      cause a burden to our health care system and diminish overall patient satisfaction.
      Therefore, if additional prophylaxis can also prevent patient reported symptoms of
      post-operative infection, the intervention may be of value.

      The objective of this study is to investigate if metronidazole inserted per vagina daily for
      5 days before elective hysterectomy decreases patient complaints of potential infection or
      documented post-operative infection.

      Subjects randomized to the intervention are required to pick up the antibiotic at their own
      pharmacy. They must then insert the antibiotic per vagina once daily on days 1-5 (day 5 being
      the day before their scheduled operation).

      There are no study related visits, imaging, or testing required above standard peri-operative
      procedures as per their gynecologic surgeon. Subjects randomized to the control group (no
      antibiotic) are followed for data collection only. Subjects in both groups will have a
      routine hospital stay for surgery and their routine follow up for post-operative care as per
      the standard practice of the gynecologic surgeon.
    
  