
    
      The proposed study will implement a mixed-methods investigation of equine-assisted
      occupational therapy (EAOT) for children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD).

      QUANTIATIVE STRAND

      PARTICIPANTS Investigators will distribute fliers to local schools and ASD organizations to
      recruit eight participants for the study. Investigators will screen children for inclusion
      through a four-step process. They will call interested participants to ensure eligibility for
      the study, provide basic information, and answer any questions. Next, investigators will mail
      interested participants a packet that includes the SCQ, the ABC-C, and Hearts and Horses
      Enrollment Packet, along with a cover letter and instructions to mail back the completed
      forms, which will include a physician's signature stating the child is medically cleared to
      ride horses. Next, eligible participants will attend a screening at Hearts and Horses
      Therapeutic Riding Center to ensure they meet all PATH, Intl standards, and can ride a horse
      for 10 minutes while following safety rules. Finally, eligible participants will attend a
      final screening visit that will include administration of the ADOS-2, Leiter-3, and Adaptive
      Behavior Assessment System, Third Edition (ABAS-3). Eight participants who meet criteria will
      be enrolled.

      SCREENING MEASURES. Social Communication Questionnaire (SCQ). This parent-report measure is a
      quick, 10-minute screen for ASD. A score of 15 or above indicates the individual likely has
      ASD. The SCQ has strong discrimination between children with and without ASD and is widely
      used for entry into ASD research studies.

      Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule, Second Edition (ADOS-2). The ADOS- 2 is a play-based
      assessment of communication, social interaction and behaviors, and is often used to confirm a
      clinical diagnosis of ASD. The ADOS has strong predictive validity for diagnosis of ASD.
      Participants who meet clinical-cutoffs for ASD will be included in the study. The ADOS-2
      requires extensive training to administer reliably; an investigator who has obtained
      research-level reliability will administer the ADOS-2 to potential participants.

      Leiter International Performance Scales, Third Edition (Leiter-3). The Leiter-3 is a
      completely nonverbal measure of intelligence and cognitive abilities that is widely used with
      the ASD population. The Brief IQ score can be used reliably in place of the Full IQ score
      when a minimal IQ estimate is needed; therefore, this study will use the Brief IQ version of
      the Leiter-3. Participants who have an IQ below 55 will be excluded from the study. A
      registered and licensed occupational therapist will administer the Leiter-3.

      Aberrant Behavior Checklist- Community (ABC-C). The ABC-C is a valid and reliable behavior
      rating scale that measures the extent of problem behaviors in children and adults with
      development disabilities. Any adult who knows the child well, in this case the caregiver, can
      complete the 58-item checklist. The irritability and hyperactivity subscales will be used as
      outcome measures in the study. Therefore, to avoid a ceiling effect as described above,
      children included in this study must have a combined score ≥ 11 on the irritability and
      hyperactivity subscales of the ABC-C, as established by Gabriels et al. (2015).

      PATH, Intl. Standards. PATH, Intl provides a list of contraindications for participants who
      should not participate in equine-assisted interventions. In order to ensure participants meet
      all PATH, Intl standards, they will complete Hearts and Horses enrollment packet and process.

      Adaptive Behavior Assessment System (ABAS-3). The ABAS-3 is a norm-referenced rating scale
      that measures ten domains of adaptive behaviors and can be completed by a caregiver. The
      ABAS-3 was chosen because it measures adaptive behavior in a variety of domains, therefore
      providing a well-rounded picture of the child.

      THE INTERVENTION The intervention will occur at Hearts and Horses Therapeutic Riding Center,
      which follows guidelines set forth by PATH, Intl to ensure safety of participants; for
      example, instructors are PATH-certified, trained side-walkers will be present during the
      intervention, and participants will wear helmets.

      Prior to the intervention, each participant and caregiver will participate in an evaluation
      with an occupational therapist to determine current level of functioning and family
      priorities. Before the evaluation, caregivers will be asked to fill out two forms and bring
      them to the evaluation: a questionnaire about their child's adaptive functioning and the
      sensory profile. During the evaluation, occupational therapists will conduct a
      semi-structured interview with the parent and child. Next, the occupational therapist will
      collaborate with the child and family to create occupation-focused goals, a process that will
      be facilitated by the administration of the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM).
      Occupational therapists will help to guide the family in setting occupation-focused goals
      that are realistically attainable with this 10-week intervention.

      Guided by the evaluation, the occupational therapist will individualize the intervention to
      address each participant's unique goals, accommodate for individual learning styles (e.g.
      minimize use of verbal cues), and incorporate each child's special interests or powerful
      motivators. Despite this individualization, common components will be present across all
      intervention sessions. Each session will be 45-60 minutes long, and the child will be mounted
      on the horse for at least 25 minutes. The session will begin with a visual schedule of the
      day's activities, which can then be referred to throughout the session to facilitate
      transitions from one activity to another. There will be a one-to-one ratio between the child
      and occupational therapist to ensure the intervention is individualized to each child's
      needs. Two EAOT sessions will occur simultaneously in the same arena, and the occupational
      therapists will facilitate social interaction between participants. Participants will be
      paired into groups of two so that the session that is occurring simultaneously is with a
      child with autism with a similar level of adaptive functioning. Activities will be structured
      to provide positive reinforcement for communication, and the occupational therapist will
      manipulate equine movement to provide graded sensory stimulation and optimal arousal.
      Unmounted, or "ground activities" will be customized to address each child's goal.

      DATA COLLECTION: It is likely that improvements made during EAOT will be maintained after the
      intervention is withdrawn, therefore a multiple-baseline design is the optimal single-case
      experimental design. After the occupational therapy evaluation, participants will be paired
      into groups of two based on similar levels of adaptive functioning and/or similar or
      complementary treatment goals. Pairs of participants will then be randomized to a 5-week, or
      7-week baseline phase. The baseline condition will be a no-treatment waiting list, during
      which caregivers will fill out the ABC-C on a weekly basis, retrospectively reporting on
      their child's behavior for the previous week. Caregivers will also complete a brief
      questionnaire that asks about any changes in medication, therapy, or routines that week. In
      addition, caregivers will rate their child's target behaviors on a VAS everyday. All of these
      measures (ABC-C, parent questionnaire, and VAS) will be administered online using a Qualtrics
      survey that is emailed or texted to them, depending on parent preference.

      The 10-week intervention phase will consist of weekly, 45-minute EAOT intervention sessions.
      Throughout the intervention phase, caregivers will continue completing the ABC-C and brief
      questionnaire weekly; caregivers will also continue providing VAS ratings daily. In addition,
      caregivers will complete the intervention credibility scale, the SRS-2, and the COPM on the
      first week and the 10th week of the intervention phase, in order to provide a pre and post
      assessment of caregivers' attitude toward treatment, and child social functioning and
      occupational performance. Three months after the intervention, caregivers will complete the
      SRS-2, COPM, and the ABC-C a final time to determine maintenance of effects DATA ANALYSIS:
      Visual inspection will be the primary method of data analysis. The Co-PI will plot the
      dependent variables (y-axis) against time (x-axis) for each participant. Next, she will
      inspect the data for changes in mean (average rate of performance), and trend (direction of
      change over time), of the dependent variables between baseline and intervention conditions.
      If the data demonstrate positive findings, the plotted graphs will be further inspected for
      evidence of non-effect, such as delayed latency to change, positive trends during the
      baseline phase, or variable data with overlap between phases. As a secondary method of
      analysis, investigators will calculate the non-overlap of all pairs (NAP) of the ABC-C, and
      VAS scores between baseline and intervention phases, which will yield an effect size and a
      measure of statistical significance .

      QUALITATIVE STRAND

      PARTICIPANTS: Two occupational therapists have been recruited to participate in this study.
      Both occupational therapists helped to screen the children with autism to determine if they
      met all PATH, Intl standards for participation in equine-assisted therapy. Second, they have
      both helped to conduct occupational therapy evaluations to determine the current level of
      functioning and therapy goals for the children with autism. Third, they will provide the
      equine-assisted occupational therapy to children with autism. Finally, they will participate
      in interviews about the theory guiding the intervention they are delivering.

      DATA COLLECTION & ANALYSIS: Qualitative data will consist of interviews with the occupational
      therapists during and after the 10-week intervention. During the course of the 10-week
      intervention, the Co-PI will interview both occupational therapists using a semi-structured
      interview guide. Overall during the intervention phase, investigators will conduct 5 hours of
      interviews with each occupational therapist. After the 10-week intervention has concluded and
      quantitative data have been analyzed, the Co-PI will conduct one final hour-long interview
      with both occupational therapists aimed at explaining the quantitative results.

      Investigators will transcribe audio-recorded interviews and perform theoretical thematic
      analysis with constant comparison using the qualitative data analysis software program,
      NVivo. First, interviews will be coded according to these start codes, derived from work on
      theory-guided interventions: 1- "problems" experienced by participants 2- intervention
      components designed to address problems, 3- theories of change and mediational processes, and
      4- intended outcomes. Next, investigators will conduct open coding, whereby the text will be
      broken down, examined, conceptualized, and categorized. Data will be sub-categorized within
      existing start-codes as appropriate, and new categories may emerge from the data. After open
      coding, investigators will engage in axial coding, seeking to find links and relationships
      between and within categories and sub-categories. Investigators will bring emerging analyses
      to the practitioners for occasional member checks, in order to ensure that ongoing analyses
      are consistent with their intended meanings. Finally, selective coding will allow final
      themes to emerge, and will elucidate relationships between themes.
    
  