
    
      There is no standard preoperative (neoadjuvant) chemoradiation (NCRT) regimen for resectable
      esophageal cancer, because most if all trials failed to show any survival advantage favoring
      pCRT when compared to surgery only. This failure had been related to the lack of power of
      some trials, as well as the ability of chemoradiation to potentiate post-operative morbidity
      (including mortality), and therefore hampering the accrual of its own survival benefit.
      Hopefully, meta-analyses showed that NCRT increases survival when compared to surgery only.
      However, in the clinical practice, this does not make easier the choice of the best NCRT
      treatment. It appeared that the radiation regimen that were used in each randomized trials
      were heterogeneous with respect with dose, fraction, length of treatment, fields, dosimetry
      planning, and quality control. This applies also to chemotherapy with respect with the kind
      of cytotoxics that were used (including number of drugs), as well as dosage, and the number
      of cycles, although most of the time cytotoxics were fluorouracil and cisplatin.

      Dutch colleagues recently showed that NCRT with weekly carboplatin and paclitaxel increase
      survival, without increasing postoperative mortality. Of note, most tumors in this trial
      arose from the lower third of the esophagus and esogastric junction and these habitually
      correlate with less postoperative morbidity compared to upper third tumors. Moreover, the
      lung volume spared from radiation was greater in junctional tumors than in upper third
      cancers - a critical point in the development of radiation-induced pneumonitis and subsequent
      postoperative mortality. It is difficult to understand how this taxane-based chemotherapy is
      active, as it did not make better that fluorouracil-based regimen in non-operable patients,
      and as NCRT with taxanes makes radiation-induced pneumonitis more likely. The favorable
      impact of this NCRT may lie on its radiation regimen. A moderate total dose of radiation,
      smaller radial margins than in other trials and modern dosimetry with 3D-planning all improve
      the safety of treatment and of subsequent surgery. Finally, the favorable impact of the Dutch
      NCRT regimen may lies on the fact that it does not include cisplatin, a compound which has
      been found related to the occurrence of more sudden deaths than a non cisplatin-based regimen
      such as the FOLFOX combination (fluorouracil, oxaliplatin, folinic acid) in the setting of
      definitive chemoradiotherapy.

      Our aim is to evaluate the short-term benefit (complete resection rate) and safety (severe
      postoperative rate) of 2 preoperative regimen, (carboplatin-paclitaxel or
      fluorouracil-oxaliplatin-folinic acid), combined to the Dutch radiation backbone, in operable
      esophageal and junctional (Siewert I-II) cancer. The present trial offers the unique
      opportunity to compare two therapeutic strategies that have already been shown to be
      efficient in large randomized controlled trials offering level-1 evidence.
    
  