
    
      1. Aim of the trial A randomized longitudinal study assessing the efficacy of a CST program
           aimed at improving physician communication about uncertainty and hope with cancer
           patients will be conducted. Efficacy of the program will be assessed by the analysis of
           changes over time in physician communication skills and physician psychological and
           physiological health. These assessments will be performed in the context of an encounter
           with a simulated advanced-stage cancer patient.

        2. Subjects Participants will be physicians that are specialists or residents, have a
           practice including cancer patients and speak French. The study was approved by a central
           ethics committee (Jules Bordet Institute, Cancer Center of the Université Libre de
           Bruxelles) and all participants will provide written informed consent.

        3. Study Design Participating physicians will be randomly assigned to either the
           experimental group or the control group (Figure 1). After baseline assessment,
           participants in the experimental group will attend a 4-month training program followed
           by a post assessment. Participants in the control group will be placed on a training
           program waitlist after baseline assessment and will be reassessed four to five months
           later. The process of randomization after baseline will allow for a double-blind
           assessment at baseline.

        4. CST Program 4.1. CST aims The aim of the CST is to improve the ability of physicians to
           communicate about uncertainty and hope with cancer patients.

           4.2. CST logistics The CST is a manualized program comprised of ten 3-hour sessions (30
           hours) spread over four to five months. Each training group will include three
           physicians. The training will be conducted at locations and times choosen by the
           physicians within each group. The trainer of the experimental group will be an
           experienced facilitator who will conduct all training sessions (Y.L.). The training
           timetable will not include more than two 3-hours sessions in one day. Physicians will
           have the opportunity to register in groups of three or individually. In the latter case,
           physicians will be assigned to groups according to geographical proximity.

           4.3. CST Sessions The first session of the training program will include a general
           introduction to training and a modeling session. Sessions two to four will focus on
           appropriate communication skills for addressing uncertainty and hope according to a
           model detailed in a training manual. During sessions five to seven, participants will
           learn to transfer their newly-learned skills to clinical practice. Finally, during
           sessions eight to ten, skills learned during the training program will be consolidated.

           4.4. CST Program The CST program will include theoretical information giving about
           uncertainty and hope in cancer care (based on psychodynamics, cognitive-behavioral and
           systemic theories), modeling and role-playing.

             -  Theoretical information giving The CST trainer will provide theoretical information
                on communication skills needed to address uncertainty and hope in encounters with
                cancer patients. These skills will focus on assessing patient expectations about
                the future and restructuring patient understandings with appropriate information
                when needed; and assessing patient hopes about the future and supporting those
                which are realistic [47]. All skills will be based on a collaborative and
                bidirectional communication process between physicians and patients on topics such
                as disease prognosis or expected and unexpected medical, psychological and social
                effects of cancer treatments. A specific algorithmic theoretical model has been
                designed to aid physicians in the implementation of these communication skills.

             -  Modeling During the first CST session, physicians will observe a 16-minute video of
                a simulated interview in which the trainer acts as a physician communicating with a
                patient suffering from advanced cervical cancer. In the scenario, the patient has
                come for chemotherapy treatment and is requesting reassurance about treatment
                efficacy.

           The modeling session will empahsize three factors: 1) physician attitudes necessary to
           address uncertainty and hope, 2) patient's reactions to the discussion of uncertainty
           and hope and 3) the need to set up a safe and comfortable setting in which to model
           communication skills needed to address uncertainty and hope. After the video, physicians
           will be given one hour to debrief and react to the simulated interview.

           • Role-playing Throughout training, participants will be invited to participate in
           interactive role-playing with immediate and circular feed-backs [48]. Physicians will be
           asked to identify a clinical situation for the focus of the role-play situation. In
           session two to four, physicians will be asked to define a situation that would be highly
           uncomfortable in terms of uncertainty and hope management. In training sessions five to
           seven, physicians will be asked to identify clinical situations in which the transfer of
           learned communication skills would be difficult. Finally, in training sessions eight to
           ten, physicians will be asked to identify clinical situations during which the transfer
           of acquired skills would be uncomfortable.

           During role-play, the physician who reports the clinical situation will take on the role
           of the patient. This will allow role-play to be as realistic as possible. The small
           group context will promote an interactive session. During role-play, the "patient" will
           be exposed to the ways that he and his two colleagues are communicating in repeated
           rotations. During each rotation, the facilitator will suggest alternative strategies
           that were taught in the theoritical model and shown in the modeling video.

           • Transfering to clinical practice Each training session will start with a 15-minute
           summary of material learned since the beginning of the training program along with a
           debriefing from participants of attempts to transfer the learned skills to their
           clinical practice. Each training session will end with a 10-minute summary of the skills
           learned during the session, the difficulties that may have been encountered, and a
           proposal for the transfer of newly learned skills to future encounters with patients.

        5. Assessment Procedure The performance status, disease status and communication skills
           among cancer patients vary widely and as such, the use of standardized encounters with
           simulated patients has been recommended to assess the efficacy of CST programs designed
           for healthcare professionals [49]. The assessment procedure for the current study will
           involve the video recording of an encounter between the participating physician and a
           simulated advanced stage cancer patient. Participating physicians will be assessed
           individually. An investigator, not involved in the training program, will present each
           subject with questionnaires. The assessment procedure (Figure 2) will include 7 steps:
           (1) continuous monitoring of heart rate, (2) relaxation exercise, (3) administration of
           questionnaires, (4) review of the simulated cancer patient medical chart, (5)
           administration of the second set of questionnaires, (6) encounter with the simulated
           cancer patient and (7) final set of questionnaires. Perceived stress will be measured
           seven times throughout the assessment procedure.

      5.1. Simulated Patient Encounter The simulated patient case was written by an oncologist and
      a psycho-oncologist at the medical oncology unit and the psycho-oncology clinic at the Jules
      Bordet Institute, Cancer Center of the Université Libre de Bruxelles. The simulated patient
      case was developed to increase physician uncertainty about predefined medico-psycho-social
      components and available evidence-based treatments. The simulated patient is a 36-year-old
      woman with advanced cancer. She is facing a third recurrence (hepatic metastasis) of a breast
      cancer that had previously been treated with surgery, hormone therapy, radiation therapy and
      chemotherapy. She has agreed to start a new chemotherapy treatment. The scenario specifies
      that the patient has requested a meeting with a physician to help her cope with her treatment
      decision. Participants will be instructed to address and respond to the concerns of the
      simulated patient and to take the time they need for doing that. The simulated patient will
      be played by an actress experienced in simulated patient encounters and will be trained to
      maintain a standardized script and behavior. Regular feedback sessions will be held to help
      the actress maintain reproducibility [50]. The simulated patient encounters will take place
      at the Communication Laboratory (LabComm) of the Centre de Psycho-Oncologie (Brussels,
      Belgium).

      5.2. Psychological Assessments Participating physicians will be asked to complete a set of
      psychological questionnaires prior to reading the patient medical file. Data on
      socioprofessional characteristics, practices in oncology and sense of mastery of the
      communication skills needed to address uncertainty and hope with cancer patients will be
      collected. A second set of psychological questionnaires administered immediately prior to the
      encounter with the simulated patient will gather information on the perceived realism of the
      medical chart of the simulated patient, agreement with the treatment decision, outcome
      expectancies on the medical, psychological and social status of the simulated patient,
      perceived uncertainty and hope regarding the medical, psychological and social outcomes of
      the simulated patient, and psychological reactions to uncertainty regarding the medical,
      psychological and social outcomes of the simulated patient. Finally, a third set of
      psychological questionnaires will be administered immediately after meeting with the
      simulated patient. These questions will pertain to agreement with the treatment decision,
      satisfaction regarding the encounter with the simulated patient, and the sense of mastery
      regarding the communication skills used to address uncertainty and hope with the simulated
      patient. These psychological questionnaires will allow the assessment of predictors and
      correlates of communication skill learning used to address uncertainty and hope with the
      simulated patient.

      5.3. Communication Assessments The encounter with the simulated patient will be video
      recorded and transcribed. Physician communication skills will be analyzed using three tools.
      The French communication content analysis software, LaComm (Centre de Psycho-Oncologie,
      Brussels, Belgium; http://www.lacomm.be/) analyzes verbal communication (in medicine in
      general and in oncology in particular) and identifies turns of speech and the type and
      content of speech. The explanation of how this software works has been detailed in previous
      publications [42, 51]. The Multidimensional analysis of Patient Outcome Predictions (MD.POP)
      is a reliable tool used to measure verbal expressions that address the clinical future of a
      patient during medical encounters. This coding system allows one to manually identify, code,
      and score detailed verbal content from a medical encounter transcript that addresses a
      patient's clinical future. The detailed MD.POP codebook is available upon request. Finally, a
      specific interaction-process analysis system assessing communication skills addressing hope
      and uncertainty will be developed for the study [52].

      5.4. Physiological Assessments Throughout all assessment procedures, physician heart rate
      will be monitored to assess the impact of the training program on the physiological arousal
      associated with communication about uncertainty and hope with the simulated patient. This
      assessment procedure has previously been used to measure the effect of CST on the
      physiological arousal of residents breaking bad news in a simulated task [53].

      5.5. Statistical Analyses The primary outcome of the current study is the physicians'
      increased communication performance after training during this encounter. A power analysis
      has been performed, based on a previous longitudinal study assessing physicians'
      communication performance composite score in an encounter with a simulated advanced-stage
      cancer patient (Mean = 26; SD = 8) [54]. This power analysis was conducted considering 4
      independent conditions according to the time (time 1 versus time 2) and the group
      (experimental versus control group). As there is no previous study assessing the efficacy of
      an intensive communication skills training program on physicians' communication about
      uncertainty and hope, it was hypothesized that physicians in the control group will maintain
      a stable performance score from time 1 to time 2. It was also hypothesized that physicians in
      the experimental group will improve their performance score by 20% from time 1 to time 2.
      Sample size calculation has been based on an 80% power, a one-sided α = 0.05 t-test and an
      effect size of 0.65. Considering this power analysis, 60 evaluable physicians are therefore
      needed for the efficacy assessment. Considering a drop-out rate of 20%, 12 physicians should
      be moreover recruited (72 physicians in total). It should be recalled at this level that one
      trainer only will conduct the training of the experimental group. Secondary, to assess also
      the CST program efficacy, group-by-time effects will be performed using generalized
      estimating equation (GEE) on psychological, physiological and communicational assessments
      performed during the encounter with the simulated patient.

      BIBLIOGRAPHY

        1. Snyder, C.R., et al., The Will and the Ways: Development and Validation of an
           Individual-Differences Measure of Hope. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology,
           1991. 60(4): p. 570-585.

        2. de Figueiredo, M.N., et al., ComOn Coaching: Study protocol of a randomized controlled
           trial to assess the effect of a varied number of coaching sessions on transfer into
           clinical practice following communication skills training. BMC cancer, 2015. 15(1): p.
           503.

        3. Razavi, D., et al., Testing health care professionals' communication skills: The
           usefulness of highly emotional standardized role-playing sessions with simulators.
           Psycho-Oncology, 2000. 9(4): p. 293-302.

        4. Libert, Y., et al., Predictors of physicians' satisfaction with their management of
           uncertainty during a decision-making encounter with a simulated advanced stage cancer
           patient. Patient education and counseling, 2016. 99(7): p. 1121-1129

        5. Liénard, A., et al., Is it possible to improve residents breaking bad news skills? A
           randomised study assessing the efficacy of a communication skills training program.
           British Journal of Cancer, 2010. 103(2): p. 171-177.

        6. Gibon, A.-S., et al., Development of the LaComm 1.0, A French medical communication
           analysis software: A study assessing its sensitivity to change. Patient Education and
           Counseling, 2016.

        7. Ménard C., et al., Development of the Multi-Dimensional Analysis of Patient Outcome
           Predictions during Medical Encounters. Patient Education and Counseling, Submitted.

        8. Meunier, J., et al., The effect of communication skills training on residents'
           physiological arousal in a breaking bad news simulated task. Patient Education
           Counseling, 2013. 93(1): p. 40-7.
    
  