
    
      Since 2010, A PCA service team in the investigators' hospital have collected
      multidisciplinary clinical data from all the patients who used IV-PCA postoperatively in aim
      of the assessment of clinical outcome. The investigators reviewed the collected data from the
      patients who had used IV-PCA for pain control after an elective surgery under general or
      spinal anesthesia between Sep. 2010 and March. 2014. The need for informed consent was waived
      for this study. The investigators have used a disposable PCA pump (Ambix Anaplus®; E-Wha
      Fresenius Kabi, Korea or accufuser plus®; Woo Young Medical, Korea) and fentanyl was diluted
      in 100mL with saline for 48 hrs PCA infusion. The pump was set as follows: infusion rate as 2
      ml/hr, bolus dose as 0.5 ml or 1 ml, lockout time as 15 min. It was decided at the
      anesthesiologist's option whether the additional analgesic drug (ketorolac or nefopam) and
      the antiemetic drug (ondansetron, ramosetron or palonosetron) would be added in PCA or not.
      The anesthesiologist who performed the anesthesia decided the amount of chosen drugs.
      Exclusion criteria were as following: age < 20 years old, age 40 to 69, postoperative
      ventilator support or intensive care, and imperfect data. The data of the PCA regimen which
      has been decided were recorded and analyzed. Demographic variables including age, sex, body
      mass index, American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status and history of
      smoking, motion sickness, postoperative nausea/vomiting, hypertension and diabetes mellitus
      have been analyzed. Anesthesia and surgery-related variables including the duration of
      anesthesia, the type of anesthesia (general or spinal), laparoscopy and the operation site
      (categorized in abdominal, thoracic, upper & lower extremities, head & neck, spine and
      others) were also been analyzed. PCA-related variables included total dose of fentanyl for
      two days (µg/kg), use of mixed additional analgesics and antiemetics in PCA and
      discontinuation of PCA. When the patient requested the discontinuation of IV-PCA, the reason
      and the time have been recorded. Postoperative variables including the numeric rating scale
      (NRS, 0-10, 0 = no symptom; 10= unthinkable worst pain) for pain, requirements of rescue
      analgesics and antiemetics were analyzed. And the postoperative complications including
      nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, and sedation were analyzed. All the postoperative
      variables were recorded at postoperative 0-6 hrs including stay at post-anesthesia care unit,
      6-12, 12-18, 18-24 and 24-48 hrs.
    
  