
    
      This study will use the AbStats device, that measure IAAS (intraabdominal acoustic signals)
      and intestinal rate and will correlate this data with symptoms reported by patients
      hospitalized for acute pancreatitis.

      The AbStats multi-sensor wireless abdominal monitoring system includes low profile acoustic
      sensors that are applied to the anterior abdominal wall with Tegaderm and monitors sounds
      emanating from the GI tract. The acoustic sensors continuously and non-invasively monitor and
      capture audio signals representing GI and abdominal wall function. The captured data is
      recorded in a synchronized manner from all sensors.

      We will place the AbStats sensor on all patients immediately after admission to the hospital.
      Only study staff trained on the AbStats system will apply the sensors, which fit externally
      around the abdomen. A physician member of our study staff will be available at all times to
      help position the device if needed. We will continuously record AbStats acoustic signals for
      the duration of the hospitalization, with the option to discontinue as clinically required or
      requested by the provider or patient. A research coordinator will collect clinical data from
      medical records and enter the data into a secure spreadsheet on CSMC servers. Patients will
      be asked to keep a daily diary of symptoms. In this diary, the patients will be asked to
      record information about their food consumption (if any), bowel movements (if any and if
      associated with contrast from CT imaging or with the use of suppositories/ laxative),
      specific symptoms, and whether the sensor was removed for any period of time during the day.
      This will allow us to compare the data collected by the AbStats sensor with self-reported
      symptoms noted by patients. Physicians and nurses will not be made aware of the AbStats
      readings so as to eliminate the Hawthorne effect. Patients will be managed according to
      standard-of-care practice and the data collected by the AbStats device will not be
      incorporated into clinical care.
    
  