
    
      Background

      In Taiwan, mental health services are provisioned through hospital-based treatment majorly
      and shifted to community care gradually in recent decades. In 2020, the totally 7,350 beds of
      acute wards and 13,559 beds of chronic wards covered the general population in Taiwan with
      3.12/10,000 persons and 5.75/10,000 persons rates, respectively. In contrast to hospital
      treatment, there were 71 community rehabilitation centers and 155 halfway houses in local
      communities with coverage rate of 1.45/10,000 persons and 2.82/10,000 persons respectively.
      The sheltered or supported employment in Taiwan is still primarily delivered by trained
      professionals or paraprofessionals in the community facilities for the persons with severe
      mental illness. Although the trained peers can deliver vocational supports based on recovery
      concept as well as professionals at least in the supported employment services, the large
      absence of peer support workers is rooted in the lack of insurance coverage and limited
      government budgets in Taiwan. Accordingly, further investigations are warranted to evaluate
      the effectiveness of peer support services in vocational rehabilitation among persons with
      severe mental illness under the development of peer-deliver services in Taiwan.

      Therefore, the investigators designed a 2-phase pilot program: establishment of peer support
      training curriculum in Phase I to develop peer support services in vocational rehabilitation
      system feasibly, and measurement of effectiveness under peer codelivered services in Phase II
      (Protocol). The investigated effectiveness among persons with schizophrenia in this study
      included the received social supports, mental health, psychiatric symptoms, functional and
      occupational outcome.

      Methods

      Participants

      The pilot program was held from April 2017 to December 2018 at the Taipei Veterans General
      Hospital Yuli Branch (TVGH-YL). The hospital provides treatment and community care for
      patients with mental illness who reside in the rural area of eastern Taiwan. The TVGH-YL
      administers a half-way house, a community rehabilitation center, and a supported housing
      program. The hospital also provides sheltered and supported employment as part of its
      community care services for persons with mental illness. In one month before the program of
      Phase I or II, the investigators recruited the participants by presenting poster on bulletins
      in the half-way house and community rehabilitation center. The investigators also invited the
      participants who had cared elderly persons in the past to join the training curriculum in the
      Phase I program, because these persons were the candidates of peer support workers to share
      the previous work experiences in the Phase II program.

      Pilot program

      Training for peer support workers

      Initially, there were 7 professionals who had the experiences in the community facilities for
      at least 5 years discussing about the framework and contents of training curriculum for peer
      support workers in the focus groups. These seven professionals specializing in 6 medical
      disciplines were also the teachers in the curriculum. Table 2 details the themes of
      curriculum at various intervention levels. In the end of each lecture session, there were
      four questions being proposed by the teacher to exam the trainees about the core concepts of
      class.

      In the practice session, the performance of trainees would be examined by the case discussion
      or practice in roles playing or situation simulation. No final exam in Phase I program.
      However, the trainee should pass all class after the teachers' agreement. If someone needed
      to improve the knowledge or skills, he or she had gotten the personal time to receive more
      helps from the teacher.

      The extended vocational rehabilitation services co-led & assisted by peer support workers

      The program in Phase II was held twice in August of 2017 and April of 2018. Based on the
      needs of elderly persons with disability or dementia in local community, the 2 occupational
      therapists (Ching-Hui Wu & Meng-Ping Kao) organized the extended work training course which
      focused on improvements of care skills of Phase II program participants (service users). The
      2 occupational therapists also held workplace problem-solving group once per 2 weeks for the
      service users. The above interventions were originally parts of supported employment service
      in the community rehabilitation center, but the participated rate was not satisfied
      previously. Therefore, the investigators integrated the peer support service into this
      service system. Before each training session, peer support workers discussed with 2
      occupational therapists ("stakeholders") to decide on the content and process of the session.
      Peer support workers' involvement should account for at least 50% of the session time to
      ensure the intensity of support. The supervisor (Kan Yuan Cheng) discussed with the
      occupational therapy weekly and the peer support worker monthly based on the feedback in
      satisfaction questionnaire by service users and the records in group. Four times of
      observation by the supervision were also arranged to audit the performance of the
      occupational therapist and peer support workers in the all sessions of Phase II program. More
      specifics about this phase of the program can be found in study protocol.

      Process of assessment

      The pre- and post-intervention self-report questionnaire was assisted by the occupational
      therapist ( Meng-Ping Kao). The Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale-18 and Global Assessment of
      Function scale were measured by board psychiatrist (Kan Yuan Cheng) who had experiences in
      the multiple-center clinical trial. The assistant and investigator both belonged to the
      intervention group because there was no control group or blind procedure in the study design.

      Statistical methods

      As all indicators examined in this study were continuous variables, the investigators used
      paired t-test to compare the measurements before and after the intervention. IBM
      (International Business Machines Corporation) SPSS Statistics 16.0 was employed for
      statistical analysis.
    
  