
    
      Patients with breast cancer are treated with a combination of surgery and medical treatment
      (either before (neoadjuvant) or after (adjuvant) surgery). Eligible patients will be
      identified by the oncologist and from the multidisciplinary meeting.

      Once eligible patients have been identified they will be informed of the study by their
      oncologist, and then approached by the research team who will give them a patient information
      leaflet, discuss the study, answer any questions and ask the patient to sign a consent form
      if they are would like to participate in the study. The consent form must be signed before
      any study related procedures are performed.

      Patients who have had surgery prior to receiving medical treatment (i.e. patients planned to
      receive adjuvant treatment, or patients who have a sentinel lymph node biopsy prior to
      starting neoadjuvant treatment) will have blood and urine samples taken before they have
      their surgery, at the preassessment surgical appointment.

      The week before the patient starts medical therapy (either chemotherapy or endocrine
      treatment) the patient will need to attend Charing Cross Hospital for the following
      procedures (this may be an extra visit, depending on hospital appointments):

        -  To see the study doctor for a medical history and physical examination

        -  Pulse and blood pressure measurements

        -  BMI (body mass index) and body fat assessment

        -  To fill out a quality of life (QOL) questionnaire with research staff

        -  Routine blood tests (for haematology and biochemistry)

        -  Blood sample for metabolic profiling and cytokine analysis

        -  Urine sample for metabolic profiling

        -  The blood taken will additionally be tested for targeted genetic analysis if the patient
           has consented for this (as this is optional)

      The patient will be asked to return to Charing Cross Hospital 24 hours later after an
      overnight fast for (this will be an extra visit): • Fasted blood and urine samples for
      metabolic profiling.

      It is important to get fasted samples from patients, as diet influences the metabolic
      profile. Therefore to try to eliminate diet as a confounder it is important to get a fasted
      sample. Additionally, at the time of collection of blood and urine samples for metabolic
      profile analysis patients will be asked when they last ate, what they last ate and any
      specific dietary preferences/requirements (i.e. vegetarian, gluten free diet).

      Further tests differ depending on whether the patient is receiving chemotherapy or endocrine
      treatment.

      Patients receiving chemotherapy have 6 cycles, each cycle last 21 days. There are two types
      of chemotherapy given for breast cancer which are FEC (6 cycles of 5fluorouracil, epirubicin
      and cyclophosphamide) or FECD (3 cycles of 5fluorouracil, epirubicin and cyclophosphamide
      followed by 3 cycles of docetaxel). Patients receiving all types of chemotherapy (FEC and
      FECD) patients will be required to attend at the following time for procedures are explained
      below:

        -  Cycle 1, day 2

           o 24 hours after the patient received their chemotherapy treatment we will take urine
           and blood samples for metabolic profiling, and blood samples for routine blood tests
           (haematology and biochemistry) and cytokine analysis.

             -  At this time the patient will also be asked to fill out 2 questionnaires with
                research staff - the first will be adverse effects experienced (questions from
                CTCAEv4.0), and the second will be a QOL questionnaire.

             -  This will be an extra visit.

        -  Cycle 2, day 1

             -  Prior to receiving their next cycle of chemotherapy urine and blood samples will be
                taken for metabolic profiling. Blood samples will be taken for routine tests
                (haematology and biochemistry) and for cytokine analysis.

             -  Two questionnaires (questionnaire based on adverse effects experienced and QOL
                questionnaire) will be completed with research staff.

             -  A blood sample will be taken after 10 minutes chemotherapy infusion has finished.
                Pharmacokinetic analysis for 5FU will be conducted on this sample. If possible the
                sample will be taken from the cannula through which the chemotherapy medication was
                administered (the first 10mls will need to be discarded to avoid contamination).

             -  This will not be an extra visit if there has been no change to planned This will
                not be an extra visit if there has been no change to planned treatment schedule. If
                patients have consented for optional pharmacokinetic analysis the following sample
                will also be taken.

        -  Cycle 2, day 1 (optional assessment)

           o Three blood samples will be taken during the following 4 hours for pharmacokinetic
           analysis of cylophosphamide and epirubicin. If possible all samples will be taken from
           the cannula through which the chemotherapy was administered.

        -  Cycle 2, day 2 (optional assessment) o A blood sample will be taken 24 hours after the
           chemotherapy was given for pharmacokinetic analysis of cyclophosphamide.

        -  Cycle 2, day 3 (optional assessment)

           o A blood sample will be taken 48 hours after the chemotherapy was given for
           pharmacokinetic analysis of epirubicin.

        -  Cycle 6, day 21

             -  Two questionnaires (questionnaire based on adverse effects experienced and QOL
                questionnaire) will be completed with research staff.

             -  BMI (body mass index) and body fat assessment.

             -  This will be an extra visit.

      If patients are on FECD chemotherapy, they will attend at the above time points, but they
      will additionally be asked to attend after their docetaxel has commenced. This is required to
      test whether docetaxel has a different reaction in the body to the previous chemotherapy
      given. Patients will be asked to attend at the following time points for the following
      procedures:

        -  Cycle 4, day 2

           o 24 hours after the patient received their chemotherapy treatment we will take urine
           and blood samples for metabolic profiling, and blood samples for routine blood tests
           (haematology and biochemistry) and cytokine analysis.

           o Two questionnaires (questionnaire based on adverse effects experienced and QOL
           questionnaire) will be completed with research staff

           o This will be an extra visit

        -  Cycle 5, day 1

             -  Prior to receiving their next cycle of chemotherapy urine and blood samples will be
                taken for metabolic profiling. Blood samples will be taken for routine tests
                (haematology and biochemistry) and for cytokine analysis.

             -  Two questionnaires (questionnaire based on adverse effects experienced and QOL
                questionnaire) will be completed with research staff.

             -  This will not be an extra visit if there has been no change to planned treatment
                schedule.

      If patients have consented for optional pharmacokinetic analysis the following sample will
      also be taken.

      • Cycle 5, day 1

      o A blood sample will be taken at the end of the chemotherapy infusion and 6 hours after the
      infusion completed. If possible the blood samples will be taken from the cannula (the first
      10mls taken from the cannula will need to be discarded to avoid contamination).

      Patients receiving endocrine treatment will be asked to attend at the following time points
      after starting treatment for procedures listed below, in addition to baseline assessments
      described above:

        -  Day 2

             -  Urine and blood samples for metabolic profiling. Blood samples for routine tests
                (haematology and biochemistry) and cytokine analysis.

             -  This will be an extra visit

        -  Day 21

             -  Two questionnaires (questionnaire based on adverse effects experienced and QOL
                questionnaire) will be completed with research staff.

             -  Urine and blood samples for metabolic profiling. Blood samples for routine tests
                (haematology and biochemistry) and cytokine analysis.

             -  This will be an extra visit

        -  At 5 months

             -  Two questionnaires (questionnaire based on adverse effects experienced and QOL
                questionnaire) will be completed with research staff.

             -  BMI (body mass index) and body fat assessment.

             -  A blood sample for pharmacokinetic analysis

             -  This will be an extra visit

      All procedures and interviews will be conducted at Charing Cross Hospital. All patients will
      be enrolled in the study for 5 months. However, for patients receiving chemotherapy, if there
      has been a change in treatment schedule by the oncologist the time the patient will spend in
      the study will be increased in accordance with changes made to treatment schedule (i.e. if
      cycle 4 (docetaxel) is started 1 week late, then the time in the study will be 5 months and 1
      week).

      For patients receiving neoadjuvant treatment (chemotherapy or endocrine treatment before
      surgery) we will look at imaging and pathology reports to establish how the tumour has
      responded to treatment.

      We aim to recruit 168 patients, 84 receiving endocrine therapy (either an oestrogen receptor
      antagonist or aromatase inhibitor) and 84 receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy (FEC or FECD).

      The study will be conducted in 5 phases:

        1. Patient recruitment and collection of samples (months 112)

        2. H NMR spectroscopic analysis and UPLMS analysis of samples (months 718)

        3. Mathematical modelling of the data (months 120)

        4. Structural identification of candidate biomarkers (months 1822)

        5. Write up of results and guidelines (months 2024)

      The results will be analysed and published (in both presentations and a peer reviewed
      journal) at the end of the study. No patient identifiable information will be present in
      these publications. As all tests are carried out for research purposes and will be of no
      direct benefit to patients participating in this study, there are no plans to inform patients
      of their individual results. Patients will be informed of the overall results from the study
      that may result in a publication.
    
  