
    
      Pregnancy is a condition that is vulnerable to all kinds - stress resulting in changes in
      physiology and metabolic function. In pregnancy there is also an increase in energy and
      oxygen requirements.

      The metabolic process can increase require of the oxygen and if it is not available as well
      as unmaximal used can causes the formation of oxidative stress and produces excessive free
      radicals which ultimately, that affected in the saferity of a pregnancy process. The
      imbalance between antioxidants and free radicals in pregnancy prosses are causes pathological
      and complications changes in pregnancy. This kind of biochemical marker of antioxidants and
      oxidants is very useful in observing complications that may arise in pregnancy.

      Treatment given is expected to eliminate complaints that arise while exercise during
      pregnancy can prevent the formation of free radicals, but exercise must be given in
      accordance with the ability of pregnant women.

      Physical exercise or exercise in pregnancy can maintain excess weight gain, prevent diabetes,
      hypertension, and shorten labor time. Sports is one way to neutralize the formation of free
      radicals because by doing physical activity, excessive oxygen can be used to produce energy.

      Increased free radicals are characterised by an increase of malondialdehyde (MDA) as a
      biochemical markers. Malondialdehyde (MDA) which is the output of lipid peroxidation prosses
      that measured to determine the presence of oxidative stress due to damage by free radicals.
      The resent study was found that MDA levels in pregnant women were higher compared to
      non-pregnant women. Increased MDA levels are in line with the increase in gestational age,
      from the first, second, and third trimesters. Study was also found that there was a
      significant increase in MDA levels accompanied by a decrease in non-enzymatic antioxidants,
      such as Vitamin-E, Vitamin-C, and Vitamin-A in pregnant women with hypertension. Moreover
      this study assums that was "Giving Antioxidant to decrease Malondialdehyde (MDA) in the third
      trimester of pregnancy". futher more the aims of this study was analyzed effect of natural
      antioxidants treatment after exercise to MDA level in the third trimester of pregnancy.

      This study was a experimental study. This study was located in the several clinics midwife
      practice, Community Health Centers (Puskesmas) in Palembang and Bio Sains Riset Laboratory
      Palembang from August to October 2016.

      the study was approved informed consent from all participans as well as ethical clearance
      approval number is 007/UP-ETIK/I/2016. This study was obtained 24 prenatal pregnant women
      that separated to 3 groups, which were 8 prenatal pregnant women without pregnancy workout
      exercise as a control group, 8 prenatal pregnant women with pregnancy workout exercise as a
      positive control group and 8 prenatal pregnant women with consume natural antioxidants after
      pregnancy workout exercise as a treatment group.

      The antioxidant compounds given in this study were natural vitamin C from 100 ml guava juice
      without additionaly sugar, 5 cc syringe, cotton, alcohol, syringe, hanscoon, EDTA tube,
      serum, TCA 5%, Na thiobarbiturat 0,65%, MDA standart, and aquades.

      Spectrophotometric assay used to measure the MDA levels in the Bio Sains Riset Laboratory,
      Palembang and followed the essay of protocol kit from manufacture.

      Comparison between groups used by one way ANOVA test, that was considered significant if p <
      0.05. All statistical analyses were done by SPPS for Windows version 16.0.
    
  