
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the VisAbility
      Implant System (VIS) for the improvement of near visual acuity in presbyopic patients. This
      is a prospective clinical study that enrolled a total of 360 subjects ranging in age between
      45 and 60 years of age at 13 clinical sites. Subjects were implanted with the VisAbility
      Implant model SGP-046 in the primary eye and then in the fellow eye no sooner than 14 days
      later. Subjects were examined at one day, one week and at 1, 2, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months
      post-operatively.

      The study also included a 60 subject randomized controlled sub-study at 3 investigation
      sites. Sub-study subjects were randomized (1:1 ratio) to a surgery group or a control group.
      Subjects randomized to the surgery group underwent surgery and were followed for 24 months in
      the same manner as the larger non-randomized surgical group. Subjects randomized to the
      control group were observed for 6 months, and were then eligible to undergo surgery after
      completion of this 6-month observation period.

      The primary endpoint is the achievement of distance corrected near visual acuity (DCNVA) of
      Snellen equivalent 20/40 or better (at 40 cm) and at least 10 letters (ETDRS) improvement in
      DCNVA in the primary eye.

      This endpoint is evaluated against two objectives, a) 75% or more of primary eyes achieve the
      effectiveness endpoint at 12 months postoperative and b) the percentage of primary eyes
      achieving the effectiveness endpoint at 6 months postoperative (6-month responder rate) is
      higher than the percentage in the randomized control group.

      Safety data analyses were performed and separate summaries are provided for primary and all
      eyes. Descriptive statistics on the following attributes are provided for; BCDVA, IOP, Slit
      lamp findings, Fundus exam findings, and Adverse events.
    
  