
    
      A standard of care (SOC) treatment for BV is oral metronidazole 500 mg twice a day for 7 days
      (8). The investigators will use this for all enrollees with BV as the initial treatment. The
      investigators will evaluate patients at each visit by LbRC scores; a score of 1-2 (low)
      indicates that notable levels of non-lactobacilli are present. BV subjects with clinical
      cures (Amsel) and LbRC scores of 3-4 (high) at Visit 2 will simply be monitored on a monthly
      basis with no further treatment (Group G1). The investigators expect that some Group 1
      patients will eventually recur, and that LbRC scores will drop to 1-2, two weeks prior to
      recurrence of BV symptoms, an event the investigators termed "conversion" . The investigators
      will choose randomly, using an Excel randomizer, half of the "converted" patients (Group G2)
      to be treated with a high dose metronidazole (HDM) regimen, one 750 mg metronidazole/ 200 mg
      miconazole vaginal suppository daily for 7 days, to determine if treatment initiated by the
      LbRC "warning" prevents recurrence. These randomized and re-treated Group G2 subjects will be
      moved to Group B2.

      Patients who are "cured" by Amsel criteria and Nugent score but not by LbRC score at Visit 2,
      will be randomly divided into 2 groups per pre-randomization code the laboratory has. One (B1
      Group) will be monitored monthly for up to 9 months for recurrence, with no further treatment
      in that interval. Another group (B2) will be randomized to receive the HDM treatment, and
      will be monitored for long term recurrence for up to 9 months. The Lab will notify the nurse
      as to which study number subject has been randomized to be retreated with HDM. The nurse will
      contact the subject to come in for a urine pregnancy test and for the medication and
      instructions on its use. All subjects will be asked to obtain daily vaginal samples, which
      will be stored at room temperature and returned at the next visit where more supplies will be
      obtained. Subjects will continue taking daily specimens for as long as the subject is
      enrolled and willing to do so. All subjects who return the daily samples will be compensated
      for their time with a $25 Target gift card at each visit.

      Fifty non-BV subjects with no history of "vaginitis" in the past year will be enrolled as a
      control Group H and seen monthly to monitor the LbRC in the vaginal secretions. All subjects
      will be asked to take daily dated vaginal samples and store them in supplied containers at
      room temperature and return the vaginal swabs at each monthly visit where they will receive
      more supplies for the next month of specimens. All subjects will be compensated with a $25
      gift card from Target at each scheduled visit for their time and the return of the vaginal
      swab samples.

      Subjects in Group G1 or B1 who recur with acute symptomatic BV, and randomly half of those in
      Group G1 who "convert" from a good LbRC score to a poor LbRC score without symptoms, will be
      offered to take the 7 day HDM vaginal suppository regimen for one time only. Should the
      subject relapse after taking the HDM vaginal suppositories, she will be dropped from the
      study and given a prescription for conventional or SOC treatment of her BV. Should a subject
      return with a trichomonas infection she will be dropped from the study and treated with
      prescription medication. Should a subject return with vulvovaginal candidiasis, she will be
      given a prescription for an anti-yeast medication and may continue in the study.

      Purpose of the study:

      Diagnosis: Is the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value of LbRC
      equal to or better than Nugent Score or commercial tests (BD Affirm VIII, BV Blue, targeted
      qPCR)? Prognosis and individualized therapy: Does a poor LbRC score in post-treatment,
      "cured" BV patients predict more rapid recurrence? Does intervention with more rigorous
      treatment, based on this score, delay or prevent recurrence? The proposed pilot study is a
      randomized pilot, prospective study that will will enroll at least 50 healthy women and 140
      women with acute to recurrent BV
    
  