
    
      This is a prospective, open-label, uncontrolled, single-group, multi-centre trial in
      Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with wearing-off motor fluctuations.

      At screening/baseline (Visit 1, Day 1) all subjects will start treatment with 50 mg opicapone
      (OPC) once daily for a 3-month period in addition to their current treatment with
      levodopa/dopa decarboxylase inhibitor (L-dopa/DDCI). Subjects treated with
      L-dopa/DDCI/entacapone before trial entry will discontinue entacapone treatment at this
      visit. Subjects treated with L-dopa/DDCI/tolcapone before trial entry will not be eligible,
      as well as those previously treated with OPC. Subjects treated with dopamine agonists will be
      eligible.

      OPC enhances the effects of L-dopa. Hence, it may be necessary to reduce the subject's
      L-dopa/DDCI dose within the first days or weeks of OPC treatment by extending the dosing
      intervals and/or reducing the amount of L-dopa/DDCI per dose. Therefore, on Day 15 ±3 (Visit
      2) the investigator will call the subject to ask for adverse events (AE, e.g. dopaminergic
      AEs) and if required, to reduce the L-dopa/DDCI dose. The investigator may increase or
      decrease the total daily L-dopa/DDCI dose according to the subject's condition throughout the
      trial, except at Visit 1. At the Visit 1 the L-dopa dose should not be changed.

      Further visits will be performed on Day 30 ±4 (Visit 3) and on Day 90 ±4 (Visit 4). Subjects
      who discontinue trial participation prematurely will be asked to come to the site for an
      early discontinuation visit (EDV).

      In addition to the scheduled visits, subjects may be asked to call or to return to the trial
      site, or subjects may be called by the investigator for assessment of safety data or
      adjustment of L-dopa/DDCI dose (unscheduled visits).

      At Visit 4 (or EDV, if applicable) the investigator will arrange for the subject's subsequent
      PD treatment, i.e. either prescribe further OPC or switch to another treatment.
    
  