
    
      HIV has a negative intergenerational impact on families, particularly children with HIV+
      parents. In order to improve the social, behavioral and mental health outcomes for families
      affected by HIV, we have designed the Family-to-Family (F2F) intervention that includes the
      critical, universal, program components identified by the NIMH Intervention Workgroup. All
      efficacious intervention programs: frame the problem by providing information and shaping
      beliefs; enhance skills; establish supportive relationships; and remove environmental
      barriers to behavior change (e.g., HIV testing, ARV). We aim to evaluate a generic
      intervention approach including these components that is culturally-tailored to families
      affected by HIV in a specific country, Thailand.

      Families in Thailand need such an intervention: 1 in 4 elderly adults in Thailand will raise
      an AIDS orphan, even with a relatively low national seroprevalence rate (1.2%, I million
      adults). Thailand has a rising seroincidence. This research will design and evaluate an
      intervention for improving the long-term adjustment of families with HIV. We will intervene
      with HIV+ parents and family caregivers to improve the outcomes for families living with HIV.

      The Specific Aims for the proposed study are:

        1. To compare the outcomes over time of the school-age children of families in the
           intervention and SC conditions in each of the following domains: a) mental health
           symptoms; b) behavioral adjustment, and c) relationships with HIV+ parents, caregivers,
           and peers.

        2. As intermediate outcomes, to compare the outcomes over time of the HIV+ parent in the
           intervention and the SC condition in terms of: health status; HIV transmission acts;
           parenting behaviors and bonds with children; and mental health symptoms.

        3. As intermediate outcomes, to compare the outcomes over time of the partners and
           caregivers (about 80% grandparents) in the intervention and the SC condition in terms
           of: health status; mental health symptoms; caregiver burden; relationships with their
           HIV+ adult children, their school-age grandchildren, and bonds.

        4. To compare the intermediate outcomes among those in the intervention and SC condition on
           disclosure and stigma-related stress.

        5. To compare the influence of background factors on the impact of the intervention over
           time: age and gender of the HIV+ parent, the school-age child's age and gender, physical
           proximity in the living situation of the HIV+ parents and family caregivers, mode of
           initial transmission for acquisition of HIV (IDU, sexual acts), income and initial
           quality of relationships.
    
  