
    
      This study is a prospective non-randomized open label trial.

      A total of 20 patients who will undergo neo-adjuvant chemo-radiotherapy for rectal cancer
      will be included in this study upon informed consent.

      During an extra sigmoidoscopy after enema preparation, 4 liquid marker spots will be placed 1
      cm from the tumor; two in the in the cranial and two in the caudal direction of the tumor (4
      markers in total per patient).

      Participants will undergo standard treatment for their rectal cancer.

      As part of standard patient set-up directly before each radiotherapy treatment, kilovoltage
      (KV) cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) will be acquired. Treatment positioning will be
      based on the regular clinical decision protocols for treatment of rectal cancer and not on
      the markers. During treatment potential fiducial movement will be assessed using an
      externally positioned ultra-sound probe (this probe will be positioned against the abdominal
      or perineal skin of the patients depending on de position of the tumor/fiducials in the
      rectum). Moreover, for patients in this study 2 orthogonal kV images will be made immediately
      after each radiation using the electronic portal imaging (EPI) device.

      As part of standard clinical practice an Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the rectum will
      be made for response evaluation 6-8 weeks after the end of neo-adjuvant chemo-radiotherapy.

      As part of standard clinical practice patients whose tumor has not responded completely will
      be operated on 8-12 weeks after the end of neoadjuvant chemo-radiotherapy. Patients with a
      complete response will be follow-upped according to the "wait-and-see" protocol.

      Cone-beam CT and MR images which are obtained as routine practice during treatment of the
      participants will be compared with images of 20 non-participating patients treated at our
      institute in the same period.
    
  