
    
      Mutations in GATA2, a critical hematopoietic transcription factor, underlie a complex
      congenital disorder characterized by immunodeficiency, bone marrow failure, and
      lymphatic/vascular dysfunction. Patients with GATA2 deficiency may suffer from a striking
      variety of diseases including severe and recurrent infections, myelodysplasia/leukemia,
      pulmonary alveolar proteinosis, lymphedema, sensorineural hearing loss, and possibly
      susceptibility to other malignancies, autoimmune disorders, thrombotic events, and
      miscarriage. Mutations in GATA2 appear to be fully penetrant, but expressivity is remarkably
      variable, even among related individuals. Disease may also manifest at nearly any age ranging
      from early childhood to late adulthood, the reasons for which remain poorly understood.

      While considerable progress has been made towards better understanding this complex
      congenital disorder, many important questions remain unanswered: What is the full spectrum of
      clinical disease and the associated pathophysiology? What accounts for the remarkable
      variability in age of onset and clinical phenotype? What are the optimal strategies for
      disease diagnosis and management? This natural history protocol is designed to further
      characterize the clinical phenotype of GATA2 deficiency, better understand the reasons for
      phenotypic variability, better understand disease progression over time, standardize the
      diagnostic evaluation, and facilitate the screening of at risk relatives. Up to 300 males and
      females greater than or equal to 2 years old with proven mutations in GATA2 or clinical and
      laboratory characteristics strongly consistent with GATA2 deficiency will initially undergo a
      series of baseline laboratory tests and diagnostic procedures at the NIH. Follow-up
      laboratory testing will be conducted at yearly visits for up to 15 years; additional
      follow-up diagnostic procedures will be conducted based on clinical need.
    
  