
    
      The moment of extubation represents a critical period of anesthesia where important
      hemodynamic changes occur. These occur due to stimulation of the larynx, trachea and bronchi
      that generates an increased release of catecholamines. In high-risk patients, these
      hemodynamic changes can have serious consequences.

      Many strategies have been used to control the hemodynamic response to airway manipulation
      during the period of intubation, but until today there is no standard therapy for this
      control during the period of extubation. Therefore, the investigators aim to study the use of
      beta-blockers in this context.

      Beta-blockers are an attractive pharmacological strategy as they reduce the activation of the
      sympathetic nervous system proper at this time. Esmolol, due to its short half-life, can be
      an ideal tool to ensure better hemodynamic control.

      There are few studies in the literature that study this drug during extubation, and there is
      no consensus on the best dose or method of administration for this moment.

      Therefore, this study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of using esmolol in attenuating
      hemodynamic responses at the time of tracheal extubation, by assessing the incidence of
      tachycardia in relation to placebo.

      This prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study aims to verify the
      hypothesis that esmolol reduces hemodynamic instability induced by tracheal extubation in
      surgical procedures at Base Hospital of the Federal District. The examiners responsible for
      patient assessment will not have access to the agents used.

      Patients will be randomized through a randomly generated list. The examiner responsible for
      opening the envelope will make the draw, will include the patient in one of the groups, write
      down their data in the random list, prepare the syringe with the medication, and deliver it
      to the operating room so that the next examiners will not be aware of the administered drug.

      Patients will receive standard general anesthesia and after the end of the surgical
      procedure, patients will be allocated the study drug (esmolol 2 mg/kg) or placebo group. All
      patients will receive sugammadex as a reversal of neuromuscular block and monitored
      appropriately.

      The evolution of vital signs such as systolic blood pressure, mean heart rate, incidence and
      intensity of adverse events such as cough, bucking, bradycardia, tachycardia, hypertension,
      hypotension, vasopressor and anticholinergic consumption will be evaluated.
    
  