
    
      Chronic heart failure (HF) is a syndrome with a poor prognosis and with a prevalence
      increasing steeply by patients' age. Studies indicate that there are large potentials for
      improving general practitioners' diagnosis and management of HF. We have designed an
      educational intervention aiming at improving GPs' diagnosis and management of HF.

      Peer continuous medical education (CME) groups in general practice will be recruited to a
      cluster randomised educational intervention study. Participating groups will be randomised
      either to an intervention- or a control group. A multifaceted intervention has been tailored
      where key components are educational outreach visits (EOV) to the CME-groups, audit, and
      feedback. Trained GPs will conduct the EOVs during which evidence-based recommendations for
      diagnosis and treatment of HF will be presented. A software will be handed out for
      installation on participants' practice computers, enabling collection of diagnosis- and
      prescription-data. The captured data will subsequently be linked to corresponding data from
      the Norwegian Prescription Database (NorPD). Individual feedback reports will be sent each
      participant in the beginning and at the end of the study. Main outcomes measure is the
      proportion of HF patients prescribed an ACE-inhibitor (or an angiotensine receptor blocker)
      and a betablocker in combination. Baseline data will provide material for a descriptive,
      cross sectional study. Patient related outcomes in terms of HF-hospital admissions and all
      cause mortality will be obtained by record linkage with NorPD and the Norwegian Patient
      Registry. Included in the intervention group is also a sub-study using a pop-up programme to
      facilitate disclosure of non-diagnosed HF patients in own practice. Finally, we plan a
      questionnaire study (among GPs in intervention group and their HF-patients) to get more
      knowledge regarding diagnostic workup, quality of care, non-pharmacological issues, and
      chronic care management of HF.
    
  