
    
      Male patients scheduled for cataract surgery who are currently taking tamsulosin will be
      recruited into the study. Age-matched male control patients undergoing cataract surgery,
      without a history of using any a-adrenergic antagonist medication, will also be recruited.
      Careful diagnostic iris evaluation using iris Fluorescein Angiography (FA) and Anterior
      Segment Optical Coherence Tomography (AS-OCT) will be performed prior to cataract surgery.
      Intraoperative findings and surgical complications will be recorded in an effort to correlate
      preoperative diagnostic iris FA and AS-OCT findings with presence and severity of
      intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS). The investigators hypothesize that males on
      tamsulosin will have abnormal iris blood vessels on iris FA and altered iris morphology,
      consistent with iris atrophy, on AS-OCT that will correlate with presence of IFIS and help
      elucidate the pathophysiology of tamsulosin-induced IFIS.

      Male patients scheduled for cataract surgery who are currently taking tamsulosin will be
      eligible for enrollment into the study if they have no other conditions that affect the iris
      vasculature and architecture (i.e. diabetes mellitus, glaucoma, pseudoexfoliation syndrome,
      history of prior eye surgery or eye trauma, use of eye drops other than artificial tears and
      normal preoperative drops). Control patients will be eligible if they have no history of use
      of any a-adrenergic antagonist (tamsulosin, alfuzosin, doxazosin, or terazosin). Patients who
      are interested in participating will be given a copy of the study consent form to take home
      with them. These patients will then be contacted by the study coordinator for further
      discussion of the study details. Study volunteers will be asked to come to the Kellogg Eye
      Center any time prior to their scheduled surgery. Volunteers will undergo the informed
      consent process, sign the consent form and be given a study identification number, linked to
      the patient in a de-identified fashion, that will be used exclusively for the study. The link
      of the study identification number and patient will be kept in a locked cabinet in the clinic
      coordinator's locked office. All patient study information will be collected and encoded
      according to HIPAA guidelines and institutional review board approval. The investigators plan
      to enroll 20 patients and 10 age-matched controls in a 12-month enrollment period.

        -  Iris Fluorescein Angiography (FA) will be performed in the surgical eye. The volunteer
           will be seated at the Heidelberg Spectralis (Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg,
           Germany) system. Sodium fluorescein dye (2mL of 25% solution) will be injected
           intravenously, and video images of the iris vasculature will be recorded as the
           fluorescent dye circulates through the iris blood vessels. The images will be digitally
           recorded and assigned the volunteer's study identification number. Data collected from
           this procedure includes circumferential extent of vascular filling (number of clock
           hours), radial extent of vascular filling (percent of iris radius), delay in iris
           circulation (time from dye injection to maximal filling of iris vasculature), blood
           vessel tortuosity and alterations in caliber. This procedure takes approximately 20
           minutes.

        -  Anterior Segment Optical Coherence Tomography (AS-OCT) will be performed in the surgical
           eye. The volunteer will be seated at the Visante OCT (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA) in
           a room with standardized lighting. They will be instructed to look at a visual target
           within the instrument, and three high-resolution images of the anterior segment of the
           eye will be acquired and saved, identified only with the volunteer's study
           identification number. Data collected from this procedure includes iris leaflet
           thickness and pupil diameter in a controlled lighting situation. This procedure takes
           approximately 10 minutes.

      Surgery will be performed according to the individual surgeon's preferences, including the
      use of any iris manipulation techniques that are clinically necessary. Surgical parameters
      will be recorded on a study visit form with the volunteer's study identification number:

        -  Pupil diameter will be measured with calipers at the beginning of surgery prior to
           incision, and at the end, after intraocular lens implantation, but prior to instillation
           of any miotic agents. These time points are before and after any intra-operative iris
           expansion techniques could be performed. The surgeon will also record whether he/she
           uses any iris expansion technique (i.e. iris hooks, Malyugin ring, non-standard pupil
           dilation medications), which one, and at what point in the procedure the technique was
           employed.

        -  Iris billowing will be graded as present or absent.

        -  Iris prolapse will be graded as present or absent.

        -  Surgical time from incision to dressing will be recorded.

        -  Surgical complications or any other surgical findings of interest to the surgeon will be
           recorded.
    
  