
    
      All pregnant women meeting the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be identified at the time of
      their regular OB appointments between the 8th and the 14th week of pregnancy (+/- 3 days)
      Research team members will approach potential subjects to explain the study and obtain
      consent for their participation Patients who give their consent for enrollment will be asked
      to complete a dietary survey at the time of enrollment Patients will be given a paper script
      for study drug to be taken to the Walter Reed Military Medical Center pharmacy to obtain
      study drug The Investigational Pharmacy will randomize the patients in double blinded fashion
      to the intervention group or placebo group.

      Patients in the intervention group will recieve a ~1000mg capsule containing ~400mg of DHA.
      This is not standard of care and is being done for research purposes only Patients in the
      Placebo group will recieve a ~1000mg capusle containing no DHA and filled with 50:50 mix of
      corn and soybean oils. This oil is ubiquitous in the american diet and only a very small
      amount of additional oil will be ingested for study purposes. Giving pregnant women this oil
      is not standard of care and is being done for research purposes only The placebo and
      intervention drugs will be packaged in the same capsule membrane and will be
      indistinguishable by color, shape, or taste.

      Patients will be instructed to take 1 capule PO daily until their child is delivered Patients
      will be issued a 3 month supply of study drug at enrollment and will get refills from the
      investigational pharmacy

      ≤5ml of whole blood will be obtained from each subject at enrollment and at 26-30 weeks
      gestation (+/- 3 days), as part of a routine blood sampling. It is standard of care to
      collect blood at this point in pregnancy for lab evaluation. The additional tube of blood
      collected for this study is for research purposes only and not part of the standard of care.
      This sample will be centrifuged, and the separated plasma will be labeled and frozen at -80°
      C pending transport to Dr. Kim's lab at the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
      Alcoholism (NIAAA) for bulk analyses.

      At delivery, ≤5ml of umbilical cord blood will be obtained from an umbilical artery and from
      the umbilical vein. These samples will be processed and stored in a similar fashion as the
      earlier samples. Cord blood is a medical waste product, and collection will therefore have no
      adverse effect for either mother or newborn. It is standard of care to collect cord blood by
      OB request for lab evaluation. Collecting additional cord blood for this study anaylsis is
      for research purposes only All enrollees will complete a dietary survey upon enrollment at
      8-14 weeks (+/- 3 days), at 26-30th week of pregnancy (+/- 3 days), and during the delivery
      admission. This survey will also include the subject's self-report on compliance with taking
      the study supplement All plasma samples collected will be processed at Dr. Kim's National
      Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism/ National Insititute of Health (NIAAA/NIH)
      laboratories The Cytokine Assays for IL-6, Il-10, TNF- alpha will be run in Dr Kim's lab
      using Ensyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) testing The DHA and Synaptamide levels will
      be analyzed in Dr. Kim's lab using High performance liquid chromatrography with tandem mass
      spectrometry All babies from multiple birth pregnancies will be enrolled in this study The
      offspring of enrolled women will be followed through 12 months corrected age to assess the
      longer term outcomes of study intervention Information will be collected from the maternal
      medical record at time of enrollment, infant delivery and postpartum discharge.

      Information will be collected from the infant medical record at time of birth discharge, and
      12 months corrected age.
    
  