
    
      Peritoneal carcinomatosis from colorectal cancer (pcCRC) has a dismal prognosis. In the era
      of 5-fluorouracil treatment and palliative surgery only, median survival ranged from 5.2 to
      7.0 months. In patients with bowel obstruction due to peritoneal carcinomatosis outcome was
      even worse, with a median overall survival of less than 4 months and a 1-year survival rate
      of 17%. With the advent of modern chemotherapy regimens, survival has improved considerably.
      However, the presence of pcCRC is still associated with a significantly worse prognosis as
      compared with other manifestations of metastatic CRC (e.g. liver and/or lung metastasis). A
      recent retrospective analysis of 2095 patients from 2 prospective randomized trials showed
      that both median PFS and OS were significantly shorter for patients with pcCRC as compared
      with patients without pcCRC (PFS: 5.8 vs. 7.2 months, HR=1.2; 95% CI 1.1 to 1.3, p=0.001; OS:
      12.7 vs. 17.6 months, HR=1.3; 95% CI 1.2 to 1.5, p<0.001).

      The combination of cytoreductive surgery (CRS) with hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy
      (HIPEC) has led to a remarkable improvement of survival in selected patients with pcCRC as
      illustrated by a prospective randomized trial and several retrospective series. The concept
      of CRS + HIPEC has therefore recently been incorporated into national treatment guidelines
      and is being increasingly performed in pcCRC patients with promising long-term results. The
      subgroup who benefits most of this multimodal therapeutic approach are patients with limited
      pcCRC where a complete removal of all cancer deposits within the peritoneum can be achieved.

      There is increasing evidence that the addition of neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy to CRS +
      HIPEC may further improve the outcome of patients with pcCRC. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy, i.e.,
      chemotherapy that is given upfront before CRS + HIPEC is performed, offers several possible
      advantages for patients: First, it can help to identify nonresponders to treatment who may be
      unsuitable candidates for CRS. Second, neoadjuvant chemotherapy may limit extraabdominal
      systemic spread of the disease. Third, upfront chemotherapy may help to reduce the extent of
      peritoneal metastasis, thus facilitating CRS and increasing the likelihood of a complete
      surgical cytoreduction.

      Importantly, it has recently been shown that the efficacy of neoadjuvant chemotherapy can be
      easily quantified by assessing the chemotherapy-induced histopathological response within the
      peritoneum and that the histopathological response is an independent predictor of survival.
      In a retrospective analysis of 115 pcCRC patients who underwent neoadjuvant chemotherapy
      followed by CRS, patients were grouped into three distinct categories depending on the
      histopathological response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy:

        1. patients with complete pathologic response (pCR; no remaining viable tumor cells in
           peritoneal tumor nodules),

        2. patients with major response (1-49% remaining viable tumor cells) or

        3. patients with minor/no response (≥50% remaining viable tumor cells).

      The study was able to show that the cumulative 5-year survival rate was 75% for patients with
      a pCR (HR=1) as compared with 57% for patients with a major response (HR=4.91) and only 13%
      for patients with a minor or no response (HR=13.46) (p=0.01). Overall, approximately 30% of
      patients were considered to be responders to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (9.7% pCR + 20.2% major
      response), while about 70% of patients were considered non-responders to treatment. Treatment
      consisted of a FOLFOX- or FOLFIRI-based regimen in the majority of patients.

      The primary objective of the study is to prospectively assess the histopathological response
      to neoadjuvant chemotherapy with FOLFOXIRI + bevacizumab in peritoneal tumor deposits of 30
      patients with pcCRC by determining the percentage of viable tumor cells in the resected
      specimen after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. For patients with multiple peritoneal specimens, the
      median percentage of viable cells in all specimens will be used. Patients with 0-49% of
      viable cells will be considered as responders. The timepoint of the assessment of the primary
      objective will be during re-exploratory surgery/surgical cytoreduction between days 78 and
      106 of the treatment phase of the study. The investigators hypothesize that there will be
      >30% responders after neoadjuvant chemotherapy with FOLFOXIRI + bevacizumab.

      Responders will be defined as patients with pCR (0% viable tumor cells) and major response
      (1-49% viable tumor cells) after FOLFOXIRI + bevacizumab chemotherapy.

      Non-responders will be defined as patients with minor/no response (≥50% viable tumor cells)
      after FOLFOXIRI + bevacizumab chemotherapy.

      The following patients will also be counted as non-responders:

        -  Patients who do not undergo surgical re-exploration

        -  Patients who develop extraabdominal metastases

        -  Deaths before surgical re-exploration
    
  