
    
      Photoimmunotherapy (PIT) is a new cancer targeted technology invented at the National Cancer
      Institute, USA. This clinical study evaluates the treatment of the experimental drug RM-1929
      with Photoimmunotherapy (PIT).

      The experimental drug, RM-1929, is a parental formulation consisting of a chemical conjugate
      of the dye IR700 with the FDA approved antibody, Erbitux® (Cetuximab), that targets EGFR
      receptors (EGFR is a cancer expressed protein, a cancer antigen). EGFR is highly expressed in
      squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck (HNSCC). It is expected that systemic
      administration of RM-1929 will lead to tumor accumulation and binding to EGFR expressed at
      cancer cells. It is expected that treatment with RM-1929 and Photoimmunotherapy can lead to
      the selective destruction of the HNSCC cancer cells and provide an effective therapy to
      manage the disease.

      The treatment using RM-1929 with Photoimmunotherapy requires two steps:

      (i) the administration by infusion of the drug RM-1929 targeting the cancer protein EGFR

      AND

      (ii) the illumination of the tumor with red light (690 nm) using sufficient energy to
      activate the drug and induce cancer cell killing.

      Light illumination is applied at 24 h post drug infusion to enable sufficient time for the
      drug to distribute in the tumor after administration. Cell killing occurs only at cancer
      cells expressing the protein EGFR that is bound to the drug RM-1929. The requirement of
      binding of the drug to EGFR of cancer cells enables the selective destruction of cancer cells
      with minimum damage of healthy tissue surrounding the tumor cells. Preclinical pharmacology
      demonstrated that light-induced activation of RM-1929 elicits rapid tumor destruction of
      human cancer xenografts implanted in mice and that the treatment is cancer specific.

      The Part 1 study has been completed and consisted of a single cycle 3+3 dose escalation study
      of RM-1929 to determine the safety of the treatment and the maximal feasible dose of RM-1929.
      From the part 1 of this study, the maximal feasible dose for treatment with RM-1929 was
      selected. The currently ongoing Part 2 of the clinical study is evaluating the safety and
      anti-cancer activity of up to 4 repeat treatment cycles of Photoimmunotherapy with RM-1929.
    
  