
    
      This study fulfills the national Veterans Health Administration/Department of Defense
      (VHA/DoD) Task Force recommendation that complementary, integrative therapies for pain
      management be provided to Veterans. Chronic pain elicits stress which increases sympathetic
      output fostering autonomic nervous system imbalance, an overextended stress response,
      fatigue, depression and insomnia. Heart Rate Variability (HRV) is a measure of the interplay
      between the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems, and thus is a useful and
      easily-measured index of autonomic balance that has a relationship to chronic pain effects.
      HRV biofeedback (HRV-B) is a novel, biobehavioral procedure that restores normal autonomic
      balance. Through HRV-B, patients increase parasympathetic cardiac output and restore
      autonomic balance via induction of 'HRV coherence'. The investigators' pilot study indicated
      that HRV-B produced coherence and alleviated self-reported ratings of chronic pain and stress
      among Veterans attending the investigators' Pain Clinic. The proposed clinical intervention
      will further test hypotheses that HRV-B increases HRV coherence, reduces self-reported pain,
      stress, depression, fatigue, and insomnia, and improves cognition among Veterans with chronic
      pain.

      The specific aims are to: (1) conduct a randomized, sham-controlled, pilot intervention trial
      to determine whether HRV-B increases HRV coherence among chronic pain patients (n=40 each for
      the HRV-B and sham treatment groups; total N=80 patients); (2) determine whether HRV-B
      reduces self-reported pain and stress among chronic pain patients. The primary endpoints
      include HRV coherence, pain (Brief Pain Inventory or BPI),and stress (Perceived Stress Scale
      or PSS)

      Outcomes will be measured at 4 time points. pre-training; post-training, one week after the 6
      weekly treatments are over; at 4 weeks follow-up after post-training, and at an 8-week
      post-training follow-up (total time of participation is 16 weeks from pre-training to 8 week
      follow-up).

      Furthermore, chronic stress is associated with disrupted circadian rest/activity rhythms and
      domains of quality of life (QoL) including fatigue, insomnia, and reduced physical and social
      functioning. Interventions that relieve pain thus represent a novel therapeutic target for
      normalizing dysfunctional rest/activity rhythms and these QoL domains among pain patients.
      The investigators are also interested in assessing the effects of HRV-B on cognitive function
      in pain patients. Thus, the investigators' secondary exploratory objectives are to determine
      if HRV-B: (1) improves sleep and rest/activity rhythms; (2) alleviates self-reported fatigue
      and depression; and (3) improves cognitive function (reaction time, attention). Circadian
      endpoints will be measured as actigraphic parameters of sleep (e.g., duration, efficiency),
      and rest/activity (e.g., dichotomy index, interdaily stability), and with the Insomnia
      Symptom Questionnaire (ISQ); fatigue will be assessed using the Multi-Dimensional Fatigue
      Inventory (MFI), which assesses general physical and mental fatigue and motivation.
      Depression will be assessed via the Beck Depression Inventory II (BDI-II). Cognitive function
      will be measured with a cognitive battery comprised of the Paced Auditory Serial Addition
      Test (PASAT), the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT), and the Psychomotor Vigilance
      Test (PVT).

      Proposed Intervention. HRV-B training will follow a previously established, standardized
      protocol. The primary (HRV coherence, pain, stress) and exploratory outcomes (insomnia,
      fatigue, depression, cognition). Outcomes will be assessed at 4 time points: pre-training;
      post-training, one week after the 6 weekly treatments are over; at 4 weeks follow-up after
      post-training, and at an 8-week post-training follow-up (total time of participation is 16
      weeks from pre-training to 8 week follow-up). There will be no HRV-B training at the 8 week
      follow-up, only assessment. Standardized procedures will characterize HRV coherence and other
      frequency- or time-domain HRV measures, and validated instruments will be used to assess pain
      and stress. Wrist actigraphy will characterize insomnia via continuous, 24-hour/day personal
      monitoring of rest/activity rhythms at 1-week intervals coinciding with the baseline
      pre-training (baseline), post-training, and 8-week follow-up assessments. The investigators
      will provide portable data-logging devices for practicing HRV-B at home. Sham intervention
      subjects will have pulse and respiration monitored but not receive active training; instead
      they will view a static, relaxing nature picture on a computer screen.

      The investigators will use the Hochberg procedure12 to control false discovery rates at 5%.
      Analyses will be based on intent to treat with two-sided tests. The effect of HRV-B on
      coherence and other HRV variables will be analyzed using linear mixed models for repeated
      measures data from sequential time assessments, and a between-subjects factor to evaluate the
      intervention after adjusting for potential confounding factors (e.g., age, standard therapy,
      medications, co-morbid disease). Baseline relationships between HRV and endpoints will be
      examined using multiple regression models. Few studies have examined the multivariate
      relationship between pain, autonomic dysfunction, stress, depression, sleep, rest/activity
      rhythms, fatigue, and cognition.
    
  