
    
      This randomized controlled trial of weight loss interventions in overweight and obese women
      with early stage breast cancer consists of two arms, please see the arms section for more
      information. Patients will be randomized 1:1 within stratification factors: menopausal status
      (premenopausal vs. postmenopausal), hormone receptor status of the tumor (ER and/or PR
      positive vs. ER and PR negative), and race/ethnicity (African American vs. Hispanic vs.
      Other). The primary objective of this trial is to compare the effect of the telephone-based
      intervention versus a health educational control on invasive disease-free survival (IDFS).
      The total sample size is 3136 patients. Patient follow up for primary and secondary endpoints
      will continue to a maximum of 10 years, as per the standard protocol for cooperative group
      adjuvant trials.

      The primary and secondary objectives of the study:

      Primary objective To compare the effect of a supervised weight loss intervention plus health
      education materials versus health education materials alone upon invasive disease free
      survival (IDFS) in overweight (BMI 27-29.9 kg/m2) and obese (BMI ≥30kg/m2) women diagnosed
      with HER-2 negative, stage II and III breast cancer.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To determine the relationship between changes in weight and IDFS, and to explore
           interaction between the level of clinical benefit from weight loss and the intervention.

        2. To evaluate the effect of a supervised weight loss intervention upon:

             1. Overall survival

             2. Distant disease free survival

             3. Weight

             4. Body composition (as measured by waist and hip circumference)

             5. Insulin Resistance Syndrome associated conditions - diabetes, hospitalization for
                CV disease

        3. To determine the impact of a supervised weight loss intervention on IDFS within
           subgroups of women with 1) hormone receptor positive breast cancer and 2) hormone
           receptor negative breast cancer.

        4. To determine the impact of a supervised weight loss intervention on IDFS within
           subgroups of 1) premenopausal women and 2) post-menopausal women.

      Patients are to be followed every 6 months for the first 3 years after study enrollment and
      then annually until 10 years from registration. The intervention will last 2 years or until
      disease recurrence/progression, new invasive primary cancer as defined in the protocol or
      patient withdrawal.
    
  