
    
      Hypertension, or high blood pressure (BP), affects 65 million people or almost 1 out of every
      4 adults in the U.S. Individuals who have normal BP at 55 years of age have a 90% lifetime
      risk for developing hypertension. The level of BP elevation is directly related to a person's
      subsequent risk for heart attack, heart failure, stroke, and kidney failure. In 2002,
      hypertension was the primary or contributing cause of death in 11% of US deaths and the cost
      of hypertension was estimated at $59.7 billion. The prevalence of sequelae of uncontrolled
      hypertension will increase as our population ages unless we develop better programs to
      control high BP. Hypertension is treatable. If you reduce a person's elevated BP, you reduce
      their risk of stroke by 30%, heart attack and others forms of coronary heart disease by 20%,
      congestive heart failure by 50%, and premature death by 10%.3 Despite the evidence supporting
      hypertension treatment, more than half of patients with hypertension have inadequate BP
      control.

      We will improve hypertension control in Colorado by implementing a population-based
      intervention using interactive voice response (IVR) technology that will be delivered to
      patients in three healthcare systems across Colorado (Denver Health and Hospitals [DH], VA
      Colorado Healthcare System [VA], and Kaiser Permanente of Colorado [KPCO]). Together, these
      organizations serve over 1 million Coloradans. The IVR-based hypertension program will: 1)
      reach out to more patients using fewer resources than a traditional patient visit approach,
      2) implement evidence based guidelines for therapy, 3) facilitate patients' acquisition of
      medications by allowing them to order and receive medications at home, and 4) enhance
      medication adherence using tailored educational and motivational messages. This program will
      not duplicate or supplant funding for existing programs, but will complement the existing
      programs which are based on traditional provider-patient encounters.

      IVR is a computer-based telephone system that initiates outbound calls, receives inbound
      calls, and provides information and collects data from patients between office visits. An IVR
      system has three components: 1) a standard microcomputer, 2) hardware that interfaces with
      the telephone system to place calls, and 3) software that controls calling operations.
      Patients require only a telephone to participate in an IVR program. Over 95% of Coloradans
      have telephones. People are familiar with IVR applications such as systems used by airlines
      to provide flight information and by healthcare organizations to arrange clinic appointments
      and refill prescriptions.

      *Detailed description of study procedures (duration, description of intervention, study
      measures, endpoints, specific aims, etc):

      Study Visits (both study arms):

      At the baseline visit for both study arms, baseline BP will be recorded and patients will be
      provided educational material. In addition, baseline questionnaires will be completed which
      includes surveys on medication adherence. Participants assigned to both arms will return to
      the clinic for a 6 month visit. Prior to the 6 month study visit, all enrolled patients will
      receive a reminder letter informing them of their pending study appointment. During the 6
      month visit, project staff will review the follow up survey, obtain a 6 month blood pressure
      measurement, assess all current medications, and administer a satisfaction survey.

      Usual Care plus IVR arm:

      For patients randomized to the usual care plus IVR arm, clinically validated electronic BP
      cuffs will be provided at no cost to those who do not own one. For patients who own a cuff,
      they will be asked to bring their cuff to the baseline visit and it will be evaluated by the
      study staff to determine if it is accurate enough to be used. Patients will be taught the
      proper technique for using the BP cuffs and will be oriented to the IVR technology and
      functions. Participants assigned to the usual care plus IVR arm will also meet with the
      clinical pharmacist to review and adjust as necessary their current medication plan, and
      establish rapport for the program.

      All usual care plus IVR patients will be asked to return at 1 month post-baseline visit, for
      a blood pressure check, to receive their first blood pressure report in person, and to review
      the IVR system with study staff if necessary. If medication changes were made at baseline,
      patients may also need to meet briefly with the clinical pharmacist at the one month visit.
      If additional clinical pharmacist visits are required beyond the one month visit for
      laboratory tests or other monitoring of drug changes, these will be provided per current KPCO
      usual care.

      During the 6 months of follow-up, patients in the usual care plus IVR arm will be asked to
      call in to the IVR system weekly and enter BP measurements from the past week using the touch
      tone pad on their phone. Through the IVR system, patients will be encouraged to report any
      symptoms that they have experienced and to ask questions or raise concerns. They can also
      listen to brief modules on diet, exercise, and smoking cessation. The duration of the call
      will depend on the number of blood pressure measurements they have to enter and the patient's
      response to questions. Per JNC VII guidelines, patients will be encouraged to enter a minimum
      of 4 measurements per week. From previous focus group testing, these calls are expected to
      take no more than 5-10 minutes. To maximize safety, patients will be instructed to seek
      immediate medical attention for acute problems, i.e., chest pain and/or if the entered BP
      measurements exceed a threshold (e.g. SBP>200 mm Hg or DBP>100 mm Hg). An IVR report
      summarizing the information gathered from the call will be produced and reviewed by a
      clinical pharmacist. The clinical pharmacist will contact patients if problems are identified
      or at the patients' request. Based on the BP data provided by the patient, the clinical
      pharmacist, with physician oversight, will adjust antihypertensive medications or suggest
      additional medications using national JNC VII hypertension guidelines. This recommendation
      will be copied to the patient's primary care provider (PCP), along with the IVR BP data.
      Currently, this system of multidisciplinary management of chronic illness is in place at all
      three institutions and is accepted by clinicians. Therefore, the management of BP by a
      clinical pharmacist with physician supervision for the IVR intervention is consistent with
      usual care at all three sites.

      Patients in the usual care plus IVR arm will be instructed to call in weekly to the IVR
      system for 6 months. During this time, participants will also receive monthly feedback
      reports in the form of a cover letter and graph of their weekly average blood pressures from
      their baseline visit through the current month.

      At the end of the 6 month study period, if a patient's BP has stabilized at a normal level
      according to established guidelines, they will "graduate" from the study. Based on prior
      experience, we expect patients to attain controlled blood pressure in 2-3 months on average,
      recognizing that some patients will do so more quickly and others more slowly. Therefore, at
      the end of the 6 month study wave, most of the patients should graduate from the study.

      After graduating from the study, patients may continue to enter blood pressure measurements
      into the IVR system, but the frequency of the calls will not be monitored or enforced. After
      graduating, patients will still be able to report concerns and ask questions of the clinical
      pharmacist. For patients who have not reached control by the end of their 6 month visit, they
      will be referred back to their PCP for BP management and their PCP will be notified of the
      continued uncontrolled readings.
    
  