
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To identify treatment arm with strongest signal of efficacy, based on pathologic complete
      response (pCR) rate, between two neoadjuvant systemic therapy regimens in participants with
      early stage, HER2 low, hormone receptor positive (HR+) breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety profile of the two novel neoadjuvant experimental arms. II. To assess
      the molecular changes in tumor biomarkers including Ki67 after 1 cycle of targeted therapy.

      III. Pathological Assessment According to Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) Index at surgery.

      IV. To investigate potential serum and tumor predictive biomarkers to predict response to
      experimental therapy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate potential serum and tumor predictive biomarkers to predict response to
      experimental therapy.

      II. To assess quality of life by evaluating toxicity burden using a quality of life
      (QOL)/patient reported outcomes (PRO) questionnaire- the European Organization for Research
      and Treatment of Cancer Quality-of-Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) instrument.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive trastuzumab deruxtecan intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on cycle 1
      day 1 and 30 minutes on day 1 of each subsequent cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for
      up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then
      undergo surgery.

      ARM B: Patients receive trastuzumab deruxtecan IV over 90 minutes on cycle 1 day 1 and 30
      minutes on day 1 of each subsequent cycle and anastrozole orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days
      1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 21-28 days.
    
  