
    
      Purpose of the study

      In a 12-month prospective, randomized 1:1 study of patients with branch retinal vein
      occlusion (BRVO) and macular edema, the investigators aim to

        1. Examine the treatment response of patients treated with intravitreal aflibercept
           (Eylea®) and navigated retinal laser (Navilas®)(Group 1) as compared to patients treated
           with intravitreal aflibercept only (Group 2), and

        2. Identify non-invasive retinal biomarkers (retinal oxygen saturation, macular ischemia
           and retinal vascular arteriolar and venular calibre) for successful treatment outcome.

      Problem statement

      Severe visual loss or blindness in BRVO is often caused by macular edema. Until a few years
      ago, treatment included observation or macular grid pattern laser photocoagulation. With this
      treatment it was often possible to stabilize the disease in a few treatment sessions.
      However, in recent years better visual outcome has been demonstrated with intravitreal
      injections of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitors like ranibizumab or
      aflibercept. Even though this is encouraging, patients on average need nine injections in the
      first 12 months. The high number of repetitive treatments is a concern for patients as well
      as society due to the invasiveness of the treatment and the price of the drug. Hence, it is
      warranted to develop newer treatment regimens combining the efficacy of intravitreal
      anti-VEGF with the potential stabilizing effect of macular laser photocoagulation. This would
      be an approach that might minimize the number of injections and its side effects while still
      providing acceptable visual outcomes for the patients.

      In addition to providing the optimal treatment, it is important to identify non-invasive
      markers of disease activity and treatment outcome in order to enable individualised and
      personalised treatment while providing novel research opportunity in this potentially
      blinding disease.

      Theoretical foundation (Literature background)

      Retinal vein occlusion (RVO) is a common cause of visual loss in the elderly with a 15-year
      incidence of 2.3% of the population. The condition is classified anatomically according to
      the site of the occlusion. Seventy eight percent of patients have an occlusion of a branch
      vein, which is often complicated by macular edema, leading to visual impairment.

      Branch retinal vein occlusion is diagnosed based on intraretinal hemorrhages in the retinal
      sector drained by the affected vein. In time, hemorrhages often resorb, but
      vision-threatening complications may arise. The common link for these is ischemia, that leads
      to an upregulation of VEGF, which then causes neovascularization, vasodilation and increased
      vascular permeability, leading to macular edema, the most common reason for vision loss in
      BRVO.

      With ischemia in mind, measurements of retinal oxygen saturation could provide important
      information regarding the metabolic status of the inner retina. The vascular oxygen
      saturation of the inner retina is a functional marker, that can be measured non-invasively by
      a spectrophotometric retinal oximeter. Even though this has only been studied on a very
      limited basis in BRVO, proof-of-concept has been established by Lin et al. and Hardarson et
      al., demonstrating cross-sectional changes in retinal oxygen saturation. However, they did
      not correlate these to treatment outcome.

      Ischemia can also be evaluated as a structural marker. The most reliable way of evaluating
      this is to measure the area of retinal non-perfusion by fundus fluorescein angiography.
      Non-perfusion has been demonstrated as a strong marker of disease severity, but it is still
      uncertain if this is reversible, and if so, if this surrogate marker of VEGF-activity can
      potentially be used to guide the treatment.

      Retinal vascular calibre is another non-invasive method of evaluating the retinal vascular
      system. The research unit have performed validated, semiautomatic measurements of the retinal
      arteriolar and venular diameters in studies of diabetic retinopathy, and demonstrated
      cross-sectional associations as well as longitudinal predictions of intra- and extraocular
      microvascular complications of type 1 diabetes. For instance, Broe et al. demonstrated that
      patients with narrower arterioles and wider venules had an independently higher risk of
      developing various microvascular complications in a 16-year prospective study. This
      emphasizes the importance of structural retinal changes in relation to the metabolic
      function. In BRVO, Youm et al. demonstrated that patients with BRVO had narrowing of retinal
      arterioles and venules, but any potential correlation to treatment outcome has not been
      examined.

      Current state of the art In 1984 the Branch Vein Occlusion Study for macular edema
      demonstrated that 63% of patients treated with macular laser gained two or more lines of
      vision, compared to 36% of untreated eyes. Based on this, the standard treatment for many
      years was to perform macular laser photocoagulation if vision had not improved after 3-6
      month of observation. However, the introduction of VEGF-inhibitors within the last decade has
      changed the landscape dramatically. Randomized, controlled studies like BRAVO and VIBRANT
      demonstrated a higher efficacy of ranibizumab and aflibercept versus sham and laser with
      53-61% of patients gaining at least three lines of vision.

      In Denmark, the present guidelines for treatment of BRVO with macular edema has been set in
      September 2015 by "Rådet for Anvendelse af Dyr Sygehusmedicin". The council recommended that
      intravitreal aflibercept or ranibizumab should be used as first line of treatment. However,
      the council also raised concern, stating that they expected an annual increment of
      approximately 600 new patients with RVO in Denmark putting both financial and societal burden
      on the individual and the healthcare system. With the chronic nature of the disease in mind,
      this is expected to put a significant weight on the healthcare system for the years to come.

      Choice of methods

      Navigated laser photocoagulation is the cornerstone of the present study. This is a novel
      laser delivery system that holds many advantages as compared to traditional macular laser
      photocoagulation. Navigated laser makes treatment easier to plan, perform and document.

      Firstly, it includes an eye tracking system, which makes it safe to treat close to the foveal
      center. For a traditional laser it is recommended to keep a minimum distance of 500μm from
      the foveal center in order to limit the risk of severe visual loss. For safety reasons many
      physicians prefer to keep an even larger distance, which often limits the beneficial effect
      of the treatment. Secondly, the navigated laser system is automatic which improves the
      accuracy to target focal lesions by 27%. Thirdly, navigated laser makes it possible to import
      images from fluorescein angiographys and allows for clear delineation and consequent
      treatment of the diseased microvasculature.

      Hypothesis

      The investigators hypothesize that:

        1. As compared to intravitreal aflibercept monotherapy, combination treatment with
           intravitreal aflibercept and navigated laser leads to a lesser number of intravitreal
           injections needed to stabilise vision in patients with BRVO and macular edema.

        2. It is possible to use non-invasive retinal markers to predict disease activity and
           treatment outcome in patients with BRVO and macular edema. Regardless of treatment
           regimen, the investigators believe that patients who respond well to treatment will have
           (1) lower retinal venular oxygen saturation, (2) less macular ischemia, and (3) lower
           retinal venular calibre.
    
  