
    
      Study design and duration: Retrospective comparative study. Estimated time of enrollment: 12
      months.

      Procedure: Retrospective review of clinical charts: LPV/r (n = 100) and EFV (a randomly
      selected representative sample of patients under EFV treatment: 200 patients approximately.).
      Each patient can only be included in one arm of the study (cannot switch EFV to LPV/r or from
      LPV/r to EFV)

      Subject population

      LPV/r (n = 100) and EFV (a randomly selected representative sample of patients under EFV
      treatment: 200 patients approximately.). Each patient can only be included in one arm of the
      study (cannot switch EFV to LPV/r or from LPV/r to EFV)

      Study Objectives:

      Primary Objectives

      1)Changes in Framingham score (from low to moderate, from moderate to high) based on changes
      in lipid profile and other parameters from baseline to 48 weeks of HAART in naïve patients or
      patients in second line of treatment Secondary Objectives

        1. Risk assessment hazard of CV events in HIV- infected subjects treated with a LPV/r as
           second line and EFV and LPV/r first line based HAART regimen in the whole population
           under study and in the female and male subpopulations.

        2. Assessment for 10- year risk of developing hard cardiovascular events (myocardial
           infarction and coronary death) in HIV- infected subjects treated with a LPV/r ( 1° o 2°
           line) and EFV first line based HAART regimen

        3. Overall mortality (including CV events) in HIV- infected subjects treated with a LPV/r
           as second line and EFV and LPV/r first line based HAART regimen

        4. Evolution of lipid profile (total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglicerides) and lipid
           lowering agents requirement: baseline vs. 48 weeks after the initiation of a LPV/r
           second line based HAART regimen and those on an LPV/r and EFV first line based HAART
           regimen

        5. Assesment of CD4 T-cell count and viral load at baseline and at 48 weeks in each
           regimen.
    
  