
    
      I. Background Recently, CDC issued recommendations calling for HIV screening for patients
      aged 13-64, when the individual accesses the health care system 1. For many patients,
      especially those without a primary care provider, the emergency department (ED) is the
      primary or only contact point for the health care system. Testing individuals while they are
      in the ED has the potential to identify persons who do not perceive themselves to be at risk
      for HIV. Several academic EDs have begun to offer HIV testing 10, and have initially
      indicated promising results.

      II. Rationale for testing in ED Testing in the ED has several potential advantages. It leads
      to shorter hospital stays, increases the number of newly diagnosed patients with HIV who are
      discharged from the hospital aware of their HIV status, and improved entry into outpatient
      care for patients admitted at the time of their initial HIV diagnosis. Another advantage of
      HIV testing in the ED is the ability to link newly diagnosed patients to an HIV clinician.

      The optimal approach to testing for HIV in the ED is not known. Testing without risk
      assessment can identify persons with undiagnosed HIV infection and reduce reluctance
      assessing risk behavior.

      While widespread routine HIV screening (e.g. testing as many patients as possible presenting
      to the ED) is likely to result in the highest number of positive tests, this strategy is
      expensive, burdensome and will not be practical in a busy city ED. In the setting of limited
      resources, a strategy of targeted testing (testing patients with established risk factors for
      HIV) may be a more cost-effective strategy. It may also be more practical and may be more
      acceptable to ED staff.

      Another issue which needs further study is identifying the optimal personnel to conduct rapid
      HIV testing in the ED. There are advantages and disadvantages to requiring ED staff to
      counsel and consent patients for HIV testing. The ED staff may believe the testing is not in
      their purview and may not believe they have time to devote to testing.

      Another important issue is the feasibility of conducting rapid testing in the ED. How many
      individuals can be tested in an eight hour day by one HIV educator? What are the barriers to
      conducting rapid testing in the ED and what solutions can be implemented to overcome these
      barriers? Finally, what are the attitudes of the ED staff regarding HIV testing in the ED? By
      collecting data during the implementation of this pilot project we hope to optimize the
      approach to HIV testing in the ED.

      III. Hypothesis

      Primary - Initiation of a rapid HIV testing program in the ED of a community teaching
      hospital is feasible but will require substantial resources and cooperation between multiple
      departments and stakeholders.

      Secondary- Patients with known HIV risk factors will have a higher HIV seroprevalence
      compared to patients without known risk factors.

      IV. Study Objectives

      A. Primary:

      1. To initiate HIV testing in the Baystate ED in order to increase the number of new HIV
      diagnoses and to link these patients to HIV care.

      B. Secondary:

        1. To estimate the resources involved in initiating a rapid HIV testing program in the ED
           of a large community teaching hospital.

        2. To describe the process of initiating a rapid HIV testing program and the barriers to
           implementation.

        3. To compare the yield of HIV testing in patients with known HIV risk factors compared to
           those without known risk factors in patients presenting to the ED in order to estimate
           the feasibility of a random screening strategy compared to a targeted screening
           strategy.

        4. To describe the characteristics of the population tested for HIV in the ED.

        5. To determine the number of patients who decline testing and the reasons for declining
           testing.

           .

        6. To determine the number of newly diagnosed individuals who were successfully linked to
           an HIV provider and the number who received antiretroviral therapy within one year of
           initial diagnosis.

        7. To analyze ED staff attitudes re: HIV rapid testing in the ED

      V. Methods:

      Overview of Operations:

      A trained HIV Health Educator will offer HIV counseling and testing to ED patients interested
      in HIV testing. The number of patients studied will be determined by how many patients can be
      approached by the HIV Health Educator.

      Following initial counseling the HIV Health educator will obtain an Informed Consent for
      study participation and HIV testing as well as HIPPA authorization from the study
      participants. Patients who decline testing will be asked to consent to participate in the
      study by signing a research consent form and will be asked the reason(s) they decline
      testing. The reasons for declining testing will be recorded among those who agree to
      participate.

      ED patients may also be referred to the HIV Health Educator by the ED nurse or clinician
      (physician or midlevel clinician) if the nurse or clinician believes HIV testing is indicated
      based on potential risk factors for HIV or conditions possibly related to (as a part of the
      patient's social and medical history). Finally, a patient who is an ED patient (and has not
      otherwise been approached for testing) may also request to be tested for HIV while in the ED.

      After identification of potential patients according to one of the above methods, the health
      educator will approach patients who are not otherwise engaged with an ED staff person and
      prior to discharge from the ED. Patients will be approached in a fashion that does not
      interfere with the normal flow of the ED visit. Patients too ill to approach (in the opinion
      of the HIV health educator or ED staff) will be excluded, as will patients who have
      previously tested positive for HIV. The HIV Health Educator will do an initial risk
      assessment and brief pretest counseling prior to obtaining verbal and written consent for HIV
      testing. Counseling and consent will be in Spanish for patients whose primary language is
      Spanish. (A consent form will be translated into Spanish.) The Health Educator will then
      obtain blood via finger stick from the patient. The test will be run (according to the
      instructions in the package insert) by the Health Educator in a designated area of the ED.
      Results will be read as reactive or non-reactive. In the event of a non-reactive test the
      patient will be informed of the result. During the post-test counseling session patients will
      be given risk reduction information and shown harm reduction skills and techniques and
      counseled on appropriate behaviors to minimize risk of HIV acquisition. The patient will also
      be offered an opportunity to be retested in the future and encouraged to visit an I-CTR
      program for sexually transmitted disease and hepatitis testing and vaccinations as needed.
      Testing will be entirely voluntary and will be confidential

      In case of a reactive rapid test the client will be brought to the consultation room in the
      ED to ensure privacy and will be informed that the result is a preliminary reactive result
      for HIV and that a confirmatory test is required. In the case of a reactive test (initial
      positive), a venous blood sample will be drawn by the HIV Health Educator for confirmation
      via HIV Western blot. The HIV Health Educator is licensed to draw blood. A separate written
      consent for HIV will be obtained prior to obtaining blood for the HIV Western blot. The
      Western blot will be sent to the MA State laboratory with an expected result in < 5 business
      days. The results of the initial test and the confirmatory test will not be entered into the
      patient medical record. The state of Massachusetts Department of Health will not have the
      names of patients tested. The only reporting to the state of positive HIV results will be
      done when the patient accesses medical care as per state law e.g. the patient's health care
      provider will report the results to the state. This reporting is not part of this study.

      The HIV health educator has extensive experience in informing patients/clients of positive
      HIV test results and has a plan in place to counsel such patients. The PI or his
      representative will also be available to counsel patients with a positive HIV test result. In
      the rare case of a catastrophic emotional reaction to a positive test result the HIV health
      educator will involve the crisis team (Behavioral Health Network (BHN) Crisis Services). The
      BHN crisis services team is stationed in the ED and has experience counseling patients who
      are severely emotionally distraught. The BHN crisis team is aware of the HIV rapid testing
      program and is willing to participate when needed. If the patient has problems after he/she
      leaves the ED, he/she will be able to contact the HIV health educator who, in conjunction
      with the PI, can then make a referral (if needed) for psychological/psychiatric follow-up.
      Once the patient has followed up with a health care provider in the HIV/ID clinic (generally
      within 5 days) (see below for details) if psychological issues arise that health care
      provider will make an appropriate referral to a mental health provider.

      In cases where the rapid HIV test is reactive, the HIV Health Educator will be responsible
      for linking the patient to appropriate medical care. An appointment in the HIV/ID clinic will
      be given to the patient prior to discharge from the ED.

      The patient can be referred to any of the three Baystate Health Centers In the event where
      the tested patient leaves the ED prior to receipt of test results the counselor will notify
      the patient by phone or mail to schedule an appointment for receipt of results. A supportive
      referral for mental health assessment and counseling will also be made, as needed (see
      above).

      Survey Prior to the start of rapid HIV testing in the ED, a brief electronic survey (using
      Survey Monkey software) will be conducted. The survey will be sent via email to ED physicians
      and midlevel providers. The survey instructions will explain that the survey is voluntary and
      confidential and that participants will not be identified. The same survey will be sent to
      the same individuals after the first six months of this pilot program to assess any changes
      in attitudes.

      VI. Data Management/Security

      The HIV Health Educator will collect data for clinical and study purposes. Data will be
      stored in paper records, not electronically. All patient information will be kept in
      individual folders by barcode. A barcode is assigned to each patient and is used as a
      specific identifier for each specimen tested. Once testing had been completed these folders
      will be stored in a locked file in the office of the principal investigator. There is a
      policy in place to maintain confidentiality and privacy throughout the entire testing
      process: written consent, test performance, disclosure of test results, and storage of
      records. We will not allow access to other researchers or answer any other questions without
      IRB approval. All files will be kept for seven years.

      VII. ANALYSIS PLAN

      Demographic information obtained from the patient at the time of testing as part of the pilot
      testing will be recorded on a data collection sheet. Data collected will include risk factors
      for HIV, ethnicity, sex, age, payer status, zip code, homeless status, prior testing status
      (and dates of prior testing), co-morbid medical conditions possibly related to HIV diagnosis
      and chief complaint on presentation to ED. In addition, general demographic information about
      patients admitted to the ED during the study period will be requested and de-identified and,
      if appropriate, will be extrapolated for calculation of seroprevalence e.g. the
      characteristics of the patients tested for HIV will be compared to the overall ED population
      in order to ascertain whether the tested sample is representative of the ED population.

      The number of patients approached for testing will be recorded as will the total number of
      patients registered in the ED during the period of testing (eight hours per day, five days
      per week). The number of reactive tests as well as the number of positive confirmatory tests
      will be determined. In order to determine the yield of testing and to estimate seroprevalence
      in the ED, the number of patients testing positive (confirmed by Western blot) will be
      divided by the total number tested. Further calculations will incorporate the yield of
      testing in those with risk factors and compare to those with no reported risk factors. In
      addition, the number of patients with reactive tests attending an initial and subsequent HIV
      clinic visit as well as the number presenting with an AIDS diagnosis and the number
      commencing antiretroviral therapy within one year after testing will be recorded.

      The HIV health educator will observe and record barriers to testing in the ED staff..
      Modifications in the testing policy will be implemented based on the assessment of the HIV
      health educator in order to maximize the number of patients tested. No identifying
      information concerning ED staff members will be recorded. Modifications in the testing policy
      will be implemented based on this assessment in order to maximize the number of patients
      tested.

      In order to ascertain the sustainability of the program, following the initial pilot program,
      the cost of HIV testing will be estimated by including the following costs: health educator
      salary plus benefits, program administration, materials, test kits, postage and confirmatory
      testing. The cost per test, cost per approached patient, cost per enrolled patient, and cost
      per confirmed infection detected will be calculated, as will the annualized direct cost.

      Results of the survey will be tallied. Pre and post surveys will be compared using Chi square
      for categorical data (e.g. for yes, no questions) and Student's T test for continuous data.

      Data from the main study will be entered into Microsoft Excel. StatView statistical software
      will be used to analyze data. Categorical data will be analyzed by the appropriate test e.g.
      Chi Square or Fisher's exact test. Continuous data will be analyzed using the Student's
      T-test.
    
  