
    
      Unemployment in people with severe mental illnesses (SMIs), such as schizophrenia, bipolar
      disorder, and major depressive disorder, has both economic and health-related costs.
      Unemployed people with SMIs often report an improved quality of life after finding a job,
      through increases in self-esteem, socialization, opportunities to use skills and abilities,
      external structure, and income. Supported employment plans, such as Individualized Placement
      and Support (IPS), help to place and support people with SMIs in jobs available in their
      community. However, people with SMIs often have difficulties keeping jobs. Research suggests
      these difficulties are due to cognitive deficits-underlying patterns of thought. This study
      will test two versions of IPS to see which produces the best outcomes for people with SMIs
      looking for jobs: one version will be supplemented with cognitive training (CT), which will
      address cognitive deficits related to work, and the other version will be supplemented with
      enhanced support (ES), which will increase the support people with SMIs receive with their
      jobs.

      Participation in this study will last 24 months. Participants will first undergo a baseline
      assessment and then will be randomly assigned to receive IPS with CT or IPS with ES.
      Participants in both groups will complete one IPS session and one support session-either CT
      or ES-each week for 12 weeks. The IPS sessions will involve working with a vocational
      counselor to find a job and then receiving support in training for and maintaining that job.
      Participants receiving CT sessions will be taught strategies to improve attention, learning
      and memory, and problem-solving. Participants receiving ES will receive extra sessions of
      vocational support. All participants will complete assessments at six times: at study entry
      and after 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. These assessments will include interviews about life
      circumstances, psychiatric symptoms, and job satisfaction. The first four assessment sessions
      will involve additional tests-administered with a pencil and paper or on a computer-that
      measure thinking, learning, memory, and problem-solving abilities.
    
  