
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Test the effects of a Standardized Nursing Intervention Protocol (SNIP) on overall
           quality of life (QOL); physical, psychological, social, and spiritual well-being
           subscales; and functional status of patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem
           cell transplantation (AHSCT) at discharge, 3, 6, and 12 months post-hospitalization as
           compared to AHSCT patients who receive the usual care and attention control.

      Secondary

        -  Test the effects of SNIP-AHSCT on time-to-first complication, total number of
           complications, and mortality across these groups of patients.

        -  Identify subgroups of patients who benefit most from the SNIP-AHSCT in relation to
           sociodemographic characteristics, disease and clinical factors, and transplant factors.

        -  Decompose the effect of the SNIP-AHSCT on QOL into direct and indirect effects.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

        -  Group 1: Patients receive home teaching visits on medical aspects of self care, monitor
           and respond to signs and symptoms of infections, recommended exercise and nutrition
           program, relevant literature on bone marrow transplantation, diet, nutrition, and a
           variety of resources at 1, 2, and 3 months after hospital discharge. Patients also
           receive telephone-reinforcement calls monthly in months 4-12, and have a 24-hour
           telephone availability throughout the study. Patients complete the City of Hope quality
           of life questionnaires on physical, psychological, social, and spiritual well-being, and
           physical functional status at discharge, and then at 3, 6, and 12 months after
           hospitalization.

        -  Group 2: Patients receive usual medical care and attention at discharge, and then at 3,
           6, and 12 months after hospitalization. Patients also have a hot-line availability
           throughout the study.
    
  