
    
      Rotator cuff tear is a frequent problem, increasing with age1. Thus arthroscopic repair is a
      frequent surgery. Despite this important number of cuff repair, the re-tear rate varies from
      20 to 90% depending on tear severity and type of repair1,2. Many factors are implicated in
      tendon healing and post-operative clinical results. Some are unchangeable (age, tear size,
      chronicity…) but some are under the surgeon control like the surgical technique and the
      post-operative rehabilitation protocol. It exists many surgical repair techniques6, 7, with a
      massive development of technology during the last twenty years. However in terms of
      rehabilitation, there is only few studies and evidence of best practices4. The main aspect on
      which the surgeon can act, is the immobilization time. Actually, standard protocols include
      an immobilisation of 4 to 6 weeks before physiotherapy beginning5.

      A recent review of the literature3 has highlighted five studies comparing different
      rehabilitation protocols, which include different immobilization periods ranging from 0 to 8
      weeks, and different types of mobilization (under physiotherapist supervision or not, with
      machine or not). They found a similar rate of re-tear between the different protocols. But
      early passive motion enables to improve the range of motion during first 3-6 months, with
      similar results at one year.

      However in all these studies, all patients had to wear a sling for at least 4 weeks, even in
      the early mobilization group. But the investigators don't know if this sling is really
      useful, probably not if the investigators follow the logic of faster recovery and same long
      term results with early mobilization. At our best knowledge, no study has sought to compare
      the usefulness of sling wearing after a rotator cuff repair. Removing sling could simplify
      rehabilitation and should provide a return to normal function faster, with greater
      satisfaction and a similar rate of re-tear.

      The aim of this study is to compare rehabilitation with the wearing of a sling, to
      rehabilitation without any immobilization after an arthroscopic repair of the supraspinatus
      tendon.
    
  