
    
      Severe sepsis is a syndrome associated with severe infections with a high morbidity and
      mortality. In its most severe form, septic shock still leads to an in-hospital mortality of
      up to 50%. The pathophysiology of severe sepsis / septic shock includes increased work of
      breathing to compensate for tissue hypoperfusion-induced metabolic acidosis. This exaggerated
      work of breathing requires increased consumption of oxygen by respiratory muscles, which
      calls for a greater percentage of the already insufficient cardiac output, which can
      aggravate tissue hypoperfusion.

      In the last decade, high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) appeared as an alternative ventilatory
      support intermediate between conventional oxygen and mechanical ventilation. Among others
      (3-7), the investigators have also demonstrated their effectiveness in patients with
      respiratory failure of different etiologies (8-11). Patients treated with HFNC quickly show a
      reduction of respiratory rate and respiratory work, associated with an improvement of the
      functional residual capacity and gas exchange. The absence of significant side effects and
      low cost makes HFNC especially attractive as adjunctive medical treatment in severe sepsis.

      Then, the hypothesis is that in patients with severe sepsis, high flow nasal cannula (HFNC)
      therapy could reduce work of breathing, which would allow a redistribution of cardiac output
      from the respiratory muscles to other organs, improving peripheral perfusion with minor
      injury of organs at distance, less multiorgan failure and improved survival. Therefore, the
      aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of HFNC for improving sixty-day survival in
      patients with severe sepsis. This study will also provide a detailed evaluation of the HFNC's
      effects on the need for vital support (mechanical ventilation, dialysis, vasoactive drugs)
      and physiological parameters (acidosis, clearance of lactate, SvO2 and SOFA).

      DESIGN Prospective, multicenter, randomized, controlled trial in 592 patients with severe
      sepsis admitted into a network of 18 ICUs from university and community hospitals in Spain to
      define the role of high flow oxygen therapy, with one experimental arm that will receive high
      flow oxygen therapy and a control arm that will receive conventional oxygen therapy if
      required.

      Patients who consent will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive HFNC or conventional
      treatment, which consists of adding oxygen on nasal prongs or Venturi mask only if hypoxemia
      is detected as SpO2 < 92% by pulse oximetry.

      STUDY ARMS

        1. HFNC therapy (experimental group) Treatment with HFNC (Airvo2® Fisher & Paykel, and
           AquaNASE® Armstrong Medical) will begin with high flow (50 L/min), high temperature and
           humidity and oxygen concentration adjusted for SpO2 >92%, even with FiO2 of 0.21, if
           needed.

           The rationale for this HFNC dosage is that minute ventilation can be already reduced
           with 30 L/min, but functional residual capacity and oxygenation maximally improve at
           higher flow. On the contrary, flow >50 L/min is uncomfortable for many patients.

           In the case of clinical intolerance, flow will be reduced to 40, 30 or 20 L/min. Yet it
           is not tolerated, HFNC will be stopped and patients will receive conventional oxygen if
           required, but will be evaluated as in the HFNC group by intention to treat.

           In HFNC patients we propose an extra caution to avoid delaying a mechanical ventilation
           that would be beneficial. To do this, the ROX index (ROX = SpO2/FiO2/respiratory rate)
           will be calculated and if it is < 5, it is recommended to assess mechanical ventilatory
           support, either invasive or non-invasive.

        2. Conventional therapy (control group) Patients assigned to the conventional treatment
           will receive the standard care given at hospital which consists of adding oxygen on
           nasal prongs or Venturi mask only if hypoxemia is suggested by SpO2 < 92% by pulse
           oximetry.

      Target for oxygenation in both arms is SpO2 between 92% and 95%. SpO2 >95% without oxygen
      supply is acceptable. On the contrary, SpO2 <92% may be acceptable when needed for medical
      reasons, mainly chronic hypercapnic patients.
    
  