
    
      BACKGROUND: Context Inadequate reporting is a frequent cause of waste of research. To
      overcome this issue, the CONSORT statement, an evidence-based, minimum set of recommendations
      for reporting RCTs was developed in 1996. These guidelines have since been updated in 2001
      and more recently in 2010. Many journals endorse the CONSORT statement. Some journals provide
      recommendations to authors to follow the CONSORT guidelines and some editors enforce the use
      of the CONSORT guidelines by requesting authors to submit a checklist in either the
      submission or acceptance stage. Nevertheless, inadequate reporting remains.

      HYPOTHESE: To assess the completeness of reporting, junior peer reviewers could use a simple
      online tool based on the CONSORT 2010 checklist and Elaboration and Explanation publication
      for reporting parallel-group RCT

      OBJECTIVE: 1) Develop an online tool and training module dedicated to junior peer reviewers
      for a) assessing the completeness of reporting of key items and b) identifying switched
      primary outcome(s) in reports of RCTs. 2) Compare the performance of junior peer reviewers
      using this tool with the usual peer-review process in identifying inadequate reporting and
      switched primary outcome(s) in reports of RCTs.

      STUDY DESIGN: randomized ratio 1:1 controlled trial with two parallel arms. Participants will
      be invited to participate by invitation.

      ELIGIBILITY: eligible participants are juniors peer reviewers. Junior peer reviewers are
      defined as early stage researchers: master students, PhD students, residents involved in
      clinical research during their study, and clinicians who have never reviewed a manuscript

      INTERVENTION: the peer-review tool will be based on 10 items of the CONSORT Statement. This
      tool reminds the peer reviewer of the CONSORT item which must be reported by explicating it
      with a series of questions. The training module will explain each item to be evaluated with
      examples followed by a series of exercises from published randomized trial extracts.

      MANUSCRIPT SELECTION: sample of randomized controlled trials published by Annals of Emergency
      Medicine, British Medical Journal, British Medical Journal Open and BioMed Central series
      medical.

      EVALUATION BY THE JUNIOR PEER REVIEWERS: the junior peer reviewer who has accepted to
      participate and who has passed the training with success, will have to evaluate 1 article of
      the selected randomized sample.

      EVALUATION OF THE USUAL PEER REVIEWERS: the evaluation by the usual peer-reviewers will be
      obtained by an analysis of the comments of the peer-reviewers which are available on line or
      obtained from the publisher.

      GOLD STANDARD: peers of researchers who are experts in conducting systematic reviews will
      evaluate each article independently from other evaluations. Disagreements will be resolved by
      consensus.

      PRIMARY OUTCOME: the mean number of items accurately classified per manuscript

      SECONDARY OUTCOMES: the mean number of items accurately classified per manuscript for the 10
      CONSORT items; the sensitivity, specificity and likelihood ratio to detect the item as
      adequately reported and to identify switch in primary outcome(s).

      SAMPLE SIZE: 120 manuscripts and 120 peer reviewers juniors.
    
  