
    
      Romano-Ward Syndrome (RWS) is a rare disorder characterized by prolongation of the QT
      interval, as well as T-wave abnormalities and possibly polymorphic ventricular fibrillation.
      RWS is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. Mutations in the potassium voltage-gated
      channel subfamily Q Member 1 (KCNQ1), potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily H member 2
      (KCNH2), sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 5 (SCN5A), potassium voltage-gated
      channel subfamily E regulatory subunit 1 (KCNE1), and potassium voltage-gated channel
      subfamily E regulatory subunit 2 (KCNE2) genes are known to be causative, and these five
      genes together are responsible for virtually 100% of cases of RWS.

      Dysregulation of insulin signalling has been implicated in multimorbidity across the
      lifespan, in particular in type 2 diabetes, metabolic syndrome, obesity and RWS. Numerous
      studies have shown a relationship between RWS and hyperinsulinemia. More recently, altered
      insulin signalling has also been implicated in neurodegenerative brain disorders, dementias
      and Alzheimer's disease. Diseases characterized by dysregulation of insulin signalling (i.e.
      insulinopathies) present a major health, societal, and economic burden. These insulin
      signalling-associated diseases are mostly chronic, and with limited or absent curative
      treatments. At the current time, the recognition and clinical management of insulin
      comorbidity remains poorly established; brain-based comorbidity is generally neglected, and
      medical efforts are only devoted to the management of the primary, somatic diagnosis.

      The present study will be a part of the European Union (EU)-funded PRIME (for Prevention and
      Remediation of Insulin Multimorbidity in Europe) research program, which primary goal is to
      identify and specify the molecular mechanisms underlying the insulin multimorbidities through
      investigation of the diseases that cause the highest burden and costs to patients and
      society, and to outline new directions for research and clinical care thereof. The primary
      hypothesis of the PRIME project is that comorbidity observed in these somatic diseases (DM2,
      metabolic syndrome, obesity, RWS) is a result of dysregulated central and peripheral insulin
      signalling, downstream of synaptic dysfunction and of learning, memory, and executive
      functions impairments. This non-competitive EU Horizon2020 project will study the role of
      KCNQ1, a key molecule in insulin regulation, in the insulinopathies across different levels
      of organismal organisation.

      The study will include 50 KCNQ1-mutated subjects (mainly RWS patients but also subjects
      carrying the KCNQ1 mutation but without phenotypic manifestation of long QT syndrome, and,
      because of the strong interest of the PRIME project in genetic analyses, family relatives
      carrying the same KCNQ1 mutation) and 50 matched healthy subjects. By comparing the test
      population to healthy subjects, the main objective of the trial is to test the hypothesis of
      an involvement of KCNQ1 in compulsivity, impulsivity and cognitive rigidity.

      The insulin regulation evaluations will be performed by measuring glucose, insulin and
      glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) in subjects. Compulsivity, impulsivity and behavioural rigidity
      will be assessed using 4 neuropsychological questionnaires (OCI-R, ASBQ, UPPS-P, CHIRP) and
      one objective test, the CPT.

      Moreover, DNA extraction will be performed in order to search for associations between
      mutations, insulin regulation and psychological features in conducting a Genome-Wide
      Association Study (GWAS) (exploratory objective).
    
  