
    
      Subjects that participated were post-surgical patients with hip arthroplasty receiving
      treatment at Orthopedic Ward of Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospitals Complex
      (OAUTHC), Ile-Ife. Excluded from the study were subjects who had surgery but have infected
      wound, those with deep vein thrombosis, and those with thrombophlebitis post-surgery. The
      subjects were allocated randomly into 2 groups; one group of 25 patients was on TENS
      (experimental group) and the other group of 25 patients was on their normal drugs without
      TENS (control group). Before the start of intervention, the procedure of the intervention and
      the way the subject would feel during the course of the intervention was explained to the
      subject and the consent of the patient was obtained. The procedure was as follows:The Visual
      Analogue Scale and Oxford hip score was administered prior to the treatment to ascertain
      their pain level and hip disability before the treatment. The site of intervention (5cm away
      from incision site) was cleaned properly with cotton wool soaked in methylated spirit in an
      outward motion. Before the self-adhesive, pre gelled electrodes was placed on the cleansed
      sites. The TENS unit was switched on and the parameters was adjusted to the required. For
      this study, parameters used are: 100µs pulse duration, 100Hz frequency and an intensity
      comfortable for the patient for a duration of 15 minutes.

      At the expiration of treatment, the electrodes were removed. The treatment was carried out
      twice a day for three days in addition to the normal analgesic and antibiotics drugs taken by
      the patient. After the last treatment session, VAS and Oxford hip score was re-administered
      to ascertain their pain intensity and hip disability level.

      For the group with no intervention The VAS and Oxford hip score was administered on the first
      day of contact to ascertain pain intensity and hip disability level . The subject continued
      on the normal analgesics only till the third day and VAS and Oxford hip score was
      re-administered to ascertain their pain intensity and hip disability level.
    
  