
    
      1 BACKGROUND Currently the gold standard for evaluation of pulmonary hypertension is right
      heart pressure as measured by cardiac catheterization. Thus the method for stratifying
      patients with pulmonary hypertension in terms of risk and response to treatment is
      suboptimal, requiring multiple invasive procedures.

      A number of studies have suggested that cardiac MR imaging is useful in the diagnosis of
      myocardial disease and may be related to patient prognosis in both ischemic and non-ischemic
      cardiomyopathy. Patients with pulmonary hypertension demonstrate post gadolinium delayed
      enhancement at the points of insertion of the right ventricle onto the inter-ventricular
      septum, and the presence of this finding has been shown to be inversely correlated with right
      ventricular function.

      Quantitative evaluation of extracellular volume by post-gadolinium T1 relaxation time mapping
      (T1 mapping) and extracellular volume (ECV) mapping is used to quantify the extent of
      myocardial fibrosis, can detect fibrosis earlier than delayed enhancement imaging, and is
      particularly useful in non-ischemic or diffuse myocardial diseases. In addition, Displacement
      Encoding with Stimulated Echoes (DENSE) is a technique that allows quantification of tissue
      motion and myocardial strain, which can identify early myocardial dysfunction in patients
      with preserved ejection fraction, and therefore may be useful in the evaluation of myocardial
      function in pulmonary hypertension.

      Utilization of novel cardiac MR techniques for quantitative assessment of the extent of
      subclinical myocardial disease in patients with pulmonary hypertension may therefore serve as
      a non-invasive tool to inform prognosis and surrogate biomarker to evaluate effectiveness of
      treatment strategies, with the potential to replace serial cardiac catheterization in these
      patients.

      Our hypothesis is that utilization of novel cardiac MR techniques for quantitative assessment
      of the extent of subclinical myocardial disease in patients with pulmonary hypertension may
      serve as a non-invasive tool to inform prognosis and surrogate biomarker to evaluate
      effectiveness of treatment strategies, with the potential to replace serial cardiac
      catheterization in these patients.

      Adult patients with pulmonary hypertension under clinical care at the UCSF pulmonary
      hypertension clinic who are referred for right heart catheterization will be invited to
      participate in our study. Screening data will be reviewed to determine subject eligibility.
      Subjects who meet all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will be entered
      into the study. Each participant will undergo cardiac MR examination during a single one-hour
      study visit.
    
  