
    
      Insulin resistance (IR) is a major contributor to obesity-related morbidities such as
      diabetes and cardiovascular disease. While obesity is associated with IR, the biological
      basis for this association is unclear, and not all obese individuals are IR. The once-popular
      portal hypothesis, which states that lipolysis from VAT in particular accounts for IR, has
      been questioned because VAT contributes only 15% of the total systemic free fatty acid (FFA)
      flux. Other proposed mechanisms linking obesity to IR include inflammation, adiponectin, and
      ectopic fat. It is unclear whether VAT mass is more closely linked to IR than is subcutaneous
      adipose tissue (SAT) mass. Furthermore, evidence linking differential biological activity to
      IR in VAT or SAT is indirect, largely derived from studies comparing lean to obese or VAT to
      SAT without evaluation of IR. Thus, the purpose of this study is to investigate the
      biological mechanisms by which SAT and/or VAT contribute to IR. Specifically, the
      investigators will explore two related hypotheses- that impaired adipocyte differentiation in
      SAT is related to IR, ectopic fat deposition and expansion of VAT depot, and that
      inflammation in VAT is associated with IR. Utilizing adipose cell size/distribution obtained
      by Beckman Coulter Multisizer, gene expression via quantitative PCR, in-vivo quantification
      of IR via a modified insulin suppression test, and CT scans of abdomen/thigh, our specific
      aims are to:

        1. Confirm that impairment of adipocyte differentiation in SAT is associated with IR by
           comparing cell size characteristics and differentiation markers in IR and IS subjects
           undergoing elective surgery;

        2. Test the hypothesis that the same relationship will not be seen in VAT;

        3. Demonstrate that VAT mass is expanded in the presence of impaired differentiation of
           adipocytes in SAT;

        4. Demonstrate that intramuscular fat is related to both IR and impaired differentiation of
           adipocytes in SAT using cell size characteristics and differentiation markers;

        5. Demonstrate that increased inflammation in omental fat is associated with IR independent
           of obesity using inflammation markers (gene and protein).
    
  