
    
      All subjects will have a screening visit prior to the baseline assessment to allow DIUR-006
      procedures to be fully explained and informed consent to be given by the subject. For
      subjects from DIUR-003 this screening visit will include safety blood tests. Any subjects not
      meeting the inclusion/exclusion criteria following these blood tests will be not be entered
      into the study.

      All subjects will then return for the baseline visit. For subjects entering from study
      DIUR-003 the full set of baseline assessments will be completed, including 2 blood samples
      (one at 09:00 and one at 13:00 hours) for 17-OHP and A4. For subjects entering from DIUR-005,
      test results from their last visit in the feeder study (Visit 4) will be used for this
      baseline assessment, with the 09:00 and 13:00 hour results taken from the 24-hour hormone
      profiles conducted at the visit. Any subjects not meeting the inclusion/exclusion criteria
      following these blood tests will be withdrawn from this study.

      Once the baseline assessments are completed, the subjects will be given sufficient
      Chronocort® to use until the next visit at Week 4. Subjects from study DIUR-005 who were
      previously on Chronocort® will continue on the same dose of Chronocort® that they were
      receiving at the end of the feeder study. Subjects from study DIUR-005 on standard therapy
      and subjects from study DIUR-003 will have their initial dose of Chronocort® determined using
      the hydrocortisone equivalent of baseline therapy.

      All subjects will return to the study centre at 4, 12 and 24 weeks after starting study
      DIUR-006 for additional blood tests and dose titration, if necessary. Visits thereafter will
      take place at 6-monthly intervals. If there is a change of dose, an interim visit or phone
      call will be needed inbetween the 6-monthly visits.

      All subjects will receive telephone calls at 3 monthly intervals, and unscheduled visits will
      be arranged if necessary. Subjects will also be provided with Chronocort® supplies from the
      study pharmacy at 3-monthly or 6-monthly intervals.
    
  