
    
      Secondary hyperparathyroidism(SHPT) is common in hemodialysis(HD) patients. SHPT can damage
      cardiovascular system , bone system, and so forth. The treatment of SHPT of HD patients
      includes dietary phosphate restriction, the use of medicines, parathyroidectomy, and
      microwave ablation, which is a new method booming over the past decade. However, In the
      mainland of China, medical therapy is not always successful in achieving adequate control of
      SHPT. Oral medications have limitations as well as side effects. The patients may suffer from
      the injury of operation, hypoparathyroidism, or recurrence of hyperparathyroidism after
      parathyroidectomy. Moreover, the fear of operation for patients also limits its development.
      Thus, microwave ablation may become a valuable alternative treatment to help control SHPT in
      selected patients presenting with enlarged parathyroid gland(s) visible at ultrasonography.
      Nevertheless, nowadays there isn't a guideline for doctors to choose when to use microwave
      ablation to therapy SHPT. Furthermore, different experts have different views. Experts in
      Japan consider that, for SHPT , the earlier one takes microwave ablation, the better he may
      be, while others think, Just as parathyroidectomy, microwave ablation is merely used for the
      patient whose intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH) is more than 800pg/ml, or who has serious
      symptom. From their perspective, this is no proof that accepting microwave ablation for SHPT
      in early stage becomes better. However, as we all know, as the disease progresses, the
      therapy becomes increasingly difficult. Since microwave ablation is minimally invasive,
      safe,the investigators consider, patients who have parathyroid nodular or diffuse hyperplasia
      demonstrated on ultrasound imaging or radioisotope scan would get more benefit if they
      undergo microwave ablation the instant that SHPT is diagnosed. So, In this prospective,
      randomised control and paried clinical trial study, the investigators will observe the
      efficiency and safety of microwave ablation in hemodialysis patients with secondary
      hyperparathyroidism in early stage. First, the investigators detect the iPTH levels of all
      the patients in the investigators' blood purification center. The patients whose iPTH are
      between 300pg/ml and 800pg/ml and who have parathyroid nodular or diffuse hyperplasia
      demonstrated on ultrasound imaging or radioisotope scan are chosen to involve in this study.
      The patients with age-matched and iPTH between 300pg/ml and 800pg/ml were enrolled in this
      study. In the control group, patients will accept vitamin D to treat SHPT, according to the
      suggestions in K/DOQI guidelines. Meanwhile, in the microwave ablation group, patients will
      accept microwave ablation. Then, all of the patients will be followed for 24 months to
      compare the rate of achieving the target on iPTH level according to K/DOQI guidelines, the
      change of iPTH level after MWA,the rate of subjects developed into severe SHPT, as well as
      calcium and phosphorus level, Quality of Life and mortality in each group.
    
  