
    
      DESIGN Randomized, cross-over design with two 7-day dietary interventions separated by a 4
      week wash-out period. Dietary intervention will be based on iso-energetic substitution of
      sucrose for starch in a weight-maintaining diet. The two experimental conditions are: high
      sucrose diet at 25% of total energy intake (this is approximately the 95th percentile for UK
      intake of non-milk extrinsic sugars (NMES)); and low sucrose diet at 10% of total energy
      intake. Otherwise the macronutrient balance in both conditions will be based on UK average
      habitual intake.

      POPULATION 10 healthy males aged between 20 and 40 years, with a BMI between 20-25kg/m2, with
      normal liver fat levels (<5%) and fasting plasma glucose and no evidence of insulin
      resistance will be recruited. No pre-existing morbidity including cardiac, hepatic or renal
      disease, history of diabetes, hypertension or hyperlipidemia. Usual physical activity of
      subjects to range from sedentary to a maximum of meeting the UK minimum activity
      recommendations (30 min moderate exercise 5 d/week). Habitual alcohol intake of less than 2
      units per day.

      TREATMENT Pre-intervention: Participants will be asked to record habitual dietary intake by
      completion of a 7-day food diary and be asked to wear an accelerometer armband to assess
      physical activity before each intervention week. Resting energy expenditure will also be
      assessed by indirect calorimetry.

      7 day dietary interventions: Participants will be resident at the clinical research facility
      at Hammersmith Hospital during each intervention week for 5 out of the 7 days and all food
      will be provided at the facility. At the weekends, participants will have to leave the unit
      but food will be provided for those two days so that the diet can be continued at home.

      At the start and end of each 7 day intervention: Weight, height and waist circumference will
      be taken; percentage liver fat and total and regional body composition will be measured by
      MRI. Fasting and post prandial plasma glucose, insulin and lipids will be measured and blood
      pressure.
    
  