
    
      Lichen sclerosus (LS) is a chronic, lymphocyte mediated cutaneous disorder affecting
      approximately one in seventy women. Presenting symptoms may include intense pruritis, pain,
      burning, and dyspareunia. This disorder may affect any area of the skin, but has a notable
      predilection for the female genital region, in particular, the vulva, per anal area and the
      groin. Affected females outnumber affected males by 13:1. Typically, the patient is a
      menopausal woman, but prepubertal girls and women of all ages may be affected. The typical
      lesions of lichen sclerosus are white plaques and papules, often with areas of ecchymosis,
      excoriation, and ulceration. Often, there is destruction of the vulvar architecture with
      scarring of the clitoral prepuce, resorption of the labia minora, and narrowing of the
      introitus. Vulvar lichen sclerosus has a 4%-6% transformation malignant rate and women with
      the disease are at a 250-fold increased risk for developing vulvar carcinoma than women
      without lichen sclerosus. While the exact etiology of LS is as yet unknown, there is at least
      a suggested genetic component as evidenced by case reports of familial LS, findings of
      associations with HLA antigens, and high rates of concordance with other autoimmune disorder.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the differences in the genomic/proteomic profiles
      between LS and normal skin biopsies for women with active vulvar lichen sclerosus in order to
      identify potential biomarkers that can be used for the prevention, early diagnosis and
      effective treatment for LS. The study will aim to identify genes/proteins/glycoproteins
      biomarkers that are associated with LS, select biomarkers associated with LS either
      individual candidate biomarker or as a panel, validate the identified candidate biomarkers
      for LS using targeted analysis of candidate biomarkers from independent LS specimen sets,
      develop assays to determine the clinical utilities of the identified biomarkers as minimum
      invasive tests for the early detection of LS and determine the clinical utility of biomarkers
      for biopsy-based tissue tests for LS diagnosis and treatment.
    
  