
    
      Bath time is often distressing to persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD), leading to
      behavioral symptoms of resistiveness to care. Encountering these behaviors is distressing for
      caregivers, as well. Most studies of intervention for behavioral symptoms of AD have been
      done in nursing homes, but most care takes place in the home. The overall goal of this
      research is to improve the at-home bathing experience of both patients with AD and their
      spouse caregivers. This study builds on preliminary studies that: 1) developed observational
      measures of patient behaviors, and 2) developed and pilot tested the reminiscence during
      bathing intervention.

      This randomized clinical trial will evaluate the effectiveness of a 3-week reminiscence
      intervention, applied during bathing persons with AD, in decreasing resistiveness to care
      (RTC), relieving patient discomfort, and improving spouse caregiver appraisals of burden,
      self-efficacy with bathing, and satisfaction. Reminiscence provides an intervention that
      draws on preserved individuality and memories, easily implemented by caregivers in a home
      setting. Home visits and telephone calls provide coaching and practice for caregivers in
      implementation. The sample includes 100 patient/spouse caregiver couples, randomized into one
      of two groups: reminiscence with coaching or bathing support (control).

      Bathing support will be provided to participants in both conditions including: individualized
      assessment; education regarding bathing techniques for people with dementia; and
      individualized problem solving. In addition to the bathing support intervention, participants
      in the experimental group will receive a pleasant memories interview and reminiscence script
      with coaching for implementation. Using repeated measures design, observations will be made
      at baseline, post-intervention (5 weeks), and follow-up (8 weeks).

      In the coaching/practicing/support phase of the study, caregivers will receive 1-hour home
      visits by a Nurse Interventionist (NI) for two weeks with caregiver practice and telephone
      support in between the in-home coaching/support visits. During the home visits, the NI will:
      (a) review the written reminiscence script and "crib sheet" with the spouse and role-model
      its use, (b) discuss instructions for delivering the reminiscence intervention to the patient
      immediately prior to and during the bath/shower, (c) teach the spouse to record patient
      behavior and intervention intensity using visual analog scales, and (d) review general
      approaches to bathing including a calm, unhurried approach, smiling, eye contact, brief
      description of what to expect, simple directions with time for the patient to respond,
      encourage patient participation, try not to respond to negative behaviors, praise for
      positive behaviors. Spouse caregivers will be encouraged to practice using the reminiscence
      intervention with every bath/shower for a 2-week period and to record the frequency of
      program implementation throughout the week on the data sheets.
    
  