
    
      The incidence of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) varies between 6 to 10/100,000
      subjects per year and it is a major cause of death and disability. The mortality rate ranges
      from 40 to 50%, and those who do survive SAH have high rates of functional limitations that
      could lead to impaired quality of life, including fatigue, depression, and loss of
      motivation.

      Because aSAH affects patients in their most productive years of life, the disease has
      important social, and economic implications, and early prediction of long-term outcome is
      based on multiple factors including the primary injury secondary insults as well as
      neurorehabilitation interventions.

      Recently, the occurrence and potential impact of pituitary dysfunction after aSAH has gained
      increasing interest. Several studies have demonstrated pituitary dysfunction after SAH
      suggesting that pituitary dysfunction may be a contributing factor for residual symptoms
      after SAH. However, questions remain about the real prevalence and impact of such dysfunction
      on patients' outcome both in the acute and chronic phase after these events.

      In two recent metanalysis, the prevalence of total pituitary dysfunction was found with
      pooled frequencies of 0.31 (95% confidence interval CI: 0.22-0.43) [Can et a.] and 49.3.0%
      (95% CI 41.6%-56.9%) [Robba et al] during the acute phase (< 6 months from aSAH) and
      decreasing in the chronic phase to 0.25 (95% CI: 0.16-0.36) [Can et al.] and 25.6% (95% CI
      18.0%-35.1%) [Robba et al]. However, the authors found high heterogenicity and different
      results between the available literature; many differences were found in the in the choice of
      time of pituitary function assessment and SAH, of diagnostic criteria and units of
      measurement used to establish the diagnosis of hypopituitarism after SAH.

      Finally, it is not clear which is the hormone axis more likely to be affected after aSAH.

      It is believed that, among the other, the incidence of thyroid dysfunction is the most
      relevant, as it is associated with severe clinical impairment and symptoms. In literature,
      the prevalence of thyroid dysfunction after aSAH is reported from 0 to 35%.[Karaka,
      Tanrivedi].

      Hypothyroidism includes a wide variety of symptoms including weakness, fatigue, depression,
      irritability, memory loss and decreased libido. Should these abnormalities complicate more
      than one third of the patients, hormone testing and eventually replacement should become
      "standard of care" to test.

      In order to define the actual incidence of these abnormalities, an observational multicentric
      study to test thyroid abnormalities, including TSH, fT4 (free thyroxine) and fT3 (free
      triiodothyronine) changes, is warranted.

      Secondary endpoints of such study include the prevalence of other neuroendocrinological
      dysfunction and their influence on the patients' outcome.
    
  