
    
      Specific aims of the current proposal are as follows:

      Aim 1. To examine differences in recidivism [return to incarceration within 3 years] in
      participant offenders with TBI who are reentering the community and are either randomized to
      RCBI or TAU-CG.

      Hypothesis 1 (H1): Participants in the RCBI group will demonstrate a lower proportion of
      recidivating participants than the TAU-CG one year, two years, and three years post release.

      Aim 2. To examine differences in violent offenses [number of pre-release violent behavioral
      infractions; number of post-release felonies committed and their classifications] in
      participant offenders with TBI who are reentering the community and are either randomized to
      RCBI or TAU-CG during 3 months pre-release, and one, two, and three years post-release.

      Hypothesis 2A (H2A): Participants in the RCBI group will demonstrate lower rates of in-prison
      violent behavioral infractions between enrollment and release than participants in the
      control group.

      Hypothesis 2B (H2B): Participants in the RCBI will commit fewer and less serious level
      felonies post-release than participants in the TAU-CG 1, 2, and 3 years post-release
      demonstrated by a lower proportion of RCBI offenders committing violent crimes than TAU-CG.

      Aim 3. Examine group differences in coping [Brain Injury Coping Skills Questionnaire],
      aggression [Buss Perry Aggression Questionnaire], community integration [Participation
      Assessment with Recombined Tools-Objective], and number of basic needs unmet [Survey of Unmet
      Needs and Services] at time of release and 1-year post-release as well as employment
      [Employment acquisition and sustainability] 1, 2, and 3 years post-release.

      Hypothesis 3A (H3A): Participants in the treatment group will show better scores on measures
      of coping and aggression compared to controls at time of release.

      Hypothesis 3B (H3B): The RCBI group will show a higher proportion of participants obtaining
      employment compared to the TAU-CG as well as higher employment durations (total months
      showing employment data) one year, two years, and three years post release and better
      community integration one-year post release.

      Hypothesis 3C (H3C): Participants in the treatment group will show lower rates of unmet needs
      compared to the control group one-year post release.

      Aim 4 (Exploratory). Identify which factors predict recidivism in the TBI population and
      investigate their relationship with a validated measure of recidivism risk [Level of Service
      Inventory-Revised7].

      Hypothesis 4 (H4): While it is hypothesized that group assignment (RCBI vs. TAU-CG) in
      combination with criminality risk and select demographic, injury, and/or social variables
      will contribute significantly to a model predicting three-year recidivism outcome, a specific
      model is not hypothesized and detection of specific contributing variables will be
      exploratory.
    
  