
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the survival of patients with limited or extensive stage small cell lung cancer
           treated with carboplatin and etoposide with vs without thalidomide.

        -  Compare the time to disease progression in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the response rates of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to disease stage (limited vs extensive), ECOG performance status (0
      and 1 vs 2), and alkaline phosphatase (no greater than 1.5 times upper limit of normal [ULN]
      vs greater than 1.5 times ULN). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and etoposide* IV over
           1-2 hours on days 1 and 2 and orally on day 3. Patients also receive oral thalidomide
           daily beginning on day 1.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive carboplatin and etoposide as in arm I and oral placebo daily
           beginning on day 1.

      NOTE: *Patients who are unable to receive etoposide IV on day 2 may receive oral etoposide on
      days 2 and 3.

      In both arms, chemotherapy (carboplatin and etoposide) repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6
      courses. Patients receive thalidomide or placebo continuously for up to 2 years. Treatment
      continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who
      experience disease progression may continue to receive thalidomide or placebo provided the
      patient is clinically and symptomatically stable.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, during each course of chemotherapy, at 3-4 weeks
      after completion of chemotherapy, and at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 2 years after the completion of chemotherapy and
      then every 3 months thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 372 patients (186 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  