
    
      For enrolled patients, the investigators required that inclusion criteria were informed
      consent signed.The exclusion criteria were described in detail in the CRF standard. The
      recruitment of patients into the group were conducted in each sub-center according to
      Inclusion criteria. After the inclusion of patients will registed relevant information
      according to the basic data table of patients, disease information table and baseline data
      table, and then randomly divide the patients into groups by special statistician
      (CRA/CRO).The relevant data in the clinical study were collected by specialized nurses or
      data recording team.The daily statistical results need to record and dated by statisticians
      in order to track the authenticity and reliability of the data. The statistician should
      communicate with the doctor in charge about the situation out the trial plan during the
      study. If there is any change in the test plan, it is necessary to mark the measures and
      reasons for the change in detail, and sign the signature and date of the statistician and the
      responsible doctor in the statistical table of the day. The recorded data of the study should
      be updated with electronic documents. Statistical recorder of data need to make weekly
      summary, summarize and submit the statistical data of last month at each sub-research center
      at the beginning of each month, then the lead hospital will summarize and analyze the data.As
      for the problems beyond the experimental schemes in the research process, each branch center
      needs to discuss with the lead center. Every three months, progress meetings will be held to
      discuss various problems in clinical research and to unify standards for related problems to
      ensure the smooth progress of clinical research and the true reliability of experimental
      results. SAS 9.4 software was used for statistical analysis. The analysis content included
      subject distribution description, baseline index balance analysis, efficacy analysis and
      safety analysis.The significance level of the statistical test was α=0.05. In the safety
      analysis, the incidence of adverse events and adverse reactions was calculated and the
      specific conditions of all subjects with adverse events were listed. The list of vital signs
      and normal abnormalities in laboratory examination before and after medication was described,
      and the specific conditions of subjects with abnormal conditions before and after treatment
      and abnormal conditions before and after treatment were listed in detail.After completing the
      statistical analysis, the statistical analyst should record the data and submit it to the
      main researcher of the experiment to fill with the general analysis report. All cases,
      whether observation or shedding, should be completed in accordance with the requirements of
      "case report form". The case report form were copied three copies with without carbon copy.
      After the completion of data entry, the sponsor (the first copy), the unit in charge of the
      clinical research (the second copy) and the clinical research unit (the third copy) shall
      file it respectively.
    
  