
    
      Endogenous oxytocin (OXT) has been a focus of prior psychiatric research due to its role in
      pro-social behavior, and modulation of response to social/emotional stimuli. Although many
      studies argue that the intranasal administration of OXT can produce behavioral as well as
      neural changes, there is surprisingly little comprehensive research on this issue. Most of
      the previous studies are limited by using a single dose of intranasal OXT in small samples,
      and there is no current consensus regarding appropriate dosage and very little data on neural
      impact as a function of dose. There has been little consideration of the relation between
      pharmacokinetics (peripheral level of OXT after administration) and the degree of induced
      neural changes. None of these issues have been studied in a pediatric population with
      clinically significant psychopathology. This study is proposed to determine the extent to
      which neural changes are induced by OXT intranasal administration, by examining the
      dose-response relationship (the degree of neural changes induced by various doses of OXT) and
      the correlation of pharmacokinetics (peripheral level of OXT after administration and the
      induced neural changes) in youths with clinically significant psychopathology. The form of
      psychopathology targeted is irritability: the increased propensity to exhibit anger relative
      to peers.One of the neurobiological mechanisms of irritability implicates dysfunction in the
      acute threat response system. OXT, with its most commonly proposed mechanism being reduction
      of hyperactivity in the acute threat response system, is a potentially promising agent to
      induce neural changes in the target brain areas of the acute threat response system for
      youths with high levels of irritability. The study aims to quantify the extent to which
      different doses of OXT will reduce the activation of the acute threat response system to
      emotional stimuli in youths with high levels of irritability. Both resting state and
      task-based functional MRI will be used , using affective-cognitive tasks with demonstrated
      test-retest reliability and capability of capturing the core target areas of OXT
      administration in the acute threat response system. Pharmacokinetics (plasma and saliva
      level) after OXT administration will be examined to determine correlation with the induced
      neural changes in the target areas.
    
  