
    
      Prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) radioligand therapy (RLT) is a promising new
      therapeutic approach to treat metastatic prostate cancer. This tumor-specific treatment is
      directed against PSMA, which is overexpressed in prostate cancer cells. In the last few
      years, several Lutetium-177 (177Lu, β emitter) labeled PSMA ligands have been developed and
      are currently applied in nuclear medicine departments worldwide to treat metastatic castrate
      resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients.

      A large retrospective study reported an overall biochemical response rate of 45% following
      multiple 177Lu-PSMA RLT cycles in mCRPC patients, while 40% of patients already responded
      after a single cycle. RLT with 177Lu-PSMA was generally well tolerated and 12% of the
      patients suffered grade 3 to 4 hematological toxicity. In addition, mild and often transient
      xerostomia occurred in 8%. A prospective study carried out in Australia confirmed these
      results recently. Based on these outcomes Endocyte (a Novartis company) is currently carrying
      out an international multicenter prospective registration study for end-stage mCRPC patients
      (NCT03511664).

      Although these results are promising, it is noteworthy that most of the currently available
      data is retrospective and 177Lu-PSMA has only been evaluated in end stage prostate cancer
      patients to date. However, based on the mode of action, 177Lu-PSMA could also be effective in
      low volume disease because of the very high tumor uptake of radioligands in smaller lesions.
      Also, in a pilot study (NCT03828838) we were able to show that 177Lu-PSMA treatment is safe
      coupled with promising response rates. Hence, the present randomized trial to investigate the
      efficacy of 177Lu-PSMA in patients with oligo-metastatic (≤5 metastases) metastatic prostate
      cancer, prior to the hormone insensitive state. In this study, 58 patients will be included
      in a 1:1 ratio to receive either 177Lu-PSMA or the current standard of care (deferred
      androgen deprivation therapy).

      At the end of the study period for answering the primary research question, patients
      randomized to the control arm are eligible to receive 177Lu-PSMA if they meet the end of the
      study period treatment (EOT 1) criteria and are willing to undergo 177Lu-PSMA.

      EOT 1 is defined by:

        -  Clinical progression determined by the treating physician (e.g. increasing pain from
           metastases)

        -  A 100% increase in PSA after cycle one blood draw (BASELINE) during study. Exception:
           PSA increase in the first 12 weeks after the first treatment injection as was defined by
           the PCWG3 criteria.
    
  