
    
      The emergence of drug-resistant staphylococcal strains was first seen in the US almost a
      decade ago, when the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) reported four fatal community-based
      MRSA infections in children. In recent years, MRSA has grown into a serious public health
      concern with an increasing number of both hospital-acquired and community-acquired cases
      being seen.

      There will be approximately 130 participants recruited for this trial. The study population
      will consist of people with Atopic Dermatitis (AD) and people without Atopic Dermatitis
      (non-atopic). AD is a skin disorder with an itchy, red skin rash. People with AD are more
      likely to get bacterial and viral skin infections, possibly because they lack certain
      proteins in their skin, which help the body's immune system to fight infections. AD people
      with a history of Eczema Herpeticum (EH) may also be at greater risk for being infected with
      MRSA. This could be due to extended treatment courses with staphylococcal antibiotics,
      especially because overuse and misuse of antibiotics can lead to bacterial antibiotic
      resistance. The precise reasons are unknown. The purpose of this study is to determine the
      reasons for infection in AD participants with and without a history of EH.

      Investigators are seeking to recruit patients with either Methicillin-sensitive
      staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) or MRSA bacteria on their skin, so that they may adequately
      study potential factors related to MRSA infection.

      Investigators will determine if the MRSA collected from people with AD is primarily community
      or hospital associated. They will also determine if the proteins on the skin of ADEH+ people
      with MRSA differ from the proteins on the skin of AD people with MSSA or people without AD,
      or if there are any marked differences in serum total IgE levels between AD subjects with
      MRSA, MSSA, or without S. aureus. Approximately 60 ADEH+ and 60 ADEH- participants will need
      to be enrolled to find participants with MRSA or MSSA on their skin. Presence of these
      bacteria on the skin can only be determined once skin swabs are collected and tested.

      If participants are deemed eligible at screening, they will continue on to the study visit,
      which will last for approximately 2-3 hours. At the study visit, participants will be asked
      to provide information related to their medical history including infection, hospitalization,
      and medication record. Additionally, a skin exam will be performed to verify diagnosis
      (ADEH-, ADEH+, or non-atopic); nasal and skin swabs samples will be collected; tape
      strippings samples will be collected; and a blood sample will be collected.
    
  