
    
      This single-center randomized controlled feasibility trial was conducted in a 296 beds acute
      care and rehabilitation geriatric hospital of Geneva University Hospitals (Switzerland).

      After consent, patients were randomized to either the intervention group or the control
      group. The randomization sequence was computer-generated (ratio 1:1) and concealed until
      official patient enrolment. All study staff members, including physiotherapists and
      occupational therapists, were blinded to group allocation, with the exception of the
      hypnotherapist. All statistical analyses were performed by a blinded statistician.

      The intervention consisted of two hypnosis sessions of about 30 minutes, weekly provided, by
      a physician trained in medical hypnosis. Each session was realized as possible during
      walking, according to the agreement and the physical status of the participant. The
      intervention was provided in the complement of the usual rehabilitation program. Both the
      intervention and control groups received the usual rehabilitation program, a multifactorial
      fall-and-fracture risk-based assessment, and management intervention, which has been shown to
      be effective in improving physical parameters related to the risk of fall and disability
      among high-risk oldest-old patients. This program includes intensive physiotherapy for 2
      weeks (i.e., focused on walking and enhancing balance exercises in group or individual and
      group) and patient education on the risk of falling and on prevention of falls.

      The target sample size was 30 participants (15 participants in each group, pilot study). The
      study was approved by the State of Geneva's Ethics Committee (2018-01550). All patients
      provided written informed consent before any study-related procedure.

      The feasibility of a randomized controlled trial with hypnosis in rehabilitation was assessed
      by recruitment rate, retention rate, adherence to hypnosis, and adverse events.

      Fear of falling was assessed by different validated scales. Each scale was completed by each
      participant three times (week 0 (at baseline): before intervention; week 1 (during
      intervention): between the two hypnosis sessions; week 2 (at the end of the study): after all
      interventions), with or without the help of the occupational therapist.

      Descriptive statistics were reported as mean ± standard deviation or number (percent). The
      hypnosis and the control groups were compared at baseline using t-tests or Fisher's exact
      test as appropriate. Longitudinal data were analyzed according to the intention-to-treat
      concept. Longitudinal data for fear of falling scores, Functional Independence Measure score,
      and Short Physical Performance Battery score, were analyzed using linear mixed-effects
      regression models, a negative binomial model for in-hospital falls, and t-tests for
      medications and length of stay. The incidence of in-hospital falls during hospital stay was
      analyzed using a negative binomial regression model.
    
  