
    
      The proposed study seeks to improve the prevention of suicide by advancing our understanding
      of the neurobiology of suicide by using a randomized control trial of repetitive transcranial
      magnetic stimulation (rTMS) as a hypothesis driven intervention for acute suicidality. In
      2010 suicide was responsible for more than 38,364 deaths in the United States and 447 in the
      state of Arkansas (CDC, 2012). Suicide represents the 10th leading cause of death in this
      country, and claims more deaths than chronic liver disease, hypertension, Parkinson's disease
      or homicide. Furthermore, suicide consequences extend beyond the termination of an
      individual's life to impact those that are left behind. These statistics are far more
      alarming because they are believed to be underestimates, with substantial numbers of suicides
      and suicide attempts undetected or misclassified. The high and rising prevalence of suicide
      is complicated by the clinical challenge of identifying those patients at highest risk for
      suicide. A variety of biological, psychological and social risk factors for suicide have been
      identified. However, we currently lack reliable predictors of suicide risk and must rely
      heavily upon self-report and clinical judgment. Thus, it remains singularly difficult to
      predict who is going to commit suicide. Therefore, there is an urgent unmet need to develop
      effective early detection methods and treatments for high-risk populations.

      Suicide has been described as "a permanent solution to a temporary problem" (Buchwald, 2006),
      reflecting the view that suicide is the result of poor decision making. The strongest
      biological finding in suicide research is the association with reduced serotonergic
      neurotransmission, particularly within the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC) (Mann,
      2003). This deficit in serotonergic neurotransmission is thought to impair cognition,
      predisposing patients to become more impulsive, rigid in their thinking, and poorer decision
      makers. Decisions during depressed states are tainted by negative affect and distorted
      negative cognitions (Martin-Soelch, 2009). However, suicide has been associated with
      cognitive impairments that go beyond those of depression. Asymptomatic patients with a
      history of suicide attempts exhibit significant cognitive deficits suggestive of generalized
      prefrontal cortex (PFC) dysfunction (Raust et al, 2007; Westheide et al, 2008), and corollary
      disruptions in risk assessment (Martino et al, 2010). Poor inhibition is found in suicide
      attempters when compared with patients with only suicidal ideation (Burton et al, 2011), and
      greater cognitive impairments are found in depressed patients with suicidal ideation compared
      to those without it (Dombrovski et al, 2010). It is possible that cognitive deficits may be
      specific to suicidal behavior rather than to any comorbid or specific psychiatric diagnosis
      because this observation holds true for suicidal patients with depression, bipolar disorder,
      and even temporal lobe epilepsy. However, most of these studies were performed in
      symptom-free patients, often months or years after the presence of suicidal ideation or
      behavior. In a previous report (Cáceda et al, 2014) we demonstrated that inability to delay
      gratification (choosing smaller immediate rewards over larger delayed rewards) is shared by
      both recent suicide attempters and depressed patients with suicidal ideation. On a follow up
      assessment, 5-10 days after the suicide attempt, reduction of suicidal ideation and intent
      was correlated with decreased symptoms of depression and recovery of delayed gratification
      impairments (Cáceda et al, 2014). These data are congruent with the hypothesis that stressful
      situations in combination with a biological and psychological predisposition may create a
      critical climate of overwhelming psychological pain in an individual who chooses an impulsive
      escapist strategy to terminate his/her own life discounting all future outcomes (Vohs et al,
      2002). However, the underlying neural mechanisms remain unknown and therefore not amenable to
      therapeutic interventions.

      TMS is a noninvasive method to cause depolarization or hyperpolarization in the neurons in
      the brain using electromagnetic induction to induce weak electric currents using a rapidly
      changing magnetic field. TMS is a novel intervention developed in the field of neurology that
      has been used in the treatment of patients suffering from migraine, stroke, Parkinson's
      disease, tinnitus and depression. In healthy subjects, high frequency rTMS over the left
      DLPFC has been shown to alter impulsive choice behavior (to decrease delay discounting) in
      healthy individuals and in smokers (Sheffer et al, 2013). On the other hand, a trial of TMS
      by one of the leaders in the field has shown it to be safe and well tolerated in recent
      suicide attempters suffering from depression with comorbid post-traumatic stress disorder and
      traumatic brain injury (George et al, 2014).

      Dr. Mennemeier, the director of the Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation Laboratory in the
      Center for Translational Neuroscience has been using repetitive transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (rTMS) to understand and treat phantom sound perception in subjects with tinnitus
      and to examine risky choices and impulsive behaviors using delay discounting in smokers. We
      propose to replicate a randomized controlled trial of rTMS over 3 days in a sample of well
      characterized acutely suicidal inpatients.

      Our overall hypothesis is that 10 Hertz rTMS of the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
      (DLPFC) will correct impulsive choice behavior deficits found in acutely suicidal patients
      that in turn will translate into faster resolution of acute suicidal ideation. The current
      proposal will expand our understanding of the neurobiology of suicidal behavior by examining
      a potential neurocognitive mechanism of acute suicidality and test the value of rTMS as
      intervention for acute suicidal behavior. The current proposal will utilize behavioral
      assessments and rTMS in a randomized controlled trial in a group of adult patients
      hospitalized: a) following a recent suicide attempt with persistent suicidal ideation, or b)
      for severe suicidal ideation (n=20). Specifically, we propose:

      Specific Aim 1. Determine the safety of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS)
      in depressed patients with severe suicidal ideation.

      Hypothesis 1: Given studies of rTMS for clinical depression, the investigators predict that
      rTMS in patients with severe suicidal ideation will be well tolerated and not associated with
      significant side effects.

      Specific Aim 2. Determine the effect of rTMS on delay discounting on depressed patients with
      severe suicidal ideation.

      Hypothesis 2: In depressed patients with severe suicidal ideation the rTMS active will reduce
      impulsive choice behavior (measured as delay discounting) compared with the non-treatment
      group.

      Specific Aim 3. Determine the effect of rTMS on suicidal ideation on depressed patients with
      severe suicidal ideation.

      Hypothesis 3.1: In depressed patients who had recently attempt suicide the rTMS active group
      will reduce suicidal ideation severity (measured by the Beck Scale for Suicidal Ideation)
      compared with the non-treatment group.

      Hypothesis 3.2: Suicidal ideation in depressed patients who recently attempt suicide will
      vary in function of delay discounting.

      Specific Aim 4. Identification of biomarkers of positive response to rTMS in depressed
      patients with severe suicidal ideation.

      Hypothesis 4: A composite of serum hormonal and inflammatory markers will predict positive
      response to rTMS in depressed patients with severe suicidal ideation
    
  