
    
      Subjects will be taken to the operating room for the initial debridement procedure of the
      wound. At the end of the procedure, subjects who continue to meet all inclusion and no
      exclusion criteria will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to be treated with either PRO, PRO
      with simultaneous irrigation (PROI), or KCI Ulta NPWT. Prior to study initiation sealed
      prenumbered randomization envelopes will be provided to the research staff and used to obtain
      randomization assignment. Opening of the randomization envelope will occur intraoperatively
      at the conclusion of the initial surgical debridement of the wound and conformation of all
      eligibility requirements. Study staff will use the randomization number labels contained in
      the envelop. The number will become the subject ID. The assignment will be subjects
      randomized to PRO, PRO with simultaneous irrigation, or KCI Ulta NPWT.

      The research staff will note treatment assignments on the intra operative randomization CRF
      and instruct the investigator. Treatment therapy wound dressings will be applied in the
      operating room or in the patient's room immediately after surgery per the investigators
      discretion, according to the manufacturer's recommendations. In order to ensure consistent
      study treatment, subjects will receive assigned treatment therapies within their study arm
      after the initial and any subsequent surgical debridements until the wound is deemed ready
      for closure or coverage by the Investigator. Subjects randomized to the PRO with simultaneous
      irrigation Treatment arm are the only subjects that will receive irrigation therapy at any
      time during the study treatment period. If irrigation therapy is discontinued, subjects in
      the Treatment arm will transition to PRO NPWT without irrigation. Subjects randomized to the
      PRO Control arm will receive NPWT only from the PRO therapy unit.
    
  