
    
      Excessive anteversion is commonly observed in the CP population. If individuals do not
      internally rotate their femurs as a compensation for this bony torsion, excessive anteversion
      decreases the coronal plane moment arm of the hip abductors-a phenomenon often called lever
      arm dysfunction. Considering that adequate hip abductor strength is a crucial factor for
      normal walking and many other functional activities, the compensatory mechanism theory
      hypothesizes that individuals with excessive anteversion will internally rotate their hips to
      restore the coronal plane moment arms. Excessive internal hip rotation (IHR) is observed in
      the gait of approximately 50% of individuals with CP. It has been postulated, though, that
      while IHR may restore hip abductor function, it is cosmetically unappealing and may lead to
      trips and falls. Therefore, FDOs are considered the standard treatment for correcting
      excessive anteversion and IHR in individuals with CP. Notably, it is one of the top two
      orthopedic surgeries performed at Gillette Children's Specialty Healthcare. Among the ~4000
      individuals with CP who have been seen in the gait lab, almost 1350 individuals (>2200 limbs)
      have undergone at least one FDO.

      Short-term (~12 months postoperative) improvements of transverse plane hip rotation during
      gait range from only 33% to 94%. Despite FDO's widespread use, long-term outcomes of the
      procedure have only begun to be studied, with our 2016 study the only one that included a
      control group. Without a control group, the natural history of bony remodeling or gait
      adaptations is unknown. However, our prior study is limited by two main factors, 1) all data
      were extracted from our database retrospectively, so the potential for a large bias exists
      since outcomes reflect only patients with clinically-initiated gait visits, and 2) outcomes
      of hip abductor function were only measured by hip rotation (or hip abductor moment during
      gait, which is only available for individuals who can walk without assistive devices), so the
      true ability of the hip abductors to generate moment has not been tested. Furthermore, the
      vast majority of individuals were <18 years old at their "long-term" visit (~5 years after
      their preoperative gait visit), which precedes the reported gait or functional decline more
      commonly occurring in one's 20s and beyond.

      Counseling families on the long-term outcomes after an FDO is currently not possible and is
      necessary for families and health-care providers to make informed decisions. It remains
      unclear whether individuals who receive an FDO experience long-term beneficial effects on
      function, activity, and comfort as compared to those who receive other or no treatment for
      their excessive anteversion and/or IHR.

      Briefly, anteversion as measured by the trochanteric prominence angle test (TPAT) is the most
      common method used by clinicians to determine if an FDO is warranted, in addition to
      anteversion being an important predictor of predicted short-term outcomes after an FDO23.
      However, data from our lab suggests that there is 10-15° of measurement error associated with
      this method. As such, our secondary purpose was to compare anteversion as measured by the
      TPAT to that of a radiographical gold standard, EOS. EOS delivers 4-30 times less radiation
      to the gonads and lower extremities compared to computed tomography (CT)24, making it very
      suitable for research purposes. Additionally, accuracy of quantifying femoral anteversion is
      not compromised versus the current gold standard, CT, with a mean difference of ~3° reported.
    
  