
    
      The metabolic syndrome is a common condition in which different degrees of hypertension,
      impaired glucose tolerance, atherogenic dyslipidemia, and central fat accumulation, as well
      as prothrombotic and proinflammatory states cluster together in the same individual. The
      modified National Cholesterol Education Program, Adult Treatment Panel III guidelines defined
      the metabolic syndrome subjects as individuals with 3 or more following criterion:

        1. Waist circumference: in male ≥90 cm and female ≥80 cm

        2. Raised triglycerides: > 150 mg/dL

        3. Reduced HDL cholesterol: <40 mg/dL in males, <50 mg/dL in females

        4. Raised blood pressure: systolic blood pressure >130 or diastolic blood pressure >85 mmHg

        5. Raised fasting plasma glucose: (FPG)>100 mg/dL

      Changes in macronutrient composition have been used to promote weight loss and enhance
      insulin sensitivity, independent of an emphasis on overall calorie ingestion. Protective
      effects of fish intake on the development of insulin resistance has been reported in
      prospective epidemiological studies. Further, long chain omega-3 PUFAs supplementation may
      improve insulin sensitivity in patients with impaired glucose tolerance and in patients with
      T2DM.

      However, this has not been clearly demonstrated in an intervention trial in Taiwan.
      Furthermore, the effect of supplementation of long chain omega-3 PUFAs on metabolic risk
      factors and insulin resistance, except for demonstrated benefit in terms of decreased
      triglycerides, needs further investigation among Asians.

      This 13-week, randomized controlled study will assign approximately 200 subjects meeting
      criteria for the Metabolic Syndrome (50 each) to the following four arms 1) Standard Taiwan
      Diet plan; 2) Herbalife meal replacement diet program (Low fat diet); 3) Standard Taiwan Diet
      plan plus healthy oil supplement (Herbalifeline®) and 4) Herbalife meal replacement plan (Low
      fat diet) plus healthy oil supplement (Herbalifeline®). All participants will meet with a
      registered dietitian to assist them with their diet efforts.

      In this study, we aim to study the effects of low fat diet with reduced omega-6 PUFAs alone
      and the same low fat diet with omega-3 fatty acids supplementation on cardiometabolic profile
      and circulating fatty acid profiles in subjects with the metabolic syndrome.
    
  