
    
      Subjects will be offered clinical trial participation if per RECIST 1.1 they are determined
      to have stable disease, mixed response, oligoprogressive state (defined as disease
      progression at a limited number of anatomic sites, with continued response or stable disease
      at other sites) or non-threatening progressive disease (defined as progression that fits a
      clinical pattern where the treating physician believes that PD-1 therapy post-progression is
      appropriate (e.g. multiple sub-centimeter nodules that do not compromise the bronchus)) to an
      anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 therapy. Eligible subjects will initiate or continue pembrolizumab
      monotherapy and will have archival tissue and a buccal swab sample (matched normal sample
      genomic DNA) collected. Whole exome and single cell sequencing studies will be performed
      using the archival tumor and matched normal sample to identify tumor specific mutations and
      predict personalized human leukocyte antigen (HLA) binding proteins. Based on this
      information, 6 neoantigens will be selected for inclusion in the primary personalized
      vaccine. The primary therapeutic neoantigen vaccine product (PANDA-VAC) will be comprised of
      6 peptides at a dose of 300 micrograms (µg) per peptide admixed with local adjuvant
      Poly-ICLC. PANDA-VAC will be administered subcutaneously to six subjects after their first
      protocol-mandated disease assessment on pembrolizumab monotherapy. The subjects will receive
      five priming doses and two booster vaccinations of PANDA-VAC in combination with continued
      pembrolizumab treatment. Enrollment of the first 3 subjects to receive PANDA-VAC will be
      staggered by 4 weeks to monitor for acute and subacute adverse events. Subjects with partial
      response, stable disease, mixed response, oligoprogressive state or non-threatening
      progressive disease (in the opinion of the treating physician) following the full series of
      vaccinations may receive adapted vaccine adjusted to address neoantigens emerging during
      initial PANDA-VAC and pembrolizumab combination therapy. Subjects will have tissue collected
      for DNA and RNA sequencing and prediction of HLA binding proteins, as delineated above for
      the initial vaccine production. The therapeutic neoantigen vaccine product will be comprised
      of up to 2 additional peptides at a dose of 300 μg per peptide (up to 8 total peptides).
      Peptides targeting neoantigens no longer represented in sequencing data may no longer be
      included in the neoantigen vaccine product. The primary endpoint of this trial aims to
      evaluate the safety of the vaccination administered concurrently with pembrolizumab therapy,
      by estimating the unacceptable toxicity rate.

      As generation of either the primary therapeutic or adapted neoantigen vaccine requires: (1)
      whole exome sequencing studies of the tumor and a matched normal sample from a buccal swab
      pre-treatment; (2) RNA sequencing of the tumor pre-treatment; and (3) whole exome sequencing
      of circulating cell-free DNA and DNA derived from circulating tumor cells, information gained
      from these analyses will also provide extensive exploratory data. With this data, we will
      study relationships of mutational and genes expression profiles with depth of response to
      therapy. The purpose of these studies is to generate initial data that will allow us to
      estimate effect size and variance of the change in immune features with therapeutic
      neoantigen vaccine treatment in order to design prospective correlative studies in future
      trials.
    
  