
    
      The study will include 20 patients with cicatrical alopecia.Patients will be randomly
      assigned into two groups:Group (A):include ten patients will undergo (FUE) alone.

      Group (B): include ten patients will undergo(FUE) and (PRP).3-Surgical technique:

        -  Preoperative Investigations including complete blood count, coagulation profile and
           hepatitis viral markers.

           1-Group(A): will undergo (FUE)

        -  Washing the scalp with antiseptic shampoo before the procedure.

        -  Tumuscentanaesthesia:The donor area is anesthetized with a lidocaine 1% solution diluted
           with 20 cc saline in addition to adrenaline.

        -  Creation of micropunches(0.7-1 mm) using micromotor.

        -  After removal of the punch,the follicular unit is extracted with Jweler's forceps.

        -  Extracted grafts are then placed on chilled saline gauze for maximum four hours until
           ready for transplantation.

        -  The recipient area is prepared with rectangular scalpel blades 1mm or hypodermic blades
           0.9 mm.

        -  Implantation using fine tipped jweler's forceps.

        -  Finally, receptor and donor areas will be softly cleansed with saline and crepe bandage
           is applied.

           2-Group (B): FUE+PRP

        -  The same procedure will be done but grafts will be placed in Prp solution.

        -  Prp session one week before transplantation then monthly for 3 monthes after (FUE).

        -  Preparation of PRP

        -  10 cc blood will be aspirated in test tube contained a modified solution of
           anticoagulant,called acid-citrate-dextrose type (ACDA), in which the physiological pH
           will reached to preserve the platelet integrity.

        -  The first spin of whole blood sample will be at 2500 rpm for 4 minutes

        -  The second spin at 4000 for 20 minutes for obtained plasma.

        -  Platelets are separated as a pellet at the bottom of the tube from platelet-poor plasma
           (PPP) above. The platelet-rich pellet is resuspended in remaining amount of plasma. The
           resulting suspension is used as PRP.

        -  Prp is injected in the recipient area. 4-Follow up:

        -  Follow up clinically by digital photographs and trichoscopy 1 week after operation,
           after 3 months and after 6 months.
    
  