
    
      ChiCAS will be delivered as two 4-hour group sessions over a period of two weeks to groups of
      about 10 participants at seven community-based organizations (CBOs) in five metropolitan
      locations in North Carolina (Asheville, Charlotte, Greensboro/Winston-Salem, Raleigh/Durham
      and Wilmington).

      The intervention will be evaluated by comparing women randomized to the ChiCAS intervention
      group to those randomized to the delayed-intervention (waitlist) comparison group. As many as
      140 participants (as many 70 participants per arm) in total will be recruited to the study.
      All participants will complete identical quantitative assessments at baseline and 6-month
      follow up. Baseline and 6-month follow-up data collection will include the following
      measures:

      Outcome variables:

      Use of PrEP and medically supervised hormone therapy and consistent condom use.

      Demographics:

      Age, current living situation, marital/partner status, education, country and region of
      origin, ethnicity/race, work and work patterns and history, financial status (including
      income, numbers of persons income supports), number of children and adults living in
      household, gender identity; time in the US and NC; Spanish-language literacy;
      English-language skills; health insurance; documentation status.

      Mediating variables:

      Knowledge about HIV and STDs: types of diseases, modes of transmission, signs, symptoms,
      prevention strategies, and their magnitude within communities; condom use-related attitudes,
      skills, self-efficacy, and intentions; adherence to traditional Latino values of masculinity
      and fatalism; transphobia; ethnic group pride; knowledge of available transition-related
      services, how to access, what to expect, and eligibility; barriers to seeking healthcare
      services, for HIV testing, PrEP, or transition-related services; perceived access to health
      care; social support; substance use; substance use during sex; communication skills with
      partners and providers; provider trust.

      Other variables:

      Religiosity; mental health, perceived discrimination; community attachment; foregoing unsafe
      sex/episodic abstinence HIV and sexually transmitted disease (STD) history; victimization;
      sexual compulsivity; sex for money, drugs or shelter, self-reported health status,
      acculturation, community attachment, technology use, HIV and STD history

      A qualitative interview will be administered to 30 randomly selected participants after they
      complete the 6-month follow-up assessments. Three groups of ten participants each will be
      interviewed to identify factors associated with each of the following outcome patterns:

        1. Participants who reported an increase in at least one HIV prevention behavioral outcome
           (PrEP or condom use) and who reported an increase in the use of medically supervised
           hormone therapy (n=10);

        2. Participants who did not report an increase in at least one HIV prevention behavioral
           outcome (PrEP or condom use) and did not report an increase in the use of medically
           supervised hormone therapy (n=10), and

        3. Participants with mixed results (n=10).
    
  