
    
      Background Heart failure (HF) represents a major and growing public health burden. Patients
      with HF are classically divided into two groups: those with HF with preserved ejection
      fraction (HFpEF), and those with HF and reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). As HF is a
      progressive disorder increasing with age, the proportion of these patients is rising due to
      the aging of the population. Beside costs, HFpEF also puts a heavy burden on the quality of
      life of (mostly elderly) patients, with a loss of autonomy and the dyscomfort of repeated
      hospitalisations. Therefore, HFpEF is a chronic, costly, debilitating disease.

      A major contributor to HFpEF is myocardial remodelling, e.g. hypertrophy and fibrosis, as
      well as cellular functional/structural modifications leading to alteration in contractile
      properties and ventricular distensibility. Unfortunately, there are currently no
      evidence-based treatment strategies.

      Study claim The proposed clinical trial will provide a proof of concept in humans for the
      clinical efficacy of a novel therapeutic concept: β3AR activation to attenuate/prevent
      cardiac remodeling. Recently, a new, specific agonist at human β3-AR (mirabegron) with higher
      benefit/risk balance was developed and marketed for clinical use in a non-cardiovascular
      disease (overactive bladder disease). The trial will test the drug repurposing of mirabegron
      for the prevention of cardiac remodeling leading to HFpEF.

      Using pre-clinical models, the investigators demonstrated that activation of β3AR attenuates
      myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis in response to neurohormonal or hemodynamic stresses,
      without compromising LV function. Therefore, the recent availability of this new drug offers
      the possibility to test the potential benefit of mirabegron (vs placebo) as add-on therapy
      (on top of standard care) to prevent/delay myocardial remodelling in patients at high risk of
      developing HFpEF.

      Who can participate? Patients with structural cardiac disease with or without HF symptoms
      (max. NYHA 2).

      What does the study involve? Patients will be requested to go 5 times to the hospital to
      perform cardiac MRI (3X), echocardiography (3X), exercise tolerance test (2X), Pet scanning
      (2X) and blood sampling (4X).

      Who is the sponsor? The Université catholique de Louvain (UCL) is the academic sponsor and
      Prof. Jean-Luc Balligand is the principal coordinator of the study.

      Who is funding the study? Beta3_LVH is an investigator-initiated project funded by a Horizon
      2020 grant from the European Commission.
    
  