
    
      This study is a prospective, open-label, single-arm, multicenter Phase 2b trial designed to
      assess the efficacy and safety of UGN-102 treatment instilled in patients diagnosed with LG
      NMIBC, including newly diagnosed patients, and determined to have intermediate risk of
      progression, defined as 1 or 2 of the following: multiple tumors, solitary tumor >3 cm, or
      recurrence (≥ 1 occurrence of LG NMIBC within 1 year of the current diagnosis). Eligible
      patients will be treated with 6 weekly instillations of UGN-102.

      UGN-102 is a reverse thermal hydrogel formulated with MMC. The product is specifically
      formulated to achieve a liquid state at 4°C and to transition to a water-soluble gel at body
      temperature. The advantage of delivering Mitomycin to the urinary bladder using UGN-102
      relies on preclinical and clinical literature documenting that concentration and dwell time
      correlate directly with the therapeutic efficacy of MMC when used to treat Urothelial
      Carcinoma (UC)

      The ablative effect of UGN-102 will be evaluated at the Primary Disease Evaluation (3 MONTH)
      assessment, which will take place 5 weeks ±1 week after the last weekly instillation (3
      months after initiation of study medication). Response will be determined based on visual
      evaluation by cystoscopy (appearance, number, size, and location of the lesions) and, if
      there are remaining lesions, by histopathology of the remaining lesions. CR is defined as
      having no detectable disease (NDD) and will be assessed visually during cystoscopy and also
      upon urine cytology. In the event that the investigator is not sure, and there is suspect
      tissue, a small biopsy will be taken from the suspect tissue to confirm CR in addition to
      cystoscopy and urine cytology. Patients who achieve a CR will continue to have monthly
      telephone contacts to document any adverse events and changes in concomitant medications and
      will be assessed at 6, 9, and 12 months after the first instillation of UGN-102 for evidence
      of disease recurrence. The group of patients considered nonresponders (non-CR) will
      discontinue the study and continue with standard of care according to their treating
      physician.

      Safety will be determined based on physical examination, laboratory assessments, and a review
      of AEs. All safety data will be reviewed on an ongoing basis, including close review and
      follow up of any unexpected AE related to UGN-102 and qualified per National Cancer Institute
      (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) as Grade 3 or 4.
    
  