
    
      Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a systemic autoimmune disease characterized by an
      autoimmune-mediated microangiopathy and progressive fibrosis. Ischemic digital ulcers (DUs)
      are frequent in the disease course. DUs are an expression of the severity of the
      microangiopathy. DUs lead to pain, infection, gangrene, autoamputation, impaired hand use and
      impaired quality of life. The management of DUs is often based on optimal wound care to
      promote healing and and repeated hospitalizations to perform onerous prostacyclin infusions
      to reduce pain and accelerate healing. With optimal standard of care, only 60% of DUs are
      healed after 3 months and 46.2% experiences recurrence during that time among them 11.2%
      experiences a chronic evolution. No drug has demonstrated a positive effect on refractory DUs
      healing. The rational underlying the use of cultured adipose-derived stromal cell (ASC) in
      this indication is based on the finding of ASC, in vitro and in vivo, angiogenic and
      anti-inflammatory potential in other ischemic pathologies, with an excellent safety profile.
      The pilot phase of the ACellDREAM trial demonstrated the feasibility and safety of autologous
      ASC transplantation in patients with non- revascularizable critical limb ischemia and showed
      improvement in ulcer evolution and wound healing. The EFS-O culture procedure safety is
      validated and is already in use in ongoing French and European clinical trials. Two pilot
      studies showed the safety of autologous adipose tissue grafting for scleroderma-Induced DU.
      The SCLERADEC pilot study outlines the safety, in 12 SSc patients, of the digital injection
      of adipose- derived autologous stromal vascular fraction, which is a heterogeneous population
      of cells including only 36% of uncultured ASC. An improvement in hand disability, quality of
      life and DUs was observed, the phase II is ongoing. The hypothesis of the study is that
      digital injection of autologous cultured adipose-derived stromal cell could be efficacious
      for scleroderma-induced refractory ischemic DUs healing by digital vascular regeneration in a
      clinical situation where no alternative therapy is validated.
    
  