
    
      Qualified subjects will be screened and upon fulfilling inclusion/exclusion criteria and
      signing the informed consent will be enrolled into the study and enter the randomization
      phase (2-30 days). Subjects will be randomized according to a sealed allocation list that
      will be balanced for sequence and provided to each site prior to the first subject
      enrollment. Subjects that withdraw prior to completing the second period will be replaced in
      a randomized manner. The randomization list will be generated by the study statistical group.
      There are four test periods in two sequences for a sequence-randomized study. During two test
      periods subjects will receive twice daily dosing of the "low" generic product and during the
      other two periods subjects will receive twice daily dosing of the "high" generic product.
      Each subject will return at the end of the 14+/-1 day stable dosing period for an in-facility
      12-hour pharmacokinetic (PK) session to collect samples to determine Cmax and AUCs (area
      under curve). Each in-facility pharmacokinetic testing will be separated by a 14+/-1 day
      stable dosing period. A final follow-up phone evaluation will be conducted 12-16 days (target
      14 days) after the last dose of study medication. A single make-up period will be permitted
      if there are issues during any single period. During the study the subjects will continue
      their usual concomitant medications, including AEDs (anti epilepsy drugs), without change.

      Investigators will compare the AED levels as measured by Cmax and AUC in each group using
      average bioequivalence (ABE) and individual bioequivalence (IBE) criteria. Average
      bioequivalence will be established if the 90% confidence intervals of the geometric mean of
      Cmax and AUCs for the most disparate generic products compared to each other are entirely
      within the 80%-125% range (the FDA criteria for bioequivalence) using the two one-sided
      standard analyses. Otherwise the products will be considered to not be bioequivalent.

      Study Population: Approximately 36 subjects (30 subjects to completion).

      Number of centers: 3 sites enrolling approximately 12 subjects each.

      Duration of study: Approximately 1 year.
    
  