
    
      Following enrollment, subjects will be randomized at one month post transplant to Tacrolimus
      (control) or to Everolimus (study) as maintenance immunosuppression.

      After liver transplant, all patients will receive the standard induction regimen and
      Tacrolimus monotherapy.

      INDUCTION:

      Rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin (rATG) 1.5 mg/kg of actual body weight rounded to nearest 25
      mg and capped at 150 mg for up to three doses given IV on post-operative day (POD) 1, 3, and
      5. Some patients may receive only one dose if considered too frail to need all three doses.

      30 minutes prior to infusion, pre-medicate with the following: Daily steroid dose
      Acetaminophen (Tylenol速) 650 mg PO or per nasogastric (NG) x 1 dose Diphenhydramine
      (Benadryl速) 25 mg IV push x 1 dose

      Steroids:

      Methylprednisolone (Solu-Medrol速) 250 mg IV push x 1 dose on POD 1 (given 30 minutes prior to
      rATG) and 125 mg IV push x 1 dose on POD 3.

      Maintenance:

      Tacrolimus (FK / Prograf速) (titrated to a goal trough of 6 - 8 ng/mL).

      RANDOMIZATION:

      On POD 30, patients meeting study criteria will be randomized to either the study arm or
      control arm. Patients randomized to the study arm will be converted to Everolimus (target
      trough levels 4 - 8 ng/mL) + low dose Tacrolimus (target trough levels 3-5 ng/mL) (study
      arm). The control arm will be maintained on the Tacrolimus monotherapy (target trough levels
      6-8 ng/mL).

      At 3 months, patients in the study arm will be gradually weaned off of Tacrolimus over a
      period of one month to remain on Everolimus monotherapy (target trough levels 4-8 ng/mL).
      Patients in the control arm will remain on tacrolimus monotherapy (target trough levels 6-8
      ng/mL).

      Complete blood counts, liver function panels, and drug levels will be monitored as done
      Standard of Care [SOC]:

      initially twice per week for first month, once per week for next two months, once every other
      week for next three weeks, and then once monthly. Ultrasound, endoscopic retrograde
      cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), biopsy as needed by clinical situation as SOC.

      For characterizing operational tolerance in these patients, investigators will use a 13#gene
      set to predict liver transplant tolerance has been identified and validated by others.
    
  