
    
      The RIC-Mel network federate clinicians researchers working in clinical and translational
      research for melanoma and carrying out patients inclusions in the clinical trials. These
      clinicians are working on clinical cancerology and dermatology sites located throughout the
      French national territory. Nowadays, the RIC-Mel network consists of 49 centers: 43 public
      dermatology centers (Hospital centers) and 6 private centers (Cancer centers). The RIC-Mel
      network is coordinated by Pr B. DRENO (Nantes University Hospital) and Pr C. LEBBE
      (Saint-Louis Hospital, AP-HP, Paris).

      The RIC-Mel database is referred as one of the privileged access to any research program on
      melanoma by the Cancerology Group of the French Society of Dermatology.

      The RIC-Mel database has been approved by French health authorities, both ethically and for
      confidentiality of data (CCTIRS and CNIL). The database is available on the internet at any
      given moment thanks to a secure connection. All data are treated confidentially. The active
      file of patients with melanoma from each participating center is available in the database.
      All patients agreed to participate may be included in the database, regardless of their
      stage. Clinical data are collected thanks two forms :

        -  Part I key clinical data for any clinical trial Primary tumour (date of surgery,
           breslow…), lymph node removal (date, number of invaded lymph node…), AJCC stage,
           Mutation status, melanoma antigens, melanoma treatments (type, dates) and death.

        -  Part II: additional data for epidemiological and translational research Family history
           of melanoma, metastases (type, date of diagnosis…), HLA A and B type, additional
           information on treatments (dose, overall response, grade 3 or 4 side effects with the
           type, action on treatment and outcome).

      In September 2017, more than 20,000 patients with melanoma had been included in the RIC-Mel
      database, with the following distribution: around 75% of primary stages (0 to II) and 25 % of
      metastatic stages (III and IV).
    
  