
    
      The purpose of the proposed research is to design and evaluate a technology enhanced
      transitional palliative care (TPC) intervention for patients living in rural locations. The
      contributions of the proposed research are expected to address the gap in palliative care
      services and transitions of care for rural patients. This research is significant because it
      addresses the challenges of three independently important health care foci - needs of rural
      patients, care transitions, and the evolving field of palliative care. The study will not
      simply address the critical barrier imposed by distance, but also extend PC practice by
      improving transition management for the impending dramatic increase in seriously ill and
      dying patients in rural areas through evolving demographic shifts. The goal of the proposed
      research is to advance the development of transitional care strategies for rural PC patients
      and caregivers, and provide evidence of new ways to support continuity of care for patients
      with life-limiting conditions.

      The study is guided by the "Transitional Care Model" or "TCM" as developed by Naylor which
      combines quality, cost, and satisfaction. The TCM has a solid evidence base from more than 15
      years of multidisciplinary research. Unique features of the model include care that is
      delivered and coordinated by the same nurse across hospital and home settings 7 days per week
      for an average of 2 to 3 months using evidence-based protocols with a focus on long term
      outcomes. Core components of the model include a holistic, person/family centered approach
      and protocol guided care. The nurse functions as part of an interdisciplinary team with
      shared accountability, however, the nurse is the single "point person" across an episode of
      care providing the vital link from hospital to home. Inherent within the model is shared
      communication systems that span care settings.

      A randomized control trial design will be used. Community dwelling adult patients and their
      caregivers who receive a palliative care consult while hospitalized in the hospital will be
      enrolled in the study, then randomized to group membership and followed for a total of 8
      weeks after hospital discharge. Following a detailed protocol for TPC, the intervention group
      will receive weekly video session visits (using computer software that allows audio/visual
      contact through the computer screen) by the study nurse. The investigators will determine the
      feasibility and acceptability of the TPC intervention and study methods and procedures when
      engaging palliative care patients and their caregivers. The investigators will compare
      patient and caregiver reported outcomes and determine effect size for patients receiving
      technology-enhanced TPC (intervention group) to patients in the control group, and they will
      explore the impact of the technology-enhanced TPC intervention on health care service
      utilization.
    
  