
    
      BFRE is resistance training with low loads (30% 1repetition maximum (RM) performed with
      concurrent partial blood flow restriction by means of pneumatic cuff compression around the
      working limb.

      Group 1 (BFRE):

      BFRE group: Will perform 3/weekly supervised BFRE sessions for 8 weeks from a physiotherapist
      educated in administering BFRE. Each session will consist of a 10-min warm up followed by two
      different unilateral lower-limb resistance training exercises: leg press and knee extension.
      Each exercise will be performed with the affected lower limb only and consist of 4 rounds
      interspaced by 30 seconds of rest. 1st round: 30 repetitions (reps); 2nd round: 15 reps; 3rd
      round: 15 reps; 4th round: until exhaustion. Between each exercise the patients will rest for
      5 minutes without blood flow restriction.

      Patients will rest in a standardized resting position between each set to maintain the
      desired resting cuff-pressure.

      The occlusion pressure will be set at 60% of total limb occlusion pressure and starting load
      intensity will be 30% 1repetition maximum (1RM) in both exercises. If patients can perform
      more than 15 repetitions in the 4th exercise set, the exercise load will be increased with
      the minimum extra load possible.

      Group 2 (control Group):

      CON group: Will follow standard procedures before a TKA and be encouraged to live their lives
      as usual up until TKA.

      The study is a multicenter (2 sites), randomized (allocation 1:1), assessor blinded,
      controlled trial Outcomes will be measured at baseline (9-10 weeks before surgery), in the
      week of surgery and 3- and 12 months postoperatively. Muscle biopsies will be taken from all
      patients undergoing surgery at Horsens Regional Hospital. Muscle biopsies will be taken at
      baseline, during surgery and 3 months postoperatively.

      The 12 months follow-up assessment will be analyzed and presented in papers during a
      subsequent Post Doc-period.

      All patients will be scheduled to receive TKR and receive a standard multimodal surgical
      program with standardized perioperative care. Specifically, all patients will be invited to a
      preoperative information meeting 2-3 weeks prior to surgery where nurses, surgeons, and
      physiotherapists will be providing detailed information about pain management, nutrition, the
      surgical procedure (i.e. basic knowledge about a prosthesis, risks related to smoking,
      restrictions related to living with a TKR, long-term results, and living with a TKR),
      physical activity, postoperative home-based rehabilitation, load-management, etc.

      On the day of surgery patients will be hospitalized at one of the two orthopedic departments
      and TKR procedures will be performed by an orthopedic surgeon. The day after surgery patients
      will be trained once or twice per day by a physiotherapist towards fulfilling the following
      discharge criterions: independency in in-and-out of bed and sit-to-stand activities,
      independency in walking and stair-negotiation with crutches, ADL activities, and home-based
      exercises during the hospitalization period. Patients will generally be discharged within
      ~1-2 days after fulfilling all the above discharge criteria. After discharge, all patients
      will receive a standard home-based rehabilitation program aimed at increasing knee mobility
      and lower extremity muscle strength. However, if considered necessary by the physiotherapist
      in charge of the patient, patients can receive additional supervised knee-specific exercise
      therapy at private physiotherapy clinics, municipal rehabilitation centers, or specialized
      hospital-based rehabilitation.
    
  