
    
      Multiple techniques have been described to decrease tension in the closure of the hernia
      defect in the large midline incisional hernias (LMIH) (1). Anterior component separation
      (CST) has demonstrated to accomplish primary fascial closure, while maintaining normal
      anatomy and physiology of the abdominal wall (2,3). However, described limitations of this
      technique are complications involving the skin and subcutaneous tissue, most likely caused by
      surgical interruption of perforating vessels during exposure of the external oblique muscle.
      So, CST has been related to surgical site occurrences (SSO), especially skin necrosis, up to
      17% of cases, as well as recurrence rates between 7 and 18% (4).

      On the other hand, botulinum toxin type A (BT) has been reported as a therapeutic option to
      decrease tension of a fascial closure in LMIH (5). It is a neurotoxin that causes a
      reversible denervation and paralisis of the lateral abdominal muscle, and has been considered
      as a "chemichal component separation" by some working groups (6). Our long experience about
      use of preoperative techniques like BT and progressive pneumperitoneum (PPP) allowed us to
      raise the possibility of planning the isolated use of BT in case of long transverse hernia
      diameters in patients with LMIH (7).

      Taking advantage of the beneficial effect of the neurotoxin, we considered interesting to try
      to downstage the CST to other hernia repair with less morbidity, like Rives-Stoppa
      retromuscular repair (RSR). This technique has been traditionally considered the gold
      standard technique in midline hernias, especially in hernia defects with transverse diameters
      around or less than 10 cms, and appears to be more advantageous compared to other surgical
      techniques concerning complications and recurrence rates (8). RSR achieves several
      objectives: a tension-free closure due to extensive overlap between the prosthesis and the
      fascial edges, and the placement of the mesh next to the vascular-rich rectus muscles
      facilitates tissue incorporation and minimizing complications related to SSO (9).

      The objective of our study was to compare results in two groups of patients with LMIH, using
      only CST versus preoperative BT plus following RSR, focusing on the SSO, possibility of
      primary fascial closure, length of hospital stay and hernia recurrence rate.
    
  