
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess progression free survival (PFS), defined as the time interval from initiation of
      therapy, to its cessation for documentation of progressive disease (PD) or death.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the clinical response (complete response + partial response) in all patients
      with measurable disease (using standard Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST]
      version [v]1.1 criteria).

      II. To assess overall survival (OS) in all patients. III. Assess changes in quality of life
      (QOL) throughout treatment using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of
      Cancer (EORTC) quality of life questionnaire (QLQ) - Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors
      (NET) 21 (GI.NET21) questionnaire for carcinoid patients with gastrointestinal neuroendocrine
      tumors, in all patients who have filled out at least two QOL questionnaires and, will be
      reported by groups based on response (response, stable disease or progressive disease).

      IV. Steady-state pharmacokinetics (PK) of nintedanib, biomarkers, regulatory T cell (Treg)
      and cytokine expression and growth factors will be analyzed for all patients and reported in
      groups based on response.

      V. Gene mutations and copy number alterations analysis in the mammalian target of rapamycin
      (mTOR) pathway (will be performed only on the first 10 patients), protein expression of
      activation of protein kinase B (Akt) (as well as other downstream targets).

      VI. Toxicity (graded using the National Cancer Institute [NCI] Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events [CTCAE] version 4.0) will be closely monitored and all toxicities will be
      tabulated.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive nintedanib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every
      28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3
      months for 2 years.
    
  