
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The original grant from 1990 to 1995 was funded because analyses of clinical trial subgroups
      had raised the concern that, in patients with high blood pressure, diuretic therapy may
      increase the risk of sudden cardiac death. Given the size of the hypertensive population in
      the United States, the prevalence of diuretic therapy for hypertension, and the persistent
      concerns regarding the relation of diuretic therapy to the risk of primary cardiac arrest
      (PCA), the study proved to be of particular interest to clinicians, epidemiologists, public
      policy makers, and the general public.

      Beginning in 1995 when the grant was renewed, unexpected findings from the Cardiac Arrhythmia
      Suppression Trial--an adverse effect on mortality of two antiarrhythmic drug therapies--had
      heightened concerns that drug therapies other than diuretics may increase the risk of primary
      cardiac arrest.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The original study beginning in 1990 was population-based with a case-control design. Using
      the community-based surveillance system for out-of-hospital primary cardiac arrest in Seattle
      and King County, Washington, all cases of primary cardiac arrest (PCA) were identified which
      had occurred among 18,000 pharmacologically-treated hypertensive patients receiving care at
      Group Health Cooperative (GHC) from 1977-1993. Approximately 180 cases were identified.
      Controls were obtained from a random sample of GHC enrollees with pharmacologically-treated
      hypertension, matched to cases at a ratio of 3 to 1, according to age, gender, and year of
      occurrence of PCA. The computerized pharmacy data base of GHC allowed ascertainment of
      patterns of exposure to specific antihypertensive drug therapy in an identical fashion for
      both cases and controls. Medical records were reviewed to gather information about potential
      confounding factors and effect modifiers, such as severity of hypertension. Data analysis,
      using stratification and logistic regression, determined whether use of diuretics increased
      the risk of PCA compared to use of other antihypertensive agents; whether the risk of PCA
      depended upon the dose of diuretic therapy; and whether electrocardiographic abnormalities
      modified the risk of PCA associated with diuretics.

      The study was renewed in 1995 to determine whether treatment with antidepressant,
      anticonvulsant, and antiarrhythmic drug therapies having the potential for proarrhythmia
      increased the risk of primary cardiac arrest. The study was a population-based case-control
      study nested within a cohort of patients who received medical care at a large pre-paid Health
      Care Plan in Seattle, Washington. Cases were patients who had a primary cardiac arrest
      between 1977 to 1994. Controls were a stratified random sample of patients, frequency-matched
      to cases by age, gender, calendar-year, and known heart disease. Treatment with drugs was
      assessed through a computerized pharmacy database. Ambulatory-care medical records were
      reviewed to assess clinical characteristics, including the indication for therapy, the
      severity of heart disease, co-existing morbidity, and other risk factors. For both
      antidepressant and anticonvulsant drugs, analyses were stratified by known heart disease,
      because the risk of treatment might be particularly large among patients with known heart
      disease. For antiarrhythmic drugs, analyses were restricted by a single, current indication
      for the therapy--maintenance of sinus rhythm among patients with chronic atrial fibrillation;
      and, by the availability of a prior echocardiogram, in order to control for the type and
      severity of underlying heart disease. After adjustment for potential confounders, the
      investigators estimated the relative safety of: 1) drugs within the same therapeutic class;
      and, 2) the dosage schedule for specific drugs. In addition, they determined if concurrent
      treatment with other drugs that altered cardiac conduction or morbidity that altered drug
      disposition influenced the risk among patients treated with a drug therapy.
    
  