
    
      Despite the growing use of breast conservation as primary therapy for breast cancer,
      mastectomy remains a common treatment option. Many patients choose to undergo breast
      reconstruction as an effective means of lessening the adverse impact of mastectomy on
      psychosocial functioning and quality of life. Despite these benefits, well-designed studies
      comparing the current choices from the patient's point of view are difficult (if not
      impossible) to come by. Previous research on breast reconstruction outcomes has also failed
      to include race and ethnicity as key variables. In order to actively participate in the
      reconstruction decision making process, breast cancer survivors need objective, up-to-date
      information on breast reconstruction outcomes from the patient's perspective.

      The proposed Mastectomy Reconstruction Outcomes Consortium (MROC) Study will use a
      prospective cohort design to compare outcomes for the eight commonly used options for breast
      reconstruction: expander/implant, latissimus dorsi/implant (LD), pedicle transverse rectus
      abdominis musculocutaneous (PTRAM), free TRAM (FTRAM), deep inferior epigastric perforator
      (DIEP), superficial inferior epigastric artery (SIEA), superior gluteal artery perforator
      (SGAP) and inferior gluteal artery perforator (IGAP) techniques.

      Outcomes assessed will include complications, postoperative pain, psychosocial well-being,
      physical functioning, fatigue, patient satisfaction and costs. The project will also evaluate
      the effects of race and ethnicity on reconstruction outcomes. Thirteen leading centers in the
      United States and Canada will participate. Together, these institutions perform over 3000
      breast reconstructions annually. The five year study will evaluate patients preoperatively
      and at one week, three months, one year and two years following reconstruction. For data
      sources, the project will rely on medical and billing records, as well as a panel of generic
      and condition-specific patient-report outcome measures.

      The MROC Study will benefit a variety of stakeholders in the healthcare marketplace: The
      project will provide consumers, providers, payers, and policy-makers with reliable,
      up-to-date information on the effectiveness and relative costs of surgical options for breast
      reconstruction, thereby promoting a more evidence-based approach to treatment and policy
      decision-making. Study findings will also assist health care organizations in designing
      systems of care tailored to the specific needs and preferences of diverse patient
      populations.
    
  