
    
      BACKGROUND See above. AIMS To study if regular follow-up of PD patients with testing of their
      theoretical and practical knowledge (hereafter called "new type of follow-up") can reduce the
      incidence of peritonitis, reduce the technique failure rate related to peritonitis, and
      reduce the time of hospitalization related to peritonitis compared to a routine regimen. For
      specific aims, see "Outcome measures" below.

      PATIENTS AND METHODS The study is a randomized, multi-centre investigation intending to
      enclose 750 new PD patients in Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Estonia, Latvia, the
      Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Inclsuion was finished on December 31, 2014. The study
      will go on until the last included patient has taken part of the study for one year. The
      study will thus be terminated on December 31, 2015.

      The study includes a follow-up group and a control group. The intervention in the follow-up
      group consists of regular testing of theoretical and practical knowledge regarding PD with
      focus on infection prophylaxis including retraining if needed until the test goals are
      reached. The control group will be treated according to the routines of the center.
      Peritonitis is defined according to ISPD guidelines (Perit Dial Int 2005;25:107-131)

      The baseline PD training will be the same at all participating centres and follow
      international recommendations. In addition, fluorescent alcohol and a UV lamp will be used to
      control the result of hand disinfection in all patients once during the initial PD training.
      Thereafter this method will only be used in the follow-up group.

      In the follow-up group, the knowledge from the basal training will be tested at 1, 3, 6, and
      12 months after PD start, every sixth month thereafter, and after every episode of
      peritonitis. Such testing will also be performed at restart of PD. The follow-up includes two
      types of tests:

        1. The patient will fill in a questionnaire with theoretical and practical questions with
           focus on infection and infection prophylaxis during PD treatment. Goal: At least 80% of
           the questions should be correct. If the goal is not reached, further training will be
           given until the goal is reached.

        2. The patient will perform a practical test including hand disinfection, PD exchange
           technique, and exit-site care. Hand disinfection skills will be controlled with the help
           of fluorescent alcohol and a UV lamp. Goal: All steps of the practical test should be
           correctly performed. If not, further training will be given until the goal is reached.
    
  