
    
      Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) are at an increased risk of fracture, despite
      having bone mineral density (BMD) similar to age and sex matched cohorts. Recent studies have
      indicated that changes in incretin (INtestinal seCRETion of INsulin) hormones in the setting
      of T2DM may play a role in bone metabolism. Two of these incretin hormones, gastric
      inhibitory polypeptide (GIP) and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), have been shown to be
      involved in bone turnover regulation, in addition to their effect in increasing insulin
      secretion and decreasing glucagon secretion in a glucose-dependent manner. In addition, the
      rise in glucagon-like peptide-2 (GLP-2) in the postprandial state has been found to have a
      direct effect on reduced bone resorption in a non-fasting state and treatment with GLP-2
      improved BMD in postmenopausal women. Due to their glucose lowering effects, incretins have
      been a therapeutic target for the treatment of T2DM through GLP-1 receptor analogs or
      inhibition of incretin metabolism via dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitors (i.e.
      sitagliptin). Inhibition of DPP-4 leads to an approximate doubling of GLP-1 and GIP levels
      but also leads to reduced breakdown of GLP-2.

      Less is known about the effect of incretin-directed therapies, specifically sitagliptin, and
      bone metabolism. To our knowledge, two studies have looked at the direct effects of currently
      available incretin-directed therapies on bone metabolism. Exenatide (a GLP-1 analog)
      treatment of insulin resistant and type 2 diabetic rats resulted in osteogenic effects with
      increased osteocalcin levels following treatment. In a study of female non-diabetic
      Sprague-Dawley rats treated with pioglitazone, rosiglitazone, sitagliptin, vs. placebo, no
      significant change in bone mineral density was seen in the sitagliptin or placebo treated
      rats (compared to significant loss of bone mineral density in the TZD groups). Even fewer
      published studies are available evaluating changes in bone metabolism with the use of
      incretin hormones in humans. The majority of the human studies have been completed with
      GLP-2. These studies show a dose-dependent effect of GLP-2 on bone resorption and,
      preliminarily, show improved bone mineral density in postmenopausal women treated with GLP-2.
      However, the changes in incretin activity vary in persons with glucose intolerance and T2DM.
      Therefore, it is important to understand the potential effects of these medications on bone
      metabolism in persons prescribed these medications for treatment of their T2DM.
    
  