
    
      This study will take place at two sites (Blood Center of Wisconsin (BCW) Milwaukee, WI and
      American Red Cross-Norfolk, VA).

        -  A standard double red cell collection protocol will be initiated using the Haemonetics
           MCS®+ 8150 system using LN832 disposable sets. The collection procedure will be
           terminated after collection of one RBC unit. The maximum target red cell volume will be
           selected based on the donor predonation weight as specified in the nomogram included in
           the MCS®+ 8150 operation manual.

        -  The RBC units will be stored for 42 days at 1° to 6°C.

        -  Upon collection and at 42 days after collection, the RBC units will be weighed and
           tested for hematology parameters (white blood cell count, red blood cell count, residual
           white blood cell count, hemoglobin, hematocrit, platelet count, mean corpuscular volume,
           mean corpuscular hemoglobin, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, red blood cell
           distribution width, and supernatant hemoglobin) and chemistry parameters (pH, potassium,
           glucose, lactate, and ATP).

        -  Acceptance criteria for this study are as follows:

             1. Hemolysis of less than or equal to 1% at 42 days of storage

             2. Maximum absolute red cell volume is less than or equal to the programmed absolute
                RBC target volume + 15%

             3. Minimum absolute red cell volume is greater than or equal to the programmed
                absolute RBC target volume - 15%

        -  After collection of sixty (60) evaluable RBC units, the study will be considered
           supportive of the intended use noted above if zero (0) units fail the acceptance
           criteria.

        -  If one (1) unit fails acceptance criteria after collection of sixty (60) evaluable RBC
           units, an additional seventy one (71) units will be collected.

        -  The study will be considered supportive of the intended use noted above if not more than
           one (1) total unit out of 131 evaluable units fails the acceptance criteria.

        -  If a total of two (2) units fail acceptance criteria, the study will not be considered
           supportive of the intended use noted above.
    
  