
    
      The Policy & Research Group (PRG) will be conducting a rigorous evaluation of an innovative
      intervention designed to reduce unplanned pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections in
      young women with depression, entitled Momentary Affect Regulation - Safer Sex Intervention
      (MARSSI). MARSSI was developed by Dr. Lydia Shrier of Boston Children's Hospital. MARSSI has
      three components. The first is a manualized session with a sexual and reproductive health
      counselor, who uses motivational interviewing (MI) techniques to help the young woman
      identify a risk-reducing goal for her sexual behavior, develop a change plan, and provide
      depression education and skills, based on cognitive behavioral therapy. The second component
      is a mobile health (mhealth) application that the young woman loads on her smartphone and,
      for four weeks, uses to complete app-prompted reports 3 times a day and a scheduled report
      once a day. When she reports poor affect, low contraceptive or condom self-efficacy,
      pregnancy desire, or desire for sex to regulate affect, she receives personalized messages
      prompting healthy behaviors and cognitive behavioral skill use. The third component is a
      booster session that occurs after 4 weeks of app use. The young woman meets with the
      counselor again to review her behavior and relationships, discuss progress toward her goal,
      and learn a new skill. Through these components, MARSSI aims to enhance motivation to change
      risk behaviors, provides skills to address depression's effects on behavior, and prompts and
      reinforces healthy affect regulation, cognitive behavioral skill use, and behavior change in
      daily life.

      The Policy & Research Group (PRG) will conduct an implementation evaluation and an impact
      evaluation, using an individual randomized controlled trial, to test the efficacy of this new
      intervention. The study will target young women ages 17-20 who have depressive symptoms and
      are recent clients of sexual and reproductive health clinics. The primary focus of the study
      will be to investigate the impact of the intervention on three self-reported sexual
      behaviors: 1) condom use; 2) use of effective contraception; and 3) number of sexual
      partners. The study will also include exploratory investigations of a number of other sexual
      behaviors and theoretically relevant antecedents to change in behavior and sexual health,
      including but not limited to: 1) engagement in protective sexual behavior; 2) condom use at
      last vaginal sex; 3) effective contraceptive use at last vaginal sex; 4) dual methods of
      protection; 5) frequency of vaginal, anal, and oral sex; 6) substance use before any type of
      sex; 7) types of sexual partners/relationships; 8) depressive symptoms; 9) sexual
      communication self-efficacy; 10) motivation to change risky sexual behaviors; 11)
      contraceptive and condom knowledge; 12) contraceptive and condom planning self-efficacy; and
      13) use of cognitive restructuring.

      Outcomes will be assessed using self-reported, participant-level data gathered (by way of a
      questionnaire) at four time points: baseline (enrollment); post-program (immediately after
      the end of the intervention period; 1 month post baseline); short-term (4 months
      post-baseline) follow-up; and long-term (7 months post baseline) follow-up.

      Starting in May 2021 and continuing for 17 months, 600 participants who have received sexual
      or reproductive health care from partner implementation sites in Alaska, Idaho, Washington,
      Hawaii, Indiana, Wisconsin, and Kentucky will be recruited and enrolled into the study. The
      final year of the grant will be used to complete the following tasks: collect follow-up data
      from study participants; conduct implementation and impact evaluation analysis, reporting,
      and dissemination efforts; and manualize and package the curriculum and training materials.
    
  