
    
      This research study is a Phase Ib clinical trial, which tests the safety of an
      investigational intervention and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the
      investigational intervention to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the
      intervention is being studied. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved
      the combination of Tucatinib, Abemaciclib, and Trastuzumab as a treatment for any disease.

      In this research study, the investigators are:

        -  Studying the combination of Tucatinib, Abemaciclib, Trastuzumab, and hormonal therapy.

        -  Tucatinib is a drug that inhibits human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2)
           protein, which is a protein expressed in the cancer cells. By inhibiting this protein,
           tucatinib may help stop or reduce the growth of the tumor. The U.S. Food and Drug
           Administration (FDA) has not approved Tucatinib as a treatment for any disease, but it
           has been used in a research setting with humans for many years.

        -  Abemaciclib is a cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor. CDK inhibitors work to stop
           cell growth. The FDA has not approved Abemaciclib for this specific disease, but it has
           been approved for other uses.

        -  Trastuzumab is called a "targeted therapy" because it works by attaching itself to
           specific receptors on the surface of breast cancer cells, known as HER2 receptors. When
           Trastuzumab attaches to HER2 receptors, the signals that tell the cells to grow are
           blocked and the cancer cell may be marked for destruction by your immune system. This
           process allows trastuzumab to help slow or stop the growth of the breast cancer. The FDA
           has approved Trastuzumab as a treatment for this disease.

        -  Exemestane, Letrozole, and Anastrozole belong to a class of drugs called aromatase
           inhibitors. the participant and the physician will choose the most appropriate aromatase
           inhibitor for them. These drugs act by lowering the amount of estrogen produced by the
           body by blocking an enzyme called aromatase. Each of these drugs have been approved by
           the FDA for this cancer and have been used in the treatment of metastatic ER-positive
           breast cancer for many years.

        -  In this part of the research study the investigators are looking for the safest doses of
           these drugs to give to participants at the same time.

        -  The overall goal of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Tucatinib
           in combination with Abemaciclib, Trastuzumab, and hormonal therapy for hormone
           receptor-positive, HER2-positive Metastatic Breast Cancer
    
  