
    
      Opioid analgesics are prescribed for moderate to severe acute pain; however, there are
      contraindications, cautions, and side effects that are common with all opioids. Dependence
      and tolerance are also likely with regular opioid use, resulting in the current nationwide
      opioid epidemic. In Alabama alone, there were 343 opioid-related overdose deaths in 2016, 124
      of which were related to prescription opioids. Alabama providers have the highest prescribing
      rate in the country, nearly twice the national rate, per the NIH/NIDA website. In 2015, the
      Centers for Disease Control (CDC) released prescribing guidelines relating to chronic pain,
      and in 2018 Alabama's Blue Cross/Blue Shield insurance group limited the supply of opioids
      allowed to their members to 7 days.

      There is currently no clinical guideline for prescribing post operative opioid medications
      for functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). A 2018 survey documenting prescribing
      patterns by 168 members of the American Rhinologic Society found that most physicians who
      participated prescribed, on average, 27 opioid pain pills for patients after surgery. Prior
      studies have been performed to help decrease the pain patient's feel after sinus surgery.
      Haytoglu in 2016 revealed that adding non-absorbable sinus packs loaded with local
      anesthetics such as bupivacaine achieved less pain values and improved patient satisfaction
      scores.

      Given this current data the investigators believe injecting patients with a long acting
      analgesic during the procedure will help reduce post-operative pain. If the investigators can
      decrease the amount of pain patients have in the post-operative period, they can
      theoretically decrease the number of opioid pain pills prescribed. The investigators plan to
      also track the number of opioid pills consumed by patients in the post-operative period to
      obtain a somewhat uniform prescribing pattern within surgeons.
    
  