
    
      Aims

        1. To determine the update prevalence, nature and intensity of chronic pain among Hong Kong
           population.

        2. To evaluate the help seeking behavior, the efficacy of treatment and the impact on daily
           function.

        3. To explore the change in chronic pain outcomes over the last decade by comparing a study
           conducted at the same center 10 years ago.

        4. To find out the incidence of neuropathic pain.

      Methods:

      After obtaining the approval from the Institutional Review Board of the University of Hong
      Kong/Hospital Authority Hong Kong West Cluster (HKU/HA HKW IRB), the study will be conducted
      according to a similar study conducted at Department of Anaesthesiology, the University of
      Hong Kong 10 years ago. The Cantonese version of the attached questionnaire will be
      administered over the telephone. The telephone interview will be conducted every weekday
      evening between 6pm and 9 pm by trained interviewers from Public Opinion Programme (POP) of
      the University of Hong Kong. Telephone number will be selected randomly from all households
      in Hong Kong. Verbal consent will be obtained. Only subjects aged 18 or above and speak
      Cantonese will be interviewed. Each interview will take about 15 minutes. Base on a 40%
      prevalence rate and a target 95% confidence interval of +/- 2.5%, 1500 successful interviews
      are required to complete this study 7.

      Data Collection:

      Demographic data; Location of pain; Type of pain present; Severity of pain; Duration of pain
      present; Impact on daily life; Pain treatment and efficacy; Incidence of neuropathic pain

      Data Analysis:

      Data collected will be analysed using the same method as previous study. Statistical software
      SAS version 6.12 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC, USA) will be used to perform the analysis.
      Parametric data will be presented as mean (SD) and non parametric data will be presented as
      median (range) or actual count or percentages. These results will then be compared with those
      from the previous study. Differences between groups will be compared using Mann-Whitney U or
      Kruskal-Wallis test, as appropriate.

      Study duration: Total duration: 18 months Training of interviewers: 3 month Data collection:
      6 months Data analysis: 3 months Research conclusion and report generation: 3 months

      Existing facilities Information and questionnaire of the study had been sent to POP (A
      investigating center at the Unviersity of Hong Kong helping for the telephone interview) for
      comment. POP has agreed to participate in this study. Recruitment and training of
      interviewers will be provided by POP. The phone interviews will be done and monitored by POP.

      We have the computer system and software to analyze the data and for recording. Professional
      statistician is available to perform the analysis. Research assistant will be recruited to
      help for conducting this study and data analysis.

      Justification of requirements:

      Our institute had completed the previous study on chronic pain prevalence successfully and we
      are experienced in conducting this type of study. The POP of the University of Hong Kong is
      experienced in conducting similar survey and questionnaire interviews. They have the manpower
      and training for the interview of this study. The questionnaire will be delivered by trained
      interviewers from their department. An experienced research assistant is mandatory in
      analysis of the data by comparing the change of outcomes in two time points, drafting the
      reports, coordinating the study, following up the program, retrieving data in 2002, which can
      give valuable information on the change.

      Potential hazards:

      Personal/ sensitive information will not be asked and the data will be kept in password
      guarded computer. The interviewees can withdraw from the study or refuse to answer any
      question during the telephone interview. The interviewees will not be exposed to any
      additional risk.

      Purpose and potential for implementation of results:

      The purpose of this study is to obtain detailed information of chronic pain in Hong Kong. The
      pattern, locations, nature and severity of chronic pain will be studied.

      The data obtained will also be used to evaluate the efficiency of current treatments in
      chronic pain in Hong Kong. The help seeking preference will be explored to provide
      information for planning and allocation of resources. All the information is important in
      improving the pain management service in Hong Kong. The awareness of chronic pain can also be
      promoted and enhanced.

      Consent: Verbal consent will be obtained.
    
  