
    
      Background:

      External defibrillators are routinely used for treatment of lethal ventricular arrhythmias
      (defibrillation) as well as atrial and non-lethal ventricular arrhythmias (synchronized CVS).
      Commercially available defibrillators generate direct current (DC) shock with various
      waveforms using distinct technologies. These waveforms are suggested to have different
      efficacy and safety, aiming at a positive effect with lower cumulative energy, smaller number
      of shocks, and less post-shock complications and myocardial injury. Therefore, the efficacy
      and safety of different waveforms has been an object of continuous interest and clinical
      investigations over the last years. Although the superiority of biphasic over monophasic
      waveforms is well established, the relative efficacy and safety of the available biphasic
      waveforms is not clear.

      Most defibrillator manufacturers use the biphasic truncated exponential (BTE) waveform.
      Almost all BTE defibrillators are embedding the impedance compensation technology, which
      adapts the pulse duration for proper delivery of the selected energy. However, various pulse
      commutation concepts produce differently shaped waveforms:

        -  rectilinear (impedance compensation with constant pulse duration);

        -  standard truncated exponential (impedance compensation with constant tilt);

        -  pulsed (impedance compensation with constant duty cycle and constant tilt). Clinical
           studies with patients presenting with shockable life-threatening arrhythmias are
           difficult to perform for ethical and practical reasons. Several studies have therefore
           included patients requiring elective CVS for atrial arrhythmias, who are able to give
           consent and also present a more controlled population. Elective CVS is a standard
           treatment for patients with atrial arrhythmias and is performed as a day case procedure
           under general anesthesia. The investigator's bibliographic research found 6 studies from
           which the dose-response curves of 4 rectilinear, 7 standard truncated exponential and 3
           pulsed waveforms have been drawn. Although the major disparities between the studies
           (success accounted at different delays after CVS, rhythm inhomogeneity, different
           population sizes, different selected energy levels, etc.) the dose-response curves
           concentrate within 85-95% success rate and 300-500 joules (J) cumulative energy. More
           data on the efficacy of the pulsed waveform during CVS are needed.

      Various BTE waveforms apply different potential gradients on the thorax that might produce
      various defibrillation effects. Apart from efficacy, the most important aspect is the patient
      safety, considering that larger potential gradients in the myocardium lasting longer could
      potentially induce an electroporation and then a fibrillation. A frequently observed effect
      of electroporation are the post-shock ST-segment deviations in the surface ECG, representing
      the potential difference between the normal tissue and sustained depolarized critical mass of
      myocardium closest to the associated origin of the electrical current. Although ST-segment
      changes are an easily ignored phenomenon, occurring acutely and resolving during the first
      few minutes post-shock, their presence in a short-term basis can identify electroporation by
      dangerously high potential gradients, while the sustained ST-changes in a long-term basis can
      identify cases with myocardial injury. The most reliable quantification of shock-induced
      myocardial injuries is based on measurements of the hsTnI biomarker after CVS. The safety of
      shocks contemplates any other complications after CVS, such as apnea, arrhythmias, etc. The
      variety of safety outcomes for different BTE waveforms is not clear.

      Considering that little published data are available on pulsed waveforms, this study aims to
      compare the pulsed biphasic waveform to a standard truncated exponential waveform in respect
      of efficacy and safety in elective CVS of atrial fibrillation.

      Methods:

      Study population All patients admitted for elective CVS of atrial fibrillation (AFIB) in
      ICCU- National Heart Hospital (NHH) will be potentially eligible for the study. Informed
      consent will be obtained from all eligible patients prior to CVS. Patients declining to
      participate in the study will receive treatment according to the hospital protocol.

      Cardiologists in ICCU-NHH will check the eligibility of each patient following the detailed
      list of inclusion and exclusion criteria in section Eligibility Criteria, based on the
      documented pre-treatment data (duration of AFIB, concomitant diseases, thyroid dysfunction,
      transesophageal echocardiographic (TEE) measurements).

      Additionally, eligibility will be verified through pre-CVS medical exams and routine blood
      test within 24 hours before CVS, including hsTnI measurements on the day of CVS:

      Study design A prospective randomized trial (alternating design) where eligible patients will
      be randomized to treatment with two different defibrillators. Following the order of patient
      admittance in ICCU-NHH, the attending cardiologist will assign the odd and even eligible
      patients to the defibrillators in arm 1 and arm 2, respectively. The cardiologist cannot
      control the order of patient admittance in ICCU-NHH. The alternative randomization design
      will equalize the number of subjects on each treatment. This study is not designed to control
      for sex, age, comorbidity, type of device used for CVS, cumulative energy delivered during
      shocks, number of shocks administered. Randomization is performed to limit these and any
      other confounding factors.

      Patient preparation Patients will be consulted prior to CVS in a quiet setting. Any questions
      will be answered by the attending cardiologist. Patients will be asked to manually sign their
      informed consent for study participation before further preparations and data collection. If
      the patient declines to participate, then he/she will receive treatment according to the
      hospital protocol without data documentation, as further defined in the study.

      Demographic data (hospital file ID, age, gender, weight, height, body mass index, body
      surface area) will be taken.

      Pre-treatment data will be read from the patient dossier:

        -  All concomitant diseases.

        -  All medications during the previous 7 days before CVS.

        -  Left atrium dimensions, left ventricle dimensions and volumes, ejection fraction (EF) by
           transthoracic echocardiography during the last month.

        -  TEE will be performed for all patients within 1 to 5 days before CVS (except if
           contraindications of TEE exist); presence of cardiac thrombus and spontaneous echo
           contrast will be checked.

        -  Duration of index AFIB in days.

        -  European Heart Rhythm Association (EHRA) class score of symptoms from index AFIB

        -  American Society of Anaesthesiologists Score (ASA)

        -  Signs of heart failure before CVS and on the day before CVS. Standard blood test (taken
           24h before CVS) will be documented. Appropriate standard anticoagulation with
           unfractionated heparin (UFH) or acenocoumarol or direct oral anticoagulants (DOAC) is to
           be applied before and after CVS.

      The patient will be in fasting condition before CVS. If needed, the chest will be shaved
      before CVS so that the self-adhesive defibrillation pads can be stick intact to the skin.

      The anesthesia will be conducted by an anesthesiologist with slow intravenous injection of
      Propofol, adjusted individually to reach deep sedation. The individual Propofol dose (mg per
      kg bodyweight) will be documented.

      CVS protocol:

      The CVS procedure is performed in ICCU by a cardiologist and anesthesiologist. Defibrillator
      pads are placed according to the manufacturer user guides. Standard self-adhesive
      defibrillation pads, recommended by specific defibrillator's manufacturer will be used.

      Defibrillator use: The time-interval interval between consecutive shocks is ≥ 1 minute; The
      energy of consecutive shocks follows pre-defined protocol; The protocol stops at successful
      CVS (sinus rhythm at 1 minute post-shock), otherwise at the last shock of the protocol.

      Data collection and Follow up:

        -  Defibrillator pulse recorder: The shock waveforms delivered by the studied
           defibrillators is recorded in real-time during the shock by a dedicated measurement
           recorder (Defimpulse) connected in the patient circuit. This allows accurate measurement
           of the delivered energy, which is the primary measured outcome. Additionally, currents,
           voltages, patient impedances at each shock can be also measured. The device is fully
           automatic and expert assistance is not needed during the CVS intervention. The use of
           the Defimpulse has been approved by the NHH Ethical Committee.

        -  Blood samples, standard 12-lead ECG, blood pressure and heart rate is obtained at
           baseline.

        -  Continuous ECG in 3 peripheral leads (I, II, III) is recorded during the CVS procedure.
           ST-segment deviation is measured on the first cardiac complex after 10 s post-shock 80
           ms after J point in lead II.

        -  Standard 12-lead ECG is recorded (5 minutes) after CVS; 24 h after CVS; at discharge if
           the discharge day is different from 24 h after CVS.

        -  Heart rate and blood pressure are measured 3 times after CVS (immediately, 1 hour and 2
           hours after the last shock).

        -  Follow-up period in ICCU (2 hours of duration): Potential complications after CVS are
           recorded:

             1. Presence of apnea

             2. Presence of arrhythmias.

             3. Record of any other medication at CVS and during the follow-up period.

        -  Follow-up period in the Cardiology Clinic (24 hours of duration):

             1. blood samples to analyze CK-MB and hsTnI (12 hours +/- 4 hours after CVS).

             2. Clinical exam with heart rate and blood pressure: 2 times on the day of CVS.

             3. ECG and blood pressure on the next day after CVS.

             4. Any complications before discharge.

      Statistics:

      Primary endpoint: The statistical analysis is designed for a non-inferiority comparison
      between the two defibrillators in respect of their cumulative energies actually delivered. A
      non-inferiority margin of 50J is chosen as the absolute difference in cumulative delivered
      energy at the end of the CVS study. It is estimated that a total of 62 patients (31 per
      group) allows a study power to show non-inferiority of 80%, with a one-sided type I error
      rate of 0.05.

      Continuous variables (cumulative energy, number of shocks, cardiac troponin levels, etc.)
      will be expressed as mean value ± standard deviation or median values (inter-quartile range)
      and compared with Students t-test or equivalent non-parametric test, respectively.
      Categorical variables (e.g. cumulative success rate) are expressed as percentages and
      compared using the Chi-square or Fisher's exact test (where appropriate). P ≤ 0.05 is
      considered statistically significant for all comparisons.

      Ethics All patients are signed a written informed consent prior to the CVS and receive the
      standard hospital procedures during CVS, accepted in the NHH and approved by the NHH Ethical
      Committee. Both defibrillators included in this study are approved for clinical use and both
      are used on a daily basis.

      Data anonymization policy is respected. In order to ensure the medical confidentiality, no
      information about the patient (intervention place and date, age, gender, name, diagnosis,
      etc.) is entered in the defibrillators. An identification number are given to each patient by
      the dedicated measurement recorder (Defimpulse). This number and the recording data are
      properties of the principal investigator. Approval from the NHH Ethical Committee concerning
      the use of the Defimpulse during the CVS intervention has been obtained.
    
  