
    
      Data regarding the validity of poor prognostic criteria for CI are still scarce and remain of
      imperfect quality, particularly because of heterogeneous populations and variable definitions
      of "poor prognosis." Prognostic assessment must take into account both neurological and
      non-neurological elements. Biomarkers have been one of the avenues explored for several
      years. For example, hyperglycemia in the acute phase of CI is associated with a more severe
      prognosis in terms of survival and functional recovery, and with an increased risk of
      bleeding after thrombolysis, independently of age and severity of the CI. Other biological
      markers have been studied, but the methodology of the studies is very variable and their
      quality is moderate, which does not allow us to conclude that these markers are independent
      predictive factors for the prognosis of CI. Their predictive "added value" on simple clinical
      data, such as the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NHISS) severity score and age,
      has not been established and their clinical significance remains uncertain.

      The mRS 3 months after the event is the criterion most frequently used to assess the
      functional prognosis of patients after a heart attack. However, being able to anticipate the
      mRS at discharge from hospital, as early as admission, appears to be a major challenge in
      order to adapt therapies and to choose the best care pathway as soon as possible after
      hospitalization. Structured management of stroke in neurovascular units (UNV), with highly
      specialized medical and paramedical staff, has a proven benefit in preventing death and
      dependence. The era of "precision" medicine, based on the identification, evaluation,
      organization and analysis of a multitude of variables obtained for each individual, now holds
      great potential for the management of CI.

      The deployment of a computerized patient record (CPR) in health care institutions is a real
      opportunity in this respect. The detailed medical data collected from the moment the patient
      enters the hospital and throughout his or her hospitalization could be used to construct a
      composite score combining information from the patient's history, clinical data, and the
      results of additional examinations (especially biological and imaging). Beyond structured
      data, information expressed in textual form could also be considered using innovative
      artificial intelligence methodologies.

      A neurovascular intensive care unit (NICU), to which a neurovascular unit (NVU) is attached,
      has existed within the Groupe Hospitalier Paris Saint-Joseph (GHPSJ) since 2006. The
      institution currently counts more than 700 stays per year for IC management, a figure that is
      constantly increasing (600 in 2016, 727 in 2019); 98% of these patients made a passage in the
      USINV in 2019. In addition, the CIO was deployed from 2014 in the facility, and during 2015
      specifically for the Neurology-Neurovascular service. This gives the facility the opportunity
      to conduct a single-center pilot study to test the contribution of new data, combined with
      the simple clinical data usually used, to assess the functional prognosis of patients with
      CI.

      The objective of this first retrospective work is to evaluate the interest of the data
      available in the CIO and their processing via artificial intelligence methods to characterize
      the functional prognosis of patients with a CI, at admission and then during hospitalization.
    
  