
    
      The objectives of this study are:

        1. Evaluate the role of sciatic nerve block in total knee replacement. There is conflicting
           data as to whether sciatic nerve block would provide significant analgesic benefit in
           addition to femoral nerve block and the usual multimodal and preemptive analgesic
           regimen for TKA.

        2. Investigate the efficacy of single-shot sciatic nerve block on early rehabilitation,
           functional recovery and patient satisfaction.

        3. Evaluate the previously described technique of local anesthetic infiltration into the
           posterior capsule/fat pad of the knee as an alternative technique to sciatic nerve block
           in providing analgesia to the posterior aspect of the knee in this select group of
           patients.

        4. Investigate the efficacy of local anesthetic infiltration into the posterior capsule/fat
           pad of the knee on early rehabilitation, functional recovery and patient satisfaction.

      Study Design:

      All patients will have a femoral nerve block (FNB) and spinal anesthesia.

      Patients will be randomized into one of the 3 possible groups:

      Group 1: Femoral nerve block + Sciatic nerve block + Spinal anesthesia + Infiltration of
      normal saline at the end of surgery

      Group 2: Femoral nerve block + Sham Sciatic nerve block + Spinal anesthesia + Infiltration of
      local anesthetic at the end of surgery.

      Group 3: Femoral nerve block + Sham Sciatic nerve block + Spinal anesthesia. + Infiltration
      of normal saline at the end of surgery.

      In summary, this study will help further define the role of sciatic nerve block as well as
      the alternative technique of local anesthetic infiltration in the perioperative analgesic
      regimen of total knee arthroplasty surgery, in an effort to develop a standardized
      perioperative protocol for this patient population. The advent of this protocol should allow
      reduced risk, improved analgesia, and potentially earlier discharged from hospital with
      better function.
    
  