
    
      Severe walking impairment after stroke is defined as the inability to walk faster than 0.4
      meters per second and impacts nearly twenty-five percent of chronic stroke survivors. Walking
      speed is a key determiner of community independence, and stroke survivors classified as
      "severe" are more often symptomatically home-bound with limited mobility and are at higher
      risk of falls, fractures, and rehospitalizations. A recent study by the investigators
      suggests that backward locomotion treadmill training (BLTT) may be a promising rehabilitative
      approach in stroke survivors with severe walking impairment; however, the effect of training
      duration on behavioral outcomes is unknown.

      The objective of this study is to obtain critical pilot data on the effects of extended BLTT
      on walking speed, symmetry, and balance (static and dynamic), in chronic stroke survivors
      with baseline severe walking impairment, relative to forward treadmill training controls
      (FLTT).

      Aim 1. Determine the training-related effects of extended BLTT on overground walking speed
      (primary outcome) in survivors with severe walking impairment. To achieve this aim, we will
      compare the Pre-Post change in walking speed [10- meter walk test (10MWT)] between groups.
      The working hypothesis is that extended BLTT will increase walking speed to a clinically
      meaningful level (≥0.16m/s), compared to the control group (FLTT).

      Aim 2. Determine the effects of extended BLTT on walking symmetry and balance. The Zeno
      Walkway Gait Analysis software will capture Pre-Post changes in temporal gait symmetry index
      during the 10-MWT. Working hypothesis 2a: BLTT will be associated with a favorable
      improvement in the temporal symmetry index score. Proprioception and spinovestibular function
      will be measured with the modified Sensorineural Integration Test (mSIT), and dynamic balance
      will be assessed with the completion time on the instrumented Timed Up & Go (i- TUG). Working
      hypothesis 2b and c: BLTT will be associated with a favorable improvement Pre-Post mSIT(a)
      and completion time on the i-TUG (b).
    
  