
    
      While a number of therapeutic options exist for patients with breast cancer (BC), breast
      tumor biology is differs across tumors and not all BCs respond to treatment. Identifying a
      marker predicting response could spare non-responders unnecessary side effects, cost, and
      time. A recent example in BC is bevacizumab, an expensive anti-angiogenic monoclonal
      antibody, for which the FDA revoked approval for patients with metastatic BC. While this
      targeted therapy may benefit some patients, no appropriate predictive marker has been
      identified in the drug development process. An ideal biologic marker would be easy to
      perform, reliable, low-cost and non-invasive. A limitation of assessing tumor-based markers
      in metastatic BC is the inability to procure tumor tissue at different treatment times. To
      circumvent this issue, anti-cancer agents can be assessed pre-operatively, where women with
      newly diagnosed BC receive a study drug, alone or with chemotherapy, between diagnostic
      breast biopsy and surgical resection. In addition, tumor changes can be directly compared to
      modulation of non-invasive markers, such as functional radiographs or blood, to identify a
      non-invasive marker predicting tumor response.

      The investigators are conducting a neoadjuvant single-institution trial with the
      non-selective, inexpensive β -blocker propranolol with chemotherapy in locally advanced BC.
      β-blockade regulates angiogenesis in primary breast tumors. In these trials, the
      investigators plan to evaluate treatment-related microvascular response via changes in breast
      Diffuse Optical Tomography (DOT), a non-invasive, fast, safe, and inexpensive breast imaging
      tool. As the optical property contrast from endogenous chromophores (oxyhemoglobin,
      deoxyhemoglobin, water, and lipid) provides information on tissue vascularity, it can monitor
      response to anti-angiogenic agents. DOT changes occur as early as 1 week after starting
      pre-operative therapy. The dynamic DOT system incorporated in these trials is unique to
      Columbia University Medical Center (CUMC), as it has been designed by Columbia biomedical
      engineers. CUMC's laboratory collaborators have measured this DOT system with
      anti-angiogenesis agents in animal models, demonstrating the translational nature of this
      project. While non-dynamic DOT has been assessed in other neoadjuvant trials with small
      cohorts receiving heterogeneous chemotherapy agents, none have evaluated DOT response to
      anti-angiogenic agents.
    
  