
    
      Background: Over 100,000 Canadians are currently living with PD. Every year, 6.600 new cases
      are diagnosed and this number is expected to double by 2031. Most (98%) of those persons
      experience sleep problems, which can appear even before the onset of the cardinal motor
      symptoms of the disease, affecting multiple aspects of their QoL. Persons with PD also show
      alterations in sleep architecture, which have been associated with faster disease
      progression. Since medications used to reduce sleep problems in PD have potential adverse
      side effects, exercise has been proposed as a potential non-pharmacological alternative to
      improve sleep quality and architecture in people with PD. However, the most beneficial type
      of intervention to improve sleep in this clinical population is still to be determined.

      Objective: 1) To conduct a 12-week RCT comparing the effects of CT and RT on both objective
      and subjective measures of sleep quality and architecture in patients with mild-to-moderate
      PD; 2) To assess whether, regardless of the type of exercise, positive changes in sleep
      quality and architecture mediate exercise-induced improvements in cognitive and motor
      function as well as in different aspects that directly impact on QoL; 3) To explore whether,
      regardless of the type of exercise used, positive changes in sleep architecture will be
      associated with improvements in brain plasticity and motor learning.

      Design: a single-blinded RCT in which assessments will be performed at baseline (pre) and
      after (post) training by an assessor blinded to the participants' group allocation.

      Outcomes: 1) objective and subjective sleep quality as well as sleep architecture; 2)
      cognitive and motor function as well as fatigue, psychological functioning, and QoL; 3) motor
      learning and brain plasticity.

      Methods: Changes in objective (i.e. sleep efficiency) and subjective measures of sleep
      quality will be assessed with actigraphy and the PD sleep scale version 2, respectively.
      Sleep architecture will be measured with polysomnography. Motor and cognitive function will
      be assessed with the Unified PD Rating Scale and the Scale for Outcomes in PD-Cognition,
      respectively. Fatigue, psychosocial functioning and QoL will be assessed with the PD Fatigue
      Scale, the Scale for Outcomes in PD-Psychosocial and the PD QoL Scale, respectively. Motor
      learning will be assessed using a visuomotor tracking task; whereas brain plasticity will be
      measured with transcranial magnetic stimulation applied over the primary motor cortex.

      Expected results: 1) CT will be more effective than RT in improving objective and subjective
      sleep quality. RT and CT will be equally effective in improving sleep architecture; 2)
      Improvements in sleep quality and architecture will be associated with enhancements in
      cognition, motor function and different QoL-related aspects; 3) Positive changes in sleep
      architecture will mediated increases in brain plasticity and motor learning.

      Impact: This will be the first study comparing the effect of CT and RT on sleep quality and
      architecture and exploring associations with cognitive and motor function as well as aspects
      that directly impact QoL. The results of the study will provide important information to
      design more personalized exercise-based treatments, which are patient-oriented and aimed to
      mitigate sleep complains in this clinical population.
    
  