
    
      Balloon dilatation Eustachian tuboplasty has recently become a promising procedure for the
      treatment of refractory dilatory dysfunction of the Eustachian tube.

      Eustachian tube (ET) comprises an osseous intratemporal portion and a cartilaginous
      nasopharyngeal portion. It functions in pressure equalization, middle ear protection and
      clearance. Eustachian tube function can be adversely affected by viral and bacterial
      infections, adenoid disease, craniofacial anomalies, neoplasm, genetic predisposition,
      sinonasal disease and gastroesophageal reflux, leading to Eustachian tube dysfunction.

      it is now well known that the site of pathology is usually in the cartilaginous portion and
      not within the osseus portion.

      Chronic dilatory dysfunction of the Eustachian tube is estimated to be 1% of the adult
      population. Current medical and surgical treatment options for this pathophysiological
      disorder is still unsatisfactory, including nasal decongestants, topical and systematic
      corticosteroids, antihistamines and multiple insertions of ventilation tubes leading to
      complications.

      ET dysfunction can lead to impaired quality of life due to persistent sensation of ear
      fullness, ear pain and inability to tolerate air travel, diving or other activities. With
      time, Eustachian tube dysfunction, if left untreated can lead to complications such as
      conductive hearing loss and cholesteatoma formation. Recently, numerous researches have
      investigated the role of balloon tuboplasty. This procedure aims to ventilate and drain the
      middle ear by improving the physiological function of the eustachian tube and treating
      chronic refractory eustachian tube dysfunction.

      Eustachian tuboplasty by balloon dilation involves the recanalization of the cartilaginous
      portion of the ET via the nasopharynx with a balloon catheter. This catheter is inflated to
      multiple atmospheres of pressure for a short amount of time and then removed.

      The surgical technique, the optimal balloon diameter, pressure or duration of inflation are
      variable in the literature.

      Both cadaveric and clinical studies where done. Cadaveric studies revealed no evidence of
      fractures to the cartilaginous or bony lumen, and no damage to the internal carotid artery.
      Several clinical studies and many others that confirm the safety of eustachian tube balloon
      dilation and consider it as a potential solution for chronic eustachian tube dysfunction. A
      systematic review preformed in 2014 showed no adverse outcomes in 103 patients who had
      undergone balloon dilation of the Eustachian tube. Another more recent systematic review in
      2016 that included nine prospective studies, describing 713 eustachian tube balloon dilations
      in 474 patients confirm the safety of eustachian tube balloon dilation.

      In September 2016 the ACCLARENT AERA™ Eustachian Tube Balloon Dilation System, has been
      approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of Eustachian Tube
      Dysfunction (ETD) and was permitted for marketing.

      Even though the current data shows promising results and a potential benefit of this
      procedure, further evaluation is still needed in order to establish a higher level of
      evidence of efficacy and safety.
    
  