
    
      PROTOCOL I: Prospective Study of the outcome of conservative non-surgical management of
      patients with asymptomatic, clinically non-functioning (CNF) pituitary lesions. This protocol
      will evaluate prospectively the outcome of non-surgical management of clinically
      non-functioning pituitary lesions that do not appear to need surgery as their initial
      therapy. The overall design consists of an initial baseline evaluation and then serial
      prospective follow up studies over time for up to 5 years of follow up. The study will
      evaluate laboratory testing, clinical examinations, quality of life and neurocognitive
      function in these patients. Data will be collected on visual fields and MRI studies of the
      pituitary tumor that are done prospectively as part of clinical care to evaluate these
      patients.

      PROTOCOL II : Prospective study of the outcome of patients with symptomatic, clinically
      non-functioning pituitary tumors who are treated with transsphenoidal surgery and in some
      cases also radiotherapy. This protocol will evaluate prospectively the outcome of surgical
      management of asymptomatic clinically nonfunctioning pituitary lesions. The overall design
      consists of an initial baseline evaluation and then serial prospective follow up studies over
      time with up to 5 years of follow up. The study will evaluate laboratory testing, clinical
      examinations, quality of life and neurocognitive function in these patients. Data will also
      be collected on visual fields and MRI studies of the pituitary tumor that are done
      prospectively as part of clinical care to evaluate these patients. Data will be analyzed to
      determine the safety of observation alone following surgery for patients who do not have a
      clinically significant tumor remnant, if the silent corticotroph tumor type is characterized
      by elevated plasma levels of ACTH or its precursor, POMC, and if it is associated with an
      increased tumor recurrence rate. A group of patients who are planning RT will also be studied
      by these same procedures before and after RT in order to determine if the outcomes of
      patients who receive RT for treatment of tumor re-growth to that of those who do not receive
      RT with respect to further tumor growth, endocrine or neurological dysfunction. Quality of
      life and neurocognitive function in patients with clinically non-functioning pituitary
      lesions treated with surgery alone or those who also receive radiotherapy will be
      prospectively assessed.
    
  