
    
      Bone fractures or bone loss in specific sites are cases where a bone graft is sometimes
      needed to provide bone augmentation. For bone fractures, these are typically metaphyseal or
      maxillofacial fractures with risk of malunion or non-union. Bone loss can happen under
      various circumstances: it can be a consequence of a systemic disease like osteoporosis or of
      a surgical intervention like the extraction of a tooth or the removal of a bone cyst or
      tumor.

      When a bone graft is required the gold standard still widely used is autogenous cancellous
      bone. However, the graft harvesting procedure is invasive and increases patient morbidity
      (lengthened surgical procedure, increased risk of infection). Moreover, the availability of
      autologous grafts is limited, especially in elderly patients. This has been the rationale for
      studying alternative sources for bone grafts.

      The first alternative is allografts: they are usually obtained from cadavers. The advantages
      include elimination of a patient donor site, hence reduced surgical time and decreased blood
      loss and risk of infection. The principal shortcomings are the availability, the possible
      rejection of the graft and the risk of disease transmission.

      Grafts of animal origin (xenografts) are also an option, even though not totally risk-free
      when it comes to disease transmission.

      A third alternative to autologous bone is to use synthetic materials. Extensive research has
      been performed to develop such materials since the 80's. The majority of them are based on
      calcium phosphate compounds, made up of the same ions as those of the natural mineral phase
      of bone. These products are readily available, eliminate the risk of disease transmission or
      immunogenic response (allografts) and bypass the need for an additional surgical procedure
      (autografts). These materials are presented under either of the three forms: granules,
      pre-formed blocks or cements.

      Granules and pre-formed blocks are generally made up of β-TCP, Hydroxyapatite (HA), or a mix
      of both. Depending mainly on their chemical composition, their manufacturing process and
      their porosity, they degrade more or less rapidly.

      Calcium phosphate cements consist generally of a liquid and a powder which harden upon
      mixing. The final product phase can be hydroxyapatite, or another calcium phosphate phase
      like dahllite or brushite. The advantage of cements over pre-formed blocks is that they can
      be injected, shaped and hardened in situ, ensuring optimum bone-implant contact and minimally
      invasive surgery. Once hardened, they exhibit cohesive properties that granules cannot
      provide. Most of the calcium phosphate cements available on the market are hydroxyapatite
      cements. However, for some applications like periodontitis or peri-implant gap filling, their
      resorption rate is too slow, hampering their clinical applicability for these indications.
      The advantage of the brushite phase in the hardened cement is that it degrades faster than
      hydroxyapatite, allowing a more rapid bone regeneration. The purpose of this study is to
      evaluate the efficacy of "PD" VitalOs Cement as a primary stabilizer and bone augmenting
      source in dental implantology.
    
  