
    
      The aim of this project is comparable to the diagnostic imaging goals of the WHO including 1)
      make safe and reliable diagnostic imaging services available to as many as possible; 2)
      advise, guide and support those working in the field developing and maintaining diagnostic
      imaging services; 3) promote the importance of safe and appropriate diagnostic imaging
      services (WHO, 2007).

      This project will use teleultrasound to rapidly diagnose and rule-out abdominal,
      retroperitoneal, and pelvic pathologies within the sole government-run ambulatory clinic of
      Veron, Dominican Republic. The clinic's patient records as well as the expert opinion of the
      clinic's physicians indicate a need for this diagnostic modality. These sources indicate a
      number of individuals with symptomologies suggestive of abdominal, retroperitoneal, and
      pelvic pathology including fever, abdominal pain, abdominal tenderness, abnormal menses, etc.
      (see appendix D). Given the large number of construction projects and transportation
      accidents within this area, it is not uncommon for individuals to present with blunt
      abdominal trauma. Combine these reasons and other patient indications with the clinic's
      remote location and the difficulty and/or resistance of members within this community to
      undergo timely radiological evaluation, and the utility of telesonography becomes immediately
      recognizable.

      If the use of telesonography within this setting is shown to be feasible through this work,
      future projects will center on the education of native Dominican health care providers
      regarding the use and long-term operation of telesonography. This study could serve as a
      gateway to the permanent establishment of high-quality telesonography within this region of
      the DR. This project could also serve to augment the medical and technological knowledge of
      both the native health care workers and visiting U.S. medical students.

      This study will contribute to the body of knowledge on telesonography by determining to what
      extent this technology can improve the standard of patient care within this setting. The
      results of this study will have implications to the practice of medicine within Veron and
      similar settings within the developing world. The further development of telesonography
      within this setting is important because it may improve the efficiency of health care through
      increased diagnoses, decreased time to diagnoses, and increased continuity of care.

      While this pilot study focuses mainly on transabdominal evaluation of abdominal,
      retroperitoneal, and pelvic structures, long-term use of telesonography at the clinic could
      expand to include regular fetal monitoring, vascular studies, and perhaps interventional
      procedures granted the clinic physicians are provided with the appropriate training. Given
      the majority of health disparities within the DR are related to maternal, pre/perinatal, and
      circulatory pathologies, using telesonography to target these specific abnormalities will be
      the ultimate goal of a continuing telemedical presence.
    
  