
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is an umbrella term encompassing two entities
      causing progressive and ultimately disabling breathlessness. Emphysema is a process
      destructive of the airspaces distal to the terminal bronchioles, with loss of gas exchange
      tissue, of elastic recoil and of circumferential tethering of the small airways leading to
      their collapse on forced expiration. Chronic bronchitis is a disorder of the bronchi causing
      excess production and impaired mobilisation of mucus. Increased parasympathetic tone and
      progressive remodelling of airways impairs response to bronchodilators. Static and dynamic
      hyperinflation with a persistently expanded chest and flattened diaphragms despite increasing
      use of accessory respiratory muscles results in a disadvantaged respiratory pump.

      Patients with severe emphysema and hyperinflation may benefit from lung volume reduction
      techniques designed to reduce gas trapping and to improve airflow, chest wall and lung
      mechanics. The best evidence exists for lung volume reduction surgery (LVRS), which however
      is not without risk and there is increasing interest in the development of bronchoscopic lung
      volume reduction (BLVR) techniques including emplacement of intra-bronchial valves and
      bronchoscopic instillation of blood products, which have been shown individually to improve
      lung function, exercise capacity, and quality of life.

      Most of the experience in bronchoscopic lung volume reduction has been with endobronchial
      valves which were introduced in 2001. One-way valves are inserted into segmental airways to
      deflate the most emphysematous lobes of the lung, allowing compromised lesser diseased tissue
      to expand and regain its function. Reduction of hyperinflation and improved lung function,
      exercise capacity, and quality of life, have been observed using the intra-bronchial valve
      (IBV Valve System) by Olympus in patients with upper lobe-predominant emphysema. These
      improvements are most pronounced in those with radiologically intact lobar fissures, a
      surrogate observation thought to indicate an absence of collateral ventilation, which can be
      confirmed using the Chartis balloon catheter system. A combined approach of CT fissure
      analysis and Chartis measurement is suggested to ensure the appropriate selection of
      patients.

      Bronchoscopic instillation of biological agents such as fibrinogen, thrombin or autologous
      blood into the sub-segmental airways induces lung volume reduction initially by airway
      obstruction and resorption atelectasis followed by a localised inflammatory reaction leading
      to tissue remodelling at the alveolar level, with fibrosis and contraction of the target
      lobe. Unlike the intra-bronchial valve, collateral ventilation is not an issue, seeming not
      to influence the outcome. The cost compares favourably with that of prosthetic implants.
      Preliminary data from phase 1 and 2 trials using fibrinogen and thrombin in patients with
      upper lobe-predominant emphysema demonstrated improvements in lung function, exercise
      capacity, and quality of life scores up to 6 months with a trend towards better outcomes in
      those receiving 20mls (versus 10mls) to each of eight sub-segmental sites (four per upper
      lobe). Most patients experienced a self-limiting inflammatory reaction characterised by
      fever, malaise, shortness of breath, pleuritic chest pain and/or leucocytosis within 24
      hours. 11 of 50 patients (22%) in phase 2 experienced a procedure-related COPD exacerbation
      comparable to other forms of endoscopic lung volume reduction. Similar physiological and
      symptomatic outcomes were observed in patients with homogeneous emphysema with 20mls (versus
      10mls) per sub-segment instillation. Bakeer et al compared bronchoscopic lung volume
      reduction in patients with heterogeneous emphysema using autologous blood (n=7) with fibrin
      glue (n=8). At 12 weeks, statistically significant improvements in hyperinflation, lung
      function, exercise capacity (6MWT), and quality of life scores were observed in both groups.
      COPD exacerbations were fewer compared to earlier studies, which the authors suggest may be
      due to the use of a triple lumen balloon catheter protecting surrounding sub-segments from
      overspill and unintended inflammatory responses.

      The prospect of broadening the eligibility for intra-bronchial valve implantation to include
      those with collateral ventilation treated with autologous blood is attractive and not yet
      studied.

      Furthermore, the mechanisms of actions of intra-bronchial valves and of autologous blood
      instillation are not fully understood and may extend beyond lung volume reduction. In valve
      procedures where volume reduction has not been achieved, clinically meaningful improvements
      in quality of life independent of lung function have been described. Recruitment of
      compressed lung, restoration of elastic recoil and redirection of airflow are some of the
      postulated effects that are likely to involve the small airways. This may be investigated,
      for example, with multiple breath nitrogen washout (MBNW) which is a sensitive marker of
      small airways disease and can measure ventilation inhomogeneity, functional residual capacity
      and estimate trapped gas volumes. Impulse oscillometry (IOS) yields information on airway
      resistance and reactance (a measure of compliance) and distinguishes between large and small
      airway resistance.
    
  