
    
      Specific Aims:

        1. To compare the individual phenotypes (emotion/behaviors, attention, impulsivity, etc.),
           endophenotypes (neurocognitive and social cognitive function, brain imaging), and
           genotypes, and growing environments (prenatal and developmental history, family, school,
           and social functions) among ASD, ADHD, and normal children to search for etiologies and
           developmental psychopathologies for ASD and ADHD and to test the discriminative validity
           of /between ASD and ADHD; and

        2. To examine whether the correlations and interactions among/within behavioral phenotypes,
           endophenotypes, genotypes, and environments vary across the three groups.

      This 3-year program project consists of three projects investigating a sample, aged 8-17
      years, of 100ASD, 100ADHD, and 100 normally developing children and adolescents.

        1. Using diagnostic interviews, observation, self-administered questionnaires, social
           cognitive tests (emotion recognition test, mentalizing test) and neurocognitive tests
           (CANTAB, CPT, WCST, WISC-III-R, Émbedded Figure Test, Global-local Perception Test), we
           will collect data from 300 subjects (100 for each group) regarding individual (phenotype
           & endophenotype) and growing environments.

        2. Using Diffusion Spectrum Imaging, resting-state functional MRI (fMRI), cognitive fMRI
           (fMRI- semantic association test, fMRI-stroop test), and template, we will collect brain
           imaging data from 90 subjects regarding individual endophenotype.

        3. We will collect the blood samples to establish the cell lines and to conduct SNP
           genotyping, haplotype, and copy number variation analysis.

      With accomplishment of this project, we will not only establish the genotypes for phenotype
      and endophenotype of general characteristics and assist identifying pathogenesis of ASD and
      ADHD, but also contribute the etiological studies on several adult psychiatric disorders in
      future prospective follow-up of this cohort.
    
  