
    
      Methods Setting and Materials This study was conducted at the Center for Learning and Health,
      a treatment-research unit at the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center, Baltimore, MD. The
      therapeutic workplace included a workplace sign-in station and urinalysis laboratory, and
      three workrooms (and associated staff space) where training occurred. When participants
      arrived at the workplace each day, they reported to the workplace sign-in station located at
      the entrance to the urinalysis laboratory. Staff sat on the laboratory side of the entrance
      at the workplace sign-in station desk, which was equipped with a Dell personal computer and
      electronic barcode reader (Unitech速 Barcode Slot Reader model # MS140I-2, St Louis, MO).

      Urine and breath samples were collected and tested in the urinalysis laboratory. Breath
      samples were tested for alcohol with the AlcoSensor III (Intoximeter, St. Louis, MO). Females
      provided urine samples directly into Commode Specimen Containers (Catalog #00077, Sage
      Products, Inc., Crystal Lake, IL) that were placed directly on the toilet. The urine samples
      were then temperature tested and transferred to storage cups. Males provided samples directly
      into paper cups, which were then temperature tested and transferred to storage cups. All
      urine samples were temperature tested using an F-1500 Electronic Thermometer (Sherwood
      Medical, St. Louis, MO). The urinalysis laboratory contained an Abbott AxSYM速 immunoassay
      system for urine testing. The AxSYM速 employs fluorescent polarization immunoassay (FPIA)
      technology (Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, IL).

      Participants received the therapeutic workplace training programs in three workrooms (a total
      of 161 m2) that contained a total of 47 individual three-sided workstations (155 cm tall x 64
      cm deep x 126 cm wide). Each workstation was equipped with a desktop (60 cm deep x 121 cm
      wide); a height adjustable chair with arms; a Dell personal computer, keyboard and mouse.
      Keyboards were covered with removable plastic covers (Protect Keyboard Cover, West Bountiful,
      UT) that were painted black that so that the letters on the keys could not be read while
      typing. Each participant was given a water bottle, headphones for listening to music CDs
      during training on the personal computer, a cooler for storing lunch, and picture frames to
      personalize the workstation.

      The three workrooms opened into a central area (31 m2) where the workroom assistants sat to
      monitor the activities of participants in the workrooms. Participants had to pass through the
      central staff area to enter and leave the workrooms. The central area was equipped with three
      desks, each with a personal computer. Each desk also was equipped with a Unitech速 electronic
      barcode slot reader.

      All of the participant and staff computers were interconnected through a high-speed (T1) line
      to central Dell PowerEdge servers. All of the typing, keypad and data entry training
      programs; monitoring of the work time and earnings; and the voucher system were controlled by
      a custom web-based therapeutic workplace software application program that resided on one of
      the PowerEdge servers (Silverman et al., 2005).

      Recruitment and Participant Selection The Western Institutional Review Board approved this
      study. Participants were enrolled in this study from April 2003 to November 2003. To recruit
      participants, flyers and letters were distributed to 11 Baltimore City methadone programs
      inviting unemployed adults in methadone treatment to apply to enroll in a study that provided
      job skills training and monetary vouchers. Research staff also visited the methadone
      treatment programs to describe the study to methadone treatment staff (e.g., counselors).

      Interested individuals who approached or called research staff first completed an anonymous
      brief screening interview in which they were asked 8 questions designed to determine quickly
      if they might be eligible for the study. Some of the questions were added to conceal the
      eligibility requirements. The interview asked the individuals' age, marital status,
      employment status, drugs and routes of administration used in the past 30 days, what type of
      drug abuse treatment they currently receive, whether they receive welfare benefits, how much
      they earned through employment in the past 30 days, and whether they have any of several
      medical conditions (e.g., asthma, HIV). Brief screening interviews were conducted over the
      phone, in person at the methadone treatment programs, or in person at the Center for Learning
      and Health. Applicants were invited to participate in a full screening interview if they
      reported that they were 18 years or older, were unemployed, injected heroin or cocaine, used
      cocaine or crack in the past 30 days, and if they were currently enrolled in methadone
      maintenance treatment in Baltimore City.

      Full screening interview. At the beginning of the full screening interview, participants were
      invited to sign the initial screening consent form. Participants were required to pass a
      written quiz about the details of the consent form to participate. Participants were also
      required to read a paragraph of the consent form aloud and to read at least 80% of the words
      correctly to continue in the full screening interview.

      Baseline period. Eligible participants were invited to attend the workplace for 4 hours every
      weekday for 8 weeks. Mandatory urine samples were collected prior to work every Monday,
      Wednesday and Friday. All samples were tested for cocaine and opiates. During the first 4
      weeks, participants could attend the workplace independent of their urinalysis results and
      earn a base pay of $8.00 per hour plus pay for performance on training programs. To encourage
      brief breaks, participants could earn 5 minutes of paid break for every 55 minutes worked.
      Pay was earned in vouchers exchangeable for goods and services. At the end of baseline,
      participants who attended the workplace at least 50% of the workdays, provided at least two
      cocaine-positive urine samples, and were still enrolled in methadone treatment were invited
      to participate in the main randomized controlled portion of the study. Other participants
      could continue to work for 4 additional weeks, but were required to provide urine samples
      that indicated recent abstinence from opiates and cocaine to work.

      Experimental Design and Groups Stratification and random assignment. Participants enrolled in
      the main study (N = 56) were randomly assigned to the Work Only (n = 28) or Abstinence & Work
      (n = 28) group. Immediately prior to actual assignment, a study coordinator, who did not have
      direct contact with participants, randomized participants using a computer program and a
      stratification procedure (similar to Silverman et al., 2004) based on a) whether 75% or more
      of the participant's baseline urine samples tested positive for cocaine (Y/N), and b) whether
      100% of the participant's baseline urine samples tested positive for cocaine (Y/N).

      Study groups. Both groups were invited to attend the workplace throughout a 26-week
      intervention period. Participants in both groups continued to provide mandatory urine samples
      and could earn base and performance pay. Both groups also received the same feedback as to
      the results of the urinalysis testing. The two groups differed only in that participants in
      the Abstinence & Work group were required to provide urine samples that indicated recent
      cocaine abstinence (i.e., decreased urinary benzoylecgonine concentration of 20% per day from
      the last sample provided or benzoylecgonine concentration at or below 300 ng/mL; adapted from
      procedures developed by Preston, Schuster, Silverman & Cone, 1997) to gain access to the
      workplace and to maintain the maximum base pay of $8.00 per hour. If the participant ever
      provided a urine sample that did not meet the criteria for recent cocaine abstinence or if
      the participant failed to provide a scheduled sample, the participant was not allowed to work
      that day and the participant's base pay was decreased to $1.00 per hour. In addition, the
      participant was required to provide a urine sample every workday until the participant
      provided a sample that met the abstinence requirement. After a participant's base pay was
      reset, it increased by $1.00 per hour to a maximum of $8.00 per hour for every day that the
      participant met the cocaine abstinence requirement and worked at least 5 minutes. The voucher
      system and the schedule of escalating reinforcement for sustained abstinence and workplace
      attendance was adapted from a system developed by Higgins et al., 1991.

      General Workplace Procedures Urine collection, testing and feedback. After signing into the
      workplace on mandatory urine days (typically Monday, Wednesday and Friday of each week),
      participants were required to provide a urine and breath sample under observation by a
      same-gender research staff member. Urine collection was performed using well-developed and
      elaborate urine-collection procedures designed to ensure the collection of valid urine
      samples. Urine samples were tested for cocaine and opiates.

      For participants who had to provide evidence of recent cocaine abstinence to enter the
      workroom, immediately after the participant provided the urine sample, the sample was tested
      and the results (i.e., the quantitative value in ng/mL for benzoylecgonine and the
      dichotomous result of negative or positive for opiates) were entered into the therapeutic
      workplace software. The software automatically determined whether or not the sample met the
      cocaine abstinence criterion for that day, displayed a message reporting the result of that
      determination, and printed a feedback graph to be given to the participant. The feedback
      graph showed on a log scale the benzoylecgonine concentrations of all samples provided by the
      participant over consecutive calendar days, along with a line indicating the criterion for
      cocaine abstinence for each of the days. In addition, a text box was printed to the side of
      the graph that indicated the results for the current day including the benzoylecgonine
      concentration, whether the sample tested negative or positive for opiates, and if the
      participant was granted access to the workplace. If the sample met the cocaine abstinence
      requirement, the sign-in station assistant gave the participant his or her bar-coded picture
      ID card to bring to the workroom assistant to gain entrance to the participant's workroom.

      During conditions in which there were no contingencies on cocaine abstinence to gain access
      to the workplace (i.e., during the baseline period and during the intervention period for the
      Work Only participants), immediately after a participant provided a urine sample and before
      the sample was tested, the sign-in station assistant handed the participant his or her
      bar-coded picture ID card to bring to the workroom assistant to gain entrance to the
      participant's workroom. Later that day, the participant's sample was tested, the results were
      entered into the therapeutic workplace software, and a feedback graph (identical to the one
      described above) was printed and delivered to the participant.
    
  