
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the recommended phase II dose of gefitinib when administered in combination
           with oxaliplatin in patients with metastatic or locally recurrent colorectal cancer.

        -  Determine the dose-limiting toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Compare the time to progression, objective response rate, and median and overall
           survival in patients treated with oxaliplatin with or without gefitinib.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study of gefitinib followed by a phase II
      randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to ECOG performance status
      (0 vs 1-2).

        -  Phase I: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral gefitinib once
           daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of gefitinib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive oxaliplatin as in arm I and oral gefitinib once daily at
                the MTD on days 1-21.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients in arm II with stable or responding disease
      after 6 courses may continue to receive gefitinib alone until disease progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 77 patients (9 for phase I and 68 for phase II) will be
      accrued for this study within 12-14 months.
    
  