
    
      This study recruits people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWH) aged 40 and older; and an
      HIV-uninfected age and gender-matched, community-based comparison group in the HIV clinic
      catchment area.

      Study investigators will collect sociodemographic, clinical, immune activation, systemic
      inflammation, plasma and stool microbiome, and clinical pulmonary and cardiovascular disease
      measures. Our outcomes of interest are measures of carotid atherosclerosis, including carotid
      intima media thickness and presence of plaque, prior ischemic heart disease (as measured by
      electrocardiograms), peripheral arterial disease (as measured by ankle-branchial index), and
      lung function as measured by pulmonary function testing. Our exposures of interest are
      traditional cardiovascular disease risk factors (e.g. age, gender, family history of
      cardiovascular disease, smoking history, diet, activity, body mass index, prevalence of
      diabetes, and prevalence of hypertension) and HIV-related cardiovascular risk factors (e.g.
      nadir CD4 count, ART duration and regimen, gut and plasma microbiome composition, and markers
      of both immune activation and systemic inflammation).

      Investigators will collect this data to accomplish the following aims:

      Aim 1: Compare the prevalence of atherosclerosis, measured by cIMT, ankle-brachial index, and
      presence of q-waves on electrocardiogram, in PLWH taking ART aged 40 and older and age and
      gender-matched, population-based HIV-uninfected controls. This study aims to be among the
      first to capture high-quality measures of atherosclerotic disease among a population of PLWH
      in sub-Saharan Africa. The study aims to test the hypothesis that older-age Ugandans on ART
      will have thicker carotid intima media, higher prevalence of peripheral arterial disease, and
      higher prevalence of pathologic q-waves on electrocardiogram than age and gender-matched,
      HIV-uninfected controls.

      Aim 2: Evaluate correlates of atherosclerosis in older-age PLWH on ART, including both
      traditional (age, gender, smoking, diabetes and hypertension prevalence) and HIV-related risk
      factors (immune activation, systemic inflammation, and stool and plasma microbiome
      composition). The study will leverage a collaboration with the Ragon Institute to perform
      immunologic and molecular testing for microbial translocation and markers of immune
      activation and systemic inflammation (e.g. soluble CD163, C-reactive protein, IL-6, CD8+
      T-lymphocyte activation).

      Aim 3: Compare the progression of atherosclerosis in PLWH versus HIV-uninfected individuals
      over five years of observation time. The study aims to test the hypothesis that the rate of
      change in carotid intima media thickness will be faster in among PLWH over 45 on ART than age
      and gender-matched HIV-uninfected controls, and that rates of change in carotid intima media
      thickness among the HIV-infected cohort will be associated with markers of microbial
      translocation, immune activation, and systemic inflammation.

      Aim 4: Compare the prevalence and incidence of abnormal pulmonary function (FEV1, FVC,
      FEV1/FVC) in PLWH on ART and age- and gender-matched, population-based HIV-uninfected
      controls, utilizing handheld spirometry with bronchodilator challenge. The study aims to test
      the hypothesis that pulmonary function is worse and COPD is more common among people living
      with HIV/AIDS than age- and gender-match HIV-uninfected controls.
    
  