
    
      Aims:

      This study will evaluate a new stereotactic device (D1 stereotactic system) designed to
      address shortcomings of current stereotactic systems by using a novel surface-mounted
      stereotactic system that is comparatively small, lightweight, user-friendly, and comparable
      in precision and accuracy to current clinical systems.

      Methods:

      Subjects will be recruited exclusively from adult subjects with a neurological disease. These
      subjects will be identified preoperatively from DBS clinical subjects. Each subject will
      undergo an evaluation by the Mayo Clinic Deep Brain Stimulation Committee (comprised of
      neurologists, neuropsychologists, psychiatrists, neurosurgeons, and radiologists) to receive
      a DBS surgery at Mayo Clinic - Rochester for the treatment of a neurological disease. All
      subjects will be pre-screened against the standard Mayo Clinic inclusion/exclusion criteria
      for DBS surgery through face-to-face interviews. Once a subject has been identified, the
      Study Coordinator will contact the subject for interest in participation in the study.

      Step-by-Step Schedule:

      Skull Anchor Key Attachment Location: St. Mary Hospital - Subject Preparation Room

        1. Superior portion of the head, the hair is clipped off in the area where Skull Anchor Key
           would be placed. The clipped area and surrounding region is prepped in usual sterile
           fashion. This begins subject participation in the protocol.

        2. The MR Localizer Box is placed upside down and the Skull Anchor Key is placed within its
           slot in the MR Localizer Box and screwed in using MR compatible screws.

        3. The apparatus is positioned on the subject head and allowed to rest such that the Skull
           Anchor Key is midline and the ear bars lie parallel to the external auditory meatus
           taking caution to prevent the bottom surface of the Skull Anchor Key or the safety caps
           from becoming non sterile.

        4. The Z value of the ear bars is adjusted such that the ear probes are at same horizontal
           level as the external auditory meatus. The ear bars are gently pushed into the external
           auditory meatus on both sides such that it is snug but comfortable to the subject.
           (NOTE: If required, the Y position of the ear bars may be readjusted at this step in
           situations such as the anterior N fiducial bars hitting the forehead of the subject).

        5. After confirming accurate initial placement of the MR Localizer Box, the sites of skull
           screw and pins placement are marked using a surgical pen with the guide Skull Anchor Key
           which has holes instead of screws and pins acting as reference guide. The MR Localizer
           Box is then removed and each of the pen marked site receives an injection of local
           anesthetic.

        6. Following local anesthetic application, the ear bars are removed from the ear while an
           assistant supports the MR Localizer Box. The MR Localizer Box is gradually lowered to
           allow the pins to penetrate scalp until it rests on the bone. At this point, titanium
           self-tapping screws are gently screwed in through the hole on each of the 2 angled legs
           of the Skull Anchor Key until the Skull Anchor Key is level and secure.

        7. The subject is then transferred to the MR/CT Imaging Facility for target planning.

      MRI Acquisition and Target Planning Location: St. Mary Hospital - Neuroradiology Facility

        1. Once in MR suite, the subject rests their head in a custom made MR headrest which sits
           within the lower portion of RF coil. The headrest holds the axis of MR Localizer Box
           parallel to the axis of MR gantry and allows the frame to be held securely during the MR
           imaging.

        2. The subject is positioned in a MR scanner in a supine position.

        3. An anatomical image volume is acquired. The field of view region is adjusted to ensure
           the MR Localizer Box fiducials are visible in the MR images and then all images are
           acquired.

        4. The images are then transferred to the surgical planning computer.

        5. Following image acquisition, the images are reviewed by the surgical team to judge
           whether they are suitable for surgical planning. (If found unsuitable, the imaging and
           review is repeated.) Once satisfactory images are obtained, the subject is moved to the
           subject preparation room where the MR Localizer Box is detached from the KEY.

        6. A DBS surgical plan, comprised of the electrode stereotactic target coordinates and an
           optimal trajectory is created by the navigational software. The plan is documented and
           shared with the surgical team.

        7. The subject is then transferred to the operating room for DBS electrode implantation.

      DBS Electrode Implantation Location: St. Mary Hospital - Operating Room

        1. The subject is shifted to the operating room.

        2. The D1 stereotactic device is attached to the Skull Anchor Key and the X, Y, Z, Arc and
           Collar angles will be adjusted based on MR planned coordinates.

        3. Standard procedure is followed for making the incision and burr hole, putting in the DBS
           electrode, electrophysiologic target confirmation (as required) and securing the
           electrode in place.

        4. A C-arm is then used to obtain a lateral view radiograph to confirm correct placement of
           the DBS electrode as assessed by the alignment of the tip of the DBS electrode with
           X-ray reticules on the stereotactic device.

        5. Above steps are repeated for additional DBS electrode insertion.

        6. After securing the last DBS electrode the stereotactic device is removed from the KEY.
           All DBS electrodes are then coiled and secured under the skin or are tunneled beneath
           the skin of the scalp and neck for battery placement as currently practiced. All
           surgical incisions are then sutured.

        7. The CT Localizer Box is attached to the Skull Anchor Key to acquire a post-operative CT
           scan.

        8. The subject is then transferred to the Neuroradiology Facility for post-operative CT
           imaging.

      CT Confirmation and CT Localizer Box and KEY Removal Location: St. Mary Hospital -
      Neuroradiology Facility

        1. With the subject in the CT imaging room the subject is positioned supine in the CT
           scanner to acquire a postoperative anatomical image volume to confirm the placement of
           the DBS electrode placement using planning software normally used for neurosurgical
           procedures.

        2. Immediately following the CT scan, the subject is taken to the preparation room for
           removal of the CT Localizer Box, the Skull Anchor Key, and post-removal treatments. The
           self-tapping titanium screws are removed and the surgical site is treated appropriately.

      Power Statement:

      This is a pilot study with a unique subject cohort.

      Data Analysis Plan:

      The effectiveness of the D1 Stereotactic System in accurately implanting DBS electrodes in
      adults approved for DBS surgery at Mayo Clinic for treatment of a neurological disease will
      be evaluated by analyzing the following:

        1. A 3D Euclidian distance error between the MR planned coordinate (XP, YP, ZP) and CT
           confirmed actual DBS coordinate (XA, YA, ZA) will be calculated. The 3D distance error
           comparable or lower to conventional system will be accounted as success criteria.
           Unpaired t-test will be used to determine whether the difference is significantly
           different or not.

        2. A trajectory accuracy will be determined by comparing Collar Angle (CA) and Arc Angle
           (AA) between MR planned angles (CAP and AAP) and CT confirmed actual angles (CAA and
           AAA). The non-significant difference between MR planned and CT confirmed angles will be
           accounted as success criteria. Paired t-test will be used for 10 patient data.

        3. Operating room time will be counted and compared to conventional procedure (using
           Leksell frame). The average operating room time will be compared between conventional
           procedure and D1 Stereotactic System procedure. Significantly lower operating room time
           will be accounted as success criteria.

        4. Comfort level questionnaire will be given to each subject after DBS surgery and removal
           of the device to assess their overall experience with device and surgery.

      Data Exclusion Criteria: If any surgical plan is changed in operating room (i.e., target
      coordinate, trajectory), the data will be excluded. However, the change of DBS electrode
      depth will be accounted as valid data.
    
  