
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the response rate of AIDS-related lymphoma to ProMACE-CytaBOM
      (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, etoposide, prednisone, cytarabine, bleomycin, vincristine,
      methotrexate). II. Assess the toxic effects of ProMACE-CytaBOM in patients with AIDS-related
      lymphoma. III. Evaluate whether the incorporation of filgrastim (G-CSF) into the regimen
      allows treatment with full doses of the myelotoxic agents in these patients. IV. Determine
      whether intensive CNS treatment with intrathecal cytarabine and whole-brain irradiation
      prevents meningeal relapse or controls meningeal lymphomatous involvement in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to participating institution and descriptive
      factors: histopathology (diffuse large cleaved/noncleaved and immunoblastic lymphomas vs all
      others), CD4 count (less than 50 vs 50 or more cells/mm3), prior opportunistic infection (yes
      vs no), performance status (0 and 1 vs 2), concurrent AZT (yes vs no), concurrent protease
      inhibitors (yes vs no), marrow involvement (yes vs no). Patients receive ProMACE-CytaBOM
      regimen as follows: Cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and etoposide IV on day 1 Cytarabine,
      bleomycin, vincristine, and methotrexate IV on day 8 Oral prednisone on days 1-14 Oral
      leucovorin calcium every 6 hours for 4 doses on day 9 Patients also receive filgrastim
      (G-CSF) subcutaneously on days 9-20 and oral co-trimoxazole 3 days a week throughout
      treatment, plus antiretroviral therapy at the discretion of the treating physician. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for a maximum of 6 courses. Patients with progressive disease are
      removed from study after 2 courses. Remaining patients receive an additional 2 treatment
      courses and are then restaged. Patients without stable or progressive disease receive 2 more
      courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients with positive bone marrow at study
      entry receive CNS prophylaxis with 5 evenly spaced doses of intrathecal cytarabine during the
      first 2 treatment courses and on day 1 of each subsequent course. Patients with positive CSF
      cytology at study entry receive intrathecal cytarabine on days 1-5 of the first treatment
      course and on day 1 of each subsequent course if CSF negative after 5 daily doses. Patients
      whose CSF remains positive after 5 days receive 5 evenly spaced doses of intrathecal
      methotrexate during the second treatment course. Patients with negative bone marrow and CSF
      cytology at study entry receive 5 evenly spaced doses of intrathecal cytarabine within 1
      month of systemic therapy. All patients achieving a complete or partial response following
      systemic therapy and intrathecal cytarabine receive cranial irradiation to all meningeal
      surfaces. Patients are followed monthly for 1 year, every 2 months for 1 year, every 3 months
      for 1 year, then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study over approximately 2
      years.
    
  