
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the major cause of death in most industrialized and
      developing countries. Links between genetic and dietary factors that modify the risk of CHD
      should give fundamental insight into its causes and improve population-based CHD prevention
      strategies.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study will identify genes that modulate the association between dietary fatty acids (FAs)
      and myocardial infarction (MI). The study uses DNA samples obtained during a
      population-based, case-control study in Costa Rica of 2,150 subjects who experienced
      myocardial infarctions and 2,150 matched controls. Biochemical measurements, dietary data,
      and general information are available for this population. One unique aspect of the study is
      that adipose tissue biomarkers of polyunsaturated FAs will be used to evaluate dietary
      exposure variables. Adipose tissue biomarkers (i.e., alpha-linolenic and linoleic acid) are
      very good indicators of intake in this population. Furthermore, this study showed that
      increased levels of these biomarkers in adipose tissue are strongly associated with decreased
      risk of MI, whereas an increase in 18:2 trans FAs increase the risk of MI. Gene-diet
      association studies and a "candidate pathway" approach will be used to elucidate genetic
      mechanisms that link risk of MI with exposure to polyunsaturated FAs [including cis and trans
      isomers of linoleic acid (n-6), and alpha-linolenic acid (n-3)]. The focus will be on
      peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) genes, and PPAR-regulated genes, that are
      involved in vascular inflammation. Among controls, the investigators will examine whether
      genetic and dietary factors independently affect biochemical markers (phenotypes) of the
      proposed genes. They will also test whether these phenotypes are more clearly identified when
      genetic and dietary factors are examined together. Because polyunsaturated FAs are important
      as activators of PPARs and their capacity to regulate gene expression at the level of
      transcription, this metabolic system is a suitable candidate for the study.
    
  