
    
      A prospective, simulation-based, randomised controlled trial was conducted. Participants were
      randomised to the video group watched a video-recorded lecture on the management of adult
      cardiac arrest, while participants randomised to the game group played a serious game on the
      same topic.

      The video was developed based on a previously recorded Keynote presentation (version 6.6.2,
      Apple Inc.) with the addition of voice-over narration of the events. The video was edited to
      contain the same information as provided in the serious game. The learning environment
      simulated an urban public space where the player should identify a victim of cardiac arrest
      and perform CPR manoeuvres. The game was designed to be a CPR self-learning tool for both
      health professionals and the lay public. The game involved only one rescuer without access to
      a portable defibrillator. During the game, the player should identify the victim, diagnose
      cardiac arrest correctly and initiate CPR as early as possible. The actions of the player
      were guided throughout the game by step-by-step instructions that should be followed to save
      the victim's life and to score on the game. Whenever the manoeuvres were not performed
      correctly, the victim died and the game automatically restarted from the beginning.

      After exposure to the self-learning methods, participants were reassessed individually for
      their theoretical knowledge on a written, 10-question, multiple-choice test (theoretical
      post-test) and for their practical performance by three examiners, blinded to group
      assignment, who independently rated the participants' actions on a 10-min simulated scenario
      of cardiac arrest using a CPR training manikin (practical post-test).

      Simulated scenario The same simulated scenario was used for pre-exposure and post-exposure
      practical evaluation. When the student entered the simulation room, a manikin was lying on
      the floor, simulating a person lying on the street, unconscious, not responding to
      stimulation and with no respiratory effort or pulse. The student was alone without access to
      medical equipment such as a defibrillator. Participants were expected to recognise the
      cardiac arrest, call the emergency services, and initiate chest compressions and ventilations
      as soon as possible for at least two cycles. A 10-min time limit was set for each simulation
      session.
    
  