
    
      Bone defects can result from high-energy traumatic events, bone resection due to different
      pathologies such as tumors or infection, or from the treatment of complex non-unions, all
      very challenging conditions in orthopaedic practice. Defects of pelvic iliac crest most
      frequently result from harvesting of iliac bone graft for bone grafting and fusion procedures
      and can be associated with significant morbidity.

      Current reconstruction options of the bone defects usually imply the use of bone grafts
      and/or biocompatible materials, to create a scaffold that bridges the defect, favouring the
      migration of cells from the neighbouring tissues to fill the gap. Autografts and allografts
      are the most commonly used bone grafts currently used for large bone defects. However, the
      use of both types of grafts has significant disadvantages. For iliac crest reconstruction in
      particular, different types of synthetic materials and xenografts have been used. However, at
      the moment, there is not any ideal bone substitute with the necessary osteoinductive,
      osteoconductive and mechanical properties. GreenBone is a synthetic, acellular, reabsorbable,
      new generation bone graft, being suitable for surgical reconstruction of bone defects.

      When autologous bone graft is needed for the treatment of non-unions or bone defects, it is
      harvested from the pelvic iliac crest in the form of either tricortical graft material or
      cancellous bone. Harvested tricortical graft blocks are used to facilitate fusion of joints
      (i.e. pubis symphysis, sacroiliac joint), to structurally support metaphyseal areas of
      articular impaction injuries (i.e. tibial plateau) and to fill in metaphyseal bone voids. The
      GreenBone device, with its inherent physical and biomimetic properties, possesses similar
      structural properties to bone, and thus, it can be considered the ideal bone graft.
      Reconstruction of the donor site restores the pelvic anatomy and minimises the risk of
      chronic pain, haematoma formation and herniation of the abdominal contents.

      The purpose of this study is to assess the safety of the use of GreenBone in patients
      undergoing iliac crest reconstruction to restore bone defects. In particular, this study will
      evaluate the progression of bone healing and regeneration of the donor site throughout a
      6-month observation period, it will evaluate the postoperative pain related to iliac crest
      graft harvesting, and it will evaluate the health related quality of life of patients at 6
      months.

      Patient who will be enrolled in the study will receive exactly the same operation that they
      would receive normally for pelvic fusion with the only difference that instead of having
      xenograft (bone obtained from cows) applied to the donor site (the site in your pelvis from
      where the surgeon will harvest the bone graft), you will receive the GreenBone material.

      Following surgery patients will be followed-up for 6 months. At each follow-up visit, the
      safety of the use of the GreenBone implant will be assessed and patients will complete a
      pain-scale and quality of life questionnaires. Moreover, incorporation of the Bone graft into
      the iliac crest will be assessed radiologically.
    
  