
    
      Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3, or Machado-Joseph disease (SCA3/MJD), is an autosomal dominant
      neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG expansion at ATXN3. The gene product is a 42kDa
      protein called ataxin-3, widely expressed in neurons and peripheral tissues. Physiological
      roles of ataxin-3 include, at least, ubiquitination and regulation of misfolded proteins,
      cytoskeletal organization and focal adhesions development, and transcriptional regulation,
      most often as a transcriptional corepressor. One purpose of the present study is to detect a
      possible association between altered transcription patterns of candidate genes and disease
      progression. On the other hand, previous evidences suggest that the disease process linked to
      polyQ aggregation in neuronal cell ("cell-autonomous process") might be worsened by what
      happens outside the neuronal cell ("non-cell-autonomous process"). Initial evidences lead to
      the role of astrocytes. This is a major depart from the traditional understanding of
      polyglutamine diseases, and comprises the main focus of the present study.

      The main hypothesis of this study is that the SCA3/MJD clinical features may be in part
      associated to astrocytic processes. In order to test it, peripheral level of LIGHT protein
      (encoded by TNFSF14) and eotaxin (encoded by CCL11) - both expressed in astrocytes -, and of
      S100B (a myelin damage marker), will be measured. The investigators speculate if they can be
      biomarkers of disease progression and of pathological process, even before symptoms onset. In
      case this is positive, their responsiveness to change will be tested to check if it is better
      than those of clinical scales.

      The second aim is to test if disease progression can be associated with changes in the
      transcriptional pattern of candidate genes FCGR3B, CLC and SLA.

      "BIGPRO study - Astrocytes" intends to identify variations in these candidates and validate
      them as SCA3/MJD biomarkers. The study will consist of a prospective observation of subjects
      in a natural history design. Changes in clinical scales, quality of life, messenger
      ribonucleic acid (mRNA) of candidate genes (CCL11, TNFSF14, FCGR3B, CLC, and SLA) (and their
      peptide products, when possible), and eotaxin and S100B serum levels will be monitored in
      order to determine which of them is (are) the most sensitive. Participants will be stratified
      in three groups: ataxic carriers, pre-ataxic carriers and non-carriers (controls). For each
      asymptomatic carrier, the time until start of disease will be estimated according to the
      individual CAG expanded sequence (CAGexp) and subject's age. Clinical scales Scale for the
      Assessment and Rating of Ataxia (SARA), Neurological Examination Scale for SCA (NESSCA),
      International Co-operative Rating Scale (ICARS), Inventory of Non-ataxia Symptoms (INAS), SCA
      Functional Index (SCAFI), Composite Cerebellar Functional Severity Score (CCFS) and Quality
      of Life measurements (EQ-5D and SF-36), will be applied at baseline, at 12 months and at 24
      months, in all subjects (all three groups). Eotaxin, TNFSF14, S100B and mRNAs, will be
      measured in the same moments. Progression rates of all these variables will be estimated
      through mixed-models, including, as covariates, age, group and their interactions.
    
  