
    
      This is a Phase II, three-arms, double-blind, dosing-ranging, placebo-controlled trial
      evaluating the efficacy of Antroquinonol in patients with atopic dermatitis. The study is
      conducted in compliance with the guidelines for Good Clinical Practice and the Declaration of
      Helsinki. Approval is obtained from the local ethics committee or institutional review board
      at each study center. All the patients provided written informed consent.

      60 patients totally (20 patients per arm) with atopic dermatitis will receive Antroquinonol
      or placebo. A patient will have received at one dose of Antroquinonol or placebo with
      tropical urea ointment and have three baseline scores assessment (see Statistical Methods).
      Enrollment will continue until the target number of evaluable patients has been enrolled.

      Written informed consent must be obtained from all patients before initiating Screening. The
      Screening period will be up to 14 days in duration (Days -14 to -1). Following completion of
      all Screening assessments and confirmation of eligibility criteria, patients will receive
      Antroquinonol 50mg, 100mg or placebo per day (QD) on Day 0 for 12 weeks or until documented
      evidence of unacceptable toxicity, non-compliance or withdrawal of consent by the patient, or
      the investigator decides to discontinue treatment, whichever comes first. The time of study
      drug administration should be recorded in the patient diary.

      Patients will attend study visits on Days 0, 28, 56 and 84. The following procedures will be
      performed according to the schedule of assessments: physical examination, vital signs,
      performance status, clinical laboratory tests, adverse events (AEs), concomitant medication
      and patient compliance.

      Scores assessments will be performed at Screening, Day 28, Day 56 and Day 84 including EASI
      score, SCORAD, sIGA score, BSA affected by atopic dermatitis and pruritus verbal rating
      scale.

      The primary endpoint is the percentage improvement between baseline and week 12 in Eczema
      Area and Severity Index (EASI).
    
  