
    
      An aneurysm is a localized dilatation of a blood vessel at least 1 1/2 to 2 times the normal
      vessel diameter. Abdominal aortic aneurysms are relatively common, and have been detected in
      1.3% to 2.7% of patients 65 to 80 years of age (Blum, et al, 1996; Collins, Araujo, and
      Lindsell, 1988; Scott, Ashton, and Kay, 1991). A large proportion (up to 50%) of patients
      with untreated AAAs experience rupture and exsanguination (Johansen, 1995). Ruptured AAAs are
      the 13th leading cause of death in the US, accounting for more than 15,000 deaths per year
      (Cronenwett and Sampson, 1995).

      Conventional treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms is by a surgical procedure involving
      midline laparotomy, aortic clamping, aortic bypass, and blood loss with associated
      transfusion. Improvements in surgical techniques and patient care have allowed the mortality
      rate associated with this procedure to be reduced to approximately 5%, when elective repair
      is done prior to rupture of the aneurysm. Risks of surgery increase when the patient is
      considered to be a poor candidate for surgery.

      Due to progress made in interventional radiology and endovascular surgery, it is now possible
      to treat aneurysms without an abdominal surgical procedure, thus potentially further reducing
      the risks associated with elective repair. This new therapeutic approach consists of
      transfemoral introduction of a metallic stent coupled with a vascular graft. When the stent
      device is deployed and expanded within the aneurysmal blood vessel, it creates a new aortic
      lumen for blood flow, effectively excluding the aneurysm sac from the flow while maintaining
      perfusion to the lower limbs. This less invasive technique is designed to prevent the need
      for laparotomy, to reduce the need for blood transfusions, to decrease the use of anesthetics
      and other drugs, and to speed recovery time.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the TALENT
      endoluminal stent-graft system in patients who may be categorized as standard risk, high risk
      or other indications. Standard risk patients are patients with indications for treatment that
      are consistent with those for a manufacturer IDE, when there is no active enrollment in the
      IDE. High risk patients are patients who do not meet the entrance criteria for the
      manufacturer sponsored IDE as they are at high risk of morbidity and mortality with standard
      surgical repair. Other indications would be considered patients with indications for
      treatment outside of those or the manufacturer sponsored IDE.

      This study will be performed in both high risk and low risk patients who are considered good
      candidates for endoluminal repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms. Patients should be
      heparinized during the implant procedure such that an activated clotting time of 300 seconds
      is achieved. During implantation of the TALENT endoluminal stent-graft, the pre-implant CT
      scan and available angiograms are used together with (on-the-table) digital subtraction
      angiography (DSA), roadmapping, and angiography for proper implant positioning. The TALENT
      endoluminal stent-graft endoprosthesis is inserted by delivery catheter and introducer sheath
      via a surgical cutdown (e.g., external iliac artery, femoral artery) approach. The introducer
      sheath and delivery catheter containing the stent-graft is inserted over a guidewire and
      advanced into the aorta and above the aneurysm. With the delivery catheter in the correct
      position, the push rod is held stationary while the outer sheath is slowly withdrawn. The
      introducer sheath is then withdrawn further until the stent-graft is completely deployed. The
      balloon may be inflated along the full length of the implanted device to model the springs
      against the vessel wall and to unravel possible wrinkles in the graft fabric. After
      deployment of the stent-graft, angiography is performed to verify implant position and to
      check for the presence of endoleaks.

      Subjects will undergo an evaluation of the TALENT endoluminal stent-graft to determine the
      safety and efficacy of the device as indicated by the adverse event rate, and to determine
      the risk factors that are most predictive of a successful outcome when used to exclude
      abdominal aortic aneurysms that require suprarenal fixation in high risk and low risk
      patients. Follow-up will be completed at 1, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months. Subject
      evaluation at 1 month will include a complete Physical Examination, Bilateral ABIs, and a
      Duplex Ultrasound (if not previously completed at time of discharge). Subject evaluation at 6
      months will also include a Complete Physical Examination, Bilateral ABIs, Duplex Ultrasound,
      and Abdominal X-ray (AP, Lateral, 2 Obliques). Subject evaluation at 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60
      months will include a Complete Physical Examination, Bilateral ABIs, Abdominal X-ray (AP,
      Lateral, 2 Obliques), and Spiral CT scan with and without IV Contrast 2.5mm.
    
  