
    
      The present study is designed to investigate the practicability of ultrasound-guided vascular
      access versus the AccuVein AV 400 for cannulation of the great saphenous vein at the level of
      the medial malleoli in infants ≤12 months. The primary outcome will be the time to successful
      placement of catheters. Secondary outcomes included the number of attempts, the rate of
      failure, technique-related pain, occurrence of movements, and occurrence of complications
      like haematoma or local infection.

      Patient and method:

      A prospective, randomized study will be conducted from May 2019 till November 2019; at least
      50 patients will be allocated in each group; at the Alexandria Main University Hospital after
      approval of the Medical Ethics Committee. Informed written consent will be obtained from the
      patient's parents. Infants' ≤12 months with ASA physical status I and II, undergoing elective
      surgery with no visible veins at the dorsum of the hands or feet will be enrolled in the
      study. Infants will be randomly assigned, by using a block of four randomization provided by
      www.randomization.com, into two groups; an AV400 group (using the AccuVein AV400 for
      peripheral venous insertion) and a ultrasound guided group (using the ultrasound for
      peripheral venous insertion). The performers of cannulation will be done by expert
      anesthetists, having a minimum of 5 times experience in ultra sound guided IV cannula
      insertion and with the AccuVein AV400 device.

      Preoperatively in all infants, both medial malleolar areas will be prepared with EMLA cream ,
      premedication with 1 mg/ kg rectal midazolam (maximum dose 15 mg) will be done at 30 minutes
      preoperative. Establishment of standard monitoring (SpO2, ECG, non-invasive arterial
      pressure) and then induction of general anaesthesia will be done via a face mask with
      sevoflurane FIO2 40% - O2/air and after successful induction of general anaesthesia, the EMLA
      tapes will be removed .Assisted ventilation via the face mask will be done until
      establishment of venous access either through using Acc Vein AV400 or through ultrasound
      guided for the great saphenous vein. On each occasion, the observer will record the time of
      tourniquet application, the time of successful cannulation or four skin punctures, and the
      number of cannulation attempts. A cannulation attempt will be defined as any backward and
      forward movements of the needle, regardless of whether the needle was out of the skin.
      Successful cannulation will be defined by the absence of tissue swelling around the puncture
      point after injection of 5 ml of crystalloid solution. In both groups, a maximal number of
      three attempts for establishment of venous access in one GSV will be performed. If the third
      attempt failed, the contralateral GSV will be punctured. If successful establishment of
      venous access in the contralateral GSV failed, the case will be counted as failure. In these
      cases, the external jugular vein will be used as an alternative approach for venous access.
      After successful establishment of venous access, the anaesthetic procedure will be continued
      depending on surgical requirements. Twenty-four hours after establishment of the venous
      access, the puncture site will be evaluated to detect possible haematoma or local infection.
    
  