
    
      Among patients who are receiving long-term anticoagulant therapy, whether with a direct oral
      anticoagulant (DOAC) or vitamin K antagonist (VKA), approximately 3-5% who require treatment
      interruption for a surgery will do so in an urgent/emergency surgery setting. Assuming that
      approximately 500,000 to 800,000 patients per year in the U.S. and E.U. will require
      perioperative management for a surgery/procedure, the investigators estimate that
      approximately 20,000 to 25,000 patients will require an urgent/emergency surgery. Although
      this represents a small proportion of patients who require anticoagulant interruption, there
      is considerable morbidity and mortality associated with DOAC/VKA management in an
      urgent/emergency surgery setting. Thus, for VKA-treated patients, rates of thromboembolism,
      major bleeding and mortality are 10.5%, 22.9%, and 2.9%, respectively. Similarly, for
      DOAC-treated patients who require an urgent/emergency surgery, rates of thromboembolism,
      major bleeding and mortality are 7.4%, 17.6%, and 1.5%, respectively. By comparison, rates of
      these outcomes for DOAC/VKA-treated patients who need elective surgery are ~0.5-1.0%, ~1-3%,
      and <0.5%, respectively. Most studies have focused on the perioperative anticoagulant
      management of patients who require an elective surgery/procedure. To the investigators'
      knowledge, few studies have focused on the assessment of adverse outcomes in an
      urgent/emergency perioperative setting among anticoagulated patients. Thus, this prospective
      registry study aims to 1) identify and compare determinants for perioperative adverse events
      in DOAC-treated and VKA-treated patients who require an urgent/emergency surgery, and to
      identify which of these are modifiable, and 2) describe and compare management of
      anticoagulant reversal (i.e., non-specific and specific reversal agents) and resource
      utilization (i.e., blood transfusion) in DOAC- and VKA-treated patients who need an
      urgent/emergency surgery. The data gained from this study will generate hypotheses for
      subsequent prospective studies that would potentially assess different management strategies
      in this clinical setting (e.g., use of DOAC antidote- vs. prothrombin complex
      concentrate-based management).

      Given the exploratory, hypothesis-generating nature of the proposed study, the sample size is
      one of convenience, comprising 200 DOAC- and 200 warfarin-treated patients. Patients will be
      recruited from 30 clinical sites in Canada, the US, and Europe. With 30 clinical sites, the
      investigators estimate that 3-5 patients/month (60-72/yr) per arm can be recruited,
      corresponding to an overall rate of 180-216 over 3 years. Each study patient will participate
      for approximately 4 weeks, with one follow-up phone call at 4 weeks post-procedure.
    
  