
    
      Head and neck cancer patients and their families often struggle to fully understand the
      degree to which cancer procedures and treatments may have on the cancer patient's life. The
      procedures involved in cancer treatment may result in significant changes to the patient's
      physical appearance and/or functional abilities (talking, eating, and breathing).
      Unfortunately, healthcare workers have a limited amount of time to spend educating their
      patients on all of the possibilities that may result from cancer related treatments. This
      lack of patient education and understanding can increase patient anxiety, compromise patient
      compliance, and result in less than optimum long-term outcomes.

      Many patients are using the internet to educate themselves and to help them make their health
      care related decisions. However, for head and neck cancer patients, the information available
      on head and neck cancer websites is somewhat limited. In many cases, the information fails to
      provide adequate details as to the life changing, and at times disfiguring, results that head
      and neck cancer related treatments can have.

      In an effort to help educate head and neck cancer patients and their families during this
      difficult time, the UIC department of Otolaryngology-HNS has created an informational
      website. The website includes information and educational videos about what to expect during
      the cancer treatment process. Specifically, the website is designed to educate cancer
      patients and their families on 1) the procedures that may be used to treat their specific
      cancer, 2) the side effects and post-operative hospital care of various treatments, 3) the
      physical changes that are possible as a result of their treatment, 4) functional changes that
      may occur as a result of their surgery/treatment, and 5) potential therapies that can be used
      to help improve their long-term outcome. The purpose of the website is to provide an
      educational and informative format, centered on head and neck cancer patients, that will help
      improve patient knowledge, understanding, and expectations during the course of cancer
      treatment and recovery.

      Currently there are no studies that evaluate and or measure a change in patient/family member
      knowledge about head and neck cancer surgeries based on internet based information. However,
      there has been significant research related to the increased use of the internet for health
      care related decisions. These studies show that patients and families are more frequently
      turning to the internet and other forms of social media to learn about their diagnosis in
      order to make informed decisions about their medical care. Studies have also shown that
      websites are often written at a level well above the recommended reading level thereby
      inhibiting patient education.

      3.0 Objectives/Aims

      The objectives of this research are to evaluate 1) the change in subject knowledge before and
      after using the study head and neck cancer website, and 2) to determine whether a head and
      neck website is beneficial to study subjects in providing information that will result in
      improved compliance and ultimately long-term outcomes. Specifically, the PI's will be
      evaluating how the website educates cancer patients and their families on 1) the procedures
      that may be used to treat their specific cancer, 2) the side effects and post-operative care
      of various treatments, 3) the physical changes that are possible as a result of their
      treatment, 4) functional changes that may occur as a result of their surgery/treatment, and
      5) potential therapies that can be used to minimize the physical and functional changes that
      may result from their cancer care.
    
  