
    
      On 11th of March 2020, WHO characterized COVID-19 infection as a Pandemic. After the COVID-19
      infection is declared as a Pandemic there was an outburst regarding COVID-19 Research. The
      Research interest led to registration of Interventional and Observational studies world wide.

      AIMs & Objectives of the Study This Observational Cross sectional study aims to explore the
      completed Researches in WHO-compliant registries to understand the trends of COVID-19
      Research.

      This study results can directly benefit the worldwide Academicians and Health Care
      Professionals to understand the ongoing COVID-19 Research trends.

      Primary Outcomes of the Study To understand the geographical distribution of the
      interventional studies after 11th of March 2020.

      To understand the geographical distribution of the Observational studies after 11th of March
      2020.

      To understand the monthly Research study completion rate as per geographic distribution of
      the Research.

      Secondary Outcomes of the Study To understand the statistical correlation of the
      interventional studies Research with developed, developing and under developed countries.

      To understand the statistical correlation of the observational studies Research with
      developed, developing and under developed countries.

      To understand the statistical correlation of the Drug based interventional studies Research
      with developed, developing and under developed countries.

      To understand the statistical correlation of the Diagnostic test based interventional studies
      Research with developed, developing and under developed countries.

      To understand the statistical correlation of the Device based interventional studies Research
      with developed, developing and under developed countries.

      Methodology WHO-compliant registries will be explored for completed COVID-19 Research
      articles.

      Inclusion Criteria Interventional studies in the WHO-compliant registries database which are
      registered and completed after 11th of March 2020 until 15th of August 2020.

      Observational studies in the WHO-compliant registries database which are registered and
      completed after 11th of March 2020 until 15th of August 2020.

      Exclusion Criteria Interventional studies in the WHO-compliant registries database which are
      registered and completed before 11th March 2020.

      Observational studies in the WHO-compliant registries database which are registered and
      completed before 11th March 2020.

      The articles selected from the WHO-compliant registries database will be categorized as per
      following relevance:

      Interventional Studies: Theses studies will be further categorized based on type of
      Intervention. Inteventional studies can be Drug, Diagnostic tests, Rehabilitation, Procedure,
      Device, Behavioral, Dietary supplement, Biological, Physiotherapy & Others types of
      Interventional study.

      Observational Studies: Prospective and Retrospective Observational studies.

      The Studies will be mapped according to the Country where the Research is completed and the
      type of Research.

      Type of Variables studied in this Study 6 Continuous variables are studied in this Study
      Number of Interventional Studies (Continuous variable) Number of Observational Studies
      (Continuous variable) Number of Drug based Interventional Study (Continuous variable) Number
      of Diagnostic test based interventional study (Continuous variable) Number of Device based
      interventional study (Continuous variable) Monthly Research study completion rate (Continuous
      variable)

      8 Categorical variables will be studies in this study Interventional Study (Categorical
      variable) Observational Study (Categorical variable) Developed country (Categorical variable)
      Developing country (Categorical variable) Under developed country (Categorical variable) Drug
      based Interventional Study (Categorical variable) Diagnostic test based interventional study
      (Categorical variable) Device based interventional study (Categorical variable)

      Statistical Analysis Data analysis will be carried out using SPSS 22.00 (Stata Corp, College
      Station, TX, USA). The Data obtained will be analysed for the normal distribution. If the
      data follows normal distribution curve, Pearson Correlation statistical test will be used to
      assess the Correlation of categorical and continuous variables. If the data does not follow
      normal distribution curve, Spearman Correlation or Chi square statistical test will be used
      to assess the Correlation of Categorical and continuous variables. The p-value (significance
      level) of the correlation will be determined. If the p-value is <5%, then the correlation
      between variables analysed will be considered as significant.
    
  