
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the third leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide.Early
      diagnosis improves the prognosis. Protein induced by vitamin K antagonist-II (PIVKA-II), also
      known as des-γ-carboxyprothrombin (DCP) or acarboxy prothrombin, is an abnormal form of
      prothrombin induced by vitamin K absence or antagonist-II. The study is intended to evaluate
      the diagnostic efficiency of AFP-L3 and PIVKA-II. AFP-L3 and PIVKA-II as an effective tumor
      marker for hepatocellular carcinoma(HCC). Despite the extensive application of PIVKA-II in
      some hospitals from Vietnam, the diagnostic efficiency including sensitivity, specificity,
      positive predictive value and negative predictive value still needs more clinical data to
      evaluate. The research purposes list as follows：1. Determination of changes in AFP-L3 and
      PIVKA II for HCC.2. Investigating the diagnostic value of AFP-L3 and PIVKA II for HCC. This
      study is performed at Hanoi Medical University Hospital. Participants including patients with
      HCC and hepatic hemangioma. All the serum samples are collected before any treatments and
      will be tested in single center in order to decrease bias. Serum samples were tested for
      PIVKA-II, AFP, AFP-L3 and biochemical indexes including alanine
      aminotransferase(ALT),aspartate aminotransferase (AST), gamma-glutamyl transferase, HbsAg,
      Anti HCV, etc.The diagnosis of HCC was based on HCC criteria of Ministry of Public Health of
      Vietnam. All HCC diagnoses were confirmed at the time of analysis. Stages of tumor is
      evaluated by Barcelana classification. The Student's t-test (or Mann-Whitney test) was used
      to compare continuous variables, and the chi-square test (or Fisher's exact test) was used
      for categorical variables. A receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve was used to assess
      the performance characteristic of PIVKA-II,AFP,AFP-L3 measurement.
    
  