
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety profile of radiation therapy (RT) and durvalumab with or without
      tremelimumab. (Safety lead-in cohort) II. To determine the median progression-free survival
      with RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab. (Expansion cohort)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms of local
      control of irradiated bladder tumor.

      II. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms of
      pathologic complete response (CR) rate of irradiated bladder tumor.

      III. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms
      overall response rate.

      IV. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms of
      abscopal response rate.

      V. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms of
      duration of response.

      VI. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms of
      disease specific survival.

      VII. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms of
      overall survival.

      VIII. To further determine the safety and tolerability of RT + durvalumab with or without
      tremelimumab (expansion cohorts).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the immunologic changes associated with the combination of durvalumab and RT
      +/- tremelimumab.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 regimens.

      REGIMEN A: Participants receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 13 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Participants also undergo external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) for 5
      fractions beginning on day 8 of course 1.

      REGIMEN B:

      Participants receive tremelimumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 for up to 2 courses and
      durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 13 courses
      in the absence of disease progression of unacceptable toxicity. Participants also receive
      undergo EBRT for 5 fractions beginning on day 8 of course 1.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 8 weeks and then every
      12 and 16 weeks.
    
  