
    
      Background & Rationale. The high prevalence and adverse health risks of adolescent obesity
      are well-documented. Most adolescents with and without obesity do not meet minimum lifestyle
      recommendations for nutrition, physical and sedentary activities, and sleep, and care
      providers have identified a lack of tools and resources to help them better support families
      in lifestyle change and weight management. Best practices encourage the use of appropriate
      tools to augment discussions, in addition to the inclusion and engagement of all relevant
      stakeholders. Our team conducted a multi-phase project that included adolescents, care
      providers, and researchers to develop Conversation Cards for Adolescents (CCAs), an
      adolescent-tailored educational tool aimed at facilitating lifestyle behavior change in
      adolescents via collaborative goal-setting. This tool comprises a deck of 45 cards. Each card
      contains an individual statement pertaining to a barrier, enabler, or potential enabler that
      adolescents encounter in making and maintaining healthy lifestyle changes. These cards are
      organized across seven categorical suits: nutrition, physical activity, sedentary activity,
      sleep, mental health, relationships, and clinic factors. This deck is intended to be used by
      adolescents and providers and may be complementary to an already existing deck of cards
      (Conversation Cards©) created for parents and providers by our research team in 2012.

      Objectives. To (i) assess the feasibility of the study design and procedures in a real-world
      practice setting, (ii) investigate future trial procedures, (iii) assess user experiences of
      CCAs, and (iv) determine the preliminary effectiveness of CCAs on changing behavioral and
      affective-cognitive outcomes for adolescents with obesity.

      Method & Methodology. This is a pragmatic, pilot randomized controlled trial. Adolescents
      will be randomly allocated to one of two groups (CCAs or control) with a 1:1 allocation ratio
      and using permuted blocks of randomly varied sizes 2 and 4. Participant randomization will be
      performed in REDCap, based on allocation tables that have been generated and uploaded by the
      Data Coordinating Centre statistician. REDCap maintains an automated audit trail which
      includes the assigned study identification number, treatment allocation, and date and time of
      the transaction. The study coordinator will have access to REDcap onsite to randomize
      adolescents and will provide corresponding allocations to adolescents. The investigators will
      follow recommended sample sizes for pilot trials; that is, 25 individuals per trial arm for a
      total of 50, which gives the main trial a 90% power, 0.2 effect size, and two-sided 5%
      significance. Assuming a recruitment rate of ~85%, a margin of error for the confidence
      interval of around 10% was estimated; this recruitment rate is derived from similar
      randomized controlled trials conducted in a primary care setting surrounding obesity and
      lifestyle in children and youth. The investigators will adhere to the CONSORT statement for
      planning, conducting, and reporting pragmatic trials.

      Recruitment.

      Adolescents - Administrative and clinical (nurse) team members will approach families to
      gauge interest and obtain verbal consent. If given, the study coordinator on-site (MK) will
      approach families for more information (e.g., study description, developmental and language
      eligibility screening) and full consent/assent procedures. On the day of their medical
      appointment, clinic staff will measure adolescents' height and weight before they see their
      provider. Providers will be recruited by email or verbal invitation through existing
      relationships with research team members.

      Providers - Researchers leading this study have pre-existing relationships with providers
      practicing at this center. Researchers will hold several meetings with providers to explain
      and refine the study and determine their interest in participation. Providers will be given
      full freedom to accept or decline participation.

      The investigators will document dates defining the periods of recruitment and follow-up.

      Procedure. Adolescents in the experimental group will be given ~15 minutes before their
      clinical appointment to review CCAs in a private room at the clinic; they will be instructed
      to independently select the top 3 statements that most resonate with them and to make a note
      of these on a provided chart note; these will be documented by the research coordinator on an
      Excel data file before adolescents enter their appointment and afterwards (in case any
      changes were made). Adolescents will then proceed to their appointment and collaboratively
      set one (to facilitate achievement) S.M.A.R.T. (Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Relevant,
      Time-Based) goal using shared decision-making principles with their provider based on their
      chosen priorities. Adolescents will receive a hard copy of their specific goal to take home.
      Adolescents in the control group will not be offered the tool, but will still set a
      S.M.A.R.T. goal with their provider. The investigators will debrief with each participating
      provider after their first experimental and first control clinical appointments for feedback
      and any modifications to intervention procedures.

      Outcomes. The study coordinator will create an anonymized detailed Excel data spreadsheet
      (separate from the Master File) for each participating adolescent to document data. This file
      will be updated on an ongoing basis. The investigators will collect adolescents' demographic
      and anthropometric characteristics verbally at baseline and providers' sociodemographics via
      hard-copy or electronic survey before study commencement. Participants will be instructed to
      complete baseline outcome measures using an iPad. The investigators will complete 3-week
      follow-up, where the study coordinator will call adolescents (~15 minutes) for completion of
      one of the outcome measure assessments and to inquire about study procedures, including
      ranking the outcome measures used for this study in order of importance (to inform a future
      full-scale trial). Please refer to the sections below for details regarding outcome measure.

      Data Analysis. As per recommendations for pilot studies, our analysis will be mainly of a
      descriptive nature. Quantitative data will be summarized using quantitative descriptive
      statistics and central tendencies, or will be compared between groups using independent
      samples t-tests. Outcomes will be compared based on weight status contingent on
      anthropometric distributions in our sample. Qualitative data will be audio-recorded,
      transcribed verbatim using The Comma Police, managed using NVivo 11, and analyzed using
      content analysis.

      Evaluation. The investigators will use the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
      Framework for Program Evaluation for a formal evaluation of our intervention. This framework
      includes engaging stakeholders (e.g., primary users of the evaluation), describing the
      program (e.g., needs, resources, context, activities), focusing the evaluation design (e.g.,
      purpose, users, questions, methods), gathering credible evidence (e.g., indicators, sources,
      quality, quantity, logistics), justifying conclusions (e.g., analysis/synthesis,
      interpretation, recommendations), and ensuring use and shared lessons learned (e.g., design,
      preparation, feedback, follow-up, dissemination). Steps of this evaluation do not have to
      occur in a linear sequence; however, earlier steps provide the foundation for subsequent
      progress. Program evaluations are best completed in a team approach. Our team will include
      the principal investigator, study coordinator, providers, adolescents, and other researchers
      in various steps of the evaluation.

      IMPLICATIONS. Conducting this research will provide us with lessons learned on how to best
      use CCAs in a clinical setting. It will inform development of a full scale trial to measure
      effectiveness of our tool in changing lifestyle behaviors and optimizing care that
      adolescents receive.
    
  