
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

      Prostate cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer and the second leading cause of cancer
      death among men in North America. In the US, there are more than 200,000 newly diagnosed
      cases and nearly 40,000 deaths from prostate cancer (CaP) annually. Although elevated lipid
      levels are understood to increase risk of coronary heart disease, their importance for CaP is
      not understood. Epidemiologic studies consistently show an association between lipid lowering
      interventions and decreased risk of advanced CaP. There are no reports of prospective studies
      of lipid-lowering interventions directed at CaP.

      Epidemiologic studies and preclinical observations suggest that interventions to lower
      cholesterol will decrease the risk of developing lethal CaP. However, a definitive, phase III
      study of cholesterol-lowering effects on advanced CaP development is needed prior to clinical
      implementation of this intervention. Such a trial will require a massive commitment of
      resources for the large number of patients needing long follow-up. A rational intermediate
      step is to conduct a presurgical intervention study to lower cholesterol in men undergoing
      radical prostatectomy. Molecular evidence of treatment effect will provide a sound rationale
      for definitive clinical trials, and may provide predictive biomarkers that can be validated
      in these future trials.

      The investigators propose a prospective trial to assess the effects on the human prostate of
      a maximal cholesterol lowering strategy using dual agents in men already scheduled to undergo
      radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer.

      Simvastatin is a cholesterol-lowering drug approved by the FDA in 1991 and is now
      commercially available as Zocor (Merck) or as a generic agent. After ingestion, it is
      converted from an inactive lactone to the corresponding β-hydroxyacid, which inhibits HMG-CoA
      reductase and the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate. Ezetimibe is a cholesterol-lowering
      agent that operates by a distinct mechanism from HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. It was FDA
      approved in 2002 and is commonly administered alone or in combination with a statin. It
      specifically inhibits a cholesterol transporter in the small intestines and selectively
      inhibits the absorption of cholesterol and related sterols.

      A single pill that combines simvastatin and ezetimibe is available from Merck (Vytorin). This
      commercially available agent at its standard dose is used in this trial. This study uses the
      combination of simvastatin and ezetimibe to achieve maximal cholesterol lowering prior to
      prostatectomy.
    
  