
    
      This study is a collaborative effort between the Orthopedic Foot and Ankle Center, MedShape,
      Inc, and CurveBeam. This is a prospective investigation to assess the clinical outcomes of
      patients with a tibiotalocalcaneal arthrodesis with the Sustained Dynamic Compression
      Intramedullary Nail (DynaNail), including longitudinal assessment with weight-bearing CT. The
      investigators plan to enroll 45 patients. No placebo control will be used, as there is no
      other IM nail available capable of providing sustained compression. Additionally, given that
      many patients receiving this treatment have had prior failed treatments and face poor
      alternatives such as amputation, using a prior-generation IM nail as a control treatment
      would be unethical.

      Design:

      This is a prospective, single-group study. Patients of the Orthopedic Foot and Ankle Center
      who are scheduled to undergo TTC arthrodesis will be screened for eligibility and informed
      consent will be obtained from those who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Subjects will
      be assessed pre-operatively and then at five post-operative intervals: 1 week, 6 weeks, 3
      months, 6 months, and 12 months. A WBCT scan will be obtained at each interval.

      Selection of Subjects:

      Patients will be identified in the clinic by an attending orthopaedic foot and ankle surgeon
      or his/her physician assistant based on clinical exam and radiographic findings. Patients
      will be screened for eligibility by the research coordinator/ key personnel in close
      coordination with the surgeon and co-investigator.

      Pre-operative Questionnaire:

      After informed consent, the patients will be asked to complete patient reported outcomes
      questionnaires that are part of the SOS Registry associated with function and pain, including
      VAS, VR-12, FFI-R, FAAM, AOS, and AOFAS. The patients will also be asked to provide
      information related to prior medical history (including potential co-morbidities associated
      with non-union, i.e. tobacco usage, neuropathy, renal disease, obesity, etc.) and surgical
      history of the subject lower extremity.

      Surgery:

      The following surgical procedure is standard of care. The surgical procedure will involve
      both tibiotalar and talocalcaneal joint preparation through any approach (lateral, posterior,
      anterior with sinus tarsi). The use of supplemental bone graft is at the discretion of the
      treating surgeon but must be documented. The MedShape DynaNail will then be inserted
      according to the manufacturer's technique. The patient will be placed in a short leg splint
      and kept non-weight bearing initially. The patient will be discharged from the hospital when
      medically ready. Weight-bearing will start at seven weeks post-surgery.

      Follow-Up Visits and Questionnaires:

      The patient will return to clinic for visits at the following intervals after surgery: 1
      week, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months. At each of these time points, a clinical
      exam will be conducted, and SOS patient questionnaires will be administered, as well as a
      radiographic and clinical follow-up form. Additionally, radiograph and weight-bearing CT
      imaging will be obtained of both the ankle and subtalar joints. At 3 months and 12 months
      post-op, all X-ray and CT images will be de-identified, burned to a DVD, and copies will be
      sent to both co-sponsors.
    
  