
    
      This phase I study is designed to select patients with refractory and intractable disease.
      SLE patients with impaired visceral organ function and chronic exposure to glucocorticoid
      therapy are complicated by significant morbidity, frequent hospitalizations and high-risk of
      mortality. For participants in whom the indication is nephritis, active disease must be
      present despite at least 6 cycles of monthly pulse cyclophosphamide. Participants with
      extra-renal lupus need to fail 3 months of monthly cyclophosphamide. Patients who have an HLA
      matched sibling, will be offered allogeneic HSCT. Because of high transplant related toxicity
      and mortality in conventional myeloablative regimens, we will utilize a mini-conditioning
      regimen. To minimize GvHD, candidates must be 50 years old or younger and in vivo CAMPATH
      will be used in the conditioning regimen to deplete infused donor lymphocytes.

      Peripheral Blood Stem Cell (PBSC) Harvest from Donor PBSC will be mobilized with G-CSF 10
      mcg/kg/day (dose may be adjusted to 5-16 mcg/kg/day by PI for toxicity, e.g. flu-like
      symptoms) with stem cell collection beginning on day 4. Leukapheresis may be repeated up to
      three consecutive days.

      1) If these criteria are not meet the patient (recipient) may not be treated.

        1. CD34+ cell count >2.0 x106 CD34+ cells/kg recipient weight

        2. Gram stein negative

        3. Culture negative ( after 14 days)

        4. Cell viability at time of final formulation in cyroprotectant media≥ 70% Conditioning
           Regimen Cyclophosphamide 50mg/kg/day x 4 days will be given IV over 1 hour in 500 cc of
           normal saline. If actual weight is < ideal weight, cyclophosphamide will be given based
           on actual weight. If actual weight is > ideal weight, cyclophosphamide will given as
           adjusted weight. Adjusted weight = ideal weight + 25% (actual weight minus ideal
           weight).

      Mesna 50mg/kg/day will be given IV over 24 hours in 250 cc of normal saline or D5W starting 2
      hours before the first cyclophosphamide dose. Weight base is calculated same as
      cyclophosphamide as above.

      Hydration approximately 50-200cc/hour in adults should begin 6 hours before cyclophosphamide
      and continue until 24 hours after the last cyclophosphamide dose. Hydration rates need to be
      individually adjusted by daily weights to maintain dry weight count. BID weights will be
      obtained. Warning: Participants with renal insufficiency are prone to volume overload. Early
      institution of ultra filtration or dialysis is recommended. Three-way bladder irrigation may
      be needed for those participants who cannot tolerate fluid hydration during cyclophosphamide
      administration and for 24 hours after the last dose of cyclophosphamide. In patients on
      hemodialysis, cyclophosphamide will be given in the evening and hemodialysis will be
      performed in the morning daily until the last dose of cyclophosphamide is administered. Close
      coordination with nephrology service is required.

      CAMPATH-1H 30mg/day x 2 days (no dose adjustment) will be given IV over 2 hours in 100 cc of
      normal saline. Premedication with acetaminophen 650mg and benadryl 50mg PO/IV will be given
      30-60min before infusion. These medications can be repeated as needed. Solumedrol 1 gram will
      be given IV 30 min prior to CAMPATH-1H.

      G-CSF 5 mcg/kg/day will be started on day 6 if engraftment has not occurred. It will be
      continued until absolute neutrophil count reaches at least 500/ul. The dose may be rounded up
      or down in order to not waste medication in the vial. NOTE: GCSF may be started earlier, e.g.
      day 0, per investigator's discretion.

      Cyclosporine* will be started on day -3 at 200 mg po BID and adjusted by HPLC levels to
      between 150 - 250 or by toxicity (e.g., tremor, renal insufficiency, TTP, etc.). CSA will be
      continued for 2 months unless stopped for toxicity. If patient cannot tolerate oral
      cycloporine, intravenous cyclosporine continuous infusion (3mg/kg/24hours) and adjusted by
      levels can be used.

      Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF)* 1g PO/IV q 12 hrs will be started on day -3 and continued for 6
      months. The dosage will be adjusted and tapered off before stopping, unless toxicity mandates
      abrupt cessation. MMF will be adjusted by PI according to toxicity, GVHD, and donor
      engraftment or donor chimerism.

      *Cyclosporine and MMF guidelines dosage and duration can be modified according to
      investigators discretion based on side effects, renal function, CBC and GVHD status.
    
  