
    
      The study was performed at the Otorhinolaryngology service Clinicas Hospital of Porto Alegre
      ( HCPA). Patients who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be invited to
      participate in the study. All patients who agree to participate in the study, filling out an
      Informed Consent Form, will have their preoperative consultation registered. Pre- and
      postoperative follow-up will be performed at the otorhinolaryngology service of HCPA.
      Patients will be allocated randomly in the intervention and control groups, in blocks of 6,
      using a computer generated random sequence of numbers. . The allocation will be kept
      confidential for the patient and for the researchers responsible for measuring the outcomes.
      intervention group will be submitted to surgical modification of the alar base with incisions
      in the alar facial groove, the control group will be submitted to a similar technique, but it
      will save groove.

      The surgical technique will be based on a sequential approach based on the 2010 publication
      Adamnson et al in the Archives of Facial Plastic Surgery "Alar Soft-Tissue Techniques in
      Rhinoplasty Algorithmic Approach, Quantifiable Measurement of outcomes will be performed by
      trained and blinded research team members for intervention allocation. Patients will be
      evaluated at the preoperative visit, and will return to consultations on days 7, 14.30, 60,
      90.360 postoperative days, when they will be photographed at the incidences, frontal, ¾
      profile, basal, between tip with Eyebrows. At the base line and at 90 postoperative days the
      following outcomes will be measured: Stony Brook Scale , ROE Scale, Visual Analogue Scale -
      Satisfaction with aesthetic aspect of the nose, Visual Analogue Scale Intensity of nasal
      obstruction and NOSE Scale For the comparison of continuous variables will be compared using
      Student's t test for independent samples or Mann-Whitney non-parametric test, when
      appropriate. Multivariate analysis will be performed to control confounding factors.
    
  