
    
      Primary Objective: To evaluate efficacy of Voluma XC for the treatment of hypoplastic chins.

      Secondary Objective: To evaluate patient satisfaction and improvement of GAIS following
      treatment with Voluma for hypoplastic chins.

      The expected outcome following deep (dermal and/or supra periosteal) injection of Voluma when
      used to treat hypognathism is significant improvement in the facial angle of the chin.
      Significant improvement defined as the mean change in the facial angle of the face measured
      by the blinded digital image analysis technician. A secondary effectiveness measure will be
      patient and treating investigator measure of improvement using the FACE-Q questionnaires as
      well as the mean change in the GAIS score.

      The study will span a total of approximately 15 months: an estimated 2 months for recruitment
      and 12 months for follow-up. Each subject's participation will encompass a screening/baseline
      visit, Day 3 and a Day 14 visit with a possible 1 month touch up (if touch up occurs then a
      day 3 and a day 14 and a month 1 will occur following the touch up then followed by study
      visits at 2, 4, 6, month and a 9 month telephone safety visit and a 12 month clinic visit
      (end of study).

      JUVÉDERM® Voluma XC Injectable Gel No control treatment will be used. The primary
      effectiveness endpoint will be one month after optimal correction has been attained according
      to the investigator.

      The image analysis technician performing the evaluation will be blinded as to the amount of
      product injected. All digital photos will be analyzed in a batched, randomized format
      (including the pre-treatment photos) in order to blind the technician.

      Retreatment Criteria (if applicable) Study subjects will return for possible touch up 1 month
      following initial injection. At this time, the investigator and the subject will evaluate the
      outcome of the initial treatment. In the event that both the subject and the investigator
      concur that additional treatment is indicated because of a suboptimal aesthetic correction, a
      repeat injection of Voluma XC will be performed. If a repeat treatment does take place then
      the subject will then be followed at Day 3 and Day 14 and Day 30. In the event that the
      subject does not want retreatment the subject will remain in the study and followed through
      the course of the trial.

      The subject will undergo treatment and return for follow-up visits throughout the study
      period. At each visit, the Principal Investigator or designee will record AEs and concomitant
      medications, therapies, and treatments. All reported AEs will be documented. The procedures
      to be performed at each visit are described below.

      Injections of Voluma will be accomplished using a serial puncture and fanning technique with
      the needle inserted to the periosteal plane as well as in the subcutaneous plane. The
      treatment area will include the medial and lateral chin as defined: lateral chin landmark is
      the depressor anguli oris.

      Photography will be mandatory to participate in this clinical trial. Subjects will consent to
      allow Kenneth R. Beer, M.D., PA permission to use photographs for FDA advisory panel
      meetings, scientific journals and conferences, advertising, publicity, and promotional
      purposes as one option. Additional options will be given to the subject to allow Kenneth R.
      Beer, M.D., PA to only use photographs for FDA advisory panel meetings and scientific
      journals and conference, but does NOT have permission to use the photographs for advertising,
      publicity, or promotional purposes as option 2. The third and final option allows the subject
      to have photographs taken, but subject does NOT give permission to use photographs for FDA
      advisory panel meetings, scientific journals and conferences, advertising, publicity, and
      promotional purposes.

      The photographs will be taken with 3D photography system and will be analyzed by a third
      party which is hired by the sponsor. Full confidentiality cannot be maintained due to the
      entire face will be photographed. Confidentiality will try to be maintained by only using
      subject identifiers. If at a later date the subject does not want photos used for other
      purposes that were consented to the subject at any time during the course of the study will
      be allowed to change and update the photograph consent. If subject withdraws all photo
      consent the subject will be discontinued from the study since photographs are mandatory to
      participate in this clinical study.

      The Principal Investigator will ensure that each subject meets the eligibility criteria. The
      Principal Investigator will capture a 90 degree angle photo and using a goniometer to
      manually measure the angle between the glabella and the mentalis and subjects with angles
      between 145-160° will be included in the study. The Principal Investigator or designee will
      record reasons for those subjects who withdraw consent prior to randomization or who do not
      meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      The Principal Investigator or designee will collect and record the subject's demographic
      information, medical and surgical history, cosmetic procedures history, and Fitzpatrick skin
      phototype.

      Initial Treatment Visit (Day 0) If Screening and Day 0 visit are on the same day, all
      procedures performed at Screening will be performed at Screening will be performed once,
      prior to treatment administration.

      Prior to treatment, vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, respiration rate, and
      temperature only) will be measured. Study staff will attain subject demographics, medical,
      cosmetic, and dental history. A negative UPT test will be confirmed prior to randomization.
      Photos will be taken with the Canfield Vectra 3D system. Subjects will be asked to complete
      the FACE-Q questionnaire licensed by Memorial Sloan Kettering (3). Concomitant medications
      will be captured. A subject diary will be given to each subject to complete for 30 days. A
      Investigator assessment of chin function will be completed prior to injections.

      Day 3 (+/- 2days) Subject will return to clinic for Day 3 follow up. Subject will be
      photographed with the Canfield Vectra 3D system and the investigator will rate the
      improvement using the GAIS score and Investigator Assessment of chin function.

      Day 14 (+/-3 days) Subject will return to clinic for Day 14 follow up. Subject will be
      photographed with the Canfield Vectra 3D system and the investigator will rate the
      improvement using the GAIS score and Investigator Assessment of chin function.

      Day 30 retreatment visit or Month 1 visit (+/-7days) Subject will be assessed by investigator
      to determine if retreatment is needed. If no retreatment occurs then visit will become the
      one month visit.

      Month 1 Visit Subject will be photographed with the Canfield Vectra 3D system, investigator
      GAIS score and FACE Q questionnaire completed, adverse events captured, collection of diary,
      and concurrent procedures documented.

      Retreatment Visit If retreatment is needed the visit schedule will be as follows from the
      date of retreatment day 3 (+/- 2 days), day 14 (+/- 3 days) and then day 30 (+/- 7 days).
      Subject and investigator will then complete Month 1 visit requirements as documented above.
      (Same procedures will be followed from initial injection) Month 2 (+/- 14 days) Subject will
      be photographed with the Canfield Vectra 3D system, investigator GAIS score, and Investigator
      Assessment of chin function, Face Q questionnaire, adverse events and concurrent procedures
      captured.

      Month 4 (+/- 14 days) Subject will be photographed with the Canfield Vectra 3D system,
      investigator GAIS score, and Investigator Assessment of chin function, Face Q questionnaire,
      adverse events and concurrent procedures captured.

      Month 6(+/- 14 days) Subject will be photographed with the Canfield Vectra 3D system,
      investigator GAIS score, and Investigator Assessment of chin function, Face Q questionnaire,
      adverse events and concurrent procedures captured.

      Month 9 (+/- 14 days) telephone safety call Subject will be called to review any new
      concomitant medications or any new adverse events since month 6 visit.

      10 Month 12 (+/-14 days) End of Study Visit Subject will be photographed with the Canfield
      Vectra 3D system, investigator GAIS score, and Investigator Assessment of chin function, Face
      Q questionnaire, adverse events and concurrent procedures captured. End of Study page
      completed Instructions for the Subjects

        -  Following injection with Voluma, application of ice for 10 minutes per hour while awake
           may help to reduce swelling and this may be used for a period of 3-5 days.

        -  Discomfort may be treated with acetaminophen.

        -  Gentle massage may also be used to minimize lumps and bumps which are more common during
           the first 7 days following treatment.
    
  