
    
      This study is designed to learn about early brain development in children with Krabbe disease
      and to use diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) as an early diagnostic tool to differentiate
      children with infantile Krabbe disease from newborns who are disease free but have very low
      enzyme levels. Additionally, this study will determine how certain structures in the brain
      will develop over 24 months in children with infantile Krabbe disease and those without
      disease who have low enzyme levels. This study will also reveal information about the
      learning and motor development of children, and will help researchers predict outcomes after
      treatment.

      Krabbe disease is a rare, childhood neurodegenerative disorder caused by galactocerebrosidase
      deficiency. It results in rapid demyelination, progressive spasticity, mental deterioration,
      blindness, deafness, seizures, and death. Based on previously published findings, treatment
      with unrelated umbilical cord blood transplantation is now standard for Krabbe disease,
      provided that the treatment occurs within the first weeks of life and before symptoms appear.

      Once newborns are identified through population screening, there is no objective measure to
      predict if the baby will develop the most frequent rapidly progressive infantile forms of
      Krabbe or have a slower juvenile or adult form. Phenotype and genotype correlations are not
      possible because there are more than 150 mutations that can cause the disease and many
      polymorphisms in the normal population that affect the enzyme level.

      There is an urgent clinical need to develop a predictive measure. To date, there are no
      available tools to classify infants into the infantile versus later forms. New advances in
      neuroimaging techniques have enabled scientists to quantify changes in brain growth and
      myelination early in life and before disease symptoms develop.

      Knowledge from this study will help identify the window of opportunity for early intervention
      and treatment to prevent severe disability, and may lead to better treatment strategies.
    
  