
    
      The objectives will be addressed in a pilot study. We plan to enroll 15 patients over 3 years
      in islet transplantation alone (ITA), islet-after-kidney transplantation (IAK) or
      simultaneous islet-kidney transplantation (SIK) procedures. Patients will be followed-up for
      1 year after transplantation.

      Islet isolation and transplantation Islets will be isolated and purified from pancreata
      harvested from multiorgan donors, according to the automated method described by Ricordi,
      with local modifications. After isolation, islets will be cultured overnight at 37°C in CMRL
      medium. After overnight culture, islets will be changed to fresh medium containing
      carbodextran-coated iron oxide nanoparticles (Resovist; Schering, Baar, Switzerland), at a
      target concentration of 5ul/ml, with a total dose not exceeding 0.08 ml/kg body weight, and
      further cultured for a total of 48-72 hours at 25°C until transplantation. Islet
      transplantation will be performed by intraportal infusion of the islet preparation, using a
      transhepatic percutaneous approach. Patients will receive infusions of at least 5,000 IEQ/kg.
      A second islet infusion will be administered to patients who have not reached insulin
      independence after the first transplant.

      Graft monitoring and follow-up Patients will be followed for 1 year after last islet
      infusion. MRI will be performed prior to, 6 days, 6 weeks, 6 months and 1 year after islet
      infusion. A standard MRI protocol will be adapted. Since transplanted islets are already
      iron-labeled, no injection of contrast media will be done during MRI examination, and MRI
      sequences will not be repeated. After a scout image, axial views of the liver will be
      acquired with a fast gradient echo T2* weighted sequence, a fast spin echo T2* weighted
      sequence, ultrashort echo time T2* weighted sequences, a spin echo T1 weighted sequence and
      in/out of phase fast gradient echo T1 weighted sequences. Iron-labeled islets will be
      visualized as a loss of signal on fast gradient echo T2* weighted sequence, and the islet
      mass will be assessed in a semi-quantitative fashion using a visual scale. Finally,
      ultrashort echo time sequences will be used to generate a T2 map. The amount of iron
      contained inside the transplanted islets will be quantified based on the T2 map and the
      correction for the distribution of the iron particles inside the liver.

      Monitoring results will be compared to islet function assessed by routine tests: exogenous
      insulin requirement, C-peptide, HbA1c, fructosamine, arginine stimulation test. Results will
      be analyzed retrospectively for the first 2 years. According to results of the analysis, the
      investigators may decide to intervene proactively (i.e. administer antirejection therapy) in
      the last year of the study, whenever results suggestive of a dysfunction are observed.
    
  