
    
      The study 'Dynamic stability of the ACL-injured knee' is carried out as part of a formalized
      research collaboration between the University of Delaware, US, and NAR, Orthopaedic Centre,
      Ullevaal University Hospital, Norway. The project is funded by National Institutes of Health.
      150 patients, both men and women, aged between 13-55 years, will over a three year-period be
      enrolled in the study. Follow-up time is 2 years. A part-study will have a case-control
      design and include 50 of the patients.

      In Norway, approximately 4000 persons rupture their anterior cruciate ligament (ACL)per year.
      The majority of these individuals are relatively young people, engaged in various physical
      activities. Most ACL-ruptures occur within pivoting sports like soccer, team handball,
      floorball, basketball and volleyball, but also within racket sports, ice-hockey,
      dance/gymnastics and alpine skiing. A ruptured ACL is a serious injury for the individual,
      who often experiences exclusion form both work, leisure activities and sports for potentially
      a long period of time. A considerable number of the patients will not be able to return to
      their pre-injury activity level, and many will also experience long time consequences, the
      most serious of these being development of knee osteoarthritis(OA).

      The function of the injured knee varies considerably among patients with a torn ACL. Some are
      able to stabilize their knees even during demanding activities and sports, while others
      experience frequent episodes of giving way, also following daily activities. Currently, there
      is little consensus regarding the optimal rehabilitation program following ACL injury and/or
      criteria for ACL-reconstruction. But, whether managed operatively or non-operatively, a full
      return to pre-injury activities after ACL rupture is always dependent on the development of
      dynamic knee stability. In the past 10-15 years, a test battery consisting of standardised
      and validated tests for screening and classification of newly injured ACL-patients has been
      developed. The test battery includes four different functional one-legged hop tests, two
      questionnaires on knee function and self-evaluation of knee status in the form of a global
      rating. The questionnaires included are The Knee Outcome Survey - Activities of Daily Living
      (KOS-ADL), and The International Knee Documentation Subjective Knee Form (IKDC 2000). In
      addition, we measure the laxity between the tibia and femur with KT1000, register eventual
      number of episodes of giving way and perform isokinetic strength measurements of the
      quadriceps and hamstrings muscles with a Biodex6000 system. Based on these tests, all newly
      diagnosed patients with an ACL-rupture may be classified according to whether they have good
      or poor dynamic stability. Those with 80% or more performance on the injured leg compared to
      the non-injured leg on all hop tests, who score 80 or more in KOS-ADL, who rate themselves to
      a score of at least 60 on the global rating and have experienced maximum one episode of
      giving way, are categorized as potential copers. Those who score below these limits and/or
      have experienced two or more episodes of giving way are categorized as non-copers. In Norway,
      approximately 50% of all ACL-injured individuals go through reconstructive surgery. The
      optimal time to decide whether surgery is the best treatment option or not is highly
      individual, but recent research has demonstrated that the functional status of the knee at
      the time of eventual surgery is more important than the time span since the date of injury.
      Reconstructive surgery will to a large degree re-establish the mechanical stability of the
      knee, but has not been proven to provide sufficient dynamical stability or make the patient
      able to return to his/hers pre-injury activity level. It can at present time neither be
      documented that reconstructive ACL-surgery reduces the risk of later development of knee OA.

      Several questions remain that will affect the development of effective rehabilitation
      programs for patients after ACL rupture. Validated practice guidelines for patients after ACL
      injury that discriminate between surgical and non-surgical candidates, lead to a return to
      pre-injury activities, and protect future joint health have not been reported. The
      case-control part study will aim specifically to investigate the effectiveness of two
      different protocols for neuromuscular training, with before- and after intervention data
      collection in a biomechanical laboratory.

      Results from the overall study (inclusive the part study) will allow us to extend our
      previous findings and will provide information that is needed to identify and treat
      individuals with ACL rupture across the spectrum of compensation strategies.

      Follow-up during the project includes

        -  Functional one-legged hop tests

        -  Instrumental measurement of knee laxity (KT1000)

        -  Isokinetic strength testing of the quadriceps and hamstrings muscles

        -  Biomechanical analyses of gait and one-legged hops in the Motion Analysis Laboratory at
           the Norwegian University of Sport Sciences

        -  Self-assessment of knee function in the form of global rating
    
  