
    
      Older Adults (OAs), aged 65 years and older, are the fastest growing segment of the U.S.
      population. As life expectancy increases, maintaining physical independence has become a
      public health priority. It is well recognized that regular physical activity (PA) can be done
      safely by seniors, and has multiple physical, emotional, and cognitive benefits. Yet, they
      remain the least physically active of any age group. This suggests that the translational
      reach of efficacious PA protocols to the real-world remains limited, and a need for research
      which is scalable to the individual in more naturalistic settings exists. An emerging trend
      for seniors is to choose Independent Living Facilities (ILFs) as their home. ILFs offer a
      variety of social, cultural, and fitness services. Access to up-to-date technologies (e.g.,
      wireless Internet), web-based education, and wellness programs are a priority for ILF
      residents, thus opportunities for using technology for health promotion with OAs exists. ILFs
      provide a unique opportunity for PA promotion, because 1) more seniors are choosing ILFs for
      aging-in-place, 2) PA is of interest to ILF residents, 3) ILFs should continue to increase
      their wellness offerings, and 4) ILFs should be interested in incorporating PA programs into
      wellness offerings. Research is needed to translate efficacious PA protocols for seniors into
      formats that are scalable to OAs in real-world settings. The goal is to extrapolate knowledge
      gained from efficacy research to improve the utilization and sustainability of evidence-based
      methods by producing programs that are agreeable, user-friendly, and optimal at both the
      individual and organizational level. Smart Television and Exercise Promotion for Independent
      Living Facilities (STEP for LIFE) will establish the feasibility for translating an
      evidence-based PA program using an interactive web-enabled, streaming-video technology (i.e.,
      Smart TV) for ILF residents. This program offers 1) an innovative and potentially effective
      medium to reach seniors, 2) the ability to select and sequence together a session that is
      personalized to fitness level, type of exercise, and duration, and 3) organizations the
      ability to provide desired wellness options which meet both resident and organizational
      needs. The purpose of this study is to provide the initial research for translating
      efficacious research-based PA protocols for seniors into a scalable format usable in a
      real-world ILF setting, and to gain knowledge at individual and organizational levels to
      improve implementation and sustainability of this evidence-based approach. Specific Aims
      include extensive formative research on the use, interest, and effectiveness of interactive
      multimedia approaches for promoting PA, and its integration into senior living settings. A
      working prototype will be developed and tested for usability with ILF residents and
      administrators, and seniors not residing in ILFs. Outcomes will establish the feasibility of
      producing and testing STEP for LIFE in a large-scale randomized trial. A larger trial can
      inform 1) future translation of PA promotion to other OA residential settings (e.g., assisted
      living, memory care, rural settings), and 2) sustainable implementation strategies for other
      evidence-based health promotion protocols for seniors.
    
  