
    
      Stroke and its risk factors disproportionately affect minority populations, and secondary
      stroke prevention programs have had relatively little success. TIA and mild stroke patients
      with few after-affects also stay in the hospital for a shorter period of time, and leave
      without enough information about their risk for another stroke. Additionally, mild stroke and
      TIA patients often do not follow-up with neurologists after they leave the hospital. DESERVE
      is a discharge education study using health workers to enroll and randomly assign 800
      subjects from MSSM, MSSM Queens and CUMC diagnosed with Transient Ischemic attack (TIA ),
      mild Ischemic stroke (IS) or mild Intracerebral Hemorrhage (ICH) to either risk factor
      education or usual care. Those patients assigned to education will receive education on
      stroke preparedness education plus risk factor reduction education, and help accessing follow
      up care with health workers. This education includes a power point presentation and a
      patient-paced workbook and video on Risk perception, Medication Adherence, and
      Patient-Physician Communication. To target the most appropriate mild IS/ICH and TIA survivors
      for participation in this proposal, we will focus on survivors with mild stroke and TIA,
      excluding those whose stroke deficits are severe enough to warrant discharge to a nursing
      home or to require 24-hour care.

      Those patients assigned to usual care will receive written stroke preparedness education.
      This protocol will evaluate the effectiveness of this intervention to reduce blood pressure,
      and individual stroke risk factors and future stroke risk. Additionally, we will evaluate the
      ability of the these strategies to conduct education to affect positive change in taking
      medications as directed, stroke knowledge 6 months and 12 months after hospital admission,
      attendance at follow-up health care appointments, and cost-effectiveness. After 1 year
      participants will be followed quarterly for up to 3 years to track events.
    
  