
    
      For repair of inguinal hernia, standard open mesh repair methods were used. For anaesthesia,
      local infiltration with lidocaine (10 mg/ml) and light intravenous sedation with propofol and
      fentanyl were primarily used. Reasons for choosing spinal or general anaesthesia were
      registered. For postoperative pain relief bupivacaine (5mg/ml) 10 ml was infiltered into the
      wound and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory analgesics (NSAID) and paracetamol combined with
      codeine were prescribed, when suitable. Day-case patients were discharged home according to
      commonly approved criteria. Inpatients stayed on the hospital ward overnight. All patients
      received the same preoperative and postoperative instructions orally and in writing. Physical
      activity was not restricted after the operation, and patients were encouraged to resume to
      normal life as soon as possible.

      At the hospital, patient characteristics, type of anaesthesia, duration of surgery, duration
      of hospital stay and perioperative complications including unplanned overnight admissions
      were registered.

      The study nurse interviewed all patients on the 1st and 14th postoperative day (POD) by
      telephone, using standardised follow-up questionnaires. The investigated variables on both
      dates included: satisfaction with treatment, patient-reported overall condition and
      functional capacity compared to the preoperative state, intensity of pain and use of pain
      medication. On POD 1, patients were inquired whether convalescence had been as expected, and
      asked to specify if not. Also the incidence and intensity other symptoms apart from pain were
      questioned. On POD 14 patients were questioned of unplanned contacts with primary healthcare,
      unplanned hospital visits, readmissions, and corresponding reasons.

      Patient satisfaction with treatment in the operating room and following arrival to the
      postanaesthesia care unit was evaluated numerically (0-10), using the numeric rating scale
      (NRS), with 0 indicating lowest, and 10 highest possible satisfaction as rated by the
      patient. Intensity of postoperative pain was evaluated by NRS. Overall condition and
      functional capacity were evaluated using a 3 -point scale (good / moderate / poor).
      Health-related quality of life was measured using the RAND-36-instrument.

      Patients were inquired about the degree of impairment in the groin area at the preoperative
      visit, and three months postoperatively.

      Results are given as median (range) or mean (SD) as appropriate. Patient characteristics and
      surgery -related variables and NRS scores were compared using the Chi-square, Mann-Whitney-U
      and Kruskall-Wallis tests when appropriate. Intergroup comparisons were performed using the
      Wilcoxon test for related samples. P-values < 0.05 were considered statistically significant.
    
  