
    
      At any given time, 2-8 Veterans are receiving treatment for head/neck cancer at VAPSHCS,
      which typically involves daily appointments over a period of 6-7 weeks. Some have tumor pain
      prior to treatment; many of those who do not have pain at the outset experience significant
      pain by week 3 of treatment. Individual clinical work with these Veterans using hypnosis and
      mindfulness interventions has been promising.

      The investigators will compare the efficacy of these two skills-based self-management
      approaches by looking at changes in pain and function from pre to post-treatment. This is an
      open label trial, so if there are sufficient participants who choose usual care, the
      investigators will also compare any pre-post changes to those subjects who elect usual care.
      Subjects will be up to 30 Veterans who are seeking treatment for head and/or neck cancer at
      VAPSHCS. Due to an open label model, the investigators anticipate that the treatment group
      size may be uneven. The investigators may find that participants select one intervention more
      than the others.

      The investigators have designed the intervention and measures in such a way as to minimize
      subject burden and to limit measures to those functional outcomes relevant to this
      population. The investigators will emphasize implementation aspects of the evaluation,
      measuring feasibility, relevance, and Veteran preferences.

      Knowledge generated from this study will include revealing treatment needs and preferred
      approaches to acute cancer pain management care for Veterans and demonstrating feasibility.
      The investigators anticipate that the findings will inform strategies to for making
      complementary meditation or self-hypnosis interventions available to Veterans dealing with
      cancer pain and pain related to cancer treatment. The investigators will learn if these
      interventions are feasible, acceptable, helpful and credible for Veterans undergoing active
      treatment for cancer.
    
  