
    
      BACKGROUND: The Direct Anterior Approach (DAA) for total hip arthroplasty (THA) has become
      increasingly popular in the US over the last decade (Berry & Bozic, 2010). Major limitations
      of the DAA with traction table include the need for an additional surgeon's assistant, a
      traction table operator, and the purchase of said table. To counter these limitations, some
      surgeons advocate for the performing the DAA with a conventional operating room table {Cohen,
      2017;Molenaers, 2017}. However to date, there are no studies directly comparing the
      efficiency and efficacy of these two techniques for DAA.

      OBJECTIVE: Currently, it is unclear which surgical technique is more efficient and effective
      for total hip arthroplasties (THA). We hypothesize that there will be an increase in
      efficiency as measured by time when performing a standard operating table (Off-Table) DAA THA
      when compared to a purpose built traction table (On-Table) DAA THA. In addition, there will
      be less pain and faster functional recovery in the early post-operative period for patients
      who underwent an "Off-Table" DAA THA when compared to an "On-Table" DAA THA.

      SPECIFIC AIMS: 1) Determine whether there is a difference in operating room efficiency
      between surgeries after a THA via DAA with a standard OR table versus a purpose-built
      traction table; 2) examine whether there is a difference in early post-operative pain and
      clinical outcomes when comparing patients who underwent a THA via the DAA with a standard OR
      table versus a purpose built traction table. 3) report differences in complication rates
      between those two.

      METHODS: This is a prospective randomized clinical trial that will evaluate adult patients
      admitted to Carilion Clinic undergoing primary unilateral total hip arthroplasty. Off and on
      table DAA procedures will be performed by a single surgeon with multiple years of training
      and experience in both. Cluster randomization will be performed where patients will be
      randomized through scheduling. Demographic data will be collected. Operative records will be
      used to record operative times for each approach. Radiographs to assess implant positioning
      on postoperative day 0. The primary outcome variables are intra-operative data such as time
      the patient enters the operating room, time of incision, time of dressing application, exit
      room time, implants used, operative report. For secondary outcome variables, we will assess
      at 2 and 6 week follow ups routine Patient-Reported Outcome Measures including narcotic
      utilization based on pill count and MEq, and the PROMIS and HOOS, JR. measures.

      EXPECTED OUTCOMES: We expect that the Off-table DAA technique will be associated with faster
      set up, surgical time, and overall room time when compared to the On-table approach.
      Additionally, we expect less early post-operative pain in the groin, knee and ankle. We
      expect that the patient report outcome measures at 2 and 6 weeks post-op for the off-table
      DAA group will be equivalent or better than the on-table DAA group. Finally we expect no
      difference in complication rate.
    
  