
    
      Newly diagnosed patients with prostate cancer, with localized untreated disease must be at
      intermediate or high risk for disease relapse based on their PSA, Gleason score, and clinical
      stage. Before starting treatment, a baseline radiographic evaluation with FDG-PET and
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) will be performed. Biopsies will also be performed to obtain
      fresh tissue for molecular and gene expression assays. In patients with a positive FDG-PET
      scan at baseline, Treatment Day 1-14 will be with RAD001 10 mg/day alone. After performing
      post-RAD001 FDG-PET evaluation, treatment Day 15 will be equivalent of Treatment Day 1 of the
      trial in patients with negative FDG-PET scan at baseline.

      In patients with a negative FDG-PET scan at baseline, Treatment Day 1 is the beginning of the
      Phase II trial of RAD001 combined with androgen ablation treatment.

      Patients will be treated with RAD001 10 mg per day combined with androgen ablation therapy
      for 8 weeks depending on their ability to tolerate the drug. Radiographic and biologic assays
      will be repeated after 8 weeks, at which time patients will undergo prostatectomy or external
      beam radiation therapy (ERT). Second biopsy will be performed in patients admitted to ERT
      They will receive RAD001 up to the day of surgery or ERT to ascertain better tissue
      concentration of the drug. Gene expression profiling will also be evaluated at that time. The
      primary endpoint of this study is pharmacodynamic assessments of the effects of RAD001 in
      prostate cancer. However, the secondary endpoints of this study will define its true success.
      Specifically, the study will evaluate pharmacodynamic assessments of the effects of RAD001 in
      prostate cancer using novel applications of radiology, molecular biology, and genomics. These
      novel endpoints will be correlated with more established pathologic measures, such as
      microvessel density, apoptotic indexes, PTEN, phospho-AKT and phospho-p70S6K. MRI and
      3-dimensional. PSA effects will also be assessed. Prostate cancer tissues from high risk
      prostate cancer patients admitted to neoadjuvant androgen ablation without RAD001 will serve
      as controls.

      An ambitious aspect of this project is to examine gene expression alterations that occur in
      these patients. It will be technically challenging to get enough tissue by needle biopsies
      for gene array analysis. However, clearly, obtaining this information might be very useful in
      describing the full effects of RAD001 therapy in this patient population.
    
  