
    
      This is a prospective interventional mono centre study. High-sensitivity troponin and CK-MB
      will be measured at different point of times in all adult patients undergoing cardiac
      surgery.

      Experiments are conducted at the O.L.V. Hospital, Aalst, Belgium, in a fully equipped
      operating room and intensive care facility and in the presence of board-certified
      anesthesiologists for safety reasons. After approval by the institutional ethics committee
      and written informed consent, all adult patients scheduled for different types of cardiac
      surgery between June 2013 and June 2014 will be enrolled. Collected data include demographic
      information, presence of co-morbid conditions and basic preoperative laboratory testing
      (including Hs-cTn and CK-MB) (Table 1) as well as per- and postoperative factors (Table 2).

      Four different surgeons will perform the surgeries. The revascularization strategy and work
      method are chosen according to each surgeon's preference and good clinical practice. Standard
      monitoring is used in all patients. Anaesthesia management is at the discretion of the
      attending anaesthesiologist and according to good clinical practice.

      Serum levels of CK-MB and Hs-cTn will be measured at induction of anaesthesia (after
      placement of the arterial line), upon arrival at the intensive care unit (ICU), as well as
      every 3 hours for 12 hours, then every 6 hours the following 12 hours and a last sample is
      taken 48 hours after surgery. Samples are analysed at the department of Clinical Biochemistry
      of our institution with the Elecsys Troponin T hs immuno-assay. Lower limit of quantification
      being 0,14 Nano gram/L (company data).

      Twelve-lead ECGs obtained routinely the day prior to surgery, immediately upon arrival at the
      ICU, and then 24 and 48 hours post-surgery will be retrospectively reviewed by a cardiologist
      blinded to all other data for evidence of new postoperative MI.

      All cardiac events, as described by the Third Global MI Task Force definition of MI, will be
      noted. Additional ECG or transesophageal echocardiography will be done at the discretion of
      the attending ICU physician, according to ICU protocols and good clinical practice.

      Approved automated record keeping system (MetaVision Suite, iMDSoft, the Netherlands) will be
      used in the ICU. The principal investigator and/or co-investigators will supervise data
      handling.
    
  