
    
      A pilot randomized trial of Flexitouch® as an adjunctive treatment for venous ulcers

      Objectives To determine if the Flexitouch® compression therapy system, when added to standard
      venous ulcer (VU) treatment, results in: 1. Greater complete healing at 12 weeks as compared
      to standard treatment alone. 2. Greater percentage reduction in ulcer area at 12 weeks as
      compared to standard treatment alone. 3. Less time to complete healing as compared to
      standard treatment alone 4. A greater reduction in the leg volume of the affected leg

      Hypothesis We hypothesize that adding the Flexitouch® system to standard venous ulcer
      treatment will result in

      1) greater complete healing, 2) greater percentage reduction in ulcer area 3) reduced time to
      complete healing, as compared to the use of standard treatment alone, and 4) a greater
      reduction in affected leg volume as compared to standard treatment alone.

      Patient recruitment, eligibility, and exclusions Patients who present at our clinic with a
      venous leg ulcer, as judged by clinical presentation and history, will be recruited for
      participation in this research study. For this pilot study a total of 16 patients will be
      recruited.

      Protocol and Procedures After verifying eligibility and administering an approved informed
      consent, patients will be randomized to one of the study arms (A or B). Study patients will
      be seen one or two times per week (per physician's discretion) for 12-weeks for standard
      wound care and treatment. For both groups, sustained compression will be achieved with the
      FarrowWrap™ Classic device. This device will be worn continuously except during the
      twice-weekly treatments and when Flexitouch therapy is being undertaken (Group B only). Group
      B will use Flexitouch at home every day (twice daily); Group A will not use Flexitouch. Once
      per week, treatment and parameter assessments will be undertaken as described below.

      Standard Wound Care and Treatment Standard wound care treatment will include gentle wound
      ulcer cleansing with saline solution at each visit, maintaining moisture balance in the wound
      and periwound with appropriate dressings (e.g Acticoat, Aquacel Ag, or Mepilex Ag foam
      dressings), reminding subjects of the importance of proper nutrition, leg elevation at rest
      and activity, including frequent ambulation and ankle range of motion exercises through the
      day. The FarrowWrap Classic device is applied over the dressing to achieve suitable
      compression pressures as an important component of the standard treatment. For venous ulcer
      treatment it is applied at full stretch. The patient will be given instructions as to how to
      apply the FarrowWrap at home.

      Flexitouch System and its Use Patients who have been randomized to Group B will be provided a
      home Flexitouch unit. They will be given instructions to use it on a twice daily basis. They
      will be instructed to remove the FarrowWrap during the time they are using Flexitouch. The
      Flexitouch System works by applying dynamic low-pressure compression to the trunk and
      affected limbs using gentle, rhythmic massage action. The system consists of a controller
      unit with four eight-port connectors and a garment set for the trunk and leg. The garments
      are placed around the trunk and affected limbs and are connected to the controller by a
      tubing harness. The controller inflates and deflates the air chambers within the garments in
      a pre-determined pattern to assist the lymphatics in moving the fluid into adjacent lymph
      node regions of the trunk. The controller inflates individual chambers in the garments for
      1-3 seconds per inflation.

      Potential Treatment modifications The patient's welfare, as determined by the principal
      investigator, will take precedence over any study procedures. Any interventions necessary for
      the patient's welfare will be undertaken as necessary.

      Wound Photography The wound will be photographed using a digital camera with zoom capability
      supplied by the sponsor of this study. All photographs will be taken with the camera pointing
      directly down to the wound such that the angle between the camera and the plane-of-the wound
      is as near to 90o as possible. Flash will be avoided if there is adequate lighting. The
      vertical distance from the wound to the camera is not critical but a distance of about 20 cm
      will be used when possible. Prior to taking photographs, a suitable dimensional scale or
      calibration standard will be placed in contact with the skin near, but outside a wound
      margin. In the case of a one-dimensional scale, it will be placed above or below the wound,
      and positioned along the long dimension of the wound. A suitable calibration standard will be
      supplied by the sponsor of this study. The framing of the photo will be such as to include 1)
      the complete wound bed, 2) a small sampling of the surrounding periwound tissue and 3) the
      calibration standard or scale. The composed image, as viewed through the camera LCD viewport,
      will be as large as possible while still including the required elements. The camera will be
      oriented such that the horizontal dimension of the LCD viewport is parallel to the horizontal
      calibration scale on the leg.

      Wound Tracing After photographing, the wound margins will be traced by placing a transparent
      grid over the wound. The grid is a commercial product (E-Z Graph) that is designed for this
      purpose. It consists of two layers; a bottom layer which is in contact with the wound and an
      upper layer on which tracing is done using a colored pen. The upper layer has a grid system
      with 1 x 1 cm squares imbedded into the material. After tracing the bottom layer is
      discarded. The patient's study ID, visit number and visit date are then recorded on a space
      provided on the upper tracing grid.

      Assessment of Leg Volumes Leg volumes of both right and left legs from ankle to knee will be
      determined. This is done using a calibrated tape measure (Gulick-type) to measure
      circumferences at 4 cm intervals starting at the malleoulus and progressing toward the knee.
      From these circumference measurements, limb volumes will be determined using the well
      established truncated cone model together with a validated software algorithm. Using this
      method the wound assessor enters the circumferences into a standardized form and the
      appropriate volumes are automatically determined.

      Assessment of Complete Wound Healing At each visit the wound will be carefully inspected by
      the Principal Investigator and the presence or absence of complete wound healing noted and
      recorded. For this study, wound healing will be considered to occur when the wound is fully
      covered with epithelium and there is no drainage. In addition, at each visit, a study-related
      case report form will be completed by the Principal Investigator to document various clinical
      features of the wound and to note any relevant study-related actions or events. This form
      will be embedded within password protected software so that most wound descriptors will be
      able to be entered and documented with a simple mouse click.

      Analysis of Wound Areas and Related Parameters Wound Areas by Photo Images: The digital
      images of the wound will be coded by the Principal Investigator by suitably renaming each
      photographic image file with a unique identifier. He will keep a record of these coded file
      names and the group, patient, and visit date and number to which they correspond. A copy of
      each image file will be made and stored on a CD. The CD will be sent to a scientific advisor
      who works with the study sponsor. The advisor will be responsible for the analyses of the
      images, including the determination of wound areas via computerized planimetry and for
      subsequent data and statistical analyses. The analyst will blind as to which actual group the
      images correspond. At the completion of the data acquisition phase of the study, the analyst
      will be told which images belong to common groups, but he will still not know which of the
      common groups belong to which arm of the study. He will thus remain blind during the
      subsequent statistical analyses.

      Wound Areas by Tracings: As a complementary comparison approach, wound areas will also be
      assessed from the wound tracings. The analyst will be supplied with copies of the coded
      tracings. The tracings will then be scanned and the wound areas determined by computerized
      digital planimetry as previously described. Areas determined by this method will serve as a
      check measurement and will be used as a backup in those cases (if any) in which photographic
      quality is inadequate.

      Leg Volumes: In addition to photographs and tracings, the analyst will be supplied with coded
      electronic copies of the leg circumference forms. This data will be used to determine if, and
      to what extent, changes in leg volume or edema occur, and if there are differences in these
      parameters between groups A and B.

      Wound Descriptors: A coded electronic version of the case report form, containing wound
      descriptor parameters data, will be supplied to the analyst. This information will be used
      primarily in the final analysis to summarize the clinical progression of the wounds.
    
  