
    
      CLINIC VISIT 1: Screening

      Following informed consent study participants will give a full medical and medication
      history. Venous blood tests will be taken to assess HbA1c and renal function. C-peptide will
      be measured in participants who have not had previous tests to confirm T1DM diagnosis.. Women
      of childbearing age will have a urine pregnancy test. An ECG will be performed in
      participants with longstanding Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus (>10 years) or participants who are
      >40 years old.

      CLINIC VISIT 2: Run-in

      If participants meet the inclusion criteria they will be enrolled on to the study, within a
      month of screening and at a time that is convenient to them. For the 10 days of the run-in
      period, participants CGM will be blinded, meaning that they will be wearing the CGM sensor
      but will not see any of the glucose data. They will wear a sensor which will be attached to a
      transmitter which will send data to a Dexcom receiver. The receiver must be kept within 6
      meters of the transmitter most of the time as the transmitter can only store three hours of
      data. After the run in they will be able to use the Smartphone app instead of carrying the
      receiver if they wish. They will be taught to insert the sensor at the run-in visit, and
      provided with spares in case of sensor failure. Participants will be instructed to test their
      capillary blood glucose levels and self-manage their type 1 diabetes as normal during the
      run-in period. The run in phase will last 10 days.

      Data on food intake, and insulin usage will be collected for the full duration of the study
      using a smart phone app (mySugr) in those treated with insulin injections, or using the
      built-in system in the pumps of those using insulin pump therapy. Both the app and the
      insulin pumps allow participants to input their own insulin doses, or use the bolus
      calculator which uses the participant's individual insulin:carbohydrate ratio to help
      calculate insulin doses based on the carbohydrate intake. There will be no change in
      participants' insulin dosing, and participants will make all their insulin dosing decisions
      themselves, based on their pre-study insulin:carbohydrate ratios. The advantage of using the
      app or bolus advisor is that the tracking of the insulin action (which lasts for 3-5 hours)
      allows participants to see how much insulin is still active. This is important when the CGM
      is unblinded as it can prevent participants giving additional insulin unnecessarily when they
      see their blood glucose levels on the CGM. Those using insulin injections will be provided
      with a smart insulin pen, a device similar to the participants' usual insulin delivery device
      use, but with a memory capable of storing dosing data until the end of the study (Inpen,
      produced by Companion Medical).

      A structured education refresher focusing on carbohydrate counting, hypoglycaemia avoidance,
      recognition, and management, insulin action and the theory and practicalities of CGM will be
      provided. All education will be delivered by the research dietitian with a checklist of
      topics that are provided as part of routine care.

      Participants will wear a GPS-enabled sports watch with built-in heart rate monitor (Garmin
      Forerunner 935) for the entire duration of the study. Participants will be asked to download
      the Garmin Connect App for data from the Garmin watch to be transmitted to the app via
      Bluetooth. They will be provided with anonymised log in details for the app and a charger for
      the watch. Volunteers will be asked to record their activity type and perceived physical
      exertion after every session of exercise.

      Quality of life data will be collected by mixed quantitative and qualitative methodologies.
      Validated questionnaires (HFS-II, Gold, RPAQ, DDS17) will be used to assess fear of
      hypoglycaemia, hypoglycaemia awareness, recent physical activity and diabetes distress. The
      investigator will undertake a short interview about the participants perceptions and
      experience of CGM.

      CLINIC VISIT 3: Randomisation

      Ten days after visit 2, participants will attend the research clinic for the randomisation
      appointment. The CGM, Garmin data and insulin bolus data (from mysugr or insulin pump) will
      be downloaded. Participants will have their weight and body composition measured using
      electrical impedance scales. Participants will start using their CGM unblinded, so that they
      are able to view their glucose levels either on the receiver or on the Dexcom app on their
      smartphones, depending on choice. Participants will be randomised to real-time continuous
      glucose monitoring with Predictive Hypoglycaemia Alert Algorithm enabled (ON group) or
      real-time continuous glucose monitoring with Predictive Hypoglycaemia Alert Algorithm
      disabled (OFF group). Randomisation will be done using sealedenvelope.com and stratified by
      insulin delivery modality and previous CGM experience. Participants will be provided with
      sensors for the rest of the study.

      Participants will be instructed to test their capillary blood glucose if symptoms of hypo- or
      hyperglycaemia occur, in case of sensor failure or if the sensor glucose is out of the
      desired range, in line with the device license. Participants will change sensor every ten
      days (or sooner in the event of sensor failure). Low glucose alert settings will be
      standardised at 4.4 mmol/L (80mg/dL) for all participants at the start of the study and can
      be reduced to 4 mmol/L (70mg/dL) at week 2 during the telephone visit depending on
      participant preference. High glucose alerts may be personalised. Participants will be
      provided with a contact number for technical support but insulin titration decisions will be
      made by the participant.

      Two weeks after visit 3 and 4, all participants will receive a telephone call from the
      research dietitian to discuss any queries they have regarding the CGM, sports watch or any
      other element of the study. Those in the ON group will also be able to adjust the predictive
      hypoglycaemia alert level from 4.4 mmol/L (80mg/dL) to 4 mmol/L (70mg/dL) if preferred.

      Each study period will last 40 days.

      CLINIC VISIT 4: Cross-over

      Forty days after visit 3, participants will attend the research clinic and be switched onto
      the opposite intervention (ON/OFF) for the second phase of the study, which will last 40
      days. Participants will continue to use the mySugr app or bolus advisor on their pumps, the
      Garmin watch and inpen or pump. The CGM, Garmin data and bolus data from mysugr will all be
      downloaded.

      The questionnaires assessing fear of hypoglycaemia, hypoglycaemia awareness, recent physical
      activity and diabetes distress will be repeated, as well as a short CGM interview on
      perceptions and experience of CGM.

      VISIT 5: End of study

      Forty days after visit 4, and 90 days after the start of the study, the study will end. All
      participants will be reviewed by the research dietitian at the research clinic for data to be
      collected and uploaded and to address any issues arising from the study. Smart insulin pens,
      G6 CGM and garmin watches will be returned and downloaded. Insulin pumps, mysugr apps and
      blood glucose meters will also be downloaded.

      CSV files will be downloaded from mySugr. There is no patient identifiable information in the
      CSV file. Garmin data is sent from phone to the Garmin connect app via Bluetooth, without any
      identifiable information, and CSV files can be downloaded from Garmin connect with a secure
      login. There is no patient data on the inpen, which will be downloaded onto Imperial College
      London computers, and will be associated with the anonymous email containing the study ID
      number for each participant. Insulin pumps and blood glucose meters will be downloaded onto
      NHS computers.

      HbA1c will be rechecked at this point via venous blood tests. Weight and body composition
      measurements will also be repeated.

      Validated questionnaires to assess fear of hypoglycaemia, hypoglycaemia awareness, recent
      physical activity and diabetes distress, will be repeated. A short interview about the
      participants perceptions and experience of CGM will be undertaken.
    
  