
    
      Propofol is ideal for bronchoscopy sedation because of its fast onset and quick recovery
      effect. Our research and reports from different investigators demonstrate that patients
      received propofol sedation recover fast with excellent satisfaction for bronchoscopy.
      However, the amount of propofol for induction and maintenance is calculated simply by
      patient's body weight and physicians' experience. For those non-anesthesiologists, who
      perform sedative work outside the operating room, and inexperienced anesthesiologist without
      fully considering the individual pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic differences may generate
      unstable drug plasma concentration and increase cardio-respiration suppression. Therefore, a
      manner which can assess and measure objectively individual pharmacokinetic differences may
      improve the sedative quality and decrease the complication rate.

      A model called "Target-controlled infusion"(TCI), built from massive pharmacokinetic samples
      of propofol, could now give precise pharmacokinetic control. Several pharmacokinetic models
      built-in in TCI, includes the Schnider model which use concentration of effect site (Ce, the
      propofol concentration in the brain) as the sedative guide. The model integrates individual
      variants of age, height, weight and gender to calculate the infusion profile to achieve
      predetermined steady "target effect site concentration" (Cet). Because of the unique
      consideration of individual pharmacokinetic variants and Ce targeting, TCI provides
      predictable sedative level and is suitable for procedures requiring narrowing therapeutic
      level. Beside general anesthesia, TCI has been applied in breast biopsy, upper
      gastrointestinal endoscopic ultrasound and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography at
      outpatient clinic. According to these evidences, there is potential role of TCI in
      bronchoscopic sedation.

      Based on current evidence and our experience, we design this study to evaluate the optimal
      regimen for induction and procedure during bronchoscopy. We hope this study could provide the
      more safety and efficient bronchoscopic sedation for patients and physicians.
    
  