
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS The aim of the study is to examine the effectiveness of PE treatment of PTSD in
      community settings

      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE There is a great need to apply scientific achievements in
      behavioral science research to community-based clinical settings. Many recent advances in
      psychology with significant potential to improve clinical practice and intervention have not
      yet been utilized in clinical settings.

      A recent report of the NIH National Advisory Mental Health Council Behavioral Science
      Workgroup has defined this approach, "Translational research", as follows: "Translational
      research in the behavioral and social sciences addresses how basic behavioral processes
      inform the diagnosis, prevention, treatment and delivery of services for mental illness, and
      conversely, how knowledge of mental illness increases our understanding of basic behavioral
      processes. " (NIH publication, 2001).

      PTSD in children is a well established diagnosis.Recent studies have shown 30 % of children
      presenting with PTSD symptoms after the second Lebanon war Parents and child health providers
      hesitate to refer children to child psychiatrist due to stigma but also due to lack of
      awareness of available and efficient treatment options. In the field of trauma treatment
      another reason for lack of treatment is lack of recognition of trauma related symptoms in
      children.

      After the second Lebanon war scarce referrals to psychiatric clinics have been registered and
      access to treatment is low as indicated by 20 referrals in the past year to Ha'Emek Medical
      Center child and adolescent psychiatric clinic.

      Ha'Emek medical center is initiating a community base PTSD treatment program to children
      attending general pediatric clinics.

      We propose to explore the effectiveness of well-established adult treatment for PTSD, the
      Prolonged Exposure (PE), in community-based general pediatric clinics, serving an
      underprivileged diverse population.

      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS Subjects: Twenty children age 6 to 18 referred to the community
      base PTSD treatment program offered by the Ha'Emek medical center in Afula will be include:
      All families referred to the PTSD treatment program will be offered to participate in the
      research protocol. We expect 50 families to be included in the treatment program. Only
      subject whose both parents will agree for inclusion in the research program will be included.

      DSM- IV R diagnosis: PTSD Evaluation/Instruments Socio-Demographics Data: Child: Age, Sex,
      grade level and medical history. Parents: Age, marital status, ethnic background, country of
      birth, language spoken at home, education level, occupational status.

      Trauma History: Type of trauma, distance from Katushe fall Kiddy SADS: a semi structural
      interview CDI: a self report questionnaire CPSS: a self report questionnaire

      Procedures:

      Parents will be informed of the goals of the study by their primary child health provider,
      and will be offered the opportunity to meet with the mental health worker prior to
      enrollment.. Parents will be told that their participation in the research is voluntary and
      anonymous and their refusal to participate will not affect the services they receive by the
      project.

      Children who will be diagnosed as having PTSD will be offered 12 sessions treatment by PE.

      CDI and CPSS will be scored at time 0, time 6 weeks and time 12 weeks
    
  