
    
      In the United States, consumption of soy products has dramatically increased in the past
      several years. Foods made from soy are high in isoflavones and evidence suggests that these
      isoflavones, genistein in particular, have many beneficial properties such as alleviating
      menopausal side effects and reducing the risk of osteoporosis, breast cancer, and prostate
      cancer. However, this data has been derived largely from studies with animal or cell models;
      human trials are limited. This study will determine the effects of soy isoflavones on quality
      of life and cancer and bone density markers.

      While isoflavones have been purported to inhibit the proliferation of cancer cells, the
      concentrations required for this anti-cancer effect were determined to be much higher than
      the concentrations that can be achieved in plasma after intake of isoflavones. Recent animal
      studies have suggested that isoflavones may be concentrated 10-fold in tissue compared to
      blood concentrations. If this is true, then the higher concentration would be in the range
      found in the cancer cell line research to be protective of cancer. This study will determine
      whether tissue concentrations are similar to, higher than, or different than blood
      concentrations.

      This study will last 5 years and will comprise three populations: men with prostate cancer on
      androgen ablation therapy, postmenopausal women on hormone replacement therapy (HRT), and
      postmenopausal women not on HRT. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either
      isoflavone or placebo for two to four weeks. Participants' serum and serum extracts will be
      incubated with cultured human cell lines (prostate cancer, breast cancer and osteoblasts) and
      estrogenic and non-estrogenic mechanisms of action investigated. The human sera data will be
      complemented by parallel studies of direct addition of crystalline isoflavones (genistein,
      daidzein and equol) to the same cultured human cell lines. Participant's serum and urine also
      will be tested for markers of bone resorption and formation. Quality of life issues will be
      assessed with questionnaires.
    
  