
    
      Background:

        -  EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) have significantly improved the response rate (RR)
           and survival in patients with tumors harboring EGFR-sensitizing mutations.

        -  An invariable consequence of treatment with EGFR-TKIs is the development of acquired
           resistance. The most common mechanism of resistance observed in approximately 50% of all
           cases is the emergence of a secondary mutation (T790M) in exon 20.

        -  Osimertinib is a third-generation EGFR-TKI designed to target the T790M mutation, which
           has shown impressive responses in both first- and second-line settings.

        -  Despite these developments, it is almost certain that selection pressure will lead to
           the emergence of newer clones that are resistant to treatment with osimertinib. In fact,
           a newly identified EGFR mutation (C797S) that results in acquired resistance to
           osimertinib has been reported recently.

        -  The use of local ablative therapies for patients who develop limited metastatic disease
           oligoprogressive disease) on EGFR-TKI therapy is promising.

        -  We hypothesize that following local ablative therapy to treat oligoprogressive disease
           after emergence of resistance to AZD9291, osimertinib can be resumed safely and
           reinitiation of osimertinib results in additional progression-free survival benefits.

      Objectives:

        -  Determine the safety, tolerability, and efficacy (as assessed by PFS) of re-initiation
           of osimertinib following local ablative therapy (LAT) for patients with oligoprogressive
           disease after treatment with osimertinib

        -  Assess mechanisms of acquired resistance to osimertinib

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically confirmed advanced lung adenocarcinoma with EGFR-sensitizing somatic
           mutations or a germline T790M mutation and no prior EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)
           therapy (Cohort 1); OR progressive disease after 1st or 2nd generation EGFR TKI therapy
           harboring somatic T790M mutation (Cohort 2); or patients with progressive disease after
           treatment with osimertinib who are eligible for local ablative therapy (Cohort 3). If
           biopsy for EGFR mutation status confirmation is not clinically feasible, EGFR mutations
           may be confirmed by ctDNA analysis using a CLIA certified assay.

        -  Presence of measurable disease per RECIST version 1.1

        -  ECOG performance status 0-2

        -  Adequate end organ function

        -  If patients are not eligible for LAT, they will be referred for standard of care
           chemotherapy as per treating physicians discretion. These patients may also be
           considered for other clinical trials.

      Design:

        -  This is a single-institution, open-label phase II trial of osimertinib.

        -  Eligible patients not previously treated with osimertinib will be treated with
           osimertinib daily until disease progression. At the time of progression, patients with
           oligoprogressive disease (no more than 5 sites of progressive disease) will be assessed
           for LAT.

        -  If patients are eligible for LAT, osimertinib will be resumed after LAT and they will be
           followed for second progression on osimertinib (PFS2).

        -  If patients progress at the same site where LAT has been performed before, the
           progression will be considered to be a result of inadequate ablation and they will be
           considered for repeat LAT and again re-challenged with osimertinib if clinically
           feasible.

        -  Tumor samples will be obtained at baseline by a mandatory biopsy. At the time of first
           progression on osimertinib if a patient is eligible for surgery as a form of LAT, then a
           tissue sample will be obtained for genomic and proteomic studies to identify mechanisms
           of acquired resistance. For patients who are not eligible for LAT or a form of LAT that
           is not surgery (radiation, radiofrequency ablation, cryoablation), then a mandatory
           biopsy will be performed, if clinically safe, to obtain tissue for above studies.

        -  Re-treatment will be allowed for a small number of subjects.
    
  