
    
      Acute Myocardial Infarction (AMI) accounts for more than 6,000 admissions to Singapore
      hospitals each year. Contemporary treatment, including percutaneous intervention (angioplasty
      and stenting) and adjunctive drug therapy, has reduced early mortality from AMI.

      In many healthcare systems, Hospital scorecards stipulate prescription of appropriate drugs
      upon discharge after hospitalization for AMI. These drugs include aspirin, a platelet P2Y12
      inhibitor, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE-I) or angiotensin receptor blockers
      (ARB), beta-blockers and lipid-lowering drugs. Such quality improvement programs have led to
      an increase in prescription of these drugs upon discharge. Yet, 2 problems remain pervasive:

        1. dose optimization; how the investigators escalate patients to the most effective drug
           doses, and

        2. drug adherence; whether patients are taking these drugs regularly.

      These 2 problems stem largely from the traditional model of episodic care entailing
      face-to-face visits between patient and healthcare practitioner. Inadequate dose optimization
      is most relevant to ACE-I/ARB and beta-blockers as healthcare practitioners necessarily
      prescribe low doses of these drugs at discharge to avoid excessive lowering of blood pressure
      soon after an AMI. Yet, these drugs are most effective at preventing adverse ventricular
      remodeling when patients take them at their maximum tolerated doses. In clinical trials,
      titrating these ACE-I/ARB and beta-blockers to target doses has required weekly outpatient
      visits, a model of care that most healthcare systems cannot afford.

      The investigators hypothesize that a telemedicine-based system of care will lead to a greater
      reduction in ventricular remodeling as compared with usual care, by improving dose
      optimization and adherence to ACE-I/ARB and beta-blockers in patients with recent AMI.

      Participants with AMI (n=300) will be recruited during the index hospitalization. A key
      inclusion criteria is an elevated NT-proBNP measurement during the index hospitalization.
      Participants will first undergo stratified randomization according to ST-segment
      classification (STEMI/NSTEMI), thereafter randomized into the Telehealth versus Control group
      in 1:1 sequential block randomization (blocks of 4 and 6). The telehealth intervention group
      will have their blood pressure and heart rate monitored twice daily at home for 2 months,
      with alternating titration between ACE-inhibitors and betablockers weekly during the first 2
      months. After 2 months, they will continue on telemedicine consultation for 4 months;
      coaching on drug adherence, drug side-effects management and monitoring of symptoms. A
      smartphone-based app developed by PEACH Intellihealth will provide structured health
      education, medication reminders and real-time text messaging with telehealth professionals.

      All participants enrolled will be put on 1 year of dual antiplatelet therapy, have a cardiac
      MRI done both at baseline and 6-months, and followed up with cardiologist review visit at 1,
      6 and 12 months. Major adverse cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events will be assessed
      during each cardiologist review visit, and beyond 12 months, it will be assessed by either
      phone calls or online/mailed questionnaires at 18 and 24 months.

      Four substudies have been planned: a substudy to assess the impact of telemedicine on
      readmissions (ALTRA), a substudy to assess the effect of telemedicine on adherence to
      antiplatelet therapy (TICA), a substudy to assess the cost-effectiveness of telemedicine
      (CEA) and a substudy to assess the effect of telemedicine on MR-PET measured cardiac work
      efficiency (CES).
    
  