
    
      Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip is a thoroughly researched and manageable disease if
      treated correctly. While the literature agrees that Pavlik Harness treatment is the best
      means of treatment, there is still a lack of research regarding those patients who have
      stable Graf type IIc hips. Graf's classification method outlines the severity of dysplasia
      with a categorical method based on physical exam and ultrasound findings with a range of I-IV
      given in increasing order of severity. There are recommendations for how to treat more severe
      forms, but there is no consensus among orthopedic surgeons on how to specifically treat type
      IIc hips who present with stable hips.

      Patients ages (0-18 weeks) of age will be recruited who present with stable Graf type IIc
      hips that have normal exam and abnormal ultrasound. The investigator's designated hip clinic
      defines normal exam as Ortolani and Barlow negative hips. Alpha angle will be used to
      determine normalcy on ultrasound. Abnormal ultrasound will be defined as an alpha angle <60
      degrees, and less than 50% coverage and is justification in the facility for entrance into
      our designated hip protocol.

      Upon meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria, patients diagnosed with IIc hips will be placed in
      the harness around 6 weeks of age. Patient consents will ensue at their 6 week follow up and
      will randomly divide patients into one of two arms: one control group which will receive the
      standard 12 week full-time protocol for Pavlik Harness treatment used at the institution, and
      one experimental group which will receive full-time Pavlik Harness treatment until
      normalization, but for no less than 6 weeks. All patients will be required to follow up at
      week 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12, then at 6 months, one year, and two years from the time of
      harness placement. Ultrasounds will take place at week 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 and 6
      months; radiographs will be taken at patients 6 month, one year and two year follow ups due
      to ossification of the femoral head. Acetabular Index (AI) at two-year radiographs will be
      used as the primary outcome variable.

      Patients in the 6 week arm will only cease treatment if ultrasound and physical exam findings
      are acceptable. If patients fail to have acceptable ultrasound findings at 6 weeks, then the
      associated complication/failure will be noted, patients will be ineligible for study
      inclusion, and will continue with treatment to ensure hip reduction.

      At routine follow ups, providers will note patient alpha angles on ultrasound at weeks
      1,2,3,4,6, 8, 10, and 12 weeks. Since infant hips mature and may not be as visible on
      ultrasound around 6 months of age, acetabular indices on radiographs will be taken to measure
      patient hips at 6 month, 1 year, and 2 year follow ups. These images will be analyzed from
      within EPIC after patient visits and data information will be stored in RedCAP until the
      remainder of the study. Demographic and clinical characteristics will be included through
      descriptive statistics. Non-inferiority testing between patient's 2 year AI findings will
      determine if 6 weeks of treatment is no less harmful in terms of incidences of residual
      dysplasia to that of 12 weeks of treatment. The specified non-inferiority margin will be 4
      degrees. This is the chosen clinically accepted difference in AI between groups.
    
  