
    
      RESEARCH PROJECT Vascular medicine at St Joseph, the management of chronic wounds concerns
      80% of hospitalized patients, more than 1,000 patients per year. The reason for
      hospitalization of these patients outside of revascularization gestures, often performing a
      skin graft. The existence of an infection of the ulcer on arrival in the service is not a
      cons-indication for transplant, but will delay it until the signs of infection are brought
      under control. This scenario is common. The Medical Information department on six months,
      noted over 100 patients coded "leg ulcers" principal diagnosis and "soft tissue infections"
      secondary diagnosis.

      The importance of this recruitment and the lack of recommendations for the management of
      these patients justifies the completion of a clinical and microbiological work Until recent
      months, at the request of Microbiology, bacteriological referred to biopsy was performed
      first line when suspected of being infected ulcer. After reading the literature, and because
      of the invasive nature of this gesture, the evaluation of biopsy compared to the swab in a
      large patient population seems to necessary to the investigators

      The proposed work is randomized blinded for microbiological and observational part for the
      clinical part, on a prospective series of consecutive carriers of infected leg ulcer
      patients, regardless of the etiology of leg ulcers, excluding dermohypodermitis complicating
      acute bacterial leg ulcers, with several objectives:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE Demonstrate the non-inferiority of the swab compared to biopsy in the
      management of patients hospitalized for infected leg ulcer

      two situations

        1. If graft Primary endpoint: time in days between the beginning of hospitalization and the
           day the transplant can be performed. Indeed, the transplants are performed when the
           doctor determines that the infection is under control

        2. If the patient is not grafted:

      Primary endpoint: time between the beginning of hospitalization and the end of the ideal
      hospitalization (when the clinician believes that the patient can get out)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES and CRITERIA healing rate of patients at 1 month, 3 months and 6 months
      bacteriological agreement: between the swab and biopsy Comparing the interest of biopsy
      compared to the swab: percentage of patients for whom the unblinding was necessary and where
      the biopsy was more informative than the swab (different bacteria require special treatment)
      .

      levies failure rate when the sample is sterile while the ulcer is infected clinically. The
      collection of demographic, etiological, nutritional profile, and the collection of various
      local signs can provide indicators of response to the proposed strategy. This type of study
      has never been done in the population of leg ulcers.
    
  