
    
      Femoral neck fractures represent about half of the hip fractures and are further divided into
      displaced and undisplaced fractures. Displaced femoral neck fractures are almost always
      treated surgically with arthroplasty. However there is an ongoing debate on which implant is
      superior for undisplaced fractures.

      A novel implant design (Pinloc) has been developed by Swemac Innovation AB. While the
      original implant consisted of 2 isolated hook pins, the modified design consists of 3
      titanium hook pins interlocked in an aluminum plate. Interlocking is a new principle of
      implant design and improves fixation and load transfer amongst the pins. The superiority of
      the modified design is so far only proven preclinically. The role of the Pinloc in clinical
      use remains unclear.

      A series of studies is now planned at Oslo University Hospital in collaboration with
      Diakonhjemmet Hospital in hope to further clarify this debate. The use of the Pinloc has been
      introduced in some regions (e.g. Norway, Sweden and Japan). The role of the Pinloc remains
      unclear and very little has been published on it's use, even though it is believed to be an
      important contributor of stability to the fixation.

      Femoral neck fractures are mainly caused by a fall from own height in the elderly. The
      fractures are most often classified as displaced or not, using the simplified Garden
      classification. Several other classification systems also exist, but these have not been
      shown to be of reliable clinical usefulness. The ideal classification system should be easily
      applicable, reliable, and aid in treatment decision making and prognosis.

      The treatment of femoral neck fractures comprise perioperative and operative modalities. The
      perioperative modalities consist among others of medical optimalization preoperatively, early
      rehabilitation and prevention of new fractures by treating osteoporosis and preventing new
      falls. The main scope of the current study will, however, be the operative modalities.

      Surgery for undsiplaced femoral neck fractures is performed mainly with internal fixation on
      a traction table, using either screws, pins or a sliding hip screw (SHS), available in
      various designs from different manufacturers. The latest Cochrane review did not conclude on
      which implant is the superior.

      Radiostereometry (RSA) is the most precise and accurate method to measure motion in vivo
      between different segments in orthopaedic research. To do so, radioopaque tantalum markers
      are implanted into the bone defining different segments. Stereoradiographs are performed over
      time to detect movement and monitor the healing (or non healing) process. This movement can
      be calculated both as translations and rotations. They are ideal to describe and compare the
      stability of fracture systems. RSA has been used successfully in earlier studies on fracture
      healing. Due to the high accuracy and precision, RSA yield reliable results with relatively
      small study-groups. Investigators plan to use RSA to measure fracture dislocation and time to
      healing in our studies. The study will be on the function of the Pinloc and it´s ability to
      prevent secondary dislocation in undisplaced femoral neck fractures. Investigators will
      utilize RSA for measurements during follow-up.
    
  