
    
      Akathisia is a relatively common side effect of neuroleptic medication that occurs within 1
      week to 6 months after the initiation of medication. Akathisia is characterized by a variety
      of movement manifestations, such as fidgeting, irritability, inability to sit or stand still,
      marching in place, continuous trunk motions, sleeplessness, and a subjective sense of
      restlessness. Akathisia has been studied primarily in schizophrenic patients, although
      reports on individuals with mental retardation suggest that akathisia also occurs in this
      population. This study will characterize the movement dynamics of akathisia in schizophrenic
      and mentally retarded adults using two experimental series.

      The first experimental series will compare chronic akathisia in schizophrenic and MR
      patients. Four groups of MR patients and four groups of schizophrenic patients will be
      studied: young (age 18 to 38) with chronic akathisia, older (age 40 to 60) with chronic
      akathisia, young on neuroleptics without akathisia, and older on neuroleptics without
      akathisia. Two control groups will include healthy individuals with normal intelligence who
      are not on neuroleptic medication. Assessments will include videotaped recordings and
      kinematic analysis of naturally occurring akathisia restlessness movements as well as
      cognitive and psychiatric tests. Demographic factors (age and sex) and medication factors
      (type and duration) will also be assessed to determine their relation to and possible impact
      on chronic akathisia.

      The second experimental series will compare schizophrenic and MR patients who are initiating
      neuroleptic therapy. Institutionalized MR patients will be age matched with schizophrenic
      patients. Tests will occur at baseline (prior to drug initiation) and at Weeks 1, 2, 4, 8,
      16, 24, and 52. Those who enroll in the protocol early will be tested for more than 12 months
      where possible and useful. The same analyses as in the first experimental series will be used
      to allow for comparison of acute and chronic akathisia.
    
  