
    
      Detailed Description:

      This study will be a parallel design randomized control trial. Duration of study is 10 weeks
      per subject. Following a baseline assessment of neurocognitive performance, mood symptoms,
      and neuroendocrine functioning (HPA axis functioning), bipolar depressed outpatients (n=100)
      will be randomized (week 0) to receive either mifepristone 600 mg daily (n=50) or matching
      placebo (n=50) for 7 days. Outcome measures will be completed at baseline (pre-medication),
      at the time of anticipated main response (week 3, i.e. 2 weeks after cessation of treatment),
      and at week 8 (to determine the persistence of any effects).

      Neurocognitive performance (pre and post mifepristone treatment) will be evaluated with tests
      that have previously been shown to be affected by corticosteroids and to be abnormal in
      bipolar disorder. The neurocognitive battery will measure learning and memory, attention,
      executive functioning, and facial expression (which has been shown to be a sensitive measure
      of affective shift).

      Mood symptoms will be evaluated at every study visit using standard clinician and patient
      self-rated scales.

      Neuroendocrine functioning (HPA axis functioning) will be measured by the dexamethasone
      suppression test (DST) response to dexamethasone. This is a measure of the function of the
      glucocorticoid receptor. Subjects will also be asked for salivary samples to measure the
      cortisol response to wakening and the ratio of cortisol to the protective steroid DHEA. These
      validated tests will be used to improve our understanding of the mechanism of the therapeutic
      effect of mifepristone.

      Fifty (50) matched-healthy controls will also undergo the baseline assessments of
      neurocognitive performance, mood symptoms, and neuroendocrine functioning. They will provide
      information about the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder.
    
  