
    
      Tuberculosis and vitamin D deficiency are important public health problems in India. In
      recently published studies from our center, up to 90% of the apparently healthy subjects in
      Delhi were classified either as as vitamin D insufficient or deficient by using serum 25(OH)D
      cut off levels of 20 ng/ml and 32 ng/ml respectively. Before the advent of effective
      antitubercular therapy, patients with tuberculosis were advised treatment and rest at
      sanatorium where sunshine was available in plenty. In the western literature, there have been
      reports associating vitamin D deficiency with tuberculosis in terms of incidence and
      beneficial response following addition of vitamin D to antitubercular therapy. A few pilot
      studies have shown that sputum conversion rate is higher in patients with tuberculosis
      supplemented with vitamin D.

      In the above context the mechanisms linking vitamin D deficiency and its effect on
      tuberculosis are currently under investigation. In order to understand the link two types of
      studies have been conducted (a) clinical studies associating vitamin D deficiency and
      tuberculosis and (b) in-vitro assessment of molecular immune changes related to vitamin D
      exposure. With the currently available knowledge, the linkage between the two disorders is
      being explained by the broad role of vitamin D deficiency in modulation of cell-mediated
      immunity.

      Patients with military tuberculosis are characterized by decreased levels of Th1 cytokines
      and increased levels of IL-10 compared with the healthy infected and noninfected controls.
      Current literature suggests that long-term control of M. tuberculosis infection is associated
      with elevated Th1 responses and concomitant inhibition of the Th2 response

      Peripheral blood mononuclear cells have been shown to express vitamin D receptors. Incubation
      of macro¬phages with physio¬logical concentration of 1,25 (OH)D [10-9M] results in inhibition
      of intracellular growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol, has
      significant immunomodulatory effects leading to (a) shift in cytokine profile of T-helper
      (Th1 to Th2) and (b) reduced antigen presentation, reduced production of Th1-promoting
      cytokines, reduced expression of co-stimulatory molecules in the antigen-presenting cell. In
      addition, it was demonstrated that the addition of vitamin D3 derivatives inhibits the
      differentiation of IFN-gamma-producing Th1 cells while it augments the differentiation of
      IL-4- or IL-10-producing Th2 cells.

      There are no systematic data from our country assessing association between vitamin D
      deficiency and tuberculosis and the possible role of vitamin D related modulation in the
      tuberculosis specific cellular immune response. The present study has been planned with the
      following hypothesis

      Hypothesis: Patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and vitamin D deficiency when treated with
      vitamin and antitubercular therapy are likely to show early sputum conversion and immune
      response favoring resolution of tuberculosis
    
  