
    
      Background:

      Inflammatory Bowel Disease has the United Kingdom prevalence of ~620,000 patients. PCD is the
      commonest form of fistulising Crohn's disease with 20% of patients affected and with 30% of
      them experiencing recurring disease symptoms. Durable clinical remission rate for complex
      fistulas is only 37% at the end of a 10-year follow-up.

      To this date, it is very difficult to reliably measure disease activity within the fistulas
      in pCD.

      Patients are sometimes needlessly left on long term medical therapy when their pCD has
      reached a chronic, fibrotic and irreversible stage. This practice needlessly exposes patients
      to clinical risk and health care systems to the financial expense of up to
      ~£20k/patient/year. More commonly, medical therapies are stopped prematurely, leading to
      prompt disease recurrence and chronic fistulisation with a major impact on quality of life.
      Importantly, it is very difficult to optimise therapies for pCD due to the absence of
      reliable disease measures. It is not possible to reliably correlate therapeutic drug
      monitoring to disease activity states. Due to all these limitations there has been an
      alarming paucity of well-designed randomised clinical trials. To this effect, both the 5th
      Scientific Workshop on pCD of the European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation and the global
      consensus on the classification, diagnosis and treatment of pCD by the international
      Organisation of Inflammatory Bowel disease, have highlighted the urgent need of more
      sensitive and specific MR-markers of disease activity in pCD. Once reliable MR measures of
      disease activity have been validated then these can be used to design appropriate,
      inexpensive, sensitive and non-invasive MR based clinical activity scores.

      Various clinical and radiological outcome measures have been investigated to quantify pCD
      activity. Clinical assessment is crude and participant to inter-operator-variability, with
      response loosely defined as a reduction of ≥50% in the number of draining fistulas and
      remission the absence of draining fistulas on two consecutive visits. This assessment has
      never been validated, and takes no account of the inflammatory state of the disease deep
      within the perineum. A Perineal Disease Activity Index (PDAI) was developed to assess
      perianal disease severity and response to therapy. It is based on the assessment of quality
      of life and disease severity. The PDAI score is 87% accurate and wrongly classifies patients'
      disease activity in 10% of cases, but is insensitive to change after medical therapy and its
      remission cut-off never been properly determined.

      The gold standard imaging modality for pCD is pelvic MRI. A recent meta-analysis indicated a
      sensitivity of MRI for fistula detection of 0.87 (95% CI: 0.63-0.96) but a low specificity of
      0.69 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.51-0.82).

      A T2-weighted MR sequence with fat-suppression sequences is the current advised technique for
      MR fistula imaging. This forms the basis of the Van Assche 1 score. This MR-based score was
      suggested to provide combined information of anatomical fistula description and features
      reflecting inflammatory activity. The score is insensitive to clinical response, with no
      significant difference shown in clinical responders to anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF)
      therapy before and 6 weeks after treatment, nor was there a difference in the score between
      clinical responders and non-responders. Longer term studies replicated these findings and
      also showed a dis-concordance of at least 12 months between clinical and radiological
      remission. T1-weighted gadolinium-enhanced images did not change significantly before or
      after treatment . No correlation was found between these MR-based measures of fistula
      activity and other known markers of disease activity like C-reactive protein and the PDAI.

      The majority of published studies have been carried out at 1.5T. The 3T scanners available at
      the Universities of Nottingham,London and Manchester will provide better resolution and
      sensitivity allowing us to design better clinical protocols incorporating quantitative MRI.
      3T MR scanners are available in National Health Service(NHS) trusts but are not routinely
      used for the assessment of pCD. Our aim is to develop an optimized protocol for 3T imaging
      although we expect that our results will also be able to improve 1.5T imaging. This work will
      create a paradigm shift in the radiological monitoring of disease activity in pCD.

      Recent work has highlighted the use of magnetisation transfer (MT) MRI techniques7 in
      quantifying inflammation and differentiating this from fibrosis. MT generates contrast that
      is determined by the fraction of large macromolecules and the immobilised phospholipid cell
      membranes in tissues. Particularly when combined with T2 measurements, MT may be helpful in
      differentiating and quantifying inflammation by the relative absence of collagen, and
      differentiating inflamed perianal fistulas that need treatment from other chronic fibrotic
      and irreversible fistulas that would not be responsive to treatment - better selecting
      patients for expensive medical or surgical treatment.

      DCE has shown marked enhancement in patients who later develop perianal abscesses needing
      surgical treatment or needed medical escalation of therapy. Changes to the timing of how the
      tissue takes up the contrast agent may also provide information on whether the tissue is
      still actively inflamed.

      Early pilot data on fistula volumetrics and diffusion-weighted MRI in luminal Crohn's disease
      have shown good correlation to disease activity both in pCD and in luminal disease. In
      diffusion-weighted MRI, the source of the contrast is the movement of the increased number of
      water molecules found in inflamed, oedematous tissues.

      We suggest that new MR techniques will make it possible to more accurately quantify the
      inflammatory burden within pCD. This will allow for better patient follow-up and more
      effective clinical decision making. Better medical management with more timely therapy onset,
      optimisation and cessation of therapy is needed. Moreover, although early data on therapeutic
      drug monitoring is emerging in luminal Crohn's disease, similar data is lacking in pCD due to
      the lack of appropriate measures of disease activity. Improving MR methodology, by employing
      quantitative MRI to separate inflammation from fibrotic tissues, and to determine fistula
      size better will allow for the design and validation of a sensitive clinical scoring system.
      We will use the improved sensitivity of 3T to develop optimal imaging approaches and then use
      these results to tailor a convenient clinical score. We will determine whether this score can
      be used at both 3T and 1.5T.

      Aims and hypothesis:

      The overall hypothesis is that newer MRI techniques such as MT, DWI and DCE are better suited
      to measuring the inflammatory vs fibrotic burden in pCD The aim of this project is to measure
      disease activity within pCD and luminal CD using MRI sequences before and after biological
      therapy.

      Materials and Methods:

      Patients This multicentre prospective cohort study will be conducted at three sites in
      Nottingham (Nottingham University Hospitals), London (Northwick Park NHS Foundation Trust)
      and Manchester (Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust). A total of 25 patients (age 16-75 years)
      with pCD as deemed by a PDAI of > 4 and a clinician assessment, prior to the onset of
      biological therapy. All eligible patients will receive infliximab or adalimumab or
      Ustekinumab. Patients will have infliximab 5 mg/kg i.v. at weeks 0, 2, 6 and 8 weekly
      thereafter, or Adalimumab subcutaneously (s.c.) at week 0 (160 mg), 2 (80mg), 40 mg every 2
      weeks thereafter or Ustekinumab 6mg/kg i.v. at week 0 and a weight-based s.c. every 12 weeks
      thereafter. Patients will be excluded from the study if they are due to have surgery in the
      near future (12 weeks).

      Study Design:

      Recruited participants will have no more than three visits. Visit 1: This will include
      screening to ensure participants meet the inclusion criteria and possess none of the
      exclusion criteria. The MRI evaluation (visit 2) at 1.5 and then 3T will be performed for all
      those recruited before starting biological therapy at week 0. The second MRI scanning session
      will be 12 weeks after biological therapies onset (visit 3). The period between scanning
      (MRI) (visit 2) and biological therapy onset will be a maximum of 4 weeks

      MR Imaging Technique:

      Patient will be placed in a supine position (feet first) for scanning at both 1.5T and 3T,
      with the pelvis centred within a torso phased-array surface coil unless this position proves
      too uncomfortable.The MRI scanning will be undertaken on 1.5 Tesla (2 Philips and 1 GE) and
      3T (Philips) scanners at the Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Centre at the University of
      Nottingham, the Clinical Sciences Building at the Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust ,
      Northwick park NHS trust (1.5T) and University College London (UCL).

      Statistical analysis All data will be assumed to be non-parametric (due to the small sample
      size). Data will be presented as median +/- interquartile range with all comparisons of
      single and multiple categorical and continuous matched and non-matched variables done
      accordingly. Correlation between the clinical and MR endpoints will be carried out with a
      Spearman test. A univariate analysis will be undertaken of the MR endpoints at 12 weeks for
      responders and non-responders. For all candidate parameters, κ reliability values based on X2
      probability testing will be calculated. We aim to undertake a multiple regression model in
      order to create the best-fit weighted scoring system. Double-weighting will be applied for
      inflammatory scores versus anatomical scores. However, this may not be possible at this
      present stage but this work will provide the pilot data to properly power a downstream study.
      P values of less than 0.05 will be deemed significant. All analyses will be carried out with
      GraphPad Prism.
    
  