
    
      Several aims in this study include identifying a better protocol of rPMS with Theta burst
      stimulation (TBS) and different nerves stimulation location, identifying the most optimal
      treatment protocols for rPMS (TBS treatment and nerve stimulation location), integrating
      novel treatment protocol (optimal rTMS + rPMS), comparing efficacy between integrated therapy
      of optimal rTMS and rPMS treatment and single rTMS or rPMS treatment, determining the
      mechanism of neuro-motor control, clinical predictors, and related biomarkers for the novel
      treatment protocol A total of 108-135 patients with stroke will be recruited. During phase 1
      (year 1 and year 2), 72 to 90 participants will be randomly enrolled in different groups
      (12-15 participants in each group). For the first year, the participants will be randomly
      enrolled in 3 different groups according to the TBS mode (iTBS vs.cTBS). In the second year,
      the participants will be randomly enrolled in 3 different groups according to the stimulated
      nerves (radial, median/ulnar nerves) to find the optimal novel treatment protocols for UE
      dysfunction in patients with stroke. During phase 2 (2-3 years), 36 to 45 patients will be
      randomly enrolled into 3 groups of rTMS and rPMS integrated therapy to identify optimal
      integrated novel treatment protocol.

      Outcome measures include clinical based on International Classification of Functioning,
      Disability and Health (ICF) and motor control (Motor Evoked Potential, MEP; muscle tone
      assessment (MYOTON); pinch and grip strength and kinematics of upper extremity) assessments
      that administered at pretest, posttest, and 3-month follow-up. The aim of this study is to
      establish the novel assessment and treatment protocols in patients with stroke. The
      intervention will be conducted 10 times in 2 weeks (five times per week). The optimal
      effective treatment protocol of combination of rTMS and rPMS will also be established. The
      results of this study will be applied to the translational and evidence-based medicine of the
      neuro-rehabilitation field of stroke research.
    
  