
    
      A majority of older adults experience repeated periods of physical inactivity during acute
      illnesses, injuries or after an operative procedure. Following discharge from the hospital,
      daily activities are adversely impacted. Infirmity follows repeated periods of inactivity
      (termed "catabolic hits") that can occur over an older adults' lifespan and lead to a
      downward spiral of potentially irrecoverable deficits in physical function resulting in
      increased health care costs, loss of independence, and premature death. The hallmark sign of
      short-term physical inactivity in older adults is the rapid deterioration of skeletal muscle
      mass and strength. Understandably, little attention is placed on physical function during
      these requisite periods of inactivity as the medical management and/or postoperative
      recuperation is the focus. However, the muscle deficits that follow as a result of acute
      hospitalization can have profound long-term consequences.

      Muscle contraction and essential amino acids are powerful independent anabolic stimuli and
      fundamental to maintain skeletal muscle mass and strength. The primary mechanism of disuse
      atrophy during short-term bed rest in older adults is the reduced acute nutrient stimulation
      of muscle protein synthesis regulated by the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling
      pathway and amino acid transporter expression (i.e., LAT1). Intervening with essential amino
      acid supplements can maintain some muscle function in older adults during bed rest, but it
      does not preserve muscle mass. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) as a muscle
      intervention is also feasible, but alone is not a panacea. NMES has recently been shown to
      acutely stimulate protein synthesis in ambulatory older adults with diabetes and attenuate
      some loss in muscle mass in critically ill patients. The investigator suggests that,
      together, daily NMES, and a high quality protein source of EAAs (PRO), can be a potent
      two-pronged approach to preserve the loss of muscle and strength in older adults confined to
      short-term bed rest. The goal is to test if the combination of NMES and PRO will maintain
      muscle mass, strength, nutrient-induced mTOR signaling and amino acid transporter expression
      in older adults during bed rest. The central hypothesis for this project which will support
      this next step is that a daily combination of NMES and PRO in older adults experiencing bed
      rest will preserve: 1) leg muscle mass and knee extensor strength and 2) muscle anabolic
      sensitivity in response to acute nutrient ingestion, as measured by mTOR signaling and LAT1
      expression.
    
  