
    
      AIEDRP was established to develop and evaluate data from studies of patients with acute or
      recent HIV infection. Long-term effects of antiretroviral therapies raise questions regarding
      the value and necessity of therapeutic interventions during acute and early HIV infection.
      Conventional randomized clinical trials are generally designed with finite endpoints; most
      patients who reach an endpoint or complete a protocol are no longer followed. As a result,
      long-term virologic, immunologic, and clinical outcome data are not available. This is
      particularly true for participants who fail therapy, require changes in treatment, or develop
      a treatment-limiting toxicity in a time-limited study.

      This database study will establish a cohort of HIV infected individuals who are participating
      in HIV studies at AIEDRP sites and of HIV infected individuals who have chosen to defer
      therapy but agree to be followed by this study. The study will facilitate longitudinal and
      prospectively planned meta-analyses or cross-protocol analyses of AIEDRP studies by
      developing data collection guidelines, defining common research goals, and creating data
      templates. The primary aim is to determine the long-term virologic, immunologic, and clinical
      outcomes and complications for patients who were diagnosed during acute or early HIV
      infection.

      Participants in this study will be followed for at least 5 years. Study visits will occur at
      Weeks 2, 4, and 12, and then every 12 weeks thereafter, through Week 96. After 2 years, study
      visits will occur every 24 weeks until the end of the study. Participants who start
      antiretroviral therapy at or after Week 2 will restart the study visit schedule. Study visits
      will include a medical interview, adherence questionnaire, and blood tests. Duplicate tests
      performed as part of another study will not be performed if the results of those tests are
      available.
    
  