
    
      Congestive heart failure (CHF) affects nearly 2% of the U.S. population, with almost 1
      million hospital admissions for acute decompensated CHF annually. Congestive heart failure is
      the most frequent cause of hospitalization in patients over the age of 65. Patients admitted
      for acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) have a high 6-month readmission rate for acute
      CHF, ranging from 23% to 40% in different studies. It is estimated that 25 to 30% of these
      patients are diuretic resistant with 50% of patients losing less than 5 lbs. from admission
      weight and 20% actually gaining weight during the hospitalization.

      Although loop diuretics have not been shown to improve survival in patients with CHF, they
      effectively alleviate symptoms of congestion. Diuretics have been part of standard CHF
      therapy in all recent survival trials of β-blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme
      inhibitors, and angiotensin II receptor blockers. Loop diuretics have been shown to be the
      most effective diuretics as single agents in moderate to severe heart failure. However, loop
      diuretics may be associated with increased morbidity and mortality attributable to
      deleterious effects on neurohormonal activation, electrolyte balance, and cardiac and renal
      function.

      Removal of excessive fluid in patients with CHF is usually achieved by a combination of fluid
      and salt restriction and loop diuretics, but in some cases volume overload persists. Diuretic
      resistance is common, especially after chronic exposure to loop diuretics; patients require
      escalating doses (PO or IV to bypass delayed absorption in gut due to bowel edema), addition
      of another diuretic that works on different part of renal tubules (i.e. Thiazides) +/-
      diuretic drip and, if still refractory, ultimately Aquapheresis (a form of ultrafiltration).

      Aquapheresis (AQ) compared to IV diuretics in the UNLOAD Trial (10), AQ safely produced
      greater weight loss, fluid removal, and reduction in 90-day readmission rate compared to IV
      diuretic. A meta-analysis of 10 randomized control trials (RCTs) showed AQ not only to be
      effective but safe. These observations suggest that a strategy of early ultrafiltration may
      improve responsiveness to diuretics, quicker weight loss, decrease hospitalization,
      readmission to hospital, ER or doctor visits with minimal risks. As result of these trials,
      American Hospital Association (AHA)/American College of Cardiology (ACC)/Heart Failure
      Society of American (HFSA) guidelines state it is reasonable to start Aquapheresis in
      patients with obvious volume overload or patients who are refractory to high dose diuretics
      (IIa, LOE B). Moreover, while this therapy is part of standard of care in an inpatient
      setting, many hospitals as a result of Affordable Care Act (ACA), have taken to AQ on an
      outpatient setting to further decrease the burden and attended cost associated with
      management of CHF. But the Investigators are unaware of any other prospective outpatient
      studies that have looked at the outcomes and cost effectiveness of aquapheresis.
    
  