
    
      Clinicians in the dermatology departments will identify eligible participants at the time of
      initial consultation. An information leaflet will be provided and details of the participants
      who are interested in participating will be forwarded to the research team to check
      eligibility prior to the procedure. Prior to the procedure relevant clinical information will
      be recorded in the Case Report Form (CRF) including demographic data, tumour site, tumour
      size, size of tumoural ulceration and type of wound closure. Histopathological data will be
      collected on tumour type when it is reported. Participants and clinicians will be asked
      whether they would agree for the patients to be randomised to no antibiotics, topical
      treatment eg. InadineTM dressings, a short course of antibiotics or a longer course of
      antibiotics in a future RCT. Following the procedure, information about whether oral
      antibiotics were prescribed will be recorded on a standardized CRF. All participants will be
      provided with the same information leaflet detailing standard post-operative advice and
      further care will be as per each centre's 'standard clinical care' which will also be
      recorded.

      If participants are diagnosed with SSI they will be asked to take a photo of their wound on a
      camera phone and then to share the photo with the Cardiff University Centre for Trials
      Research (CTR) via email. Reeves et al. have described this practice as a 'wound selfie' and
      report that the term is readily understood. If participants are not able to take of photo of
      their wound then they will be invited to attend the department to have a photograph taken by
      medical photography. All participants will be sent a questionnaire by the research team four
      weeks following their procedure to enquire specifically whether the participant was diagnosed
      and treated for wound infection. These data will be collected by Cardiff University CTR who
      will co-ordinate the study.

      Additionally, all participants at University Hospital of Wales will have a surface swab taken
      from their ulcerated skin tumour and these will be analysed in the Public Health Wales
      laboratory at the University of Wales, Cardiff. The aim of this aspect of the study is to
      identify the most common organisms that colonise ulcerated tumours. Previous studies have
      commented on growth from ulcerated tumours, however it is not clear if this was conducted in
      a research laboratory setting. This will help to guide antibiotic choice in a future
      randomized controlled trial.
    
  