
    
      Naval Special Warfare (NSW) operators are exposed to a variety of extreme environmental
      conditions and intense physical demands. In addition to breathing high pressure and hyperoxic
      gases at depth, prolonged cold water immersion and inadequate recovery from sustained
      physical exertion negatively impact individual and team performance. Biotechnologies that
      could mitigate the effects of these extreme conditions as well as support physical recovery
      represent a significant unmet need for the NSW operational community.

      Oxytocin (OT) has a wide range of actions both locally in the brain and peripherally
      including skeletal muscle and a number of peripheral targets. OT may attenuate acute
      cardiovascular stress responses, while chronic OT exposure may reduce risk of CVD and other
      chronic diseases via anti-inflammatory effects and attenuation of mitochondrial oxidative
      stress. These effects can be mediated by classic ligand-receptor activation given the
      abundant expression of the oxytocin receptor in peripheral tissues, along with local
      expression of OT in peripheral tissues where it is likely to act in an autocrine manner.
      Exogenous OT via intranasal administration is FDA Investigational New Drug (IND)-approved and
      has been demonstrated as an easy and safe method to increase circulating OT concentrations
      that may augment actions on peripheral tissues.

      Due to the pleiotropic effects of OT on whole body metabolism, thermogenesis, stress
      responses, pain, mood, inflammation, appetite, glycemic control, skeletal homeostasis, and
      skeletal muscle repair and regeneration, there is increasing interest in the administration
      of exogenous OT for benefits to human health, performance and resilience. However, the
      biological mechanisms by which OT exerts tissue-specific effects (e.g., skeletal muscle)
      remain poorly understood, particularly in humans.

      This project is designed to significantly advance this understanding while testing the
      central hypothesis that intranasally administered OT attenuates systemic and skeletal muscle
      oxidative stress and inflammation induced by the combined stressor of resistance swim
      exercise and hyperoxia. If efficacy is demonstrated, the ultimate deliverable would be an
      easily administered, adjunctive biological therapy expected to improve performance and
      resilience of undersea warfighters. The planned project will extend current IHMC research
      focused on developing biotechnologies to enhance human performance and resilience. The
      central hypothesis will be tested via two specific aims - using a rigorous, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, randomized trial leveraging a wash-in design, enrolling N=40 18-39 y/o
      men.

      Specific Aim 1. To investigate the efficacy of intranasal OT on attenuating systemic and
      skeletal muscle oxidative stress and inflammation induced by the combined stressor of
      intensive, resistance swim exercise and hyperoxia. Participants will be randomly assigned
      with a 1:1 distribution to 48 IU intranasal OT vs. placebo (saline). Investigators will test
      the effects of 4x per day (QID) intranasal treatment on performance and the acute
      inflammatory and oxidative stress responses to resistance swimming under hyperoxia, along
      with the timecourse of recovery over 48 h. To assess blood and muscle oxidative stress
      investigators will measure antioxidant enzymes, along with markers of oxidative
      stress-induced DNA damage, protein carbonylation, and lipid peroxidation. Systemic
      inflammation will be assessed via a 7-plex serum cytokine array, and muscle inflammation will
      be assessed via the TNF-a and IL-6 signaling pathways.

      Specific Aim 2. To leverage proven molecular mapping strategies to identify key molecular
      transducers likely driving any effects of intranasal OT on systemic and muscle oxidative
      stress and inflammation throughout 48 h of recovery. Given the paucity of data on mechanisms
      by which exogenous OT exerts its effects, the investigators will take a discovery approach to
      identify novel molecular networks and pathways that are differentially regulated by OT vs.
      placebo during recovery from an intensive, resistance swim exercise under hyperoxia. To
      accomplish this the investigators will perform multi-level modeling that integrates data from
      metabolomics, transcriptomics (both long and small RNA sequencing from blood plasma and
      muscle), and miRNA sequencing of circulating extracellular vesicles (EVs).

      If intranasal OT demonstrates efficacy, the deliverable would be an adjunctive biological
      therapy that mitigates oxidative stress as well as enhances performance during and recovery
      from resistance swimming under hyperoxia.
    
  