
    
      This is a non-randomized (individuals will not be assigned by chance to study treatments),
      open-label (individuals will know the identity of study treatments), single dose, 2-cohort
      study of abiraterone acetate in approximately 16 adult men. Participants will either have
      severe hepatic impairment (Cohort 1) or qualify for the control group with normal hepatic
      function (Cohort 2). This study will consist of a screening period followed by a 4-day
      open-label treatment phase and subsequently a 28-day follow up after the study dose of
      abiraterone acetate suspension. Patients will be admitted to the study center on Day -1, a
      single dose of study drug will be administered on the morning of Day 1, and patients will
      remain at the study center until completion of the 72-hour pharmacokinetic (PK; study of what
      the body does to a drug) blood sample collection in the morning of Day 4. Enrollment will
      begin sequentially with patients in the severe hepatic impairment cohort. Enrollment for
      Cohort 1 will be staggered in order to evaluate safety and tolerability. The study will not
      proceed if >=Grade 3 toxicity or serious adverse events considered related to abiraterone
      acetate are observed. Additional patients may be enrolled if at least 8 patients in each
      cohort do not complete the required assessments, including the PK blood sample collections.
      The aim will be to treat the remaining patients in Cohort 1 at a suspension dose yielding an
      exposure equivalent to 1000 mg tablet in healthy individuals. If the dose is adjusted after
      Study Evaluation Team review, additional patients may be enrolled to ensure at least 8
      patients complete the study at the final dose. Once enrollment of patients in the severe
      hepatic impairment cohort is completed, the matched-control cohort will be dosed. Serial PK
      samples will be collected during the open-label treatment phase as detailed in the protocol.
      Safety will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  