
    
      Primary Objective To evaluate the impact of intravenous hydrocortisone versus placebo on all
      cause mortality at 90 days in critically ill patients with septic shock. The hypothesis is
      that hydrocortisone, compared to placebo, reduces 90-day all-cause mortality in patients
      admitted to an ICU with septic shock. 'Shock' is defined as the need for vasopressors or
      inotropes to maintain a systolic blood pressure > 90 millimetres of mercury (mmHg), or mean
      arterial blood pressure > 60mmHg or a mean arterial pressure (MAP) target set by the treating
      clinician for maintaining perfusion. 'Septic shock' is shock that is secondary to sepsis

      Secondary Objectives To assess the impact of intravenous hydrocortisone versus placebo on the
      recovery from, and the complications of, septic shock and the development of treatment
      related adverse reactions.

      Study Design This study is a multi centre, randomised, blinded, placebo controlled trial
      comparing intravenous hydrocortisone with placebo in critically ill patients with septic
      shock.

      Randomisation will be achieved via a secure interactive web based system using permuted block
      minimisation. Randomisation will be stratified by participating site and by operative or
      non-operative admission to the ICU.

      The primary endpoint for this trial will be death from all causes at 90 days.

      Pre defined sub groups will include the following categories:

        -  Operative (admitted to ICU from operating theatre or recovery room) versus non-operative
           admission.

        -  Dose of adrenaline or noradrenaline at randomisation - ≤ 15 mcg / minute versus > 15 mcg
           / minute.

      3,800 patients will be enrolled in this study at approximately 50 - 60 study sites. Eligible
      patients will be randomised to receive either intravenous hydrocortisone 200mg or placebo per
      day for 7 days.

      For all patients, data will be collected at baseline and then daily whilst the patient is in
      the ICU. Patients will be followed up to day 14, regardless of where the patient resides in
      the hospital, to monitor the development of bacteraemia. Additional follow up will occur at
      90 days and at 6 months post randomisation.
    
  