
    
      Randomized clinical control trail will be conducted in the North West area of Saudi Arabia.

      Patients diagnosed to have CLBP with radiculopathy at three different hospitals in Saudi
      Arabia will be recruited for this study.

      Participants will be randomly assigned into treatment or control group. Before starting of
      the study, the author will designe the treatment and control group treatment program and
      instructed the treating physiotherapists in their implementation. An ethical approval was
      approved by the ethics committee of the University of Tabuk- Saudi Arabia. Participants in
      each group will receive 12 treatment sessions of 45 minutes each, 2 days a week for 6
      consecutive weeks.

      For each group, a menu of a lumbar stabilization program was designed. This program included
      8 levels of exercise ( single leg knee to chest stretch, double leg knee to chest, supine
      piriformis stretch, supine hamstring stretch, lower trunk rotation stretch, lumbar rotation
      stretch, pelvic tilt, pelivic tilt with alternative legs). Exercises were tailored for each
      individual ability and, if possible, progressed at each session which would last
      approximately 30 minutes. Each single exercise was repeated many times based on the patient's
      clinical condition. All sessions were provided by physiotherapists. After finishing of
      session of lumbar stabilization program, a shock wave therapy was applied for each
      participant in a prone position over the region of low back pain (Figure 2 ).

      Only participants in the treatment group were receive neural mobilization technique. This
      includes the following: sciatic neural mobilization technique (Figure 3), slump neural
      mobilization technique (Figure 4) and self neural mobilization (Figure 5 ).

      OUTCOME MEASUREMENT TOOLS:

      There were three outcome measures as following: pain, disability and lumbar spine range of
      motion. Subjected were tested three times as following: at the baseline (0 week), at the mid
      of treatment (3 weeks) and finally at the end of treatment (6 weeks).

        -  Pain Pain was assessed by using NPRS, where 0 represented no pain and 10 represented the
           worst pain possible, to indicate the intensity of pain in the lower back (Jensen et al.,
           1994). Disability Disability was measured by using the Modified Oswestry Disability
           Questionnaire (MODQ) which is a self-rating questionnaire used to evaluate functional
           physical disability (Rajfur, et al., 2017).

        -  Lumbar flexion range of motion Lumbar flexion range of motion was measured by using
           modified Schober method (Philadelphia Panel Members, 2001).

      DATA ANALYSIS:

      A simple descriptive statistical analysis was adopted to describe the patient specific
      demographic characteristics with respect to outcomes parameters. Within group and between
      groups comparison was analyzed using ANOVA and Scheffes' post-hoc tests by using SPSS 20.0.

      Work Plan:

      Roles and responsibilities :

      1. Principal Investigator-is responsible for the following:

      1. The management and integrity of the research design 2. Approval from ethical board
      committee or its equivalent 3. Preparation and conduct of the study 4. Reporting of the
      research project 5. Managing, monitoring and ensuring the integrity of any collaborative
      relationships.

      6. Directs and oversees compliance, financial, personnel, and other related aspects and
      resources of the research project 7. Coordination with department and central administration
      personnel to assure research in is conducted in accordance with regulations of the University
      and sponsoring agency policies and procedures.

      8. Publication of the study, local and international. Work Flow

        1. The principal investigator will be responsible in check points, meetings, and
           coordination with the research team, regular meeting will be set on thursday every after
           two weeks and when necessary.

        2. Co-investigator will be assigned as custodian to all data and investigations from the
           start of the study.

        3. Co-investigator will be assigned to record all financial transaction according to the
           policies of sponsoring unit of the university.

        4. Co-investigator will be responsible logistic and making sure all researched needed are
           adequate and available when needed.

        5. A clear communication and coordination scheme will be established.

        6. Co-investigator will be required to submit status accomplish report on regular basis
           determined by the team.

      Utilization:

      The outcomes of the research will be used to:

        -  NM techniques enhance patient outcomes in the management of CLBP with radiculopathy when
           added to standard care.

        -  NM technique applied by experienced physical therapists combined with LSE and ESWT in a
           brief clinical trial might better and earlier than LST and ESWT alone for decreasing
           pain, reducing back disability and improving function in patients with CLBP with
           radiculopathy symptoms.

        -  The findings are interesting and motivate further studies, including long-term follow-up
           of large groups, randomized studies and the comparison of this treatment model with
           other treatment models.

        -  A faster program with fewer hospital visits not only enables the patients to proceed
           with most of their daily activities but also decreases the costs of the treatment.

        -  A NM technique might also be an alternative to conventional physiotherapy in the
           treatment of the CLBP patients with radiculopathy symptoms.
    
  