
    
      During the last fifteen years, the landscape of AML diagnosis and therapeutical options has
      markedly evolved. Refined genetic and prognostic characterizations, together with new drug
      approvals and new allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) procedures, have
      increased patient journey diversity.

      I - At initial AML diagnosis, not all newly diagnosed patients are entering clinical trials.
      A substantial proportion of them are treated with standard therapies outside of any trial. To
      date, the standard approved frontline treatment options include:

        1. Standard intensive 3+7 (anthracycline + cytarabine) chemotherapy ± an approved FLT3
           inhibitor (midostaurine, Rydapt®), according to different dose schedules in older versus
           younger patients

        2. Combination of sequential gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GO, Mylotarg®) with 3+7

        3. Liposomal formulation of daunorubicin + cytarabine (CPX-351, Vyxeos®)

        4. Less intensive chemotherapy with azacytidine or low dose cytarabine (LDAC) in patients
           considered as not eligible for the more intensive options above

      The investigator's choice is guided by AML and patient's characteristics, and by the approved
      indications for each of these treatment options. This study will thus start including these
      specific options. Further study amendments might be necessary in case of new standard
      treatment definition.

      II - Secondly, no specific salvage regimen has emerged as a standard in patients with primary
      refractory or relapsed AML (R/R AML). R/R AML is thus an important field for investigational
      new drugs (INDs) and precision medicine development. To date, the only IND approved to treat
      R/R AML is gilteritinib for FLT3-mutated AML patients. The French agency ANSM also allow to
      use GO for treating R/R AML patients in the frame of a RTU (Recommendation Temporaire
      d'Utilisation).

      In the "real life", because of the multiplicity of treatments used in these patients, some of
      them being now quite efficient, it has become difficult to accurately describe the general
      outcome of R/R AML patients.

      III - Thirdly, allogeneic HSCT is no more considered at the ultimate and final goal of AML
      therapy in all patients, as it was in the past. Transplant indications have been better
      described and HSCT in now evaluated in the context of the whole treatment course, including
      pre- and post-transplant therapy, as well as pre- and post-transplant minimal residual
      disease (MRD) levels.

      For all these reasons, it is of utmost importance to document the various characteristics,
      treatments and outcomes of patients treated in the real-life, outside of clinical trials, for
      1) real-world treatment evaluation; 2) post-approval use of recently approved drugs; 3)
      standardization and improvement of routine patient management; and 4) better disease
      understanding.
    
  