
    
      GlaxoSmithKline is currently developing a number of drugs for the treatment of overheating
      including 'binge eating' in obesity. Historically, the behavioural effectiveness of
      anti-obesity drugs in clinical drug trials have utilised subjective rating scales to assess a
      person's drive or motivation to eat. Findings from these studies have good construct
      validity, but suffer from the shortcomings of self-reporting, e.g. the subject bias,
      dishonesty, misinterpretation. It follows that in addition to self-reporting, it would
      strengthen the interpretation of any future studies on anti-obesity drugs, if there were to
      be an objective measure of brain activity in relation to cognitive/motivational processes
      associated with evaluation and responding to food related cues.

      Measuring event related potentials (ERPs) during cognitive processes of food related cues,
      using the electroencephalography technique (EEG) offers a an alternative objective approach
      to examining the effectives of anti-obesity drugs.

      This protocol proposes to develop and use two cognitive tasks examining response to food
      related cues (pictorial and words) with concurrent recording of ERPs, in order to
      characterize neurophysiological events associated with attentional bias towards food related
      stimuli.

      The first task is an image processing task. This task uses food images similar to those in
      the International Affective Picture System (IAPS) used in ERP studies of perceptual
      processing of emotional stimuli [Olofsson, 2008; Schupp, 2006]. In this task a subject views
      different categories of images; palatable high-calorie food images, non-palatable low-calorie
      food images and non-edible plant images. The latter is the neutral category against which the
      ERPs of the two food categories will be compared. Affective pictures have been used to assess
      emotional valence by measuring differences in anterior ERP measurements between images from
      differing groups.

      The protocol also proposes to measure late positive potential in order to assess higher level
      cognitive processing possibly with early memory formation. Again, the proposal is to assess
      AUCs, in this case in the 400-600 ms region and then look at difference curves between the
      late potential potentials to different valency stimuli. For the late positive potentials,
      anterior laterality will also be assessed. The second task is a cued-target task of
      visuospatial attention to motivationally salient words. The task is a version of the Posner
      paradigm. The appearance of a food or nonfood word inside a top or bottom frame (the cue)
      distracts the attention of the subject towards that spatial location. Following the word
      either one of the two frames changes appearance (the target).

      In addition to these emotion and attention measures, the protocol proposes to assess the more
      standard N1, P1 and P3 [Luck, 2005]. After completing the ERP recordings the subject will be
      asked to rate each picture for salience and valence in order to provide a comparison between
      objective neurophysiological and subjective attention and emotional ratings.
    
  