
    
      Primary research question Has there been a change in the numbers of babies being born with
      low birth weight or dying in the perinatal or infant period following the 1 July 2007
      introduction of a ban on smoking in public places in England?

      Study design Retrospective cohort study (using prospective routinely collected health care
      data)

      Study population All singleton births in England between 1 January 1995 and 31 December 2011.

      Intervention The intervention under study is the ban on smoking in enclosed public places and
      the workplace implemented in England overnight on 1 July 2007.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria We will include all registered singleton births in England
      occurring between 1 January 1995 and 31 December 2011. This is the maximum time period
      surrounding the ban's introduction for which the required birth data are available through
      the data source. Data were originally extracted for 1 January 1993 to 31 December 2011.
      However, postcode was not recorded in 1993-1994, leading to missing values for Index of
      Multiple Deprivation (IMD) quintile, region, and urbanisation level in this period. As these
      variables were considered key potential confounders in the primary analyses, a decision was
      made to restrict the modelling to the time period 1 January 1995-31 December 2011.

      International Classification of Disease (ICD) coding changed from version 9 to 10 as of
      January 2001, leading to an important drop in recorded SIDS cases. Therefore, analyses of
      SIDS are restricted to the time period 2001-2011.

      Babies with chromosomal anomalies will be excluded.

      Outcome

      The primary outcomes are:

        -  Low birth weight (birth weight < 2500 grams)

        -  Stillbirth (intrauterine death from 24+0 weeks gestation)

        -  Neonatal mortality (death within the first 28 days of life)

        -  Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS; death within first year of life with mentioning on
           the death certificate of ICD-10-U code R95, or R99 with no other specification)

      To assess whether smoke-free legislation had a selective impact on certain subgroups of
      outcomes we furthermore identified a number of secondary outcomes:

        -  Very low birth weight (birth weight < 1500 grams)

        -  Early neonatal mortality (death within first week of life)

        -  Late neonatal mortality (death between 7 and 28 days of life)

        -  Post-neonatal mortality (death between 28 days and 1 year of life)

        -  Infant mortality (death within the first year of life)

      Data sources Data are obtained via the Office for National Statistics (ONS). All registered
      stillbirths and livebirths occurring in England between 1 January 1995 and 31 December 2011
      are included. These are linked to death certificates for all deaths occurring before the
      first birthday.

      Data extraction and handling Individual perinatal and mortality data are linked by ONS in a
      single database including the following individual-level covariates: month of birth, year of
      birth, month of death, year of death, age at death, sex, birth weight, maternal age, maternal
      marital status, parity, IMD, region, urbanisation level.

      The following covariates are categorised for information governance reasons:

        -  Age at death: early neonatal, late neonatal, post-neonatal

        -  Birth weight: <1000 grams, 1000-1499 grams, 1500-2499 grams, 2500-3999 grams, ≥4000
           grams

        -  Maternal age: <20 years, 20-24 years, 25-29 years, 30-34 years, 35-39 years, >40 years

        -  Parity: 0, 1, 2, ≥3

        -  IMD: quintiles

        -  Region: 10 regions

        -  Urbanisation level: urban, rural

      Sample size Sample size calculation for time-oriented analyses is complicated given the
      complexity of the models. We will use national data for the current study, which will - to
      the best of our knowledge - be the largest evaluation of the impact of smoke-free legislation
      on perinatal health, both regarding population size and time span. As we use the maximum time
      span and population available, sample size calculation can in a way be considered redundant.

      We are aware of only one published study on smoke-free legislation and early-life mortality
      (reference 1). Due to design issues it is not possible to involve data from this study for
      comparison to the current study.

      A number of studies have previously assessed the impact of smoke-free legislation on low
      birth weight. Our proposed approach is best comparable to that performed earlier in Scotland
      (reference 2). Using Scottish data on 757,795 deliveries occurring between 1996 and 2009,
      they showed an immediate -9.9% (95%CI -14.2; -5.2) drop in low-birth-weight-babies. Given the
      longer study period (1993-2011) and the much larger population size (n>10 million) our study
      can be expected to have sufficient power to detect a similar reduction in
      low-birth-weight-babies in England, if present.

      Statistical analysis

      Relevant population characteristics will be described. Logistic regression analysis will be
      performed to investigate the association between introduction of smoke-free legislation and
      sudden ('step') and/or gradual ('slope') changes (as appropriate) in the odds of developing
      each outcome. Analyses will be adjusted for birth weight, sex, maternal age, maternal marital
      status, parity (secondary analyses only, see below), IMD quintile, region, and urbanisation
      level. Seasonal patterning and non-linearity of the underlying time trend will be accounted
      for as appropriate. Final model selection will be based on Akaike's and Bayesian information
      criteria (AIC and BIC). The denominator for the analyses will differ according to the various
      outcomes:

        -  stillbirths: all births in the dataset

        -  low birth weight, very low birth weight, neonatal mortality, early neonatal mortality,
           infant mortality: all livebirths in the dataset

        -  late neonatal mortality: all livebirths in the dataset surviving the early neonatal
           period

        -  post-neonatal mortality: all livebirths in the dataset surviving the neonatal period

      The primary analyses will be performed on cases with complete data on all covariates. Parity
      is the only variable that has >10% missing data (approximately 40-50%), as it is only
      recorded in married women. As parity is not expected to be a key confounder, we will perform
      the primary analyses without involving parity in the models in order to maximise population
      size.

      Sensitivity analyses To assess possible confounding by parity, sensitivity analyses will be
      performed that include parity in the model. In a second set of sensitivity analyses,
      imputation will be performed to investigate the robustness of the findings to missing data.
      In order to minimise issues regarding multiple testing, sensitivity analyses will be
      performed for the primary outcomes only.

      All analyses will be performed using Stata 12.0.
    
  