
    
      In total, 60 participants (50-80 years old) will be recruited to participate in this trial.
      These 60 participants will be grouped into two distinct cohorts, with 30 participants in 2
      groups

        1. Individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI Group)

        2. Cognitively normal adults (CN group)

      There are three components in this study.

      Component 1a: If you decide to participate, you will be asked to complete 7 testing sessions
      in 7 days, which will be spaced out several days apart and each takes approximately 1 to 2
      hours.

        -  Baseline assessment (1 session; 2 hours/session)

        -  TMS*MRI (3 sessions; 1 hour/session)

        -  TMS*Memory assessment (3 sessions; 2 hours/session)

      Component 1b:

      You would be asked to receive 30 intervention sessions for three different protocols (10
      sessions for each). Before and after the interventions, MRI and Cognitive tasks will be
      utilized again as the outcome measurements. There is a one-month interval between each
      protocol. Each intervention will be around half-hour and each outcome measurement will take
      another one hour.

      Each block includes:

        -  MRI+ Memory pre-assessment (1 hour/session)

        -  TMS*10 (10 sessions; 0.5 hours/session)

        -  MRI+ Memory post-assessment (1 hours/session)

      You will experience each of the three TMS protocols. The total time commitment across these
      sessions will be 21 hours.

      After the conclusion of this study session of baseline data acquisition, the research team
      will analyze each participant's unique structural and functional connectivity patterns to
      determine the stimulation site for TMS in future intervention sessions.

      Component 2: Then, we would ask you to receive daily intervention sessions for 4 consecutive
      weeks, which will be quicker study visits lasting less than 30 minutes (notably, these will
      consist of less than 5 minutes of stimulation).

      Component 3: There will be another 4 testing sessions to evaluate treatment effects. They
      will be scheduled at the beginning, at the end of 2-week treatment, at the end of 4-week
      treatment, and 3 months after the end of 4-week treatment sessions. You don't need to come to
      the laboratory during the weekends. All sessions are located in the Biosciences Research
      Laboratories (BSLR) Building (1230 N. Cherry Ave., Tucson, AZ 85721). The schematic below
      outlines the components of the sessions.

      The investigators will acquire the following data during components for primary outcome
      measures and secondary measures.

      1) Brain imaging data 2) Neuropsychological data and demographic data 3) Memory tasks 4)
      Biological sample 5) Biometry with Heart Rate Variability 6) Frailty assessment
    
  