
    
      1. Baseline Assessments

           The patient will be assessed in accordance with the hospital standard of care for
           patients treated with carotid artery stenting procedure, which in general includes:

             -  Informed consent for data collection

             -  Demographics

             -  Medical History

             -  Medication record

             -  Physical examination

             -  Carotid Duplex Ultrasound

             -  Neurological Assessment

             -  Diffusion weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DW-MRI)

             -  Procedural angiography

           Baseline assessments will be performed prior to the index procedure and documented in
           the patient medical record. Baseline assessments considered standard of care completed
           prior to obtaining informed consent do not need to be repeated unless the investigator
           feels it is medically necessary.

           Neurological Assessment Baseline neurological assessment is recommended in this study
           and will be conducted by a physician, nurse, or other allied health professional,
           independent of the treating physician prior to the procedure. This assessment will
           include the neurological signs, symptoms, and the NIH Stroke Scale. For some
           pre-specified subgroups, imaging studies (Carotid Duplex Ultrasound and/or Diffusion
           Weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging: DW-MRI) will be performed prior to the procedure.

        2. Patient Enrollment Point A patient is considered enrolled in the study if there is full
           compliance with the study and RoadSaver IFU eligibility criteria, and only after
           successful guidewire passage through the study target lesion.

        3. Medications Patients enrolled in this study will be pre-medicated according to the
           hospital routine practice.

        4. Procedure The procedure will be performed according to the physician's standard of care.
           During the procedure, patients should receive appropriate anticoagulation and other
           therapy according to standard hospital practice. The use of any medication for the
           treatment of vessel spasm, patient agitation or discomfort, hypotension, arrhythmias,
           and hemodynamic changes during the procedure is at the discretion of the investigator.

           Standard procedures should be followed based on the Instructions for Use for the
           Roadsaver™ device of Terumo. If pre- and/or post-dilatation is performed, or any other
           device (e.g. embolic protection devices, etc.) is used at the investigator's discretion.

           4.1. Treatment Failures If a Roadsaver™ Carotid Stent is not implanted due to technical
           reasons, another CE-marked Carotid Stent may be used to complete the procedure. Patients
           who do not have a successful Roadsaver™ Carotid Stent implanted during the index
           procedure will be considered as technical failures.

           Patients with technical failure will be followed only until discharge at which time they
           will have completed the study.

           All patients who receive a Roadsaver™ Carotid Stent upon enrollment in the ROADSAVER
           study will be included in the analysis of clinical outcomes by the end of the study.
           Patients with technical failures will be analyzed separately only for procedural success
           and for in-hospital adverse events.

           4.2. Device Deficiency and Device Malfunction A device deficiency is defined as an
           inadequacy of a medical device related to its identity, quality, durability,
           reliability, safety, or performance. This may include malfunctions, use error, or
           inadequacy in the information supplied by the manufacturer.

           A device malfunction is defined as failure of the medical device to perform in
           accordance with its intended purpose when used in accordance with the instructions for
           use or the Clinical Investigation Plan.

           In case of device deficiency or malfunction, the device deficiency form in the eCRF
           should be completed and the investigator is asked to make every possible effort to
           return the device to Terumo Europe accompanied if possible with the packaging containing
           the device identification (lot number). Another Roadsaver™ Carotid Stent or another
           stent as per operators' discretion will be used in order to complete the treatment of
           the patient.

        5. Postprocedure

           Post-procedural evaluation should be done according to the routine hospital practice
           prior to discharge, which in general includes:

             -  Post Angiography immediately after the index procedure

             -  Physical examination before discharge

             -  MAE defined as the cumulative incidence of any periprocedural death or stroke

             -  Adverse events including: any revascularization, major vascular and bleeding
                complications, other

             -  Medication

             -  Neurological assessment when performed

             -  Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI) when performed

           Information on the post-procedural evaluation and any interventional treatment that
           occurred since the procedure should be collected.

        6. Follow-Up Evaluations Patients will be followed according to routine hospital practice
           usually performed at 30-day and at 12-month assessment through hospital visit or through
           telephone contact. Investigators and research coordinators will keep notes of all
           telephone contacts with the patients in the patient hospital file as source documents.

      Hospital Visit at 1 month (30 ± 7 days) and 12 months (365 ± 30 days) Patients' clinical
      status should be reported if hospital visits are done at 30 days and 12 months.

      These follow-up assessments should be done according to the routine hospital practice, which
      in general includes:

        -  Physical examination

        -  Adverse events including: any stroke, any Revascularization, major vascular and bleeding
           complications, other

        -  Medication

        -  Neurological assessment

        -  Carotid duplex ultrasound

        -  Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI)

      All relevant information obtained during follow-up including imaging should be reported. Data
      to be collected at follow-ups would include:

      Telephone Contact at 12 months (365 ±30 days)

        -  Adverse Events including: any death (stroke related/other), any stroke, any
           revascularization, major vascular and bleeding complications, other

        -  Medication In case of death, stroke, TLR, and TVR all efforts should be made to provide
           sufficient baseline and event documentation.

      Unscheduled Follow-Up

      The assessment at unscheduled visits should be performed according to safety reporting
      requirements, which in general includes:

        -  Physical examination

        -  Adverse events including: any stroke, any revascularization, major vascular and bleeding
           complications, other

        -  Medication

        -  Neurological assessment

        -  Carotid duplex ultrasound

        -  Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI)

      A patient who returns to the investigational site between pre-determined visits with an event
      related to the index procedure should be treated according to the physician's standard of
      care. Reportable events occurring during this period should be collected.
    
  