
    
      Ultrasound-guided central venous cannulation has been widely used because of lower technical
      failure rate and complications, and faster access compared with landmark-guided cannulation.
      Real-time guidance is more complex to perform and time-consuming in comparison to pre-scan
      technique. Therefore, real-time guidance should be reserved to specific groups, such as
      infants, children, or those with anatomical abnormality. However, there's no widely accepted
      ultrasound pre-scan techniques yet. The aim of this study is to define a simple, safe, and
      effective ultrasound pre-scan technique for right internal jugular vein (RIJV) cannulation.

      Patient position for RIJV cannulation was reviewed in detail. First, 15ﾟ Trendelenburg tilt
      significantly increases the diameter of right internal jugular vein. Second, extreme head
      rotation to the opposite side will increase the overlap percentage between IJV and common
      carotid artery (CCA), but neutral head position might make the procedure difficult. Neutral
      head position or small degree (≦15ﾟ) of head rotation was recommended. Third, although
      shoulder roll is not recommended since it decreases the anterior-posterior diameter of RIJV,
      4- to 5cm-high shoulder roll could be used to reduce the overlap if needed10. In conclusion,
      patients should be positioned by a 15ﾟ Trendelenburg tilt and 15ﾟ head rotation to the
      opposite side without a shoulder roll unless the IJV is anterior to CCA, which was termed as
      the rule of 15 by the research team.

      After placing the patient properly, the operator puts a linear ultrasound probe at the mid
      neck in short-axis view. With IVJ in the center of the screen, marks at both ends of the
      transducer (mark A and B) are made. Then the operator rotates transducer 90 degrees
      counterclockwise. After finding IJV in long-axis view with transducer vertical to the ground,
      other two marks are made at both ends of the transducer (mark C and D), and transducer and
      jelly are removed. Then the operator sterilizes the performing field with chlorhexidine
      without removing the marks. After proper preparation and recognizing the cross point made by
      the imagined lines of marks AB and marks CD (point E), the operator inserts the needle
      vertically to the ground at point E.

      The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness and safety between ultrasound pre-scan
      technique and traditional landmark-guidance. Inclusion criteria are adult patients receiving
      general anesthesia in need of central venous cannulation. The primary endpoint is the number
      of needle redirection, and secondary endpoints include first attempt success rate, artery
      puncture, complication, number of wire attempt, number of skin insertion, venous access time,
      catheterization time, and malposition. The hypothesis is that the ultrasound pre-scan method
      would have a fewer number of needle redirection, a higher first-attempt success rate, as well
      as less complication, number of redirection.
    
  