
    
      This a two-arm, non-randomized phase 1/1B trial aiming at assessing the safety and activity
      of abemaciclib alone (arm 1), and abemaciclib plus MK-6482 (arm 2) in patients with advanced
      refractory clear-cell renal cell carcinoma (croc).

      A Phase I clinical trial tests the safety of an investigational drug or drug combination and
      also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug or drug combination to
      use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.The U.S. Food
      and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved either abemaciclib or MK-6482 for renal
      (kidney) cancer but abemaciclib has been approved to treat other forms of cancer.

      Abemaciclib is in a class of drugs known as CDK4 & 6 inhibitors. These proteins control how
      fast cells grow and divide and are found on both normal and cancer cells. They become
      overactive in cancer cells causing cells to grow and divide uncontrollably. Abemaciclib
      blocks these proteins just as the cells start to grow and divide and in other cancers has
      been shown to slow down cancer cell growth and division, causing cancer cells to become
      inactive or even die.

      MK-6482 is an oral, first-in-class selective small-molecule inhibitor that targets
      hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-2a, which promotes the growth of new vessels that fuel kidney
      cancer.

      This study is looking at two different treatments:

        -  Arm 1 - abemaciclib alone:

             -  To determine the response rate of abemaciclib alone in patients with advanced ccRCC

        -  Arm 2 - combination therapy of abemaciclib and MK-6482

             -  To determine the maximum dose of abemaciclib and MK-6482 in combination.

             -  To determine the response rate of abemaciclib and MK-6482 in patients with advanced
                ccRCC.

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, study treatment, participant
      evaluations and safety follow-up visits, in addition to general health status follow-up after
      study treatment. It is estimated that participants will receive 12 to 18 months of study
      treatment and 3 months of safety follow-up, totaling about 15 to 21 months from the start of
      study treatment. After the safety follow-up visits, the study doctor may request that
      participants return to clinic for additional tumor assessments or his/her staff will contact
      participants about every 6 months to follow their health status and find out about any
      anticancer treatments participants may have begun after study treatment.

      It is expected that about 40 people will take part in this research study.

      The pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly is supporting this research study by providing funding
      for the research study, tests required for research purposes only, and the study drugs. The
      pharmaceutical company Merck is supporting this research study by providing study drug.
    
  