
    
      Upper airway obstruction (UAO) is an unpredictable and frequently occurring complication
      during induction of general anesthesia. Since obese patients ( BMI>30 km/ m2) are more
      vulnerable to develop airway obstruction either during sleep or under anesthesia, and the
      segment of obese individuals in the entire population keep growing, difficult airway
      management under anesthesia becomes even more challenging than ever. The most serious event
      related to difficult airway management under anesthesia is "cannot intubate, cannot
      ventilate". Unfortunately, even with modern technologic advances, 16% of death and permanent
      brain damage related to anesthesia have been attributed to failure of difficult airway
      management 3. The American Society of Anesthesiologist (ASA) closed claim analysis of
      anesthesia complications indicate that a difficult airway is one of the most challenging
      scenarios continuously facing anesthesia providers. Indeed, it can be a fatal complication of
      general anesthesia. Therefore, measures used to reduce the incidence of difficult airways
      during anesthesia remain to be improved.

      The mechanism of UAO during anesthesia has not been well understood. Posterior displacement
      of soft palate, tongue and epiglottis are believed to be the primary contributing factors.
      Obesity is well known to be an essential characteristic which reflects propensity to UAO.
      Accordingly, obese patients are a high-risk group for perioperative airway catastrophe and
      prone to develop progressively narrower pharyngeal airways due to an increase of soft tissue
      volume surrounding the pharyngeal airway. More and more evidence indicates that the mechanism
      of UAO during anesthesia shares many similarities with the upper airway obstruction observed
      during obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Nasal continuous positive airway pressure (nCPAP) via
      nasal mask (NM) can maintain the airway patent with near 100% success in patients with OSA,
      if they can tolerate it. Under anesthesia, tolerance should not be an issue as the patient is
      anesthetized. Obesity is a major risk factors for obstructive sleep apnea and obese patients
      have a higher prevalence of UAO during anesthesia. Therefore, the investigators hypotheses
      that nCPAP should eliminate airway obstruction in obese patients under anesthesia. The
      investigators propose to test this hypothesis and determine the efficacy of nCPAP on
      maintaining airway patency in obese patients who require general anesthesia.
    
  