
    
      Asthma is the most common chronic condition in Olympic athletes. Asthma is defined as a
      chronic inflammation in the airways associated with bronchial hyper responsiveness (BHR). It
      is suggested that there are two phenotypes of asthma among athletes; the classic asthma with
      early childhood onset and allergic sensitization, and the "sports asthma". While
      exercise-induced "sports" asthma (EIA) describes symptoms and signs of asthma provoked by
      exercise, exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) is defined as the transient narrowing of
      the lower airway after exercise. In the general population, EIB with or without asthma
      affects 5% to 20%, but the rate is estimated to be even higher in top athletes participating
      in winter and summer endurance sports.

      Asthma and EIB represent an important challenge for the athlete, and correct diagnosis is
      important as it affects health as well as performance with strict regulations concerning
      asthma medication. A clear diagnosis of asthma with confirmation of BHR is strongly suggested
      by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) before
      the use of anti-asthmatic medication.

      Presence of BHR is demonstrated by direct or indirect bronchial provocation testing. Direct
      bronchial provocation causes bronchoconstriction by acting on specific airway receptors on
      the bronchial smooth muscle, while indirect bronchial provocation tests acts indirectly via
      the release of contractile mediators. Direct bronchial provocation via inhalation of
      methcacholine has been reported to be highly sensitive in detecting BHR in elite athletes,
      and is the method of choice at Olympiatoppen, Norway. To reduce the risk of false positive
      BHR results, methacholine provocation is only used in patients with symptoms of EIA. Less
      sensitive but more specific, is indirect bronchial provocation including several methods for
      the diagnosis of EIB. The most intuitive is exercise (field and laboratory) challenge testing
      (ECT), but sensitivity has been reported to be low, since exercise load and intensity have
      large impact on ability to detect EIB and in field-testing (FT), standardizing ambient
      conditions are impossible. By eucapnic voluntary hyperpnoea (EVH) of dry air, the two
      components of EIB are induced: The inflammatory cascade in the airways causing airway smooth
      muscle contraction, and airway oedema. The EVH has been endorsed by the IOC-MC as the gold
      standard due to its high specificity, but for mild to moderate EIB, EVH has wide sensitivity,
      specificity and poor repeatability, which may rely on inability to simulate the competition
      environment. Suboptimal tests for EIB may explain why previous papers report poor
      relationship between symptoms of EIA and the objective EIB in athletes, leaving the actual
      rate of EIB remains unclear. What has been argued to be the true "gold standard" is a
      sports-specific exercise FT , performed in the actual training conditions which also makes it
      easier for the athlete to perform at maximum exercise. The advantages of monitoring with peak
      expiratory flow (PEF) or forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) outside a laboratory with a
      PEF meter or spirometer, respectively, are that it is simple and cheap. It also enables
      measure of bronchial challenge testing in close relationship to symptoms, since laboratory
      bronchial challenge testing often are negative in subjects being away from their profession
      too long. Due to lack of standardization, it is recommended to measure serial lung function
      after a specific exercise in at least two different time-points. However, traditional
      non-digital method of serial PEF/FEV1 monitoring has limitations with poor adherence,
      interpretation difficulties with objectivity and time-consuming analysis and reading of paper
      PEF/FEV1 plots.

      Recently, AsthmaTuner (Medituner AB) consisting of a patient smartphone application, a
      portable wireless spirometer for measuring lung function (PEF/FEV1), and a healthcare
      interface including treatment plan, was reported to significantly improve management of
      uncontrolled asthma. Such electronically clinical decision support systems (CDSS) has gained
      acceptance for the diagnosis of asthma, and by the ability to assess patient generated data
      in field ECTs, the CE-marked AsthmaTuner may provide athletes a feasible, time and
      cost-efficient self-monitoring of EIB and asthma. AsthmaTuner may also empower athletes in
      monitoring their lung function over time. These lung function measurements contain unexpected
      amounts of information for identifying athletes with distinct phenotypes of EIB due to
      strenuous sports and environmental conditions. Hence, AsthmaTuner have the potential to fill
      the knowledge gap regarding prevalence of EIB, development of EIB and the lack of association
      between symptoms and detection of EIB in athletes.

      Objective and aims The primary objective of this study on elite athletes with symptoms of
      EIB, is to assess if EIB can be determined equally by repeated standardized and
      unstandardized field ECT using AsthmaTuner, and EVH.

      Specific research aims include:

        1. The primary aim is to identify the prevalence of EIB using AsthmaTuner in repeated field
           ECT.

        2. The secondary aim is to investigate the reproducibility of AsthmaTuner.

        3. The third aim is to compare EIB detected by repeated field ECT using AsthmaTuner with
           standardized EVH.

        4. The fourth aim is to compare BHR defined by methacholine bronchial provocation test,
           field testing and EVH.

      Material and Methods Design The study has an open design including elite athletes with
      symptoms of EIB. They will be equipped with an AsthmaTuner to perform 3-5 repeated exercise
      tests with AsthmaTuner in their natural training and competing environment, followed by an
      EVH test within four weeks after the first visit.

      Study population Olympiatoppen is a national clinic in Oslo, Norway, providing health care
      and screening of elite athletes. At least 60 elite athletes aged 16 to 50 years with a
      history of EIB symptoms within the last 8 weeks and ability to comply with the study protocol
      will be invited to participate. The athletes will be recruited before or after clinical
      visits with laboratory testing of EIB at Olympiatoppen, as well as eligible students at
      Norwegian School of Sport Sciences. the National Patients who enter the study, will not start
      or receive additional asthma treatment until completion of the study. If already on asthma
      treatment, beta2-agonists and triatropiumpromide will be stopped prior to methacholine
      bronchial provocation, standardized and unstandardized exercise FT and EVH, according to the
      guidelines.

      Eucapnic voluntarily hyperventilation The eucapnic voluntarily hyperventilation (EVH) test
      will be performed according to guidelines. A single-stage protocol will be used that requires
      participants to maintain a minute ventilation (VE) close to 85 % of their maximal voluntary
      ventilation (MVV) for 6 min. During the test, the participants will breathe through a
      mouthpiece and inspire a gas mixture of 21 % oxygen, 5 % carbon dioxide, with a balance of
      nitrogen to achieve this target ventilation and simultaneously maintain eucapnia (perform
      hyperpnea). The inspired gas is administered from two gas cylinders via a commercial system
      (EucapSys SMTEC, Switzerland). Maximal flow volume loops will be recorded at baseline and
      1-20 minutes after the challenge according to international guidelines for standardization of
      spirometry. The test is considered to be highly sensitive for asthma and is deemed positive
      if the FEV1 falls ≥10 % from the baseline measurement within 20 min of challenge cessation.

      Participants using asthma medications will be specifically instructed to not use their
      medications prior to the test. All participants will be instructed to avoid strenuous
      exercise, heavy meals, caffeine containing food or beverage and nicotine 4 h before the test.

      Field exercise test with AsthmaTuner The field exercise test will be performed according to
      guidelines for the diagnosis of EIB (19, 25). A heart rate of 85% of max value during 8
      minutes is demanded throughout the exercise test. The subjects need to refrain physical
      activity and use of short- and long-acting beta-2 agonists and ipratropriumbromide 12 prior
      to the challenge. All tests are separated by at least 24 hours and performed between 8:30 am
      and 12 pm to control for diurnal variation in airway caliber. A fall in FEV1 >10% conducted
      1, 5, 10, 15, 30 min after exercise confirm current EIB. In addition, the participants will
      be encouraged to perform unstandardized lung function tests in relation to perceived
      respiratory symptoms during exercise. Possible fall in FEV1 will be calculated in relation to
      previously established baseline measurements of FEV1.

      Questionnaires Athletes will fill in a structured electronic questionnaire sent by mail
      concerning demographic background factors, respiratory health, treatment, and healthcare
      utilization at study enrolment and answer questions about usability and feasibility of using
      AsthmaTuner at study end.

      Statistical analyses The statistical power analysis is based upon the data provided by
      Rundell et al., reporting that the mean of the pairwise differences between FT and EVH is
      0.014 percentage points, with a standard deviation of 8.35 percentage points. Including a
      drop out rate of 10%, including 60 athletes would provide a power of 80% at a five percent
      significance level.

      Receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve will be plotted for EVH with Spearmen's rank
      correlations to estimate the predictive values of the exercise test maximal fall in PEF/FEV1
      with AsthmaTuner. The optimal cut-off level for sensitivity and specificity will be estimated
      based on the area under the curve of EVH and FT by AsthmaTuner. Evaluation of the
      repeatability of AsthmaTuner will be analysed by plotting against the mean of two
      measurements.
    
  