
    
      The "Paths to everyday life" (PEER) intervention is a newly developed community-based peer
      support intervention targeting persons with mental vulnerability and mental health
      difficulties. The development of the PEER intervention is conducted in a collaboration
      between the Peer partnership association and the Copenhagen Research Center for Mental Health
      (CORE), Recovery & Inclusion, Mental Health Center Copenhagen.

      The PEER intervention is inspired from: Peer support groups in the MIND Leeds organization;
      Manuals for peer support services and peer training, which has shown positive effect on
      measures of personal recovery in RCTs; Practical guides to everyday life developed by
      consumers of mental health treatment in Denmark; and lived experiences of mental illness and
      recovery within the project group. The content of the ten group sessions is developed from
      themes identified in the CHIME (Connectedness; Hope; Identity; Meaning; Empowerment)
      framework as promoting the personal recovery process, as well as knowledge from systematic
      reviews and meta-analyses in the field focusing on the effect of peer support. The entire
      PEER intervention is described in a comprehensive manual and detailed instructions have been
      prepared for the volunteer peers to make it accessible and ensure similarity across the
      groups. The manual of the PEER intervention has been further developed in a pilot study of
      the 10 week group sessions in a qualitative evaluation (N=25) in the period Feb.-Sept. 2020
      in the collaborative municipalities Copenhagen, Elsinore and Fredericia.

      The PEER intervention consists of a 10-week group course and the opportunity of individual
      companionship to e.g. local activities in civil society, municipal social services,
      education, health and employment. It is mandatory for the participants to participate in an
      introductory meeting with the purpose of informing about the group process, the individual
      companionship and the RCT, so that participation in the intervention becomes the
      participants' own informed choice. The group sessions are delivered by two volunteer peers
      with their own experiental knowledge of mental vulnerability and personal recovery. The
      volunteer peers must complete a basic peer education to facilitate the group course and enter
      individual companionship. A fidelity scale is developed and used for biannual fidelity
      reviews to ensure intervention program adherence and continuous focus on program
      implementation and improvement.

      The overall purpose of the PEER intervention is to find a way to live life in a meaningful,
      energizing way - despite still finding some things challenging. The aim is to form a
      constructive community through group sessions where exchanges of lived experiences, mutuality
      and opportunities for social network development can form. The investigators hypothesize,
      that the volunteer peers by sharing their own experiences with mental vulnerability and
      personal recovery can create trust and inspire the participants to safely share their own
      experiences. Additionally, that the volunteer peers by presenting group themes and by
      participating on an equal footing with the participants in the group exercises can contribute
      to the participants' experience of connectedness with others, as well as promote the
      participants self-esteem and belief in possibilities, dreams and aspirations to regain
      meaning in life circumstances, control and responsibility for own life.

      The PEER intervention will be evaluated in a two armed randomized controlled trial. The
      primary hypothesis for the trial is that participants allocated to the PEER intervention
      added to service as usual (SAU) gain a significantly increased experience of self-reported
      personal recovery at end of intervention than participants who are allocated to SAU alone.

      The PEER intervention is not expected to have any severe side effects. However, when trial
      recruitment and the intervention phase has ended, safety measures i.e. number of somatic and
      psychiatric hospitalization days, death, suicide and probable self-harm is obtained from the
      Danish central registers to examine any severe adverse effects during the intervention
      period.

      The sample size and power calculations was conducted using PS Power and Sample Size
      Calculations software. With an allocation ratio of 1:1 and a minimum clinically relevant
      difference of 5, a power of 80% and a significance level of 0.05%, we need 284 participants,
      i.e. 142 in the intervention group and 142 in the control group in order to reject the null
      hypothesis that self-assessed personal recovery is equal in the control group and the PEER
      group. Data analyzes will be based on the intention-to-treat principle i.e. that data from
      all participants will be included corresponding to the group to which the participants have
      been allocated. In case of missing data, multiple multivariate imputations will be used.
    
  