
    
      The proposed study will be a prospective cohort in 40 people with MS with one baseline and
      one follow-up assessment after a 10-week functional resistance training intervention. The
      screening and outcome assessments will take place in the CU Interdisciplinary Movement
      Science Lab and intervention will occur in the CU Physical Therapy Program gym. Both
      facilities have the necessary space and equipment for outcomes assessment and intervention,
      respectively. The PI will perform the initial screening and deliver the intervention. In
      order to limit testing bias, all functional tests, patient-reported outcomes, and motion
      capture data collection will be performed by an experienced research assistant.

      Participants will receive 14 one-on-one supervised intervention visits over 10 weeks.
      Intervention frequency will mimic clinical practice, starting at 2x/ week in clinic (2x/ week
      independently) for four weeks and tapering to 1x/ week in clinic (3x/ week independently) for
      the final six weeks. Participants will be prescribed 5 categories of resistance exercises,
      and each category will have a series of exercises to select from. Two will target hip
      abduction (lying down and standing), two will target trunk muscles (sidelying/ forward
      planks, resisted trunk rotation), and one will target functional resistance training for the
      hip and trunk during walking-related tasks such as multi-directional resisted walking. Dosing
      will be based on guidelines for MS. Strengthening exercises will begin with 3 sets of 12-15
      reps at 15 rep-max load (RM) and progress to 3 sets of 8-10 reps at 10-12 RM. Endurance
      exercises requiring a static hold will progress from 3 sets of 15-20 second holds to
      30-second holds. Functional resistance will be dosed to improve muscular endurance: 3 sets of
      15-20 reps based on form fatigue. Progression will be achieved by modifying body position,
      and/or adding cuff weights or resistance bands. Exercises will take 30-45 minutes to
      complete. Upper extremity use to maintain balance will be allowed as needed.
    
  