
    
      EMI-137 in laparoscopic colonic resections is a single-centre stage IIa developmental study
      to explore and evaluate the ability of EMI-137 to produce visible intra-operative
      fluorescence of primary colon cancer and lymph node metastases.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the ability of a fluorescent imaging agent - EMI-137
      to produce visible fluorescence in colon cancer during laparoscopic surgery. EMI-137 consists
      of a cyanine dye coupled to a c-Met targeted peptide. It is supplied by Edinburgh Molecular
      Imaging Ltd. Colon cancer along with several other types of cancer over-express and/or show
      upregulation of the c-Met receptor. We anticipate, EMI-137 will accumulate in the tumour and
      any lymph nodes metastases when administered intravenously 1 to 3 hours before laparoscopic
      colonic resection surgery. The intravenous administration of EMI-137 may allow real-time
      intra-operative visualisation of colon cancer and any metastatic lymph nodes, aiding the safe
      and accurate resection of the tumour.

      In total 10 patients will be recruited. Patients will have a diagnosis of primary colon
      adenocarcinoma, confirmed on biopsy or on radiological imaging, and will have been discussed
      at the colorectal cancer MDT meeting. Imaging will have been performed less than 8 weeks
      prior to surgery. Patients will be fit for surgical resection of the primary cancer. They may
      have suspected or confirmed distant metastatic disease. The planned procedure may be of
      palliative or curative intent. The anticipated recruitment period is six (6) months with one
      (1) month of trial follow-up.

      Participants will receive written and verbal information, and allowed at least 24 hours to
      consider their participation in the trial. Participating patients will provide written,
      informed consent. Pre-operative patient demographics will be collected, including gender,
      age, BMI, baseline FBC, U&Es, LFTs and clotting profile, co-morbidities, ASA grade, and
      medication. All patients will undergo routine preoperative assessment, to include colonic
      imaging, and staging CT scan of chest, abdomen and pelvis. The planned procedure and
      radiological staging will be documented.

      Patients will be administered an intravenous bolus of EMI-137 at a dose of between 0.02mg/kg
      to 0.13mg/kg EMI-137 2.5 hours (range 1 to 3 hours) prior to the surgical procedure start
      time (this refers to expected "knife to skin time"). The maximum dose will be 0.13mg/mg per
      patient for the total operative period. The time of administration will be recorded. Patients
      will be closely monitored for any adverse reactions to the medicinal product (as per schedule
      below).

      The surgical procedure will be as per surgeon preference but must include laparoscopic
      surgery. The procedure must use a Near Infra-Red laparoscopic system such as the Karl Storz®
      endoscopic fluorescence imaging systems. It will be used to evaluate the colon cancer and
      regional lymph nodes under both white and red light. The presence of fluorescence within the
      primary cancer and any draining lymph nodes will be recorded relative to background
      fluorescence. The intensity of fluorescence will be recorded semi-quantitatively as: highly
      fluorescent, mildly fluorescent or isofluorescent to background. Mobilisation of structures
      to permit visualisation of the cancer and lymph nodes is permissible as long as the
      oncological principles of the operation are not compromised. Any fluorescent lymph nodes will
      be marked with a surgical clip (Ligaclip) to allow subsequent histopathological
      identification.

      Postoperative care will be as routinely provided. Patients will be monitored for any adverse
      effects related to the medicinal product. Any adverse reactions as defined in the protocol
      below will be reported to the CI, clinical trial team, the industrial sponsor and where
      necessary, the appropriate regulatory bodies.

      The histopathologists involved in the trial will examine the specimen using routine and trial
      specific histopathological techniques. The fluorescences obtained from the fresh frozen
      specimens will be appraised using the same semi-quantitative scale used intraoperatively;
      highly fluorescent, mildly fluorescent and isofluorescent. The tumour stage will be
      ascertained and compared against the pre-operative radiological stage. The degree of
      fluorescence obtained may also be compared against the level of c-Met expression and the
      morphological and functional characteristics of the tumour. Separate fresh tissue samples
      (unfixed cancer and normal mucosal tissue) will be taken, if accessible, and stored in a
      HTA-approved tissue bank.

      Patients will be followed up as per routine practice. All patients will be reviewed in a
      colorectal clinic between 2 and 3 weeks following discharge, at which point their involvement
      in the study will cease.
    
  