
    
      Chronic neutrophilic inflammation is a feature of bronchiectasis and the levels of
      neutrophilic inflammation predict the risk of future exacerbations. Neutrophilic inflammation
      is highest in participants with P. aeruginosa and other Gram negative pathogens and
      inflammation can be suppressed by inhaled antibiotic treatment . There is therefore a strong
      rationale for the effectiveness of inhaled antibiotic treatment in bronchiectasis.

      Studies of inhaled antibiotics in bronchiectasis have given mixed results to date. Several
      open label studies in the late 1980's, testing nebulised β-lactams, demonstrated reduced
      sputum purulence, sputum volume and improvements in inflammatory markers. In an early phase
      II double-blind placebo-controlled trial by Barker et al. nebulised tobramycin significantly
      reduced the primary outcome of P. aeruginosa bacterial load but was poorly tolerated by some
      participants. Subsequently a single centre randomised controlled trial of nebulised
      gentamicin for 12 months reported significant benefits but was limited by open label design
      and small sample size. Haworth et al recruited 144 participants with chronic P. aeruginosa
      infection and randomized participants to nebulised colistin or placebo. The trial narrowly
      failed to meet its primary end-point (colistin group 165 days versus placebo 111 days;
      p=0.11). In the secondary end-points, a large improvement in quality of life using the SGRQ
      was noted (mean difference -10.5 points; p=0.006).

      Aztreonam is an inhaled antibiotic licensed for treatment in cystic fibrosis. Two recent
      phase III trials in bronchiectasis randomised 266 (AIR-BX1) and 274 (AIR-BX2) participants to
      Aztreonam 75mg three times daily or placebo over the course of two 28-day treatment cycles
      (with 28 days off treatment between cycles). The primary outcome was the newly developed
      Quality of Life Bronchiectasis (QoL-B) questionnaire. Unfortunately the trial failed to meet
      its primary end-point, with a significant change observed in the QOL-B respiratory symptom
      score in AIR-BX2 but not in AIR-BX1. Treatment related adverse effects were also increased in
      the Aztreonam treated participants.

      Likely explanations for the difficulties encountered in this previous trial include that the
      trial population was quite heterogeneous, with many participants having no history of
      exacerbations and appearing to have relatively mild disease. Many patients did not have a
      history exacerbations in this trial whereas the ERS bronchiectasis guidelines suggest
      limiting inhaled antibiotic use to patients with a history of 3 or more exacerbations per
      year. The characteristics of the included participants included high rates of pulmonary
      non-tuberculous mycobacterial disease and COPD. Nadig and Flume compared the characteristics
      of included participants in this trial to their own population of participants with severe
      bronchiectasis treated with inhaled antibiotics and identified little correlation, suggesting
      that the trials included a skewed population that was not representative of real-life
      clinical practice (Nadig and Flume AJRCCM 2016).

      In addition, no dose finding studies were performed in bronchiectasis. The dose of 75mg three
      times daily was chosen based on efficacy and safety in cystic fibrosis. The rates of adverse
      events appear to be higher in bronchiectasis suggesting that doses selected for CF may not be
      fully appropriate for participants with non-CF bronchiectasis. Whether lower doses may have
      efficacy and better safety has not been investigated.

      There is a need to determine the safety and efficacy of Aztreonam lysine in participants with
      bronchiectasis and a history of frequent exacerbations.

      The researchers hypothesise that Aztreonam lysine will be safe and well tolerated and will
      reduce the frequency of exacerbations in participants with bronchiectasis and a history of
      frequent exacerbations. This trial will test two different doses of Aztreonam lysine compared
      to placebo. The efficacy and safety of Aztreonam is supported by the evidence for Aztreonam
      in cystic fibrosis where Aztreonam prolonged the time to first exacerbation by 21 days
      compared to placebo and improved quality of life. The AIR-BX studies evaluated Aztreonam for
      inhalation for only 2 treatment cycles. They showed suppression of chronic Gram-negative
      airway bacterial load but were not designed to evaluate the impact of Aztreonam on the
      frequency or time to first exacerbation. No attempt to identify the optimal dose was made.
      The incidence of treatment related adverse effects was increased in AIR-BX1 but was more
      balanced in AIR-BX2, a trial conducted primarily in European bronchiectasis participants. The
      reason for this imbalance is unknown.

      The researchers hypothesise that 12 months treatment with Aztreonam lysine for inhalation
      will be safe and well tolerated, and will result in a significant increase in the time to
      first pulmonary exacerbation in participants with bronchiectasis and a history of frequent
      exacerbations.

      The Vital BE trial will evaluate two doses of aztreonam lysine to determine the optimal dose
      for testing in future phase 3 trials.
    
  