
    
      Part 1: Phase 1A Portion Primary objectives:

        -  Determination of the recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) of GRN-300 in the study
           population.

        -  To investigate the safety and tolerability of repeated 28-day cycles of oral GRN-300
           therapy in subjects with recurrent or metastatic ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary
           peritoneal cancer or other advanced solid tumors.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To evaluate the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of GRN-300 after oral administration of a
           single dose and at steady state.

        -  To estimate the clinical activity of GRN-300 by determining the clinical benefit rate
           (CBR: SD≥6 months/PR/CR) and proportion of patients surviving progression free (PFS) at
           six months.

        -  To obtain pharmacodynamic (PD) data on the effects of single agent GRN-300 on peripheral
           blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs, all doses, pHDAC5, pSIK2) and tumor tissue (cohort
           expansion phase, SIK2, pSIK2, pp85α, pHDAC5).

        -  To evaluate biomarkers for polyploidy, PI3K signaling and apoptosis.

      Part 2: Phase 1B Portion Primary objectives:

        -  Determination of the RP2D of GRN-300 in combination with weekly paclitaxel in the study
           population.

        -  To investigate the safety and tolerability of repeated 28-day cycles of daily oral
           GRN-300 therapy in combination with weekly paclitaxel x 3 in subjects with recurrent or
           metastatic ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer or other advanced
           solid tumors.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To evaluate the PK profile of GRN-300 and paclitaxel following administration of a
           single dose of each and at steady state.

        -  To estimate the clinical activity of GRN-300 by determining the clinical benefit rate
           (CBR: SD≥6 months/PR/CR) and proportion of patients PFS at 6 months.

        -  To obtain PD data on the effects of GRN-300 plus paclitaxel on peripheral blood
           mononuclear cells (PBMCs, all doses, pHDAC5, pSIK2) and tumor tissue (cohort expansion
           phase, SIK2, pSIK2, pp85α, pHDAC5).

        -  To evaluate biomarkers for polyploidy, PI3K signaling and apoptosis

      Exploratory Translational Objectives for Both Portions:

        -  To determine SIK2 and SIK2 target total protein and phosphorylation levels before and
           on-treatment.

        -  To explore biological difference in tumor biopsies from responders and non- responders.

        -  To investigate the relationship between plasma concentrations/exposure and changes in
           safety and efficacy outputs to facilitate population analysis.

        -  To determine if GRN-300 impacts bone mass and biochemical markers of bone turnover.
    
  