
    
      This randomized, single blind trial will compare outcomes from a 6-month FFT-CHR intervention
      and a control condition (enhanced care, or EC) matched to the FFT-CHR in duration (6 months)
      and access to a clinician. Participants families in FFT-CHR are provided 18 family sessions
      augmented by a therapy app with content and surveys, while participants in the EC condition
      are provided three family sessions plus five monthly individual support and case management
      sessions. Duration of therapy sessions is one hour.

      Main Goals of FFT-CHR (Experimental Treatment)

        1. To assist young clients and their family in: developing a common understanding of CHR
           symptoms; recognizing early signs of escalating symptoms; practicing individual and
           family coping strategies; and pre-planning family responses to any escalation in
           symptoms. When families have poor understanding of CHR symptoms and strategies for their
           management, this can fuel stressful home dynamics and contribute to youth withdrawal and
           decompensation.

        2. For the youth and their family members to learn to express more constructive messages
           during their interactions, particularly regarding highly charged topics such as curbing
           risky behaviors and management of the offspring's symptoms.

        3. For youth and family members to practice skills for resolving family or extrafamilial
           conflicts (usually those related to the youth's functioning) through effective
           communication and problem solving

      The control condition, Enhanced Care (EC) shares the psychoeducation goal of FFT-CHR but is
      more oriented toward skill-training for the individual patient. Whereas it does not offer the
      same level of opportunity for families to build communication and problem-solving skills, the
      family is actively involved in helping the individual develop a relapse prevention plan.
      Monthly individual sessions focus on the development of individual coping skills such as
      symptom tracking and problem-solving. Both conditions require families to submit real-time
      mobile app surveys to assist with progress tracking.

      Study Aims

      The primary clinical outcomes are prodromal positive symptom scores examined immediately
      after treatment (6 months) and at 18 months. Secondary outcomes are time to remission of
      positive symptoms and psychosocial functioning over 18 months. Temporal relationships between
      early changes in treatment targets and later changes in symptoms or psychosocial functioning
      will also be examined.

      Primary Hypotheses

        1. FFT-CHR (vs. EC) will be associated with greater improvement in positive symptoms by end
           of therapy and follow-up (6 and 18 months), and greater high-risk syndrome remission and
           better psychosocial functioning at 18 months

        2. FFT-CHR (vs. EC) will be associated with greater improvement in family communication and
           problem solving at 6 months

        3. FFT-CHR (vs. EC) will be associated with greater improvement in youth-perceived parental
           criticism at 6 months. In turn, improvements in family communication, problem-solving
           and youths' perceptions of criticism will be associated with downstream improvements in
           the youths' primary outcomes (positive symptoms) and secondary outcomes (time to
           remission and psychosocial functioning) over 18 months. Thus, improvements in family
           functioning are hypothesized to mediate the relationship between treatment condition
           (FFT-CHR, EC) and changes in primary and secondary outcomes in the individual with CHR
           syndrome.

        4. CHR individuals with higher baseline risk of conversion are hypothesized to improve more
           on family communication over 6 months and primary and secondary outcomes over 18 months
           in FFT-CHR than in EC.
    
  