
    
      Dopamine (DA) is an endogenous catecholamine, which serves as a biochemical precursor of
      norepinephrine and epinephrine. DA is well known as a neurotransmitter in the central nervous
      system. During the past decade, however, DA has been characterized as an important modulator
      of BP, Na+ balance, renal and adrenal function through an independent peripheral dopaminergic
      system. Evidence indicates that DA is synthesized locally within the kidney and acts at
      adjacent cells in an autocrine or paracrine fashion to control renal Na+ excretion (1,2).

      The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is a coordinated hormonal cascade, the principal effector
      of which is angiotensin II (ANG II). All of the components of the RAS are present within the
      kidney and intrarenal formation of ANG II provides major regulation of renal hemodynamic and
      tubule function via a self-contained intrarenal RAS (3,4). We propose to study the
      interaction of the renal dopaminergic and renin-angiotensin systems in the regulation of Na+
      balance and Na+ sensitivity of blood pressure (BP) and in the pathophysiology of essential
      hypertension in man.

      Our group has discovered a D1 receptor/adenylyl cyclase coupling defect in renal PTCs from
      subjects with essential hypertension. We have found increased GRK activity in renal PTCs in
      human essential hypertension due to activating variants of GRK-4, an effect that was
      reproduced in a transfected cell model. Preventing the translation of GRK-4 normalized the
      coupling of the D1 receptor to adenylyl cyclase in hypertension. The variants of GRK-4 cause
      a ligand-independent serine-phosphorylation of the D1 receptor, resulting in its uncoupling
      from the G-protein/effector complex. The desensitization of the D1 receptor in the renal PTC
      may be the cause of the compromised natriuretic effect of DA that eventually leads to Na+
      retention and hypertension. Therefore, a primary objective of the entire Program Project
      Grant, of which this protocol is one part, is to identify humans with salt-sensitive
      hypertension and resistance to the inhibitory effect of D1-like receptor agonist fenoldopam
      on renal proximal Na+ reabsorption and determine whether these individuals have the
      activating polymorphisms of GRK-4 alone or in combination with polymorphisms of genes of the
      RAS.

      Subjects are selected (on the basis of their GRK-4 genotype) from the pool of subjects that
      have already been genetically screened under IRB-HSR # 11494.

      Subjects will be prepared and will be studied in approximate metabolic balance at 150 meq
      Na+/d. After approximate metabolic balance is achieved (estimated 5 days), subjects will
      receive either fenoldopam infusion or vehicle infusion on Day 6 and the opposite agent
      (fenoldopam or vehicle) will be infused on Day 7. The order of infusion will be randomized
      and the study will be conducted in double-blind fashion. Vehicle will be D5W and will be
      infused during the control period using the same rate as the post control period. At 1100 h
      on study Day 6, an i.v. infusion of fenoldopam or vehicle will be initiated and continued for
      3h. The fenoldopam infusion rate will be 0.05 μg/kg/min. This infusion rate of fenoldopam has
      resulted in a greater than 2-fold increase in UNaV without alteration of systemic hemodynamic
      function in normal subjects (30). Plasma fenoldopam levels will be monitored to document
      delivery of this agent into the circulation. BP and heart rate will be measured in duplicate
      every 10 min during the experimental period (1100-1400h). The experimental period will be
      followed by a 2-hour post-control period (1400h-1600h) during which vehicle will be infused.
      Blood and urine samples will be obtained every 30 min and will be analyzed for Na+, K+,
      lithium and creatinine concentrations and osmolality. In addition, blood samples will be
      analyzed for PRA, cyclic AMP (blood and urine), plasma ANG II and aldosterone concentrations
      at 1045, 1215, 1345 and 1545 h. After completion of a post-control period at 1600h, the
      subjects will be allowed to be out of bed but remain as inpatients and receive the same diet
      as previously. No food is given after 2400h on Day 6. On Day 7, the identical protocol as on
      Day 6 will be repeated except that the opposite agent (fenoldopam or vehicle) will be
      infused. The subjects will be discharged from the GCRC on their previous diet.
    
  