
    
      The aging of the French population leads to a significant increase in elderly
      hospitalizations. These patients are often dependent, polymorbid and precarious from a
      medical, social and economic point of view, bringing them into a frailty process to which the
      health system is trying to adapt. In fact, the absence of specific care adapted to frail
      elderly patients results in an increased risk of functional maladjustment. It is
      characterized by a loss, during hospitalization, of the ability to perform the activities of
      daily living alone and a decrease in physical activity. This maladjustment can differ or even
      prevent return home, increases the risk of falling, the length of stay and health expenses.

      The concept of frailty in the elderly is mainly based on the concept of physical
      vulnerability, and in particular muscular vulnerability. Increasing attention is therefore
      being paid to physical activity in the elderly, which can prevent the process of
      maladjustment.

      The 2004802 Decree of July 29, 2004 recalls that nurses lift patients and help them to walk
      without using rehabilitation techniques, to ensure their comfort. The interest of such an
      approach has already been reported, especially in primary care where nursing support allows a
      sustained and lasting increase in physical activity in the elderly. To the best of the
      investigators' knowledge, the effectiveness of such a nursing approach to physical activity
      support has not been studied in hospitals yet.

      The investigators looked for exercises simple, fast and adapted to an elderly population with
      a very diverse functional maladjustment. The selected intervention is a physical activity
      based on the activities of daily living to improve postural balance and strengthening the
      muscles of the lower limbs. This intervention follows the main principles of the latest
      recommendations of the French High Authority for Health on the elderly fall prevention. It
      resumes acts such as sitting or standing on a foot corresponding to static equilibrium
      conditions. It also proposes carrying out transfers from a sitting to standing position and
      from a standing to sitting position corresponding to motor acts for the lower limbs.

      The investigators hypothesize that formalized paramedical support in a geriatric short-stay
      service prevents the elderly from decreasing their physical activity, and prevents the
      occurrence of falls and early re-hospitalization.
    
  