
    
      Background

      Alcohol dependence is a chronically and relapsing disorder with major impact on the persons
      psychological, physiological and social functioning. There is extensive evidence from animal
      and human studies pointing out the important role of addiction memory in the development and
      maintenance of the disorder.

      Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) has proven its high effectiveness in the treatment for
      addictive disorders. A core element of CBT are exposure techniques that are comparable to
      extinction and habituation learning. The repeated exposure to alcohol related cues in the
      absence of alcohol ingestion will lead to extinction of conditioned responses, thus reducing
      the probability of relapse to alcohol taking behaviour.

      Studies have shown that glucocorticoids impair memory retrieval in healthy subjects. In fact,
      the investigators could show that cortisol has a fear reducing effect in patients with
      post-traumatic stress disorder and in phobic patients, resulting particularly in reduced
      symptoms of anxiety and in reduced stress reactivity. Interestingly enough, pharmacologically
      induced high levels of glucocorticoids lowered the subjective feeling of anxiety and stress
      in situations activating per se the HPA-axis. Further it has been shown that the combined
      therapy of glucocorticoid administration and exposition based psychotherapy leads to better
      therapy outcome in patients with specific phobias.

      Objective

      The goal of this study is to examine the acute effects of glucocorticoids administration on
      alcohol craving and stress reactivity of abstinent alcohol dependent patients. On the basis
      of clinical research in anxiety disorders, the investigators expect that a pharmacologically
      increased cortisol level may impair the retrieval of addiction memory, which is indicated by
      less craving during the alcohol exposition, while exposition therapy enhances consolidation
      of corrective experiences. Similar to the research in anxiety patients, the investigators aim
      to examine whether cortisol administration could help improve the effects of exposition
      therapy in patients with alcohol dependence. The purpose is to decrease therapy duration
      through cortisol administration in addition to already well proven therapies and make the
      therapy more efficient as well as a factor in reducing healthcare costs.

      Methods

      Patients undergo two identical experimental sessions between the 6th and 8th week (one week
      in between) of their 12-week inpatient treatment program for alcohol dependence. The
      experiment takes place in the experimental rooms of the clinic Südhang between 1 and 6 pm.
      One hour before the confrontation with alcohol associated stimuli patients receive either
      20mg of hydrocortisone or placebo (oral administration). The experiment consists of a
      computer based picture task (alcoholic and neutral pictures) and an in-vivo exposure task.
      Psychological (craving, stress, arousal) and physiological (heart rate, saliva cortisol)
      parameters are repeatedly measured over the course of the experiment.
    
  