
    
      Type 1 diabetes (T1D) occurs due to destruction of insulin producing beta cells in pancreas.
      T1D usually occurs in children and young individuals, and requires continuous blood glucose
      monitoring for adjustment of insulin dosage on a daily basis. Incidence of T1D has been
      increasing over the past three decades. Hyperglycemia and ketoacidosis episodes are common
      adverse effects due to irregular monitoring of daily blood glucose. It is a big challenge in
      developed as well as developing countries to live with T1D due to less optimal use of timely
      entry in logbook for self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG). Current guidelines recommend
      SMBG use in all patients with diabetes. According to a study, increased daily frequency of
      SMBG was significantly associated with lower glycated hemoglobin (HbA1C) along with added
      benefits of fewer acute complications among children and adolescents. Available literature
      from Pakistan highlights non-adherence of T1D patients to recommended dietary advice (58.5%),
      physical activity (42.3%) and prescribed insulin regimen (88.1%). Use of mobile applications
      has been shown to increase the medication adherence and use of self-blood glucose testing.
      Increased daily step count by T1D patients helped to reduce the risk of cardiovascular
      events. A wearable e-device accompanied with an application (Fitbit App) tracks step count by
      recording data in mobile application. HbA1C levels acts as an indicator for the glycemic
      control and correlates with complications. However, HbA1C cannot determine the daily
      variability of blood glucose, thus SMBG can help predict the average daily risk reduction in
      T1D complications. The proposed study will address the adherence to standard protocols for
      maintaining home based records by patients and caregivers and insulin therapy, optimizing the
      quarterly HbA1C levels.
    
  