
    
      Illicit synthetic fentanyl is found in increasing proportions of illicit drug samples, and
      negatively influences how buprenorphine is used on the street to help with subjective
      withdrawal symptoms. In the clinic, it has been observed among individuals positive for
      fentanyl that initiation of buprenorphine is difficult. When spontaneous withdrawal, normally
      the signal that the patient is ready to initiate buprenorphine, and buprenorphine is given,
      withdrawal symptoms often seem to increase. It is unclear whether this represents
      precipitated withdrawal versus progressing spontaneous withdrawal, but the standard clinical
      approach has been to wait for more withdrawal symptoms and time to elapse before trying
      another test dose. In this population, waiting is a clinically problematic strategy as many
      patients in continuing withdrawal would resume opioid use rather than try buprenorphine
      again. To date, there has been one study noting that fentanyl dependent patients are retained
      at equal rates to patients with heroin dependence, but this study was observational,
      retrospective and small. An alternative approach to induction would rapidly provide high
      doses of buprenorphine initially. The theory behind rapid induction would be either that the
      robust withdrawal observed is actually spontaneous withdrawal, calling for a higher initial
      buprenorphine dosing regimen, or that some of the withdrawal observed may be precipitated,
      but rapidly and fully occupying the receptors with partial agonist produces enough agonist
      effect to subdue precipitated withdrawal. If found to be superior to standard induction, the
      high dose induction regimen could be immediately implemented in primary care settings. Or, if
      buprenorphine cannot be initiated for a given patient, a full opioid agonist, namely
      methadone, may be the best first step, suggesting methadone as a first-line treatment for
      those dependent on fentanyl and other high potency synthetics. Methadone administration is
      currently restricted to specially licensed opioid treatment programs and not widely available
      across clinical settings where buprenorphine can be initiated. If the availability of
      methadone rescue in this study proves useful, it would support a larger case for regulatory
      reforms to make methadone more widely available beyond traditional OTPs.

      The study proposed here would be the first pilot study to assess the extent that synthetic
      opioid dependence prevents successful induction with buprenorphine-naloxone. Programs like
      the Pennsylvania Psychiatric Institute's opioid treatment program have been set up to serve
      rural and impoverished small urban communities that have become the epicenter of the opioid
      epidemic. The need to deliver evidence-based treatment effectively is paramount, especially
      during a window of time in which an individual desiring treatment and having access to that
      treatment is vanishingly small. A difficult initiation with substantial withdrawal symptoms
      can derail motivation that can lead to treatment abandonment. A rapid assessment of whether
      individuals cannot complete buprenorphine-naloxone induction who have been using illicit
      fentanyl or combination fentanyl with other opioids is a starting point to change management
      of this growing set of individuals.
    
  