
    
      Cardiogenic shock due to a left ventricular failure after myocardial infarction (MI) is
      associated with a mortality rate of 50-70 % despite all efforts such as immediate PCI of the
      occluded vessel, positive inotropic drugs, and the use of intraaortic balloon
      counterpulsation (IABP). While urgent heart transplantation or the surgical implantation of
      high-volume left ventricular assist devices are possible treatment options, a widespread use
      of these techniques for this common complication of myocardial infarction is limited. Because
      of the easy, percutaneous use of an intraaortic balloon pump, IABP is the method of choice
      for mechanical assistance in these patients. Despite a lack of randomized data, the ACC/AHA
      guidelines recommend the use of an intraaortic balloon counterpulsation (Level of evidence
      IB) in patients with a cardiogenic shock after myocardial infarction. However, improvement of
      the hemodynamic state by the use of an IABP is limited and the lack of an active cardiac
      support remains the major limitation of this treatment. Percutaneous left ventricular assist
      devices may both overcome the limitation of a surgical approach and offer the potential
      benefit of an active cardiac support during recovery of the failing left ventricle after PCI.

      Previous studies have demonstrated a significant improvement of hemodynamic parameters by the
      use of a catheter-based miniaturized rotary blood pump (Impella LP2.5, Abiomed-Impella
      CardioSystems GmbH, Aachen, Germany), that is placed retrogradely through the aortic valve.
      The microaxial pump aspirates blood from the left ventricle and expels it to the ascending
      aorta with a maximal flow of 2.5 L/min. Randomized data comparing the LVAD with IABP are
      missing. Therefore, this trial will primarily compare the hemodynamic improvement of the LVAD
      (Impella LP2.5) with the hemodynamic improvement of an intraaortic balloon counterpulsation
      (IABP), while secondarily feasibility, safety and mortality will be compared.
    
  