
    
      The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans emphasizes consumption of 4.5 cups of fruits and
      vegetables daily. However, average fruit and vegetable intake of US adults is only 2.6 cups.
      This low consumption of fruits and vegetables may further result in the limited availability
      of fat soluble, health-promoting, phytochemicals such as carotenoids from these foods.
      Dietary carotenoids have beneficial biological properties including antioxidant and
      anti-inflammatory effects and scientific research supports the protective effects of
      carotenoids against many degenerative diseases, including cardiovascular diseases,
      age-related macular degeneration, and some types of cancer. Therefore, either low intake or
      inefficient bioavailability of carotenoids from fruits and vegetables may reduce their
      potential effectiveness as disease preventative compounds. The bioavailability of carotenoids
      from a meal can be affected by several factors, including food matrix, type of food
      processing or cooking, interactions with other dietary compounds during digestion and
      absorption, gut status which may affect digestion and absorption processes, and nutritional
      status. Co-consumption of carotenoid rich foods with dietary lipids may be one of the most
      effective stimulators of carotenoid absorption among factors that influence their
      bioaccessibility and bioavailability. Eggs are known to be a highly bioavailable source of
      carotenoids, presumably due to the presence of lipid and phospholipid in egg yolk. The highly
      bioavailable nature of carotenoids from eggs suggest that egg derived factors may be
      leveraged to improve bioavailability of other carotenoids found in co-consumed fruits and
      vegetables. While promising, very limited data exist on the impact of a co-consumed food
      source of lipid, such as eggs, to enhance carotenoid absorption. This study is designed to
      assess the beneficial effects of egg consumption on carotenoids absorption from a complex
      meal, beyond those found in egg.
    
  