
    
      Patient Evaluation and Treatment:

        1. Patients will sign an IRB-approved informed consent form

        2. Initial patient assessments will include:

             -  eligibility

             -  History and physical.

             -  clinical profile

             -  upper urinary tract imaging (if clinically indicated)

             -  urinary symptoms assessment

      WBPDT Treatment:

        1. Porfimer Sodium (Photofrin) 1.5 mg/kg iv followed 2 days later by whole bladder laser
           light at 630 nm with target light doses of 1200 Joules (+/-100Joules)

        2. Patients will undergo three sequential WBPDT treatments

        3. Treatments will occur at least three months apart

        4. All WBPDT treatments will occur within 12 months

           Decisions to administer a second or third WBPDT will be based upon urological and
           medical assessment of the individual patient and not necessarily dependent upon Dose
           Limiting Toxicities (DLT) or early stopping endpoints (although such information may be
           taken into account in the individual patient assessment). Patients experiencing DLT may
           continue WBPDT at the investigator's discretion at the same or reduced doses of Porfimer
           Sodium and/or light.

           The following will be considered Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT):

             -  Urinary symptoms grade 3, or more over 12 weeks duration (see section 7 for
                toxicity grading)

             -  Loss of > 50% of baseline bladder volume

             -  Clinical decision of investigator or patient to discontinue due to toxicity.

           Efficacy will be assessed on the basis of the following criteria:

             -  Complete Response: cystoscopy with biopsy and/or cytology without evidence of
                cancer.

             -  Partial Response: normal cystoscopy and biopsies, if obtained, but persistent
                positive or suspicious cytology localized to the bladder; or, for patients with
                CIS, > 50% reduction in extent of CIS.

             -  Persistent/Recurrent Disease: persistent or recurrent cancer of the same or lesser
                stage and grade as at enrollment without obvious increase in tumor burden.

             -  Progression: cancer of any greater stage or grade than at enrollment or obvious
                increase in tumor burden.

           Referred patients will undergo post-PDT cystoscopy by the referring Urologists, who will
           transmit the results to the study site in Gainesville,Fl.

        5. Symptoms will be assessed for one month following each WBPDT by weekly telephone
           contact.

        6. Urine and blood for cytokines will be obtained before each treatment and possibly twice
           afterwards and stored -80oF for analysis later.

        7. Biopsy specimen samples from tumor and normal bladder may be obtained at cystoscopy and
           stored for later analysis for biomarkers.

        8. Patients will be followed for toxicity, disease status, urinary tract symptoms, and
           survival.
    
  