
    
      The purpose of this study is to test feasibility and proof-of-concept effectiveness of lower
      extremity electrical stimulation (EE) therapy to address chronic morbid consequences of
      COVID-19 including hospital-acquired weakness and neuropathy. This is a proof of concept
      randomized control trial (RCT) study. Eligible participants (n=20 anticipated) will be
      recruited from the Baylor St. Luke's' Medical Center (Houston, Texas). To be eligible
      participants should be hospitalized because of COVID-19 infection and suspected to be at risk
      for hospital acquired-weakness based on judgment of clinical intensivist investigators.
      Participants will be excluded if they are paralyzed. Other exclusion criteria include blow
      the knee amputation, those who have a demand-type cardiac pacemaker, implanted defibrillator
      or other implanted electronic device; those with wound infection, and other conditions that
      may interfere with outcomes or increase the risk of the use EE based on judgement of
      clinicians.

      The Investigators hypothesize that implementation of EE as means of regular activation of
      lower extremity muscle is feasible and acceptable for the target population and would help to
      retain lower extremity muscle mass, lower extremity tissue oxygen saturation and perfusion,
      and thus reducing the severity of hospital acquired weakness and potentially improve outcomes
      of treatment among COVID-19 patients.

      Participants will be randomized to intervention (IG) or control group (CG)). The entire
      cohort will receive daily EE in lower extremity (e.g. Gastronemius, tibial anterior muscle)
      up to 1 hour. EE therapy will be provided using a bio-electric stimulation technology (BEST)
      platform (Tennant Biomodulator PRO®, AVAZZIA, Inc.). The EE device will be functional for IG
      and non-functional for CG. The primary outcomes include between group difference and change
      from the baseline in muscle function, muscle strength, lower extremity tissue oxygen
      saturation, neuropathy, and muscle atrophy. Outcomes will be assessed at baseline, time of
      discharge or 4 weeks, whichever came first.
    
  