
    
      Background: Dexamethasone improves control of acute nausea and vomiting when given prior to
      chemotherapy, and continued administration of dexamethasone improves nausea and vomiting
      after highly emetogenic chemotherapy. There is no consensus about the optimal regimen for
      control of delayed emesis after moderately emetogenic chemotherapy but most patients receive
      oral dexamethasone. Many patients complain of insomnia, anxiety/agitation and indigestion
      whilst they are on dexamethasone, and fatigue and depressed mood after stopping it. The
      impact of these symptoms on patients has not been studied systematically. While patients with
      less vomiting and nausea are expected to have better quality of life (QOL), the QOL of
      patients with minimal nausea or vomiting might be more affected by the side effects of
      antiemetic treatment.

      Hypothesis: Dexamethasone given as an antiemetic for delayed nausea and vomiting after
      moderately emetogenic chemotherapy reduces overall quality of life.

      Research Question: Does the use of dexamethasone as a prophylactic antiemetic for delayed
      nausea and vomiting following moderately emetogenic chemotherapy decrease overall quality of
      life, as evaluated by the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality
      of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ C-30).

      Study Design: Using a double-blind randomised cross-over design, we will determine:

        -  (i) the effect of oral dexamethasone (4mg PO bid after chemotherapy) versus an identical
           appearing placebo on QOL of patients that receive moderately emetogenic chemotherapy,
           and

        -  (ii) patient preference for dexamethasone or placebo.

      We will evaluate control of nausea and vomiting and the impact of both the side effects of
      dexamethasone and of nausea and vomiting on QOL. Therapy for acute emesis will be
      standardised (single dose intravenous granisetron and dexamethasone) and all patients will
      receive granisetron for delayed emetic control. Each patient will be randomly allocated to
      receive either dexamethasone or placebo after the first cycle of chemotherapy, and crossed
      over to the other arm for the second cycle. Patients will complete questionnaires that
      evaluate QOL, symptoms associated with dexamethasone, and nausea and vomiting at baseline and
      one week after their intravenous chemotherapy; they will also record symptoms in a daily
      diary.

      The primary outcome measures are patient preference and overall QOL. The secondary objectives
      are: (1) to compare complete protection from delayed vomiting and severity of nausea between
      those receiving dexamethasone and those receiving placebo; (2) to compare differences in the
      impact of nausea and vomiting on QOL in those receiving dexamethasone and those receiving
      placebo, and (3) to compare differences in symptoms that have been associated with
      dexamethasone (insomnia, anxiety, agitation, mood, etc.) between patients receiving
      dexamethasone and those receiving placebo.

      Significance: Our study will evaluate whether the benefits of dexamethasone for delayed
      emetic control outweigh potential side effects in patients receiving moderately emetogenic
      chemotherapy. It addresses a problem that is important to the majority of patients receiving
      anticancer chemotherapy. If overall QOL is improved on dexamethasone, then it should be
      prescribed routinely. If QOL is reduced on dexamethasone, and patients prefer the placebo,
      then its use as an antiemetic after moderately emetogenic chemotherapy should be limited to
      patients who initially have poor control of emesis.
    
  