
    
      Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) or autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder with unknown
      etiology. ASD consisted of 3 core features: 1) disorder of language or communication; 2)
      disorder of social interaction; and 3) obsessive and stereotypic behavior.

      Acupuncture had been practiced in China for over two millennia. In Traditional Chinese
      Acupuncture, nearly 400 acupoints on the body surface are interrelated to various functions.
      The approach in TCM, in sharp contrast to western medical concept, was a "holistic" approach
      with a philosophical background of balancing the "Yin-and-Yang". The main objective of TCM
      was to improve health of body and mind by deblocking the flow of "Qi" in the body. The
      pathophysiological basis of TCM aimed to improve "energy" or "body-flow" or "Qi" ["de-qui" in
      Chinese]. The effect of acupuncture was had been proven in animal and human studies to be due
      to direct neural stimulation, changes in neurotransmitters such as endorphin, immunological
      markers or endocrinological signals. Thus, acupuncture is especially effective in chronic
      disorders, especially neurological ones.

      As there is no TCM concept of mental retardation or autism, we propose that ASD is part of
      the spectrum of the TCM concept of the "Four Delayed Syndrome" in children with "delay in
      motor skills, speech, hair and teeth eruption" according to TCM concept. Thus, we approach
      ASD according to TCM concept as part of the lower intelligence due to imbalance of "Heart
      meridian and Kidney meridian" (i.e. yin-yang imbalance) resulting in communication problem
      and "Liver meridian" (yin-yang imbalance) leading to behavioral problems.

      Our objective is to use a different approach in looking at ASD and to assess the efficacy of
      TCM model in improving the functional status of these children. Specific acupoints
      corresponding to various organs and meridians were used for ASD. The organ and meridian
      concept in TCM model has been as a fundamental basis to improve the behavior, cognition and
      communicative ability in children with ASD.
    
  