
    
      This is a calibration and validation study of a near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) device
      designed to measure the cerebral tissue oxygen saturation non-invasively. This is achieved by
      comparing NIRS-derived cerebral tissue oxygen saturation with a calculated value derived from
      simultaneous arterial and jugular venous blood samples.

      At present the FDA have adopted the standards published in 2005 by the International
      Organization for Standardization (ISO), entitled ISO 9919. This is a set of technical
      specifications and guidelines for pulse oximeters, which share certain technical similarities
      to cerebral oximeters. In particular, Annex EE details the conduct of a controlled
      desaturation study for the calibration of pulse oximeter equipment. Specifically, the
      fraction of inspired oxygen delivered to test subjects is varied to achieve a series of
      targeted steady state saturation periods over a range of arterial oxygen saturation of 70 -
      100%.

      While cerebral oximeters differ from pulse oximeters in terms of the what is being measured
      (brain tissue v arterial blood) the FDA have maintained the requirement to examine data from
      human volunteer studies in which the arterial oxygen saturation ranges from 70 - 100%. Two
      FDA-approved cerebral oximeters were validated in a similar manner.

      The device controlling the inspired gas concentration is the RespirAct, which permits precise
      reduction in the arterial oxygen saturation while maintaining the arterial carbon dioxide
      level at 40 mmHg.

      The study consists of 3 sequences:

        -  First sequence: reduction in arterial oxygen saturation in approximately 5% increments
           from 100 to 70% followed by return to room air and then a period of supplemental oxygen.

        -  Second sequence: reduction in arterial oxygen saturation in a single drop from 100 to
           70% followed by return to room air and then a period of supplemental oxygen.

        -  Third sequence: reduction in arterial oxygen saturation in approximately 10% increments
           from 100 to 70% with alteration of carbon dioxide level from 35 to 45 mmHg at each
           interval followed by return to room air.
    
  