
    
      The primary aim of the proposed research is to demonstrate that promoting a normoglycemic
      intrauterine milieu in women with prediabetes diagnosed in the first trimester of pregnancy
      with a Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) 5.7-6.4% or fasting plasma glucose (FPG) 92-125 mg/dL will
      decrease the accumulation of fetal white adipose tissue and development of infant/child
      obesity during the first year of life. This project is built upon the hypothesis that
      pregnant subjects with prediabetes randomized in the first trimester of pregnancy to strict
      glycemic control and pharmacotherapy as needed will have less fetal adiposity and adverse
      neonatal outcomes than those who receive the diagnosis of prediabetes but do not initiate
      care until the third trimester.

      In the proposed study, 240 women meeting the above criteria for prediabetes at ≤ 15w0d
      gestation will be randomized to either first trimester or third trimester treatment. Each
      group will have diabetes education, initiate blood glucose monitoring, begin pharmacotherapy
      as needed (per established protocol), undergo growth ultrasounds, and antenatal testing. The
      first trimester arm will receive the above interventions immediately upon diagnosis of
      prediabetes whereas the third trimester arm will receive only routine prenatal care until 28
      weeks at which time they will begin education and treatment. Both groups will be treated
      identically from 28 weeks until delivery.

      In the 2013 the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Gestational Diabetes (GDM) Consensus
      Conference, the panel was concerned about adopting criteria that would increase prevalence of
      GDM (i.e. first trimester treatment) without first demonstrating improved outcomes. The
      results of this proposed trial, will allow us to fill key research gaps; this is the first
      prospective trial to evaluate the International Associations of Diabetes in Pregnancy Study
      Groups (IADPSG) recommendations for screening and diagnosing prediabetes in the first
      trimester.

      Findings from this research will quantify the maternal and neonatal benefits and harms of
      treating women with prediabetes from early pregnancy. Additionally, the cohort of neonates
      that will result from this study can be followed into childhood to evaluate whether first
      trimester treatment has benefits beyond those anticipated at birth and may decrease the
      long-term incidence of obesity and diabetes.
    
  