
    
      The interventions will be delivered in any hospital ward caring for COVID-19 patients.

      The interventions under investigation will be high flow nasal therapy in comparison with
      conventional oxygen therapy.

      HFNT will be delivered by any device (standalone machine or ventilators able to deliver it).
      The initial flow rate will be set at 40 L/min and potentially increased up to 60 L/min,
      according to patient tolerance. Large-bore nasal prongs will be selected according to the
      size of patients' nostrils (i.e. 2/3 of the diameter of the patient's nostril). A surgical
      mask will be placed on top of the HFNT interface. The temperature will be set at 37°C or 34
      °C according to the patient's comfort. The FiO2 will be adjusted to maintain SpO2 between
      92-96%. A feeding tube or a nasogastric tube will not represent a contraindication for the
      use of HFNT provided the patency of the used nostril.

      Conventional Oxygen therapy will be delivered by any device or combination of devices used
      for delivering oxygen such as nasal cannula, Venturi Mask or Mask with or without a reservoir
      bag as per usual local practice. Oxygen flow will be titrated to achieve SpO2 between 92-96%.

      Co-interventions: Patients potentially eligible for the study will be evaluated by the
      attending physicians and receive medical therapy based on the attending physician's decision
      and local protocols. Awake proning is allowed. Local protocols, including drugs and awake
      proning, will be discussed with the enrolling centers at the initiation visit, and adherence
      to WHO guidelines will be recommended. Written informed consent from all the patients will be
      collected.

      Termination criteria & protocol violation: Criteria for weaning off COT or HFNT was at
      clinical discretion of the managing physician based on the improvement in oxygenation with
      ability to maintain SpO2 of 96% or greater with less than 0.30 of FiO2 or P/F > 300. The
      switch from COT to HFNT should be considered a protocol violation and should be based on
      clinical decision of the treating physician.

      Criteria to be considered for escalation of treatment: 1) SpO2 ≤ 92% despite COT or HFNT or
      P/F ≤ 180 with FiO2 ≥ 50%, and 2) at least one of the following: respiratory rate ≥ 28
      breaths/min, severe dyspnea, signs of increased work of breathing (e.g. use of accessory
      muscles). If the patient meets these criteria, escalation of treatment CPAP, NIV or IMV will
      be considered.

      The choice of the type of escalating treatment will be a clinical decision of the treating
      physician.
    
  