
    
      Quantitative sensory testing (QST) is defined as perceptually quantifiable responses to
      graded chemical (capsaicin), electrical, mechanical (pressure, punctate, vibratory, and light
      touch) or thermal (cool, warmth, cold pain, and heat pain) stimuli. Thus, QST is a
      psychophysical method primarily assessing small nerve fiber function in the skin. The method
      is ubiquitously used for the assessment of peripheral neuropathies, e.g.,
      chemotherapy-induced neuropathy, painful diabetic polyneuropathy, post-herpetic neuralgia,
      and post-surgical neuropathy. Sensory mapping and QST are essential tools in grading definite
      or probable neuropathic pain as stated in the definition: "Demonstration of the distinct
      neuroanatomically plausible distribution by at least one confirmatory test." During the last
      decade, the German Research Network on Neuropathic Pain (DFNS) has acquired normative sensory
      data from healthy individuals using a standardized testing protocol. Clearly, a deviating
      sensory response from a patient with a painful peripheral neuropathy could be evaluated by
      use of these normative data and eventually be classified as an abnormal response.

      But, other alternatives exist, that hypothetically might provide an improved diagnostic
      specificity and sensitivity. First, in unilateral sensory deficits (mono-neuropathies),
      assessments at the contralateral side are possible, allowing a comparison with the
      pathological side. The within-subject variances (WSV) are often significantly smaller than
      the between-subject variances (BSV) in QST-assessments. In a normative study including
      thermal assessments (n = 100), the WSV and the BSV ranged between 18-23% and 77-82% of the
      total variance, respectively. Correspondingly, in a study of patients with the
      post-thoracotomy pain syndrome, the estimated WSV and BSV were 5-28% and 72-95%,
      respectively. Thus, scenarios using the subject as own control may reduce data variability,
      and improve diagnostic efficacy. However, the use of a contralateral homologous area as a
      control area in sensory testing has been questioned by several authors. The occurrence of
      mirror image sensory dysfunction (MISD) may affect contralateral assessments, requiring a
      neutral control area in the subject. Second, instead of using healthy controls in pain
      studies, use of pain-free patients (e.g. post-groin hernia repair, post-thoracotomy) as
      controls have been recommended in persistent post-surgical pain studies.

      In spite of the importance of selecting an optimally controlled research design, the research
      group is only aware of one QST-study, adressing the control-group problem, i.e., a study
      including patients with complex regional pain syndrome type I (CRPS I) restricted to one
      extremity. The study examined the validity of using the contralateral side as control
      compared to using normative data from healthy individuals. The study recommended that the
      contralateral side in CPRS I patients should be used as a control.

      Thus it may be inferred, that following approaches are available evaluating sensory data from
      an anticipated pathological site: an empirical approach (รก priori set reference values); an
      absolute approach (comparing the subject's pathological side with normative data); and a
      relative approach (comparing the subject's side-to-side differences with normative data).
    
  