
    
      The current guidelines provide indications for primary prevention implanted cardioverter
      defibrillator (ICD) therapy based on left ventricle ejection fraction (LVEF) and New York
      Heart Association (NYHA) class. This strategy is able to intercept only part of fatal
      arrhythmic events and, on the other hand, led to useless ICD implantations mainly among those
      patients with severe heart failure (HF) who will never incur in sever arrhythmias but rather
      will die because of decompensated HF. Cardiac magnetic resonance offers the possibility of
      identifying and quantitatively assessing myocardium fibrosis both localized in a specific
      area and diffuse and has already proved a significant prognostic meaning. DERIVATE is a
      prospective, international, multicenter, observational registry of stable HF patients with
      reduced LVEF who underwent clinical evaluation, transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) and
      cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR). Specifically, the primary aim of DERIVATE is to determine
      CMR findings that predict outcomes, with incremental value over LVEF and NYHA classification.

      The DERIVATE registry uses a collaborative design with contribution and merger of similar
      prospectively enrolled cohorts from 33 sites in 6 countries in Europe and North America. The
      targeted population for the DERIVATE registry is a large sample of patients with clinical
      history of chronic HF who have undergone CMR by referral physician. Indication for CMR exams
      was recorded and classified according to the known causes of HF. All DERIVATE study patients
      are followed for all-cause mortality, sudden cardiac death (SCD), cardiovascular death
      (including death caused by acute myocardial infarction and stroke), sustained ventricular
      tachycardia (VT), aborted SCD, hospitalization or cardiac death related to chronic HF. The
      follow up minimum period is 12 months. Complete risk factors, clinical presentation,
      echocardiography and CMR data recording, and follow-up for all-outcomes will contribute data
      for common analysis.
    
  