
    
      Interstitial lung disease (ILD) is a chronic lung condition characterized by scarring of lung
      tissue. This stiffening of the lungs impairs breathing and reduces the amount of oxygen being
      delivered throughout the body limiting the ability to perform daily and physical activity.
      Around two-thirds of people with ILD have fibrotic ILD (fILD), a type of ILD, which typically
      has worse impairment and disability than other types of ILD. There is no cure for these
      conditions, although there are two new pharmacological therapies that slow the decline in
      lung function in Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF), the most common type of fILD. These
      treatments however do not provide improvement in breathlessness, exercise capacity or
      health-related quality of life (HRQoL).

      Exercise training, or Pulmonary Rehabilitation (PR), has shown to be effective at improving
      exercise tolerance and HRQoL in ILD. The investigators recently demonstrated that, at a group
      level, exercise training exerts a positive effect across varying subtypes of ILD, including
      IPF, the most rapidly progressive of all the fILDs. However less than half of those with IPF
      who undertook the exercise training achieved meaningful improvements in exercise capacity. In
      addition, a large proportion of people with IPF were unable to keep up with the recommended
      exercise training level, often due to excessive dyspnoea or desaturation. This suggests the
      current exercise training strategies used in PR, which were adopted from guidelines for
      patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), may not provide the optimal
      exercise stimuli for fILD. High intensity interval training (HIIT), which is short bouts of
      high intensity exercise regularly interspersed with periods of rest or light exercise, may be
      an alternate exercise training option for people with fILD. However, it is unknown whether
      this kind of exercise training achieves superior benefits to the traditional model of PR.

      The aim of this project is to determine whether HIIT is better than the current method of
      continuous exercise training at moderate intensity, in improving exercise capacity,
      breathlessness and HRQoL in people with fILD. A total 130 people with fILD will be recruited.
      The trial will be conducted at four hospital sites across Australia. People who agree to take
      part in the study will be randomly allocated into two groups. Group 1 will undergo the
      traditional PR model of moderate intensity continuous exercise training and group 2 will
      undergo HIIT. Participants in both groups will participate in exercise training twice weekly
      for eight weeks. The participants will be monitored continuously during exercise by an
      experienced physiotherapist or exercise physiologist. At the beginning and the end of the
      eight weeks of exercise training, and six months later, participants will undergo
      measurements of exercise capacity and health status. This study will determine whether HIIT
      is effective, providing an important exercise training strategy that can be readily used for
      people with fILD to achieve positive benefits from PR.
    
  