
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the change in melanoma intratumoral infiltrates by cluster of differentiation
           8 (CD8 positive) cytotoxic T lymphocytes in patients with stage IIIC or IV melanoma
           treated with ticilimumab (CP-675,206).

      Secondary

        -  Determine the effects of this drug on intratumoral immune effector cells and tumor cells
           in these patients.

        -  Determine the effects of this drug on circulating immune effector cells in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the gene expression profile of immune effector cells and tumor cells in
           regressing and nonregressing tumors in these patients.

        -  Bank plasma from peripheral blood obtained from patients with regressing and
           nonregressing tumors for future exploratory analysis of proteomic profile.

        -  Assess additional evidence of antitumor activity of this drug, as measured by best
           on-study response rate, in these patients.

        -  Characterize the safety profile and tolerability of this drug in these patients.

        -  Obtain pharmacokinetic data to be used in a future meta-analysis of this drug's
           pharmacokinetics.

        -  Determine whether the CTLA4 genotype influences the safety, immune response, and/or
           efficacy of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the relationships between clinical response (i.e., efficacy or toxicity) and
           tumor and/or blood ex vivo analysis in patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, randomized study.

      Patients receive ticilimumab (CP-675,206) IV over 2 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every
      90 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood collection periodically during study for correlative pharmacokinetic
      (PK), pharmacogenetic, and pharmacogenomic analyses. Blood specimens are obtained for PK
      measurement at baseline and periodically during study treatment for analysis by enzyme-linked
      immunosorbent assay. Blood specimens are also evaluated by pharmacogenetic assessment of
      polymorphisms in CTLA4. Patients also undergo leukapheresis at baseline and at least once
      between days 30-60 for biomarker analysis of immune cell activation (i.e.,biomarkers CD45RO,
      CD45RA, HLA-DR, CCR5, CCR7, CD62L, CD69); Treg phenotype (i.e., CD4/CD25/GITR/intracellular
      FoxP3); and Treg function. In HLA-A2.1 positive patients, peripheral blood mononuclear cells
      (PBMC) are analyzed for antigen-specific immune reactivity by MART-1, gp100, and tyrosine MHC
      tetramer using enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot assay. Plasma obtained during leukapheresis
      is assessed for levels of circulating cytokines and chemokines. Some plasma is stored for
      future proteomic profile analysis.

      Patients also undergo excisional or punch biopsy at baseline and between days 30-60 during
      course 1. Tumor tissue samples embedded in paraffin are analyzed by hematoxylin-eosin and
      immunohistochemical staining for several biomarkers, including biomarkers of immune cell
      response (i.e., cluster of differentiation 3 (CD3), cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4), and
      cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8) and biomarkers of melanoma (i.e., S-100, MART-1, and/or
      HMB45). Frozen tumor tissue samples are analyzed by gene chips and gene arrays for gene
      expression profile and by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction for FoxP3. Minced
      tumor tissue samples are analyzed by flow cytometry in nonadherent cells for HLA-DR (if
      tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes are available) and by Braf sequencing in adherent cells (if
      melanoma cells are available).

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 21 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  