
    
      On December 3rd, 2018, DEXTENZA® was approved by the FDA for the treatment of ocular pain
      following ophthalmic surgery. On June 21st, 2019, the FDA approved a Supplemental New Drug
      Application (sNDA) for DEXTENZA® to include the treatment of ocular inflammation following
      ophthalmic surgery as an additional indication.

      DEXTENZA® is a corticosteroid implant indicated for the treatment of ocular pain following
      ophthalmic surgery. DEXTENZA® is inserted into the lower lacrimal punctum into the
      canaliculus by the physician following ophthalmic surgery. A single DEXTENZA® releases a 0.4
      mg dose of dexamethasone for up to 30 days following insertion. DEXTENZA® is preservative
      free, resorbable and does not require removal. Saline irrigation or manual expression can be
      performed to remove the insert, if necessary.

      In the two phase III trials, patients were given DEXTENZA® or its vehicle immediately after
      cataract surgery. In the first study, 80 percent of DEXTENZA®-treated patients (n=164) were
      pain-free at the eighth day compared to 43 percent of vehicle-treated patients (n=83)
      (p<0.0001). In the second trial, 77 percent of patients on active drug (n=161) were pain-free
      at the eighth day vs. 59 percent of those on the vehicle.1

      Safety was assessed from the three Phase 3 clinical trials and a Phase 2 clinical trial.1,2
      Overall, 567 subjects were exposed to DEXTENZA®. The most common ocular adverse reactions in
      subjects treated with DEXTENZA® were: anterior chamber inflammation including iritis and
      iridocyclitis (10%), increased intraocular pressure (6%), reduced visual acuity (2%), cystoid
      macular edema (1%), corneal edema (1%), eye pain (1%), and conjunctival hyperemia (1%). The
      most common non-ocular adverse event was headache (1%).

      Though DEXTENZA has been found to be safe and effective, it is a relatively new therapy and a
      randomized prospective study looking at dexamethasone and pain levels following retinal
      surgery has not yet been done. The purpose of this study is to provide real-world intraocular
      dexamethasone concentration levels in subjects implanted with DEXTENZA as well as to confirm
      the reduction of pain in patients undergoing retinal surgery is the same as subjects who
      underwent cataract surgery in the phase III studies.
    
  