
    
      Ghreline is a peptide hormone which is produced particularly by cells of the stomach mucous
      membrane and has an appetizing effect. Nevertheless, the last studies in the person as well
      as in the animal model showed that ghreline as well as receptos of ghreline become exprimated
      also in neurons. Antiapoptic effects of ghreline, an increase of the endogenous neuro genesis
      and support of the formation of dendritic synapses could be proved. In a study in the animal
      model (rats), for example, a neuroprotective effect from ghreline could be proved. Besides,
      ghreline showed neuro-regenerative effects after a stroke. As a possible mechanism an
      increased neuro genesis is accepted for this. Now the aim of our study is to be examined
      whether the patients with an ischemic stroke who have a high ghreline concentration have a
      better functional outcome. No interventions specific for study take place. It concerns with
      this research project not a clinical attempt, but a pure blood withdrawal plus survey.
      Besides, no special risks exist for the patient, because it is found in the routine treatment
      on the stroke station (Stroke Unit) of the canton hospital of Winterthur and no measures
      specific for study are carried out.

      aims of Project: The aim of this study is to examine Ghrelin concerning his neuroprotective
      and neuro-regenerative improvement of patients with acute stroke.

      Aim dimensions of the project Improvement of the functional Outcomes with patients with acute
      stroke measured in the De Morton Mobility Index (DEMMI), 9hole-peg-Test and the modified
      Rankin-Scale (mRS) in relation to the ghreline-serum concentration. In the morning after the
      admission day the decrease of the first Ghrelintest occurs within the scope of the blood
      sample as a matter of routine to be carried out. Also 48 hours later and 3 months after the
      blow attack a blood sample for testing the ghreline concentration is taken as a mater of
      routine.

      The patients are recruited within the scope of the treatment on the stroke station of the
      canton hospital of Winterthur Duration of the project 2 Years intended time of the beginning
      of the project (FPFV): 01/09/2016 prospective time of the end of the project (LPLV):
      31/08/2018 The Stroke Unit (stroke station) of the canton hospital of Winterthur exists since
      01.04. 2013 and looks meanwhile yearly after more than 400 patients with cerebrovaskulären
      illnesses. To the-chance a qualified and experienced nursing staff stands beside the medical
      care, neuro-logically experienced therapists as well as a suitable infrastructure which
      enables to raise the data necessary for the study qualitatively on the highest level
    
  