
    
      Objective

      When learning to tap to a rhythm the brain has to coordinate information from different
      senses (eyes, ears, touch). This information has to be integrated into a movement plan to
      allow a smooth, continuous performance. Two brain areas that are of particular interest for
      this task are the posterior parietal cortex that integrates sensory and motor information and
      the primary motor cortex that sends out the movement commands to the muscles. These areas
      communicate via nerve connections with each other. The goal of this research proposal is to
      examine if the strength of the connection between those areas can be changed by practicing a
      simple tapping task and if the change in connection strength depends on if the rhythms were
      shown by visual or auditory stimuli. Additionally we will investigate how the ability to tap
      rhythms relates to other cognitive abilities like problem solving.

      Study Population

      We intend to study 20 adult healthy volunteers on an outpatient basis.

      Design

      In three experimental sessions we propose to use transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and
      electro encephalography (EEG) to examine the role of the posterior parietal cortex in motor
      learning. In session 1 a neurological examination will be performed and a clinical and
      anatomical MRI (Magnet Resonance Image) will be taken. Session 1 can be skipped if an MRI and
      a neurological exam have been performed at the NIH during the last year. In session 2 TMS
      will be used to examine the connection between posterior parietal cortex and primary motor
      cortex before and after rhythm training. Additionally, EEG will be recorded during the
      training session. In session 3 we will examine how the ability to tap to different beats
      relates to higher cognitive functions. We will record EEG during tapping simple beats and we
      will administer a pen and paper problem-solving test.

      Outcome Measures

      In session 2 the primary outcome measure will be change in conditioned Motor Evoked Potential
      (MEP) peak-to-peak amplitude after learning temporal motor sequences measured in the primary
      motor cortex. A secondary outcome measure will be the interregional coherence changes as
      measured by EEG during training. In session 3 the primary outcome will be performance on the
      tapping task and on the pen and paper test as well as the interregional coherence changes as
      measured by EEG during the tapping task.
    
  