
    
      Retinal vasculopathy with cerebral leukoencephalopathy (RVCL) is a very rare and uniformly
      fatal genetic condition that affects the microvasculature, especially of the brain and eye.
      Symptoms begin in adulthood (usually in the mid-30s to early 40s) and include loss of vision,
      mini-strokes, and dementia. Other patients have suffered from microvascular disease involving
      the kidneys, osteonecrosis, and gut ischemia. Some of these features of microvascular
      occlusive disease resemble ischemic events that occur during sickle cell disease. Currently,
      there is no effective treatment for RVCL.

      The goal of this study is to test the efficacy of RVCL patients treated with crizanlizumab, a
      humanized monoclonal anti-P-selectin antibody that prevents leukocyte adhesion to the
      vascular endothelium, thereby limiting risk of microvascular occlusion. P-selectin is
      mobilized to the surface of activated vascular endothelial cells and promotes leukocyte
      adhesion to the blood vessel wall. The Miner laboratory has preliminarily observed a
      correlation with levels of soluble P-selectin and the number of brain lesions in patients
      with RVCL. Since leukocyte adhesion to the vascular endothelium promotes microvascular
      occlusion, we will determine if crizanlizumab will help to limit ischemia and brain lesions
      in patients with RVCL. This may lead to the development of fewer ischemic brain and eye
      lesions.

      Up to 20 RVCL patients will receive intravenous infusions of crizanlizumab 5 mg/kg at weeks 1
      and 3. Thereafter, patients will receive crizanlizumab 5 mg/kg every 28 days for a total of
      24 total months. Monitoring will include standard-of-care serial MRI as well as
      standard-of-care eye disease monitoring at pre-defined intervals. High-risk medication
      monitoring will include blood work monitoring (CBC/CMP) 1 month after initiation of treatment
      and every 3 months thereafter. Standard-of-care assessments will be performed including
      radiological and physical examinations as well as eye imaging and examinations. Patients will
      be followed for at least 2 years after completion of crizanlizumab administration.
    
  