
    
      The investigators plan to implement a pilot linkage program in which trauma center based care
      facilitators will use a population-based recruitment strategy to facilitate outpatient
      follow-up for acutely injured trauma center inpatients and emergency department patients. All
      patients recruited into the trial will be low income patients with one or more of the
      following characteristics: being uninsured, low income older adults, low income mothers, and
      other high risk individuals who lack health insurance. Patients will be linked for care to
      one of the community health centers participating in Washington State.

      In phase I, patients will be recruited from the trauma center inpatient trauma surgery
      service and emergency departments. In phase one, no randomization will occur; patients will
      be linked to one of the community health centers. Patients who consent to the protocol will
      be assessed in the surgical inpatient units or emergency department. After the baseline
      assessment, all patients will be immediately assigned a bachelor's, MSW, or RN level care
      manager. The care managers will elicit and address posttraumatic concerns, and attempt
      linkage of patients to community programs. Care managers may also deliver motivational
      interviewing and cognitive behavioral therapy interventions. Patient may also be linked to
      psychopharmacologic interventions targeting PTSD. Follow-up assessments will occur in the
      weeks and months after the injury and will assess patterns of health service utilization and
      symptomatic outcomes. Phase I will establish the feasibility of recruitment and follow-up,
      acceptability of care management for patients, as well as the pragmatics of linkage to
      community programs.

      Piloting in phase II will depend on the results of phase I; the phase II pilot will build and
      extend upon phase I. In phase II, patients will be randomized to either intervention or
      control conditions. Patients randomized to the intervention condition will be met by a care
      manager who may address patients' initial needs and concerns. Care managers may also deliver
      Motivational Interviewing and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy interventions. Patients may also
      be linked to psychopharmacologic interventions targeting PTSD. The care manager will attempt
      to link patients to participating community health centers. Linkages may occur by the
      telephone, or through web-based clinical registry tools that are under development by the
      intervention team. Some linkages may occur in person. To determine if intervention patients
      are successfully linked more frequently than controls, all patients will be followed from the
      time of designation at hospital admission to outpatient primary care appointments. Follow-up
      outcome assessments will occur in the weeks and months post-injury and will includes
      assessments of patterns of health service utilization, function, and symptomatic outcomes.
    
  