
    
      TRANSITIONS, a novel jail-release program for People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), will use
      evidence-based interventions and adapt them to create a comprehensive transitional program in
      New Haven County, Connecticut. Evidence-based interventions will include, but not be limited
      to, enhanced rapid HIV testing within the New Haven Community Correctional Center (NHCCC,
      local jail), intensive case management, continuity of buprenorphine treatment from the jail
      to the community setting and a novel Money Management (MM) program that is predicated on
      contingency management and has been used to reduce recidivism to jail, homelessness, mental
      and social instability and improve social functioning. Individuals to be targeted for rapid
      HIV testing will be those who enter the facility with substance use disorder and mental
      illness. All individuals who are either diagnosed with the enhanced HIV testing or who
      self-identify as being HIV+ will be evaluated by the Infectious Diseases Contact Nurse (IDCN)
      who will work in collaboration with the Referrals Coordinator (RC). The IDCN will coordinate
      the medical care of the detainee within the correctional setting while the Referrals
      Coordinator will begin the process of coordinating the care upon release and work with the
      Intensive Case Managers in New Haven and Waterbury upon release.

      The HIV in Prisons Program and the Community Health Care Van (CHCV) at the Yale University
      AIDS Program, in collaboration with the Connecticut Department of Correction and the
      Waterbury Hospital Infectious Diseases Clinic, propose to expand the availability of opiate
      substitution treatment and to enhance clinical and social services for PLWHA, who are
      transitioning from the jail to the community setting in New Haven county. This work builds on
      our previous work to enhance HIV testing in prisons and jails, , , to provide comprehensive
      HIV services within prisons and jails, , to implement the country's first buprenorphine
      treatment program in jails, to establish effective prison-released programs for sentenced
      prisoners, to establish buprenorphine treatment programs in mobile outreach and in HIV
      clinical care settings in the community, , and to establish adherence programs for PLWHA in
      community settings. Each of these programs and milestones have been evidence-based,
      rigorously studied and have resulted in replication in many parts of the country. As part of
      Transitions, we will develop a model Money Management program that we have used in community
      settings to improve health outcomes for socially and medically marginalized populations and
      adapt it for a jail-release program. The Transitions program will incorporate these elements
      into a combined intervention and will result in a clinical trial to compare the additional
      contribution of a money management program. The target population will include drug users who
      are either being released from or who have recently been released from prison or jail.
      Individuals will be fully assessed by a jail-based Referrals Coordinator and an intensive
      case manager (ICM) and a treatment plan organized. Screening and referral will take place
      either prior to release from the correctional setting or after release to the New Haven or
      Waterbury communities. HIV+ jail inmates who are returning to New Haven and Waterbury will be
      eligible for this study. As part of a randomized controlled trial, a subset of these will be
      randomized 2:1 to a Money Management program that will be adapted for our population. Direct
      services provided by Transitions will include enhanced rapid HIV testing within the jail
      setting, continuity of buprenorphine treatment from the correctional system to the community
      setting, intensive case management provided as modified Assertive Community Treatment and
      provision of a Money Management service. The strengths of this proposal are the:

        -  Addressing unmet medical, drug treatment, case management needs in New Haven county -
           these are statewide priority areas for PLWHA according to our state needs assessment;

        -  Collective experience and expertise in the collaboration between the Yale University HIV
           in Prisons Program, the CHCV, the Connecticut Department of Correction, the Waterbury
           Hospital ID Clinic, and a number of collaborating institutions within New Haven County;

        -  Novelty of introducing an approved treatment modality for opiate dependence
           (buprenorphine), that to date, has not been fully expanded to meet the needs of PLWHA;

        -  Novelty of prescribing opiate substitution therapy for released prisoners with DSM-IV
           criteria for opioid dependence BEFORE relapse to drug use;

        -  Novelty that the Connecticut Department of Correction is the first and most
           comprehensive system to provide buprenorphine for supervised opiate withdrawal (detox)
           for opioid dependent patients, thus allowing for its prescription as part of a relapse
           prevention program from prison and/or jail;

        -  Benefit of having an integrated correctional system that means that the jails and
           prisons are one system in Connecticut and thus able to track inmates throughout both the
           jail and prison system;

        -  Novelty of applying an evidence-based Money Manager program to released prisoners, most
           of whom have significant problems with substance abuse, mental illness and homelessness;

        -  Use of evidence-based interventions, including elements of buprenorphine maintenance
           treatment, intensive case management teams and money management strategies to retain
           released jail detainees with multiple medical and social co-morbidities.

      TRANSITIONS is a novel demonstration program for managing HIV+ clients as they transition
      from the jail to the community setting in New Haven County, Connecticut. TRANSITIONS builds
      on our previous experience with developing and evaluating novel projects: 1) Project TLC
      (Kaiser Family Foundation, Altice, PI), the country's first transitional case management
      program for sentenced prisoners; 2) Project BEST (SAMHSA, Altice, PI), the country's first
      buprenorphine induction and stabilization program administered through a mobile health care
      program; and 3) and Project BELIEVE (HRSA, Altice, PI), one of ten SPNS projects integrating
      buprenorphine into HIV clinical care settings. Dr. Altice is also the PI for Project PLUS,
      two federally funded studies to develop and test pre-release (CDC, Altice, PI) and
      post-release (NIDA, Altice, PI) risk reduction interventions for HIV+ prisoners. The target
      population includes HIV+ jail detainees from New Haven County who are either being released
      from or who have recently been released from jail. Prison-release programs where sufficient
      time to plan for discharge have demonstrated significant success, however guidance for
      jail-release programs is urgently needed. This jail population desperately needs integrated
      services because of the high prevalence of HIV/AIDS, mental illness and recurrent
      homelessness that this incredibly vulnerable population faces as it attempts to reintegrate
      into the community.

      Central to TRANSITIONS, we propose to develop and integrate effective, evidence-based
      interventions that include the following elements: 1) intensive case management (ICM) which
      is community-based outreach that employs feature of assertive community treatment; 2) opiate
      substitution therapy, primarily in the form of buprenorphine maintenance therapy; 3) enhanced
      communication linkages between the jail and the community. Eligible clients will include
      those who are HIV+ and who are either pre-release or who were released within the past 30
      days. All eligible patients will receive these core elements. All Transitions clients will
      then be randomized 2:1 to receive additional Money Management (MM) services or no additional
      services. Money Management services, whose principles are predicated on contingency
      management, have been demonstrated to stabilize patients through improved social functioning,
      adherence to care, and decreased homelessness and substance misuse among patients with
      substance use disorder and severe mental illness.
    
  