
    
      Hepatitis C is a chronic disease affecting approximately 130-170 million people worldwide.
      According to the world health organization, annually, more than 399,000 people die from
      hepatitis C-related liver diseases and 3-4 million people are infected with hepatitis C virus
      . Approximately 3% of the world's population is estimated to be infected with hepatitis C
      virus .

      Hepatitis C is found worldwide. World health organization documented that Eastern
      Mediterranean and European regions are the most affected regions, with the prevalence of 2.3%
      and 1.5% respectively. Prevalence of hepatitis C virus infection in other world health
      organization regions varies from 0.5% to 1.0%. There are multiple strains ( genotypes) of the
      hepatitis C virus and their distribution varies by region.

      Available data indicate that infection with hepatitis C virus infection varies considerably
      by country and region and countries believed to have the highest rate of chronic hepatitis C
      virus infection are Egypt (15 %), Pakistan (4.8 %), and China (3.2 %). However, the true
      incidence of the disease is not well known in many countries, because acute infection is
      generally asymptomatic.

      The Egyptian Demographic Health Survey ( 2008), which was conducted on a large nationally
      representative sample, estimated the prevalence of hepatitis C virus antibodies and hepatitis
      C virus nucleic acid, among the 15-59 years age group, to be 14.7 and 9.8% respectively. On
      the other hand, the prevalence of hepatitis C virus antibodies and hepatitis C virus nucleic
      acid, among the 15-59 years age group, to be 10 and 7 % respectively according to the
      Egyptian Health Issues Survey ( 2015).There was an overall significant reduction of 32 %and
      29% in the prevalence of Hepatitis C virus antibody and Hepatitis C virus nucleic
      acid-positive individuals, respectively, between the Egyptian Demographic Health Survey in
      2008 and the the Egyptian Health Issues Survey in 2015.

      Hepatitis C virus is a bloodborne virus. It is most commonly transmitted through injecting
      drug use through the sharing of injection equipment; the reuse or inadequate sterilization of
      medical equipment, especially syringes and needles in healthcare settings; and the
      transfusion of unscreened blood and blood products.

      hepatitis C virus can also be transmitted sexually and can be passed from an infected mother
      to her baby; however these modes of transmission are much less common, while it is not spread
      through breast milk, food, water or by casual contact such as hugging, kissing and sharing
      food or drinks with an infected person.
    
  