
    
      Objective:

      The chief goal of this study is to identify the endophenotypes of the spectrum of mood
      disorders using the methods of genetic epidemiology, developmental psychopathology and
      clinical psychiatry/psychology. The major research questions focus on the specificity of
      familial transmission of the mood disorder spectrum (i.e., symptoms, symptom clusters,
      subtypes) and the role of comorbidity with anxiety disorders and migraine syndromes in
      defining subtypes of mood disorders.

      Study Population:

      We propose to recruit 800 probands with bipolar I, bipolar II, major depression, panic/GAD,
      phobias, migraine, and unaffected controls, ascertained through both psychiatric and
      non-psychiatric clinical settings and systematic community samples, in order to enhance
      generalizability to the population. Approximately 2750 first-degree adult relatives and
      spouses, 350 child offspring (ages 7-17) will comprise the family study component.

      Design:

      This study employs a retrospective cohort family study for the association between mood and
      other mental and physical disorders in probands and their relatives. Probands and relatives
      will be evaluated using structured diagnostic interviews and standardized diagnostic criteria
      followed by clinical validation interviews and diagnostic consensus procedures. Assessment
      instruments will collect information on the DSM-IV criteria as well as the spectrum of mood
      disorders and comorbid conditions. In addition, DNA will also be collected from participants.
      A subset of families also complete electronic diaries and measures of light exposure and
      activity in this protocol, and will be invited to participate in another protocol to undergo
      more comprehensive evaluation of clinical, laboratory, and other functional domans to
      identify biologic markers and endophentypes for mood and related disorders. Data from the two
      protocols will be linked. A subset of families will also be followed forward over time.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome measure is the familial aggregation of mood disorder subtypes and their
      co-aggregation with migraine and anxiety disorders with diagnoses based on clinical review of
      the diagnostic interviews, family history information and clinical evaluation of study
      participants when relevant using traditional family study measures of association. Secondary
      outcomes include associations between mood disorders with the data collected from laboratory,
      biological, and functional assessments that have been collected as part of the clinical study
      and their familial correlations. Moving forward, these data will be collected as part of a
      new protocol and linked with the interview and mobile assessment data collected in this
      protocol.
    
  