
    
      Long term oral anticoagulant treatment (> 12 month) is mainly indicated for atrial
      fibrillation, prosthetic valves and conditions with high risk for recurrent or deep venous
      thrombosis. For more than 60 years, vitamin K antagonists have been the only oral
      anticoagulant drugs available to prevent thrombus formation. The use of vitamin K antagonists
      is associated to the major constraint of a well-adjusted anticoagulation leading to
      minor/major risk of life threatening bleeds. They also exhibit other rare side-effects
      including skin eruption and necrosis, hepatic disorders, alopecia. A less known side effect
      is an increase in soft tissue calcification, including the cardiac valves and the peripheral
      arterial system. This side effect is explained by the inhibitory effect of vitamin K
      antagonists on the central (liver) and peripheral (e.g. vascular) carboxylation cycle
      synthesis of several vitamin K-dependant calcification inhibiting factors, such as the matrix
      gamma-carboxyglutamate protein, osteocalcin or Gas6 (1). The active form of
      gamma-carboxyglutamate protein is now identified as a potent local tissue inhibitor of
      vascular calcification. The calcifying effect of a decrease in gamma-carboxyglutamate protein
      or the ratio of carboxylated (i.e. active) /uncarboxylated (i.e. inactive) forms of
      gamma-carboxyglutamate protein have been reported in various acquired metabolic diseases such
      as chronic renal insufficiency, aging and of genetic origin (e.g. Cutis Laxa, Keutel
      syndrome,…) (2, 3) as well as in mouse gamma-carboxyglutamate protein -/- models (4).
      Furthermore, administration of warfarin in rats is a well-known pharmacological model to
      induce a vascular calcification within 2-4 weeks with an increase in systolic and pulse
      arterial blood pressure (5).

      Vascular calcification is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular morbi-mortality and
      it is well-demonstrated that an increase in coronary calcium, as measured by the scan
      Agatston score, is independently linked to a higher risk for events (6, 7). The lower limb
      mediacalcosis (i.e. Monckeberg disease) is also a risk factor for limb amputation and
      calcification (8) of the atheromatous plaque represents a risk factor for plaque instability
      and rupture (9). The pathophysiological mechanisms linking the dystrophic calcification
      process to morbi-mortality are still unclear. Calcium deposit within the arterial intimal
      layer is generally associated to atherosclerosis with an increased risk for plaque rupture
      whereas deposit of calcium within the medial layer of the peripheral arteries (i.e.
      mediacalcosis) is rather responsible for an increased arterial stiffness and the development
      of arterial hypertension (10). Recent data from the investigators laboratory have showed site
      heterogeneity assessed by scan scoring in the calcifying process in the general population
      and also in a genetically-determined calcifying disease (i.e the pseudoxantoma elasticum).

      Two recently published studies have pointed out a link between the use of vitamin K
      antagonists and an enhanced coronary (11) and extra-coronary (6) calcifications. Although the
      conclusions of these studies remains limited by a cross-sectional and retrospective design, a
      small number of patients and a large range of exposure to vitamin K antagonists (from 6 to
      143 months - mean 46) they questioned a potential deleterious effect on the peripheral
      vasculature mainly for the long term use of non-vitamin K antagonists anticoagulants. One
      prospective controlled study in post-menopaused woman has demonstrated a long-term beneficial
      effect only of a supplement containing vitamins K1 and D on the elastic properties of the
      carotid artery (12). Therefore, in the present study, the investigators propose to determine
      the structural (i.e. calcification) and functional (i.e. stiffness) impact of the anti-Xa
      inhibitor rivaroxaban compared to vitamin K antagonists on the arterial structure in a
      longitudinal, prospective comparative study.
    
  