
    
      The CASCADE ways of working draw on the person's strengths to optimize safety and independent
      living in their community. The ways of working incorporate learning and development for all
      stakeholders to enhance interactions with people living with dementia; use of technology to
      improve access to specialist care as well as safety in the community; and holistic care
      tailored to the needs of the person to improve and maintain well being. These elements work
      in tandem to enable people living with dementia to engage in meaningful leisure and
      activities of daily living.

      The evaluation study aims to explore the benefits of the CASCADE model of care (ways of
      working) on service users (people with dementia and their caregivers), staff and service
      providers. The evaluation comprises elements of outcome and process evaluation. The outcome
      evaluation involves quantitative measures of health, well being and cost benefits while the
      process evaluation explores intervention implementation procedures to find out what worked
      and how it worked. The CASCADE model of care assumes that using the person's strengths to
      guide holistic personalized dementia care is a sustainable approach to safe meaningful
      independent living and improving public perceptions.

      Investigators will use a quasi-experiment to assess quantifiable benefits (health and well
      being outcomes and cost benefits) of the CASCADE model for people with dementia. This means,
      investigators will compare two groups of people with dementia including one that will receive
      care under the CASCADE model (intervention group) and the second group will not. The
      anticipation is that comparing the two groups will make benefits of people receiving care
      under the CASCADE ways of working more observable. Participants will not be allocated
      randomly to the study arms because service use will be dependent on assessed need for
      referrals and need and affordability for self-referred users. This implies there is no
      opportunity to randomize participants to either the intervention or control groups. Time
      point measures will include pre-intervention (T0), and two follow up points (T1 and T2).

      It is anticipated that 160 people living with dementia will take part in the study (respite
      intervention group n= 50; respite control group n=50; long term care intervention group n=
      30; long term care control group n= 30). Other participants will include family or informal
      carers (n= 20) and staff delivering care (n=70).

      The residential mode of the intervention will minimize cases of missing data. However, in the
      event of missing data, investigators will use Multiple Imputations Methods (MIM) if missing
      data are less than twenty percent (<20%). It is unlikely that data will be Missing Completely
      at Random (MCAR), but data Missing at Random will be assessed using appropriate statistical
      procedures such as analysis via the patterns command to determine patterns of missingness and
      their frequency and to examine variables predictive of missing data. Investigators will
      eliminate dropouts or noncompliance from analyses, if missing data are more than 20%.
      Similarly, if data are not Missing at Random, investigators will use last observation carried
      forward (LOCF) method particularly for participants in long term care to maintain the sample
      size and minimize confounding effects of noncompliance or attrition.
    
  