
    
      Background:

      Lung development and growth is a complexly orchestrated process starting prenatally in the
      first embryonic weeks, and ending, with the last important stages of alveolarization from the
      24th week onwards. By the time of birth, around one third of the total amount of alveoli has
      developed, while the rest develops during infancy and childhood. After birth, lung volume,
      airways and the gas-exchanging surface increase by a multiple, reaching the maximum lung size
      at around 25 years of age. A comprehensive understanding of lung growth and development is
      crucial in order to understand the pathophysiology of lung diseases. During childhood and
      ongoing lung growth, an important amount of respiratory diseases might develop.

      Objectives:

      Longitudinal assessment of lung growth and development, to examine respiratory morbidity such
      as Asthma and allergy, and the complex relationship between associated Risk factors mainly
      genetic predisposition and environmental factors on both lung development and subsequent
      respiratory morbidity, Therefore, longitudinal data on lung function and structure, on
      respiratory morbidity and on genetic, immunological, microbiological and environmental risk
      factors will be collected.

      Methods:

      Recruitment and participation:

      Participants will be recruited antenatal through advertisement placed at gynaecological
      Hospital in Bern and by obstetricians or midwives. Interested participants can get further
      information about the study by telephone from study nurses, as well as during the baseline
      visit at the University Children's Hospital in Bern, respectively. Mothers with a high risk
      of a preterm delivery will be informed by clinical Investigators at the Department of
      Obstetrics of the University Hospital Bern. Preterm infants, which receive ventilatory
      support over a long period are at Risk for chronical lung diseases in early childhood, named
      bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). The recruitment of this infants will take place at the
      neonatology intensive care unit by clinical Investigators. On average 40 healthy children, 40
      preterm children and 20 infants from risk pregnancies will be recruited as participants of
      the BILD cohort each year for Study Phase I. At 3, 6, 9, 12, 15 years and once after the 16th
      year of age the parents/participants will be asked again, if they would like to participate
      at the follow-up visits at the University Children's Hospital in Bern for the subsequent
      Study Phases II and III.

      Information collected:

      Lung function data:

        -  Tidal breathing parameters (minute ventilation, respiratory rate, tidal volume, tidal
           expiratory flow, tidal inspiratory flow, time to peak expiratory flow) averaged over 100
           breaths.

        -  Multiple breath washout (FRC, LCI, moment ratios) and single breath washout (molar mass)

        -  Fractional exhaled nitric oxide (marker of airway inflammation)

        -  Spirometric forced expiratory volume loops (FVC, FEV1, PEF, MEF50)

        -  Body plethysmography (airway resistance, lung volumes: TLC, FRC, RV)

        -  Respiratory Rate over 60 seconds

        -  Interrupter resistance measurement (RINT)

        -  Volatile organic compounds

        -  Forced oscillation technique (FOT)

        -  Electrical impedance tomography (EIT)

        -  Impedance plethysmography (IP)

      Microbiological data:

        -  Nasal swabs (respiratory virus and bacterial diagnostics, as well as host transcriptome
           Analysis)

        -  Pharyngeal swabs (bacterial colonization and microbiota Analysis)

        -  Anterior nasal and oropharyngeal swabs (viral, bacterial and host transcriptome
           Analysis)

        -  Nasal brush

        -  Sputum (to analyse the neutrophils)

      Cord blood (mononuclear cells (CBMC) (e.g. lymphocytes)which regulate the innate and adaptive
      immunity)

      Blood count (hemoglobin concentration, hematocrit, leukocyte number, lymphocyte number,
      lymphocyte count, eosinophil count, basophil count, monocyte count, promyelocyte count,
      myelocyte count, platelet count, immunoglobulin E Level, Interleukins,
      Granulocyte-Monocyte-Colony Forming Unit, Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha, Interferon gamma and
      Interferon lambda)

      Urin (to estimate the tobacco exposure during pregnancy (amount of Cotinine) and the content
      of caffeine and Steroid profile)

      Lung function MRI: functional and structural images of the lung

      Environmental pollution (Level of particulate matter <10um, Nitrogen dioxide, ozone and
      particulate matter <2.5um)

      Skin-Prick Test (test for pollen, trees, house dust mite, cat and dog)

      Questionnaires (to assess quality of life)

      Medical history (information on respiratory Symptoms, pulmonary exacerbations,
      hospitalisations and regular therapy)

      Study database:

      All study data is recorded in an Access-database with SQL Servers by electronic Case Report
      Forms. The database is accordant to the HFG and was adapted together with the CTU.

      Funding:

      Schweizerischer Nationalfonds (SNF) and Departement Lehre und Forschung of the Inselspital
      Bern.
    
  