
    
      Hemodialysis (HD) is an important and commonly used renal replacement therapy (RRT) for
      End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) patients worldwide. Single-pool Kt/V (sp Kt/V) is a quantified
      indicator of HD adequacy and has been recommended should be more than 1.2 by The National
      Kidney Foundation Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (K/DOQI). Inadequate HD predicted
      increased hospitalization time and cost and reduced survival time. Increasing dose or
      frequency were common clinical therapies to improve HD adequacy but were limited by patients'
      poor compliance and greater finical burden. Economical and affordable methods to increase
      urea and other toxins are urgent clinically.

      Physical fitness decline, often accompanied with sedentary lifestyle are also disturbing
      issues for ESRD. And physical fitness reduction would exacerbate with the extension of HD
      years. In addition, patients should sit or lie still for 4 hours during HD and post-dialysis
      fatigue worsened physical function. Exercise capacity and peripheral muscular strength had
      40% to 50% reduction compared to same age and gender, which resulted from metabolic disorders
      and physiological deterioration of HD. Then muscle functionality and cardiorespiratory
      capacity declined and reflected in reduction of physical function which was a risk factor of
      poor renal prognosis and poor quality of life.

      Exercise was an economical way and was recommended by K/DOQI as cornerstone of rehabilitation
      for HD patients. There are kinds of exercise intervention, including aerobic exercise,
      resistance exercise and aerobic and resistance exercise (combined exercise), which showed
      obvious beneficial effects on the recovery for HD patients, such as mitigating patients'
      uremic symptoms, elevating their physical fitness and improving quality of life (QoL) in
      recent 30 years' studies. Previous studies showed that sp Kt/V can be elevated not only by
      single exercise intervention, but also by long term intervention. But there are few studies
      observed the interaction between time and exercise in the long term exercise intervention.
      About physical fitness, exercise, especially aerobic exercise, can increase patients' aerobic
      capacity, such as maximal peak oxygen and walking ability. Exercise also has a marked effect
      on muscle strength, with resistance exercise reducing muscle wasting and enhancing muscle
      strength.

      According to the investigators' previous meta-analysis, both aerobic exercise and combined
      exercise can increase patients' exercise capacity and QoL. Investigators prefer choosing
      combined exercise because few researches regard combined exercise as intervention exercise
      type which can provide more information to future systematic reviews. About the exercise
      time, investigators chose intradialytic exercise for good compliance, professional guidance
      and clinical professional guarantee. As for the duration, intensity and frequency, 6 months,
      moderate intensity and 3 times per week may good for restore blood vessel structure, physical
      function and quality of life from the investigator's previous result. Above all, this study
      aimed to invest the effect of intradialytic combined exercise on sp Kt/V, walking ability,
      muscle strength and QoL.

      The randomized, parallel-controlled trial aimed to compare the effect of 24 weeks combined
      exercise and usual care on hemodialysis efficacy, functional capacity and quality of life in
      patients with ESRD on HD. The protocol of this study was conducted in accordance with the
      Declaration of Helsinki and was reviewed and approved by the Human Research Ethics Committee
      of the Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center (No 2018538), China. Informed consent
      was obtained from participants in this study.

      Data analysis Continuous data were expressed as mean and standard deviation (SD) or median
      and interquartile range according to the normality results. Proportion data were expressed as
      percentage frequency. The demographics of patient in two groups were compared. The Student
      T-test or Mann-Whitney U test where appropriate for the continuous data, and the Chi-square
      test was used for proportion data. The intragroup differences analysis was detected with the
      paired Student T-test or Wilcoxon rank test. Unpaired Student T-test or Mann-Whitney U test
      was evaluated the intergroup difference. In order to compare monthly data of sp Kt/V, two-way
      analysis of variance for repeated measures: group (presence or absence of intervention) and
      time (every 4 weeks) was performed. The differences were considered as statistical
      significant when P-values were ≤0.05. EpiData 3.1 (Odense, Denmark) was used for data entry,
      and the analyses were carried out using Statistical Product and Service Solutions (SPSS) 13.0
      for Windows (Chicago, U.S.A).
    
  