
    
      Clinical manifestations of malaria range from asymptomatic infections, uncomplicated disease
      to severe complications, including cerebral malaria. Although the exact molecular mechanisms
      that lead to these diverse disease outcomes are not yet fully understood, it is generally
      accepted to be a complex interplay of factors involving the host, the parasite, and the
      geographical/environmental/socioeconomic setting. It was shown that the parasite expresses
      certain proteins on its host cell surface to enable cytoadherence and avoid clearance through
      the spleen. Together with a pro-inflammatory immune response, immunopathology, as well as
      low-affinity self-reacting antibodies and short-lived plasma cells, this contributes and
      shapes the course and magnitude of illness.

      The presented project intends to analyse the activation and development of immunity against
      malaria parasites and endothelial cytoadhesion of infected erythrocytes in the context of the
      parasite diversity during different malaria infections in the first year of life. The
      information obtained is essential for the understanding of the host-parasite interaction, the
      evaluation of vaccine effects, and the development of new anti-malarial vaccines. Measures of
      immunity and parasitology will be compared between episodes of asymptomatic parasitaemia,
      uncomplicated malaria, and severe malaria.

      The study addresses a major health problem in many resource-poor countries: the high malaria
      morbidity and mortality in young children. Though recognised as a public health issue, it has
      still not been well understood how clinical immunity against malaria parasites develops,
      which parasite and host factors play a role in infection susceptibility, and why some
      infections proceed to develop severe complications while others resolve after a mild disease.

      The composition of the entirety of bacteria in the gut (i.e. the intestinal microbiota) has
      recently been suggested to influence the development of immunity and thus the risk for
      malarial infection and clinical malaria. Animal models have shown that the intestinal
      microbiota composition determines certain immune responses, which confer protection against
      Plasmodium infections. The microbiota in turn is dependent on many internal and external
      factors, such as the contact to the mother. Thus, the intestinal microbiota seem to be
      crucial for the early development of anti-malarial immunity and the individual risk of the
      exposed individuals and shall be studied the first time in the project proposed here.

      In order to identify interactions between parasite and host, a longitudinal study will be
      performed starting with pregnant women in their last trimester. The study area covers a rural
      area in the Ashanti Region in Ghana, an area with high malaria endemicity. The study design
      allows to analyse the neonatal immune status at birth, after potential in-utero exposure, and
      follow the development of immunity over the first 12 months of life. The hypothesis is that
      time points and frequency of exposure to infection, as well as the type of variant surface
      antigen expressed by a parasite population, have an impact on the cellular and humoral immune
      response to malaria, the development of clinical immunity, as well as the risk for future
      complications. Additionally, we hypothesise that the intestinal microbiota has an impact on
      the development of anti-malarial immunity and therefore on the risk for malaria and severe
      courses of the disease in children and adolescents. The results can serve as a
      proof-of-concept of the hypothesis for other infectious diseases.

      A recent systematic review has revealed a lack of birth cohorts in Africa with appropriate
      study size and follow-up periods, highlighting the need of large-scale cohorts to study the
      development of immunity against infectious diseases. This study plans to address malaria as a
      relevant health problem in children and to overcome the limited capacity for competitive and
      translational research in sub-Saharan Africa.

      The aim of the study is to better understand anti-malarial immunity development, parasite
      diversity, endothelial cell activation, the influence of microbiota, and behavioural and
      socio-economic risk factors and their correlations with protection and pathology.

      Starting point of the study is the antenatal care visit of mothers at APH during the third
      trimester of pregnancy. Between pregnancy week 28 to 36, mothers are visiting the hospital
      biweekly, and weekly from week 36 until delivery. During these visits, gynaecologists and
      nurses will identify and approach participants over the course of twelve months to account
      for seasonal fluctuations in malaria incidence. During recruitment, the mother/primary
      caregivers will be asked to read and sign an informed consent form approved by the local
      ethical committee. After consent has been obtained from the mother/primary caregivers,
      biological samples will be taken between pregnancy week 30 and 32, and a case report form
      will be filled.

      An identification card with a unique code number will be handed out. The first follow-up
      visit will occur at the birth of the child. At this time point, the child receives the BCG
      (bacillus Calmette-Guerin) and the first dose of the oral polio vaccine (OPV-0).
      Mothers/primary caregivers are encouraged to bring the child to the hospital when it shows an
      excessive vaccine reaction against the BCG vaccine. Mothers/primary caregivers will be
      invited to observe the EPI visits offered at their nearest health post for further
      follow-ups. In the first year after birth, the EPI schedule includes the following visits:
      EPI1 at six weeks (pentavalent vaccine (Penta)-1, pneumococcal vaccine (Pneumo)-1, OPV-1, and
      the rotavirus vaccine), EPI2 at ten weeks (Penta-2, OPV-2), EPI3 at 14 weeks (Penta-3,
      OPV-3), EPI4 at six months (Vitamin A), and EPI5 at nine months (Measles 1 and yellow fever).
      In Agogo, 10-15 EPI sites are visited during the observation period.

      In the first six weeks after birth, the household will be visited to complete a household
      questionnaire including housing characteristics and household assets. Additionally, a women's
      questionnaire will be administered, which will collect demographic and socioeconomic
      background characteristics as well as health and related behavioural data.

      Twelve month after birth, mothers/primary caregivers are encouraged to bring their children
      to the study hospital (APH) for a medical check-up.

      Mothers/primary caregivers are strongly encouraged to visit the study hospital every time the
      child experiences a febrile illness or a history of fever in last week during the observation
      period (fever visits). Upon presentation of their identification card, the child will receive
      preferential treatment from the study physician.

      Our sample size calculation is based on the following assumptions: Based on previous study
      results, we assume that 80% of children encounter at least one malaria episode during one
      year of observation. 50% of those children will be brought to hospital for examination. 8% of
      these children will develop severe malaria. Furthermore, we assume that 15% of the study
      cohort will be lost to follow-up due to different reasons (e.g. withdrawal from study, infant
      mortality, relocation of residence). Different blood parameters, immunity parameters and
      parasites characteristics will be compared between established study groups, namely i)
      children that develop severe malaria according to established criteria during the follow-up
      time, ii) children with uncomplicated malaria (asexual parasitaemia), but no severe malaria
      symptoms, and iii), asymptomatic infection) children without fever visit during the
      observation period but with malaria parasitaemia at invited hospital visit (12 month).
      Several outcome parameters measured in the study follow a continuous distribution, thus the
      primary sample size calculation is based on a two-sample t-test (i.e. allowing a comparison
      of parameter differences between two of the three groups at one time). Assuming an alpha of
      5% and a power of 80%, a sample size of 27 per group would be sufficient to detect a moderate
      mean difference (mean = 1; standard deviation [SD]: 1 vs. mean = 2; SD: 1.5). If we recruit
      1,200 newborns into the cohort, 1,050 (85%) would complete follow-up. Of these, 816 (80%)
      will experience a malaria episode and 408 (50%) will attend the treatment hospital. Hence,
      according to the assumptions outlined above, the estimated study groups will be as follows:
      (i) 33 children with severe malaria, (ii) 375 children with uncomplicated malaria, and (iii)
      204 children without symptomatic malaria as described above. In all two/three groups, data
      and samples from all available follow-ups before the event are analysed in the different work
      packages.
    
  