
    
      Music has the power to build a sense of community and belonging - a crucial process in a U.S.
      that is steadily becoming more diverse. In America, there is no more pressing issue for
      children's development than their families' access to basic needs: housing, food, safety and
      health, as well as education. While music may seem a long way from living wages or
      immigration reform, the arts, including music, have a substantial role to play in building
      healthy families.

      Over the last three years, musicians from Carnegie Hall's Weill Music Institute have
      developed the Lullaby Project, in which mothers living in challenging circumstances have the
      opportunity to write and record a song for their babies or very young children. As of spring
      2015, more than 150 lullabies have been created in hospitals, correctional facilities,
      shelters, programs for teen parents, and other settings where young families face challenges
      every day. The purpose of this music-based intervention is to initiate or encourage and
      support the bonding process, to support parents' aspirations to create the family they want
      for their children, and to harness their creativity as a tool for imagining and building
      future possibilities.

      This study proposes an arts-based intervention to improve maternal-child attachment. Based on
      theory from the arts and evidence from psychology and pediatrics, this intervention will test
      the ability of music creation to stimulate maternal attitudes regarding parenting, scores for
      attachment, and symptoms of anxiety, depression, and stress. In addition, the intervention
      will focus on at-risk women and their families with a goal of providing a healthier start for
      their children and preventing transition of these parents and children into the high-risk
      group.

      Patients who consent to participate will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to participate
      in an intervention or control group. Each participant will be asked to complete a self-report
      battery of questionnaires pertaining to their pregnancy, mental health, and perceived stress.
      At the completion of the questionnaires, referral information for mental health support will
      be provided to all participants.

      Women randomized to the intervention will participate in the three group sessions described
      below with approximately 8-10 other pregnant women at Virginia Commonwealth University.

      i. Session 1: (5 hours) Participants collaborate with project musicians to compose an
      original lullaby. Efforts will be made to have a 1:1 musician-participant ratio, however,
      depending on group size, two participants may be paired with one musician.

      ii. Session 2: (5 hours) Participants collaborate with project musicians to refine and record
      their lullaby. The recorded lullaby will not be collecting as data, nor will it be stored as
      such for this study. No other recordings will be made during the course of this study.

      iii. Session 3: (2 hours) Participants listen to each recorded lullaby and are invited to
      informally reflect on their experience, both individually with one research staff member
      (study or project coordinator), and within the group.
    
  