
    
      Few formal pharmacokinetic studies have been conducted with folic acid to determine its
      absolute bioavailability, pharmacokinetic profile, or intra- and intersubject variability.
      Moreover, most analytical work has been completed in academic settings, and no Good
      Laboratory Practice (GLP)-validated assay method has been developed. This was a randomized
      (study drug assigned by chance), open-label, 3-way crossover, single-center trial, consisting
      of a prerandomization phase, an open-label treatment phase (3 single doses separated by
      washouts of 7 days each), and a posttreatment phase. Healthy volunteers were randomly
      assigned to 1 of 6 treatment sequences (2 healthy volunteers per sequence). All healthy
      volunteers received a single dose of folic acid in each treatment period (400-mcg oral
      solution, 400-mcg i.v. infusion, and a 1-mg oral tablet). Blood samples for pharmacokinetic
      analysis were collected at specified times following each dose. Blood samples for measurement
      of red cell folate were collected before dosing on Day 1 of Period 1. For each period,
      healthy volunteers were confined to the study unit from the evening before Day 1 through the
      completion of the Day 2 assessments (24-hour pharmacokinetic blood sample collection).
      End-of-study assessments took place on Day 17 or at the time of early withdrawal. Safety was
      evaluated based on the monitoring of adverse events, vital sign measurements, physical
      examinations, and clinical laboratory tests. Heart rate and blood pressure were measured at
      screening, on the first day of each treatment period (Days 1, 8, and 15), and at study
      completion (Day 17) or early withdrawal; body temperature was measured at screening only. A
      physical examination was performed at screening and at study completion (Day 17) or early
      withdrawal. Blood samples for serum chemistry and hematology and a random urine sample for
      urinalysis were taken at the start of the study, Days -21 to -2, and at the end of the study
      (Day 17 or early termination).

      All subjects received a single dose of folic acid in each treatment period (400-mcg oral
      solution, 400-mcg i.v. infusion, and a 1-mg oral tablet), separated by washouts of 7 days
      each.
    
  