
    
      Phase I of the planned research will be the conduct of in-depth interviews with 30 HIV+
      persons not in medical care or not adherent to anti-retroviral therapy (ART) regimens,
      including men and women representing diverse exposure risks (drug use, men who have sex with
      men, and heterosexual transmission). Interviews will elicit information on ways in which
      HIV-positive friends can support one another in HIV care entry, retention, and adherence;
      types of support from PLH friends that would best support treatment engagement; and how peer
      supports can lessen the negative effects of substance use on care engagement.

      Phase 2 will recruit 48 out-of-care or ART nonadherent HIV+ individuals from community
      settings in St. Petersburg, Russia. These individuals, who are referred to as "network
      seeds," will invite their HIV+ friends, who will in turn invite their own HIV+ friends into
      the study, creating a sample of 48 networks (expected n=288, 6 members/network x 48
      networks). Following baseline assessment of care engagement, ART adherence, treatment
      attitudes, psychosocial distress, substance use, and CD4+ and viral load, 24 networks (n=144
      participants) will be randomized to an intervention condition and 24 networks (n=144) to the
      comparison condition. All members of each intervention condition network will together attend
      a 4-session intervention to strengthen attitudes, intentions, and skills for entering,
      remaining, and adhering to HIV medical care. Because participants will attend sessions with
      other individuals who are their own friends in day-to-day life, the intervention will build
      and increase mutual social support within each network for HIV care and adherence. Peer
      champions identified in each intervention network will attend 3 additional sessions in which
      they are guided to reinforce and help to sustain friends' medical care engagement.
      Intervention outcomes will be determined by baseline to 6- and 12-month followup change on
      primary measures of participant attendance at HIV medical care visits, adherence to ART
      regimens, and viral load as well as secondary measures of alcohol use, drug use, sexual risk
      behavior, treatment attitudes, and psychosocial distress.
    
  