
    
      Cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) is the most empirically supported treatment for bulimia
      nervosa (BN) and related disorders, yet approximately 1/3 of completers do not remit, there
      is a substantial treatment attrition rate, and 1/3 of remitted patients will relapse within
      the first 2 years. Improving CBT is an important research prerogative. Motivational
      interviewing (MI) is an augmentative intervention that has been investigated to improve CBT,
      but reviews indicate that it is not efficacious with eating disorders. The failure of MI with
      eating disorders has led to consideration that focusing on early behaviour change might be a
      more productive therapeutic strategy. Rapid response to treatment for eating disorders has
      been reliably identified as a prognostic indicator in eating disorders. For BN and similar
      disorders, rapid response is the rapid reduction of binge eating, vomiting, and dietary
      restriction during the first few weeks of treatment. Numerous studies have indicated that
      patients who rapidly respond to treatment are significantly more likely to be remitted at
      post treatment and significantly less likely to relapse, compared to those who respond more
      slowly. No preexisting clinical, demographic, personality or other factors have clearly
      emerged to account for this effect. Given that rapid response has clear prognostic
      importance, and given that research has failed to identify mechanisms driving this finding,
      this study seeks to determine whether rapid response can be facilitated clinically using a
      targeted intervention designed to provide patients with specific behavioural skills to
      decrease their bulimic symptoms rapidly. Improving remission and relapse rates is a high
      priority in the eating disorders research field. the investigators already know that
      cognitive and behavioural strategies have efficacy for eating disorders, but existing
      treatments need improvement. Rapid response is an area that has been frequently described and
      has clear prognostic importance and no clear mechanism accounting for why some patients
      rapidly respond, suggesting that perhaps rapid response could be facilitated if patients are
      provided with the skills, mindset, and support to do so. However, no study to date has sought
      to answer this question and determine whether rapid response can be facilitated in order to
      improve patient prognoses. Thus, this study seeks to examine whether rapid response to day
      hospital treatment can be facilitated clinically using an augmentative CBT based intervention
      targeting early symptom change. The CBT intervention will be compared to a matched-intensity
      motivational interviewing (MI) intervention. The rationale for using MI is because MI is
      frequently used to augment standard treatments, it provides an active treatment comparison,
      and because the rationale for the present study emerged partly from research aimed at
      understanding some of the limitations of MI in treating eating disorders. Thus, MI provides a
      theoretically-driven comparison group. It is predicted that individuals who receive CBT
      (versus MI) will be more likely to be classified as rapid responders, and will have fewer
      bulimic symptoms at post-day hospital and 6-month follow-up. As well, it is hypothesized that
      changes in self-efficacy, motivation, or hopefulness may help to account for these findings.
    
  