
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate event-free survival.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate overall survival.

        -  Evaluate the prognostic value of FDG-PET scanning.

        -  Evaluate progression-free survival.

        -  Evaluate tolerability.

        -  Evaluate rate of relapse.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups
      according to prognosis.

        -  Group 1 (favorable prognosis): Patients receive ABVD chemotherapy comprising doxorubicin
           hydrochloride IV, bleomycin sulfate IV, vincristine sulfate IV, dacarbazine IV, and
           methylprednisolone IV on days 1 and 14. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses.
           Patients then undergo PET scan for evaluation of response. Patients receive additional
           treatment according to response.

             -  Favorable response: Patients with favorable response receive 1 additional course of
                ABVD chemotherapy.

             -  Unfavorable response: Patients with unfavorable response receive 1 course of VABEM
                chemotherapy comprising vindesine IV continuously on days 1-5, doxorubicin
                hydrochloride IV continuously on days 1-3, carmustine IV on day 3, etoposide IV on
                days 3-5, and methylprednisolone IV on days 1-5.

        -  Group 2 (intermediate prognosis): Patients receive 2 courses of ABVD chemotherapy.
           Patients then undergo PET scan for evaluation of response. Patients receive additional
           treatment according to response.

             -  Favorable response: Patients with favorable response receive 4 additional courses
                of ABVD chemotherapy.

             -  Unfavorable response: Patients with unfavorable response receive VABEM
                chemotherapy. Treatment with VABEM chemotherapy repeats every 28 days for 2
                courses.

        -  Group 3 (poor prognosis): Patients receive 2 courses of VABEM chemotherapy. Patients
           then undergo PET scan for evaluation of response. Patients receive additional treatment
           according to response.

             -  Favorable response: Patients with favorable response receive 1 additional course of
                VABEM chemotherapy.

             -  Unfavorable response: Patients with unfavorable response receive CEO chemotherapy
                comprising cisplatin IV continuously on days 1-3, gemcitabine hydrochloride IV on
                days 1 and 8, and oral dexamethasone once daily on days 1-4. Treatment repeats
                every 21 days for 3 courses. Patients then undergo PET scan. Patients receive
                additional treatment according to response.

                  -  Favorable response: Patients with favorable response receive BEAM chemotherapy
                     comprising carmustine IV on day -7, etoposide IV and cytarabine IV on days -6
                     to -3, and melphalan IV on day -2. Patients then undergo autologous stem cell
                     transplantation on day 0.

                  -  Unfavorable response: Patients with unfavorable response receive MINE
                     chemotherapy comprising mitoguazone IV, vinorelbine ditartrate IV, and
                     ifosfamide IV on days 1-5 and etoposide IV on days 1-3. Treatment repeats
                     every 28 days for 3 courses. Patients then undergo allogeneic or autologous
                     stem cell transplantation.

      Patients with favorable response or a "bulky" mass at diagnosis may also undergo
      radiotherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 15 years.
    
  