
    
      Benzodiazepines and related drugs (BZDs) are effective for insomnia and anxiety in the short
      term. After few months (four weeks regarding insomnia), the benefit/risk ratio is
      considerably reduced. Nevertheless, between 2 and 5% of the general population uses them for
      more than 6 months. Prescribing recommendations are unanimous concerning the short-term use
      of these substances, but do not specify the optimal ways of reducing doses in a withdrawal
      programme.

      Many factors influence the success of withdrawal, including the duration of withdrawal (how
      quickly doses are reduced), the half-life of the substance, and number of psychological
      factors. Studies on BZD withdrawal show that, on average, spontaneous cessation of treatment
      is 5-10%, withdrawal success is 30-40% following brief intervention and 60-80% following
      Behavioral and Cognitive Therapy (CBT). These are few, and only one study has tested the
      efficacy of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) for benzodiazepine withdrawal. ACT is a
      contextual behavioral therapy which aims to increase acceptance of the full range of inner
      experiences including negative thoughts, emotions and sensations, in order to promote
      values-driven behavior change, leading to an improved quality of life. ACT is notably
      effective for the treatment of anxiety disorders, depression, psychosis and chronic pain, and
      some studies have shown the effectiveness of ACT for insomnia.

      This study is a four-arms randomized controlled intervention which aims to evaluate the
      addition to a taper program of an ACT intervention versus a psychological support on one
      hand, and the duration of withdrawal on the other hand, in patients suffering from
      hypnotic-dependent insomnia. The entire protocol will be remotely delivered, which no
      randomized controlled trial has so far evaluated for benzodiazepine withdrawal.
    
  