
    
      The Danish OPUS I trial succeeded in randomizing 547 patients with first-episode psychosis to
      a two-year specialized intensive treatment program (OPUS) or standard treatment. The results
      clearly favored OPUS treatment, and psychotic and negative symptoms, substance abuse,
      adherence to treatment, use of anti-psychotic medication, user satisfaction, and use of bed
      days were better in OPUS compared to standard treatment. However, the five-year follow-up,
      three years after patients from OPUS were transferred to standard treatment, showed that the
      positive clinical effects were not sustained, when the intensive treatment was terminated,
      except from OPUS-patients being less likely to stay in institutions than patients who
      received standard care.

      Objective: The aim in OPUS II trial is to compare the effect of five-years versus two-years
      specialized assertive intervention program (OPUS-treatment) for first episode psychosis on
      clinical symptoms, substance abuse, institutionalization, and labor market affiliation.

      Hypothesis: It is possible to maintain the positive results of the intensive two-year
      intervention in another three years for those who keep receiving the specialized assertive
      intervention program.

      Design: Open label randomized clinical trial. Setting: Psychiatric Center Bispebjerg and
      Center for Psychiatric Research Aarhus, Denmark.Participants: 400 patients with first episode
      of schizophrenia spectrum disorder received treatment in one of the six OPUS - teams for 1½
      years.

      Intervention: Another 3½ years OPUS-treatment versus ½ year OPUS-treatment and thereafter
      referral to standard treatment. The extended OPUS treatment consist modified assertive case
      management, rational pharmacotherapy, family psycho-educational intervention, group
      interventions to aid with recovery, social skills training, cognitive behavior therapy when
      indicated, and crisis intervention. OPUS-treatment is tailored to meet the individual
      patient's needs.
    
  