
    
      The study will include 300 women with unexplained recurrent implantation failure undergoing
      IVF/ICSI cycle.

      Randomization:

      Patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria will be randomized to two groups.

      Study Group:

      This group will include 160 women with unexplained recurrent implantation failure undergoing
      a trial of IVF/ICSI. This group will receive intravenous infusion of intralipid 20%, once
      between days 4 and 9 of the ovarian stimulation, and again within 7 days of a positive
      pregnancy test.

      Control Group:

      This group will include 160 women with unexplained recurrent implantation failure undergoing
      a trial of IVF/ICSI. This group will receive intravenous infusion of placebo, once between
      days 4 and 9 of the ovarian stimulation, and again within 7 days of a positive pregnancy
      test.

      Random allocation sequence generation:

      A computer generated list via MedCalc ® Software, version 13.2.2 will be used, assigning each
      participant number to either study groups.

      Allocation Concealment:

      Assignment will be done by sequentially numbered, otherwise identical, sealed envelopes
      (SNOSE), each containing a 2-inch by 2-inch paper with a written code designating the
      assigned group. These papers will be placed in a folded sheet of aluminum foil fitted inside
      the envelope. Effort will be taken to assure absence of any detectable differences in size or
      weight between intervention and control envelopes. Envelopes will be chosen to be opaque and
      lined inside with carbon paper. Envelopes will be opened sequentially only after writing the
      subject's tracking information on the envelope so that the carbon paper served as an audit
      trail.

      Blinding:

      Both drug with active ingredient and placebo will be provided by the hospital pharmacy in
      identical sealed opaque containers, equal in weight, similar in appearance, and tamper-proof.
      The drug with the active ingredient containers will be labeled either Group A or Group B by
      the head pharmacist and the assignment kept secret to be revealed after the end of the study.

      Drugs will be administered to patients by a sealed opaque infusion drip.

      An endometrial biopsy (Wallach endocell sampler ® ) will be taken during the luteal phase of
      the menstrual cycle and put in formalin. The biopsy will be embedded in paraffin, cut into
      sections and immunohistochemistry will be used to identify uNK cells using an antibody to
      CD56 and CD16 (NCL-CD56-16; Novacastra ® ). A cut-off of normality of 5% uNK cell density
      will be used.

      IVF/ICSI cycle will be done using the standard LLP in both groups.

      primary outcome will be Live birth rate.

      secondary outcomes will be biochemical and clinical pregnancy rates.
    
  