
    
      Study Devices:

      The BiPAP device is designed to help people get more air in and out of their lungs without
      using as much effort as regular breathing. The air is given through a mask, and the amount of
      air can be set to different levels.

      The Vapotherm device is also designed to deliver air in and out of the lungs. The air is
      warmed, filtered for bacteria, and then delivered through the nose using a tube under the
      nostrils.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups.

        -  Group 1 will receive air through BiPAP for up to 2 hours and then air through Vapotherm
           for up to 2 hours.

        -  Group 2 will receive air through Vapotherm for up to 2 hours and then air through BiPAP
           for up to 2 hours.

      The study staff will help you use the devices.

      If you have trouble with one of the devices, you can be switched to the other device before
      the 2-hour period is over.

      After using the first device, you will wait for up to 60 minutes before switching over to the
      other device. This waiting period will occur no matter if you used the first device for the
      full 2 hours or not.

      During the waiting period, you will return to the same air delivery device and oxygen level
      that you were using just before you started the study. The study staff will also be checking
      to see if you are still eligible to use the second device.

      Study Tests:

      During the study period, your vital signs and level of air breathed out will be recorded
      using a measuring device on your chest.

      Before and after using the devices, you will rate how hard it is to catch your breath.

      After using the second device, you will fill out a questionnaire that has questions about
      which device you prefer. This should take less than 5 minutes.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on this study for up to 5 hours. You will be taken off study and the device will
      be stopped if intolerable side effects occur while using a study device.

      Use of Other Drugs:

      During the 4-5 hour study period, you will not be allowed to take certain drugs for standard
      care that may affect the study tests. These drugs include certain pain-killer drugs (such as
      morphine and hydromorphone), steroids (such as prednisone and dexamethasone), and inhaled
      drugs (such as ipratropium and salbutamol).

      Any doses of inhaled drugs (regularly scheduled doses and "as needed" doses) and any "as
      needed" doses of pain-killer drugs and steroids that fall within the 4-5 hour study period
      will be put on hold and will be given to you right after the study is complete.

      You may, however, choose to take these drugs, either because your shortness of breath is not
      controlled, or because these drugs are needed to treat other problems (such as pain). If you
      and your doctor decide that you should take these drugs during the study period, you will be
      taken off study so you can receive these drugs. The reason for stopping your study
      participation is that these drugs may affect how you rate your shortness of breath.

      This is an investigational study. The BIPAP and Vapotherm devices are commercially available
      and FDA approved for delivering oxygen when medically needed, including in patients with
      advanced cancer. The investigational part of this study is to collect information from asking
      patients to rate how well the study devices may affect shortness of breath.

      Up to 50 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  