
    
      The incidence of head and neck cancer (HNC) has increased in Sweden during the last decades.
      Radiotherapy (RT) is a cornerstone of treatment either as single or combined modality
      treatment. There is emerging awareness that RT affects the immune system. For HNC patients
      treated with RT nutritional problems and fatigue are the most common long-term adverse
      effects. About 60% have advanced stage of disease at time of diagnosis. Recurrence as well as
      early death within two years is common.

      Our hypothesis: there is a complex association between immune response, metabolic factors and
      survival.

      The aim of this multicenter patient-centered observational longitudinal study is to
      prospectively identify immunological and nutritional/metabolic variables that affect the
      outcome of HNC patients. We will systematically investigate the local and systemic immune
      response induced by RT as well as explore alterations in metabolite composition induced by
      disease and treatment through global metabolite profiling (metabolomics). This highly
      biologically relevant data may be used to search for specific biomarkers of malnutrition,
      markers which would be of prognostic and/or diagnostic value. Moreover, analytically reliable
      data allows for a more comprehensive mechanistic understanding, as such, a particular focus
      lies in ensuring a high data quality. We have established a platform for a study on
      immuno-metabolic changes in HNC patients in the Uppsala-Orebro and Northern regions. Findings
      in this large-scale observational study can have implications on the development of
      personalized therapy in patients with HNC.

      Survey of the field. There is restricted information on the importance of local and systemic
      immune response to RT in HNC patients. RT has systemic effects in addition to its local
      effects on tumors and surrounding tissue. Pro-inflammatory cytokines are activated by RT and
      have been associated with increased symptom burden in cancer treatment. Interleukin-6 (IL-6)
      is a potent inflammatory cytokine with diverse functions. In lung cancer mice xenograft
      studies irradiation has shown to induce an increase in IL-6 levels and migration of
      macrophages to the tumor tissue. An association between C-reactive protein (CRP) and IL-6 in
      plasma has been demonstrated in esophageal adenocarcinoma patients. Relapse-free patients are
      reported to have an increased proportion of Natural killer cells (NK-cells) in peripheral
      blood long-term after treatment. We have earlier followed a cohort of HNC patients during RT
      with repeated blood samples. high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hCRP) increased during RT,
      and patients with the most pronounced weight loss had the greatest hCRP increase. Metabolic
      factors are reported to affect HNC patients in many ways. Severe malnutrition before
      treatment of HNC is reported to lead to increased mortality. In a secondary study in patients
      with oropharyngeal cancer (n = 357) we found that a high BMI gives significantly better
      5-year survival than a low BMI. However, it is difficult to evaluate the results in the
      majority of nutritional studies in HNC patients because most prospective studies have
      included relatively few patients and many of the results obtained in retrospective studies
      have been conflicting. Patient's metabolic profile might work as a nutritional marker and be
      distinctly linked to nutritional status. The blood metabolome can be examined in detail in
      cancer patients to better identify different metabolic pathways. The nutritional status is
      strongly connected to the immune status. It is e.g. reported that L-arginine is crucial for
      the function of T-cell. As the immune system at the site of the tumor can inhibit cancer
      growth the local anti-tumorigenic immune status is important. Thus the nutritional status
      predicts the immune status and malnutrition is connected to a weaker immune response. It is
      unclear how the nutritional status is connected with the systemic immune status.

      Research questions

        1. The correlation between weight change and pro-inflammatory cytokines.

        2. The correlation between weight change and immune response in tumour microenvironment.

        3. Change of blood metabolome.

        4. Change of Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) measurements.

        5. Change of fatty acid profile in blood.

        6. Patient-reported outcome measure (PROM)

        7. Patient-reported stress levels.

      Variables and measures All patients will be treated in accordance with local and national
      guidelines. Nutrient based local guidelines ensure that the patients receive nutritional
      support when needed. Baseline measurements will be taken before treatment starts, and
      follow-ups will take place at 4 and 7 weeks after start of treatment and at 3, 6, 12, and 24
      months post treatment.

      A Web-Based Patient Case Report Form (CRF) has been developed for a reliable, secure and
      easier data collection including the following variables:

      Cancer-free survival, cancer-related death as well as death not related to cancer disease,
      interval between treatment and recurrence.

      Explanatory variables:

        1. Body Composition measured by BIA and validated against body composition measured by
           Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA).

        2. Characterization of immune profile in tumor tissue. Surgical biopsy of the tumor at the
           endoscopy for histopathological diagnosis and after RT when possible. Two methods will
           be applied to analyse the biopsies: 1) Multiplex tissue staining using the PerkinElmar
           Opal system which provides a quantitative and spatial composition of the immune cell
           infiltrates. 2) The RNA based Immunobiology Panel, which allows the measurement of the
           gene expression of hundreds of immune markers.

        3. Immune profile in serum: analyzed with a multiplex assay using the Science for Life
           Laboratory (SciLife) platform.

        4. Fatty acid profiling in serum with gas chromatography techniques.

        5. Metabolomic parameters assessed with a multi-platform approach based on nuclear magnetic
           resonance (NMR) and high resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS) connected to the
           ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC).

        6. Body weight (kg) estimated 6 months before start of treatment, body weight registered at
           start of treatment and at all the follow-ups.

      Questionnaires:

      Nutritional follow-up with Patient Reported Outcome Measure Head and Neck Symptom Checklist
      (PROM - HNSC) (14). Quality of life (QoL) HNC specific questionnaire European Organization
      for Research and Treatment Quality of Life instrument (EORTC QLQ-H & N 35) (15). Hospital
      Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). Stress with questionnaire Perceived Stress Questionnaire
      (PSQ) (16).

      Study design A prospective observational longitudinal study to elucidate all the research
      questions.

      Estimated sample size About 1500 HNC patients are diagnosed annually in Sweden. The number of
      patients in this study before the exclusion criteria is approximately 370 patients/year.

      Material: Patient selection - population, sample This multicenter study is a collaboration
      between the Uppsala-Orebro region and the Northern region. The patients are recruited at
      three university hospitals: Some of the patients are after treatment followed-up at their
      County Hospital. Inclusion criteria: curative treatment of patients with newly diagnosed HNC,
      and a World Health Organization (WHO) performance status of 0-2.
    
  