
    
      Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a leading cause of acquired disability in U.S. children, with
      an estimated 700,000 cases every year, presenting in 75% of children with trauma and
      accounting for 70% of deaths from childhood trauma. Childhood TBIs often result in
      significant impairment in cognitive functions,1 particularly in core executive functions
      (EFs) due to the vulnerability of the frontal lobes, especially after a moderate to severe
      TBI. Core EF is composed of three skills: inhibitory control, working memory, and cognitive
      flexibility. These skills are associated with impaired EF behaviors, increased attention
      problems, and lower health-related quality-of-life (HRQOL). However, evidence-based EF
      rehabilitation programs are lacking. Although a combination of diverse cognitive
      interventions may improve children's EF, limited affordability, accessibility, adherence, and
      generalizability hamper clinically adapting and implementing such interventions in the
      rehabilitation setting. Virtual reality (VR) offers an exciting alternative strategy for EF
      rehabilitation of childhood TBI due to its flexibility, accessibility, and immersive
      experiences in three dimensions. These properties may increase adherence to training and
      foster an enhanced transfer of learned EF skills to untrained tasks in everyday life. Thus
      far, rigor-ous randomized clinical trials (RCTs) have not been conducted to establish the
      efficacy of VR-based EF reha-bilitation for childhood TBI.

      The overall goal of the project is to assess the efficacy of a novel VR-based interactive
      cognitive training (VICT) program for EF rehabilitation in children with TBI with the
      following aims:

      Aim 1. Examine VICT's efficacy in improving core and daily EF skills among children with TBI.

      Hypothesis 1.1: Children in the intervention group will show enhanced improvement over
      controls in trained VR-based EF tasks and untrained NIH Toolbox tasks from baseline to
      post-intervention and follow-up visits; Hypothesis 1.2: The intervention group will show
      better reported daily EF than controls at the follow-up visit; Hypothesis 1.3: Children in
      the intervention group will show faster improvement than controls in daily-reported EF skills
      between post-intervention and follow-up visits.

      Aim 2. Examine VICT's efficacy in reducing attentional problems among children with TBI.

      Hypothesis 2.1: Children in the intervention group will show a greater reduction in
      attentional problems as measured by testing on the Conners Continuous Performance Test 3rd
      Edition™ (Conners CPT 3TM) from baseline to the post-intervention and follow-up visits than
      controls; Hypothesis 2.2: Children in the intervention group will show fewer everyday
      attentional problems on the Be-havior Assessment System for Children 3rd Ed (BASC-3) self-
      and parent-ratings of attention at the follow-up visit than controls; Hypothesis 2.3: The
      direct effect of the VICT program in reducing attention problems will be mediated by
      children's EF behaviors as measured by the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function,
      Second Edition (BRIEF2) at the follow-up visit.

      Aim 3. Examine VICT's efficacy in improving HRQOL among children with TBI. Hypothesis 3.1:
      The intervention group will show higher levels of reported HRQOL than controls at follow-up;
      Hypothesis 3.2: The direct effect of the VICT program on HRQOL at follow-up will be mediated
      by children's EF skills and ratings of EF behaviors and attention at the post-intervention
      and follow-up visits.
    
  