
    
      Celiac disease (CD) is the most common autoimmune enteropathy in Western Countries, occurring
      in genetically susceptible individuals, elicited by the gluten ingestion. By definition the
      disease responds to gluten withdrawal, so currently gluten free (GFD) diet is the therapy for
      celiac patients. It is known that gluten rich products are important source of nutrients on
      the other hands it is not clear if gluten exclusion from the diet could have a negative
      effect on the nutritional status of CD patients.

      Another concern related to the GFD could be the high exposure to mycotoxins due to the high
      concentration of maize in GF products.

      AIM The aim of this study is to estimate the nutrient intake and the dietary exposure of all
      mycotoxin types in a group of treated celiac patients vs. non-celiac subjects.

      METHODS We will enroll celiac patients and healthy controls. Exclusion criteria for celiac
      patients will be: 1) diagnosis of CD less than two years 2) age under 18 or over 70 3)
      associated metabolic or chronic disease 4) pregnancy or lactation 5) being vegetarian or
      vegan. Exclusion criteria for the healthy subjects will be the same with the exception of the
      diagnosis of CD.

      Total food and beverage consumption will be assessed by means of a 7 days long questionnaire.
      All participants will be trained by a nutritionist to record all food consumed and the
      completed forms will be returned and reviewed during a face-to-face interview at which
      portions size were quantified in standard units. Participants will be asked to weigh all
      foods and drinks consumed and to provide a detailed description of each food, including
      methods of preparation and recipes, whenever possible. In case of Gluten Free Foods, patients
      will be asked to precisely note the name of the manufacturer or to provide the food label.

      The nutrient intake was calculated using a software application linked to the food database
      of the European Institute of Oncology integrated with the nutrient composition of 60
      commercial GF foods. The computer output will consist in the evaluation of the mean daily
      intake of macro nutrients for each subject, in terms of carbohydrates, protein and lipid.
      Food items consumed will be also collapsed into food categories; pasta, bread, potatoes,
      flours, different cereals, fruit, vegetables, milk, cheese, eggs, fish, oils and fats,
      biscuits, sweet snacks, breakfast cereals, candies, chocolate, soft drinks, juices, coffees,
      teas, alcoholic beverages. For each subject, the mean daily intake of each food category will
      be calculated.

      The 24-h urines were collected at the end of the registration period and analyzed for
      mycotoxins.
    
  