
    
      Study design overview

      All 13 middle schools on the reservation will participate in this study by providing space
      for program groups to meet in the evenings and allowing recruitment activities at school
      events. A total of 480 families will be recruited into 6 cohorts across two years (spring,
      summer and fall). In each community, families with a child 10-12 years of age will be
      recruited to participate in the study. Half of recruited families will be randomly assigned
      to receive the Thiwáhe Gluwáš'akapi (TG) substance use prevention program and half to the
      comparison group, which will receive the Woyute Waśte (WW) healthy eating and exercise
      program. Randomization will be explained to families as part of the recruitment and consent
      process. Given the potential for contamination across groups with this design, the
      investigators will carefully examine outcomes across groups and statistically control for
      contamination effects as necessary. Alternative designs, including randomization at the
      school/community level, were rejected due to greater concerns about cross-community
      variability.

      Recruitment and retention strategies

      Schools (e.g., registration, family nights, parent-teacher conferences, holiday events) will
      be the main points of recruitment but additional advertising and promotion will take place at
      community events such as powwows, health fairs, and basketball tournaments. Written materials
      about the program will be distributed, along with promotional items (e.g., water bottles,
      magnets, and lanyards with the project name and logo). The investigators will also advertise
      on local community radio, which has wide reach on the reservation. Because TG has been
      implemented at 12 of the 13 middle schools on the reservation as a part of the adaptation
      study and has been well received by both families and school staff, the investigators often
      have inquiries about opportunities for future participation, and anticipate a positive
      response to recruitment efforts.

      Facilitators will call families weekly to touch base with them and remind them about upcoming
      sessions. The investigators provide meals to families at the start of each program session,
      giving them opportunities to connect with other families and facilitators, fostering
      relationships, and making it easier for busy families to get to the sessions. Child care and
      transportation will be provided, as needed.

      Approaches to ensuring fidelity

      All facilitators will be trained in TG by a master SFP 10-14 trainer from Iowa State
      University (Beth Fleming) and the master TG trainer (Dr. Alicia Mousseau, who led the program
      adaptation). Weekly supervision and preparation for sessions before and during implementation
      will be provided onsite by local staff certified as TG trainers, who will also train new
      facilitators as needed due to staff turnover. These on-site trainers will also conduct
      regular fidelity checks (observations during sessions using standardized fidelity checklists)
      and provide feedback to facilitators.

      Data collection schedule and estimated sample sizes across waves

      In each family, up to 2 eligible youth (aged 10-12) and 1 parent/caregiver will be eligible
      to participate in the research and take study surveys. Sample size estimates for each wave
      are estimates of the number of families (F), youth (Y), adults (A), and total sample (T).
      Ranges for youth and total reflect that 1-2 youth per family are eligible to complete
      surveys. Estimates include an attrition rate of 2.5% every 6 months, based on past experience
      with families in this community.

        1. Baseline - 1-2 weeks before first session: F=480; Y=480-960; A=480; T=960-1440

        2. Post-intervention -1 week after last session: F=480; Y=480-960; A=480; T=960-1440 6
           follow-up surveys:

        3. 6-month: F=468; Y=468-936; A=468; T=936-1404

        4. 12-month: F=456; Y=456-912; A=456; T=912-1368

        5. 18-month: F=445; Y=445-890; A=445; T=890-1335

        6. 24-month: F=434; Y=434-868; A=434; T=868-1302

        7. 30-month (excluding final cohort): F=370; Y=370-740; A=370; T=740-1110

        8. 36-month (excluding final 2 cohorts): F=206; Y=206-412; A=206; T=412-618

      Data collection procedures

      All surveys will be administered online, using REDCap survey software. The baseline survey
      will be collected during an in-person meeting, after consent is obtained, using iPads
      provided by research staff. Post-intervention surveys will also be administered in person.
      For follow-up surveys, participants will be sent unique links to access their surveys on
      their own devices (e.g., computers, phones, tablets) or at a location of their choice (e.g.,
      tribal college center). They will also be able to request to have research staff meet with
      them to collect these follow-up surveys in person and provide a project iPad for survey
      completion. Surveys collected via REDCap will be immediately uploaded to a secure cloud
      storage. REDCap is a secure, web-based application designed to support data capture for
      research studies, providing: 1) an intuitive interface for validated data entry; 2) audit
      trails for tracking data manipulation and export procedures; 3) automated export procedures
      for seamless data downloads to common statistical packages; and 4) procedures for importing
      data from external sources. REDCap is hosted by the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical
      Campus and supported by the Colorado Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute.

      Analytic Plan

      Three analytic approaches will be used: (1) discrete-time time survival analysis (DTSA), (2)
      mixed model analyses (MM), and (3) latent growth curve modeling (LGCM). Intention to treat
      principles will be applied in all analyses. Participant sex will be included as a covariate
      or separate models will be estimated by gender to explore differential effect patterns.
      Sandwich-estimators (type=complex in Mplus) and random effects models (in SAS Proc Mixed)
      will adjust for clustering at the family (and/or school) level. Full information maximum
      likelihood (FIML) procedures will be used to provide unbiased and efficient estimates.

      Discrete-time survival analyses (DTSA) will be used to estimate the probability (hazard) for
      initiation of substance use among youth who have not used substances prior to enrollment in
      the study. Initial DTSA analyses will compare the fit of models assuming proportional odds
      (i.e., constant intervention effect across waves) either with or without frailty (residual
      variance) to non-proportional odds (i.e., variable intervention effect across waves).
      Comparisons will be based on the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) and the Bayesian
      Information Criterion (BIC). Exposure to TG will be included as a time-invariant covariate to
      estimate treatment effects on risk of initiation. Mplus Monte Carlo analyses were used to
      determine power requirements for DTSA models. Effect-size estimates from earlier etiological
      work in this reservation community were used (hazard age 10-13, alcohol =.14; marijuana =
      .13, tobacco = .31). Estimated power to detect a moderate treatment effect - 20% reduction in
      risk of initiation - exceeded 80% across all effect-size specifications tested.

      Mixed model analyses (MM) will be used to examine effects on all outcomes, including primary
      outcomes (youth substance use and suicide, adult substance use) and secondary outcomes
      (proximal mediators of risk for primary outcomes). MM analyses will account for correlated
      observations within participants over time and examine intervention effects averaged across
      the entire post-program data collection period and at each post-program assessment point
      individually. Wave of data collection and Condition (TG or WW) X Wave interaction will be
      fixed effects. Time will be a repeated measures factor and study participant and family
      cluster will be included as random effects. After verifying that randomization yielded
      baseline equivalence across Conditions, the investigators will use either linear
      (ordinal/continuous outcomes) or generalized linear mixed models (dichotomous outcomes) to
      test Condition X Wave interactions. The overall difference between TG and WW groups across
      the follow-up period compared to baseline will be obtained by calculating the average of all
      7 Condition X Wave interaction effects. These analyses will test hypotheses about immediate
      and sustained effects of intervention exposures on outcomes. Power estimates for MM analyses
      were calculated using GLIMMPSE software, specifying estimates of substance use at each wave
      derived from previous work with this population. Analyses indicate that the projected sample
      size will be sufficient to detect a small to moderate intervention effect - 20% reduction in
      substance use across time - with power greater than .80.

      The final analytic approach will follow Muthén & Curran, estimating linear latent growth
      curve models (LGCM) to assess the effect of TG on outcome trajectories. The investigators
      will estimate the 'normative' trajectory of each outcome in the WW (comparison) group and the
      comparable trajectory in the TG (intervention) group. In the third step, the investigators
      will compare these trajectories and to determine whether there is a statistically significant
      change in the outcome trajectory related to TG intervention exposure. Finally, the
      investigators will evaluate the interaction between intervention exposure and initial level
      of the outcome to explore differential intervention effectiveness as a function of baseline
      levels for each outcome. Mplus Monte Carlo analyses were used to estimate power requirements
      for LGCM models and effect-size estimates were drawn from earlier etiological research. The
      power to detect slopes ranging from .14 to 1.4, were tested, estimating intercepts low (.05)
      consistent with our earlier findings and the young age of our study sample, setting alpha at
      .05, within each Condition group (TG treatment and WW comparison). Power estimates exceeded
      .90 to detect slope effects in all models.
    
  