
    
      Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease. Despite we have academic treatment guidelines, and
      the asthma treatment develops persistently, many asthma patients do not have well control.

      Asthma Control Test (ACT) is a patient self-administered tool for identifying those with
      poorly controlled asthma. ACT includes 5 items on 5-point scale, with 4-week recall on
      symptoms and daily functioning. The scores range from 5 (poor control of asthma) to 25
      (complete control of asthma), with higher scores reflecting greater asthma control. An ACT
      score >19 indicates well-controlled asthma.

      In addition to correct diagnosis and prescription by physicians, achieving asthma well
      control depend on the patient's ability of self- management.

      The self-management of asthma patients includes monitor of symptoms, monitor of peak
      expiratory flow, compliance of inhaler and avoiding the asthma triggers.

      Portable digital tools may be the possible solution for home monitor of asthma patients.
      Through the application of mobile phone and hand-held mobile spirometry, asthma patients can
      monitor their symptoms and lung function at home outside of hospital.(5-7)。

      "Health Lung" (AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP) is the application for mobile phone to help
      asthma care and is available freely in Google Play. Health Lung can be connected to the
      mobile spirometry, "ezOxygen" (Genius Holding Co.,Ltd Taiwan Branch).

      Therefore, the functions of this App. include asthma control monitor, lung function monitor,
      controller and reliver inhaler reminder and recording, asthma educational topics in brief and
      information of air quality. The physicians can get the information about control status, lung
      function, adherence of controller and usage of reliver of patients between each clinical
      visit, if patients following the instruction of "Health Lung".

      However, how the patients are willing to use digital tools at home and what is the real
      impact on the current hospital-based asthma care need to be validated.

      The aim of the present study is to explore if the "Health Lung" application of smart phone
      and portable spirometry "ezOxygen" can further improve asthma control for chronic asthma
      adult patients with well asthma control (ACT 20~24, but not 25), compared to hospital-based
      usual care in a medical center.
    
  