
    
      The investigators have identified underuse of secondary prevention medications at discharge
      of patients underwent coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in China. The aim of this study
      is to develop series of quality improvement strategies focusing on secondary prevention
      medications for patients underwent CABG, and to evaluate their effectiveness and safety via a
      hospital-level cluster randomized clinical trial. The investigators established a network of
      60 hospitals which have participated into Chinese Cardiovascular Surgery Registry and
      submitted 50 or more CABG surgeries already. The participating sites will be divided into
      intervention and control groups in a 1:1 ratio. The intervention group will undertake
      intervention of quality improvement strategies, while the control group will maintain the
      routine practice pattern. All hospitals will consecutively enroll and submit data of CABG
      during the enrollment period of estimated 6 months. The prescription rates of ACEI, ARB,
      beta-blockers, statins and aspirins will be compared between 2 groups.

      Before the enrollment period, the investigators have developed series of quality improvement
      strategies focusing on secondary prevention medications for patients underwent CABG,
      including training with guidelines of secondary preventions, determining improvement goals
      with participating sites, intervention tools (workflow posters and cards, checklists to
      inform the use of secondary prevention medications) and periodical quality feedback reports.

      In the enrollment period, participating hospitals will be divided into intervention and
      control groups in a 1:1 ratio using minimization allocation.

      The investigators will collect data on the prescription rates from central medical record
      abstraction, case report forms submitted by participating sites and checklists submitted by
      intervention groups.
    
  