
    
      Ambulatory adult CF patients are recruited at time of their yearly evaluation.

      Phenotypic patients' characteristics Age, gender, CFTR genotype, pancreatic status (presence
      or absence of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency), number of IV antibiotic courses and number
      of hospitalization over the previous year, are reported.

      Physical activity measurement Physical activity is measured over 7 consecutive days using a
      multisensor armband (SenseWear Pro Armband; BodyMedia, Inc.,Pittsburgh, PA) that is worn on
      the upper right arm over the triceps muscle. It incorporates a biaxial accelerometer that
      records steps per day, and physiologic indicators of energy expenditure that enable the
      investigator to determine the physical activity level.

      Evaluation of respiratory function and cardiovascular status Patients will perform a
      respiratory function test to evaluate FVC and FEV1 and six minutes walk test. Arterial blood
      gases will be done at the beginning and at the end of walk and the walking distance will be
      indicated in meters.

      Echocardiography will be performed to look for left or right cardiac dysfunction and measure
      systolic pulmonary artery pressure. N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-pro-BNP)
      will be used as a systemic biomarker of heart failure.

      Bone mineral density (BMD) and body composition They are measured by X-ray absorptiometry
      (DEXA) on the lumbar spine, femur and whole body, and measurement of lean and fat mass (Lunar
      Prodigy).

      Nutritional evaluation Weight and height are measured and body mass index (BMI) is
      calculated. As part of the annual dietary assessment, there will be an evaluation of the
      amount of ingested nitrogen.

      Blood will be drawn to measure: albumin, prealbumin, vitamin E, vitamin A and vitamin
      25(OH)D3, HbA1c. C-reactive protein and fibrinogen will be measured as indicators of
      inflammation.

      Urinalysis will measure: creatinine, nitrogen and 3-methylhistidine. Oral glucose tolerance
      test will be performed (fasting blood glucose and blood glucose 2 hours after ingesting 75 g
      of glucose) in pancreatic insufficient patients with unknown diabetes.

      Self-administered questionnaires

      Patients will answer 3 questionnaires:

        1. quality of life CFQ14+ questionnaire

        2. hospital anxiety depression (HAD) scale validated in French

        3. Baecke physical activity questionnaire
    
  