
    
      Cytotoxic chemotherapy is relatively ineffective for a large proportion of common cancers.
      Combining redox active molecules with certain chemotherapy regimens could increase their
      anti-cancer activity or protect host tissues from toxicity with no loss of anti-cancer
      activity. Research in this area has been advocated by cancer organizations, but previous
      clinical trials of combination chemotherapy and antioxidant therapy been small, poorly
      designed, and unsystematic. Appropriate study of this treatment concept requires a
      systematic, meticulous empirical approach similar to the one used in conventional cytotoxic
      drug discovery. This is a Phase I-II study designed to identify promising
      chemotherapy-antioxidant protocols and determine their acceptability and limiting toxicity in
      patients with relentlessly progressive cancers for which conventional chemotherapy is
      clinically indicated but is known to be minimally or marginally effective.

      The tolerable dose of intravenous ascorbic acid (IVAA) for cancer patients with normal renal
      function not receiving chemotherapy is 1.5 g/kg per 90 to 120 minute infusion (Hoffer et al,
      Ann Oncol 2008;19:1969-1974). Side effects are minimal to non-existent. In this
      dose-escalating study the IVAA will be 0.9 g/kg per infusion for the first chemotherapy
      cycle, increasing to 1.5 g/kg per infusion in subsequent cycles, for the first 3
      participants. If well tolerated as expected, the initial dose will be 1.5 g/kg per infusion
      for subsequent participants. Infusions will take place 2 or 3 times per week, bracketing the
      days of chemotherapy. Standard tolerance and adverse effect criteria will be used. Therapy
      will continue for a minimum of 2 months, and continue further in the event of disease
      stabilization or response, as determined from CT scan and biomarkers, with evaluations
      continuing every 2 months.
    
  