
    
      Parenting not only acts as an important drive for child development, also serves as one of
      the key determinants for family relationships. Emotion management is the essence of parenting
      competence. Anger, fear, joy, distress and enthusiasm are involved in the parenting process.
      Negative emotions of parents are associated with child abuse; while positive emotions are
      related to warm parenting, and promote children's early attachment with parents. In addition,
      parental negative emotion consistently predicts behavior problems of children. For example,
      children who are exposed to higher levels of maternal negative feelings, such as anger, have
      more difficulty regulating their own negative feelings and have greater difficulty getting
      along with others.

      Emotion management training has been shown effective in improving parenting skills, promoting
      parent-child interaction, and preventing child abuse. For example, parents who attended anger
      control workshops reported less unrealistic expectations for their children, fewer conflicts
      with children, and less domestic violence toward spouse and children. However, these
      interventions were tested in Western culture where there is much less emphasis on academic
      performance of children. In addition, such interventions usually contain complex content and
      last for months.

      The investigators developed a parenting intervention tailored for Chinese parents and
      reported its effectiveness in a randomized controlled trial. In this empirical study, 412
      Hong Kong mothers of children aged 6 to 8 years old were randomized into the parenting arm or
      the control arm. The results showed that the parenting arm reported greater increase in the
      use of emotion management found that it was effective in increasing emotion management skills
      and enhancing the parent-child relationship. Participants in the parenting arm also reported
      lower negative affect, and higher positive affect, satisfaction with the parent-child
      relationship, and family harmony, compared to the control arm. The investigators' findings
      provide evidence for a sustainable, preventive, culturally appropriate, and cognitive
      behavioral-based parenting program in the community population. Considering unique dynamics
      of cross-boundary and new arrival families, a short and simple intervention on emotion
      management would benefit these parents to perform better parenting. Therefore based on the
      investigators' promising findings in the community setting, this proposed program aim to
      modify this parenting program to the needs of parents of the cross-boundary and new arrival
      children.
    
  