
    
      Sudden cardiac death (SCD) occurs in up to 1/3 of patients with AL amyloidosis within the
      first 90 days but conflicting findings have been reported on the mechanism. Electromechanical
      dissociation (EMD) is thought to account for some 6-7 cases, underscoring doubts about a role
      for implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs). However, there are studies that have
      described appropriate and effective ICD therapies in 27% to 32% of cases, similar to primary
      prevention in other disorders. The strength of evidence in all these studies is fairly weak
      (small, single-centre, retrospective, not linked to mechanism), but this potentially makes
      ICD implantation more important than in other conditions. It has also been shown in a study
      with small patient numbers that the pre-terminal event is often bradycardia, which may be
      amenable to pacemaker therapy. At present, the available information regarding arrhythmia
      burden in cardiac amyloidosis is limited, and further data are crucial to better guide
      patient selection for device therapy.

      Whilst the burden of arrhythmia and sudden cardiac death appear considerable, there is
      limited characterisation of the incidence and predictive factors for arrhythmia requiring
      treatment. Cardiac involvement is the main driver of outcome in cardiac amyloidosis.
      Amyloidosis is a continuum from small focal amyloid deposits to extensive diffuse myocardial
      infiltration. The dynamic and progressive nature of amyloid deposition is likely to create an
      arrhythmogenic substrate that alters over time. For example, patchy amyloid deposits
      occurring in earlier disease might potentially provide an anatomical substrate enabling
      re-entry and underlie ventricular tachyarrhythmias, whilst diffuse transmural amyloid
      deposition may increase risk of AV block and bradyarrythmias. The investigators believe that
      amyloid deposition will be associated with increased risk of fatal arrhythmias, including AV
      block, bradyarrhythmias and ventricular arrhythmias. There are no current criteria or
      arrhythmia risk stratification available to guide device implantation in patients with
      cardiac amyloidosis. There are also limited data available on predictive disease
      characteristics that promote arrhythmia

      Current monitoring for arrhythmia involves routine 12-lead ECG checks at annual or
      six-monthly clinic visits. Longer durations of monitoring (24- or 72-hour Holter monitoring
      or implantable loop recorders, ILR) are undertaken only when clinically indicated. Other
      cardiac investigations that are routinely performed in cardiac amyloidosis include
      echocardiography and cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging.

      Current management of arrhythmia is limited to anticoagulation as per the CHADS2VASC score
      for atrial fibrillation, and permanent pacemaker insertion for standard indications including
      high degree atrioventricular blocks. There are limited data available to inform insertion of
      defibrillators, and this is currently assessed on a case by case basis.

      Cardiac biomarkers may be helpful in raising clinical suspicion of cardiac amyloidosis
      patients with known plasma cell dyscrasia and should prompt further investigation with
      electrocardiogram (ECG) and echocardiography. The combination of cardiac biomarkers serum
      N-terminal prohormone of brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) and troponin is useful to
      stratify prognosis and guide treatment strategies in AL amyloidosis. In these patients, ECG
      tends to show low voltage complexes with common observations including repolarisation
      abnormalities, pseudo-infarction patterns, left anterior hemiblock, ischaemic or non-specific
      T wave abnormalities, and rhythm disturbances such as atrial fibrillation. Echocardiography
      shows the cardiac amyloid phenotype is a thick-walled ventricle, small left ventricular
      chamber volume, valve thickening, atrial enlargement and signs of elevated filling pressures
      with a restrictive diastolic filling.

      CMR is at the forefront of diagnosis and monitoring of cardiac amyloidosis. CMR uses its
      intrinsic capacity to characterise cardiac tissue on the basis of fundamental MR properties
      (T1 and T2), and these intrinsic properties can be strengthened by administration of
      gadolinium-based contrast agents. CMR can visually depict, with late gadolinium enhancement
      (LGE), and quantify, with T1 mapping, the continuum of cardiac amyloid deposition allowing
      for noninvasive measurement of cardiac amyloid burden. Transmurality of LGE, elevation in
      native T1 and extracellular volume fraction (ECV) all correlate with amyloid burden.

      In a study from the UK National Amyloidosis Centre (NAC) published in 2015, ILRs were
      inserted into 20 consecutive patients with severe cardiac AL amyloidosis. The most important
      finding was that the terminal syncopal phase prior to death revealed initial cardiac
      decompensation to be associated with marked bradycardia usually caused by complete heart
      block, subsequently followed by pulseless electrical activity. But this study was done in
      patients with end stage AL amyloidosis, and rhythm disturbances in the wide spectrum of
      amyloid infiltration has never been studied.

      Currently, arrhythmia risk prediction is limited despite existing structural and functional
      assessment tools. ILR data would provide invaluable information on arrhythmia burden, which
      may be correlated with information obtained from the existing standard-of-care (SOC)
      structural, biochemical and functional assessments such as, but not limited to, T1 mapping
      and ECV from CMR, serum biomarkers, and the six-minute walk test (6MWT). These data together
      would provide a global picture of the arrhythmia burden and contributing risk factors; this
      has the potential to transform our understanding of arrhythmia in cardiac amyloidosis.

      Furthermore, improvements in ILR technology have made these devices more patient-friendly.
      New ILRs no longer require surgical implantation but can be subcutaneously injected in the
      outpatient setting. They are simple to use, with automatic recording and uploading of data
      over each 24-hour period for up to 3 years.

      An ILR is a small injectable electronic device (approximate size 45 x 7 x 4 mm, about
      one-third the size of a AAA battery), which is inserted under the skin within the
      subcutaneous tissue in the chest. It is routinely used for continuous cardiac monitoring for
      a range of symptoms (syncope, pre-syncope or palpitations of suspected cardiac origin,
      arrhythmia) in the wider National Health Service (NHS), and at the Royal Free Hospital (RFH).
      The required incision for device insertion is less than 1 cm, and it can safely be inserted
      by a trained healthcare professional (HCP) in the outpatient setting. It is safe and
      well-tolerated once inserted. One suture is required to close the wound.

      As with any such procedure there is a small risk of bleeding and/or infection, both of which
      are rare. The risk of infection may be minimised by the maintenance of aseptic technique and
      sterile environment throughout the procedure. Patients will remain in the department under
      observation for 1 hour after the procedure, and the insertion site will be checked for
      bleeding and any other abnormalities before the patient is allowed to leave.

      Patients will attend their GP surgery (or return to the RFH, whichever is their preference)
      within 7 to 10 days for removal of the suture and for examination of the insertion site. The
      device may be removed (as per SOC) when the battery runs out or 3 years after insertion,
      whichever happened first. The device may be removed earlier if indicated by, for example,
      adverse event. The ILR may also be left in situ once the patient has completed participation
      or when the battery runs out, according to patient preference.

      ILRs are used in routine practice where indicated for continuous cardiac monitoring in
      patients with later-stage cardiac amyloidosis but are not currently routinely implanted in
      patients with early stage disease. Although this study will involve implanting ILRs earlier
      on in the disease process than usual, this is not anticipated to present any additional risk
      to patients. Therefore the risk categorisation for this trial would be Type A: Comparable to
      the risk of standard medical care for this particular patient group. Furthermore, there is
      the potential benefit of early intervention to treat arrhythmias, which could be
      life-changing and possibly even life-saving for some patients.
    
  