
    
      Cancer remains one of the leading causes of death in modern society, but due in part to
      increasing rates of detection coupled with advanced therapies, of the ≈230,000 people newly
      diagnosed with breast cancer each year, approximately 90% are expected to live beyond 5
      years. Despite the trend in improved cancer-related mortality, breast cancer survivors are at
      a significantly increased risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD) morbidity and mortality. As
      such the American Heart Association has recently highlighted the immediate need to evaluate
      changes in cardiovascular health and function in the early stages of cancer treatment.

      The mechanisms of adjuvant therapies on cardiovascular function may be the result of
      increased generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and altered redox status, specifically
      the balance between nitric oxide and superoxide. As such, nitrate supplementation has been
      shown to attenuate Doxorubicin (chemotherapy drug)-induced ventricular function in animal
      models. These data implicate dietary nitrates as one potential therapeutic intervention that
      could be used to improve cardiovascular health in cancer survivors.

      Beetroot juice (BRJ) is a nutritional supplement that has been studied to examine potential
      effects of dietary nitrates affecting vasodilation. The increased nitrate levels have been
      implicated in helping increase nitric oxide bioavailability, which have been shown to improve
      cardiovascular function in older adults and those with known cardiovascular disease. The
      question, however, of whether or not BRJ will enhance cardiovascular function in breast
      cancer survivors is yet to be determined.

      The primary aim of the current investigation is to test the hypothesis that dietary nitrate
      supplementation, via beet-root juice, improves parameters of cardiovascular health in cancer
      survivors with a history of anthracycline chemotherapy treatment.
    
  