
    
      Studies conducted at Kessler Foundation (KF) have demonstrated the modified Story Memory
      Technique (mSMT) to be effective for improving new learning in individuals with MS and TBI.
      Efficacy of the individualized mSMT has been clearly demonstrated across three realms of
      functioning, objective behavior, brain functioning and everyday life in multiple RCTs with
      both MS and TBI samples. This convincing data provides Class I evidence supporting the
      efficacy of the individual mSMT for improving new learning and memory in MS with
      documentation of long-lasting treatment effects on both standardized learning tests and
      neuroimaging. Current work with the mSMT is focusing on a group administration format, with a
      RCT funded by the Department of Defense.

      Ongoing work in healthy aging (HA), led by George Rebok, PhD at the Johns Hopkins School of
      Public Health, has applied cognitive retraining to older healthy adults. Multiple, strong
      rationale for pursuing such applications of cognitive rehabilitation include the fact that
      the 65 and older population is growing (an estimated 20% of population (72 million) will be
      65 and older by 2030), cognitive decline is most feared aspect of growing older, drug trial
      results addressing this challenge have been disappointing and, most importantly, cognitive
      impairments heavily affect the aging population. Specifically, 1 in 4 adults 70 years or
      older have a cognitive impairment without dementia and roughly 5.3 million people in the U.S.
      have Alzheimer's disease. Rebok and colleagues have applied Speed of Processing Training to a
      large cohort of healthy older adults (age 65+) and found a 33-48% risk reduction of dementia
      onset 10 years post treatment. These encouraging results suggest that providing cognitively
      enhancing treatments prior to the onset of dementia may in fact stave off the dementia
      process and provide older individuals with more years free of cognitive deficit.

      Given the substantial success of the mSMT in improving new learning and memory functioning in
      persons with TBI and MS, we seek to apply the mSMT to an aging population with multiple aims.

      Aim 1. Examine the efficacy of the mSMT to increase learning and memory abilities in older
      adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and older adults with no signs of cognitive
      impairment (healthy aging group: HA).

      Aim 2. Examine the long term impact of the mSMT on new learning and memory abilities one and
      two years post-intervention for both the MCI group and the HA group.

      Aim 3. Examine the impact of early cognitive enhancement with the mSMT on measures of daily
      life functioning and overall quality of life immediately posttreatment and at each follow-up
      assessment.

      Aim 4. Examine the neural correlates during encoding and retrieval associated with early
      cognitive enhancement from the mSMT immediately post-treatment and at each follow-up
      assessment

      To achieve these goals, we will recruit 40 individuals over the age of 65 to participate in
      the study. Each participant will undergo baseline cognitive assessment. Based on the
      assessment results, he / she will be allocated to the HA block or the MCI block. Within each
      block, participants will be randomized to a treatment group or a placebo control group. The
      treatment group will undergo 10 sessions of the mSMT, while the placebo control group will
      undergo 10 sessions of memory exercises. We have used this placebo condition in multiple
      randomized clinical trials in the past, with success. Repeat assessments will then occur
      within one week of completing treatment, 6 months after completing treatment, one year after
      completing treatment and 2 years after completing treatment. Each assessment will evaluate
      new learning and memory abilities as well as multiple other aspects of cognitive functioning
      through a neuropsychological assessment (NP). Participants will also complete an assessment
      of global functioning (AGF) which evaluates cognitive functioning in daily life. In addition,
      we will collect neuroimaging data on a subsample of participants willing and able to complete
      imaging procedures
    
  