
    
      A medical device for magnetic therapy for spinal cord injuries (SCI) will be disclosed. The
      apparatus comprises a combination of several magnets enclosed in a supportive cover. The
      magnets are placed in a proper position and their polarity can be changed at any time without
      any difficulty.

      The device provides a source of stimulation for the nerve to achieve therapeutic results and
      rehabilitation of patients with spinal trauma or stroke.

      A spinal cord injury - damage to any part of the spinal cord or nerves at the end of the
      spinal canal - often causes permanent changes in strength, sensation and other body functions
      below the site of the injury.

      Many scientists are optimistic that advances in research will someday make the repair of
      spinal cord injuries possible. Research studies are ongoing around the world. In the
      meantime, treatments and rehabilitation allow many people with a spinal cord injury to lead
      productive, independent lives.

      The effects of SCI depend on the type of injury and the level of the injury. SCI can be
      divided into two types of injury - complete and incomplete.

      Complete: A complete injury means that there is no function below the level of the injury; no
      sensation and no voluntary movement. Both sides of the body are equally affected.

      Incomplete: An incomplete injury means that there is some functioning below the primary level
      of the injury. A person with an incomplete injury may be able to move one limb more than
      another, may be able to feel parts of the body that cannot be moved, or may have more
      functioning on one side of the body than the other. With the advances in acute treatment of
      SCI, incomplete injuries are becoming more common.

      Spinal Magnetic Stimulation (SMS) is a relatively new way to use magnetism to affect the
      spinal cord. It is non-invasive, meaning that the procedure does not require any type of
      surgery; rather, it is conducted by transmitting magnetic pulses through the Spinal Cord by
      pressing a machine against the back.

      The Long term goal of this research project is the implementation of an effective,
      inexpensive therapy in patients with spinal cord injury. Another objective is the development
      of a cheap, presentable and comfortable magnetic device that causes neural stimulation to
      stop and reversing the signs and symptoms of Spinal Cord injury.

      The short-term objective is to prove that magneto stimulation is an intervention that
      reverses the signs and symptoms of Spinal Cord injury in an early and moderate State
    
  