
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is one of the leading causes of death worldwide and elevated
      levels of cholesterol and triglycerides on plasma lipoproteins are major contributing risk
      factors. Therapeutic agents that increase High Density Lipoproteins (HDL) may be useful
      additions to our current treatment approaches for preventing Coronary Heart Disease (CHD),
      because while existing drugs lower Low

      Density Lipoproteins (LDL), they do not fully prevent CHD. A potential new CHD treatment
      strategy has recently been described called Acute HDL Therapy, which involves weekly
      intravenous infusions of HDL, or HDL components (i.e. ApoA-I), or HDL mimetics into patients
      suffering from acute coronary syndrome. In early stage clinical trials, a 5-week course of
      this therapy has been shown to

      rapidly reduce atherosclerotic plaques, as assessed by intravascular ultrasound. The goal of
      Acute HDL Therapy is to rapidly stabilize patients at significant risk for developing a
      myocardial infarction, while concurrently starting them on conventional lipid lowering drugs
      and other agents already known to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction.

      This clinical research project is designed to investigate the safety and pharmacological
      properties of a short synthetic peptide mimic of Apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I), referred to as
      the 5A peptide (or peptide 5A). This 5A peptide can potentially be used instead of
      recombinant apoA-I in Acute HDL Therapy, and has several potential advantages over the use of
      recombinant apoA-I. When the 5A peptide is combined with sphingomyelin, the complex is
      referred to as the Fx-5A peptide-lipid complex. Fx-5A was specifically designed to remove
      excess cellular cholesterol via the ABCA1 transporter, which is thought to be one of the main
      anti-atherogenic functions of HDL. Furthermore, the peptide-lipid complex has been shown to
      mobilize macrophage cholesterol in animal models. Fx-5A markedly decreases the development of
      atherosclerotic plaque in preclinical models, such as in apoE-deficient mice, while also
      decreasing macrophage recruitment and foam cell formation in the rabbit collar model.
      Separately, animal models have shown that Fx-5A can also minimize inflammation associated
      with diseases like asthma, colitis and chronic kidney disease.

      The current research project is designed as a Phase 1A, open-label, dose-escalation study to
      evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of a single
      intravenous infusion of the Fx-5A peptide-lipid complex at 4 different doses in healthy
      subjects. Each of the 4 dosing cohorts (2.5, 5.0, 10.0 and 20.0 mg/kg) will enroll 4
      subjects.

      For each dosing cohort, there are three distinct phases of this study; Screening,
      Intervention, and Follow-Up.
    
  