
    
      The study involves a 34-day hospital stay during which we will conduct metabolic iron balance
      studies wherein deferasirox and deferoxamine are evaluated separately and in combination,
      each subject serving as his/her own control. In the studies currently proposed, deferasirox
      (20, 30 or 40 mg/kg, administered p.o. 30 minutes before breakfast) and deferoxamine (30, 40,
      50 or 60 mg/kg infused subcutaneously over 8 hours at night) will be evaluated both alone and
      in combination, the drugs being given sequentially as above or simultaneously wherein
      deferasirox is administered 30 minutes after beginning the infusion of deferoxamine. In the
      first phase of the studies, the combination of drugs will be given sequentially, deferasirox
      30 minutes prior to breakfast at a dose of 30 mg/kg and deferoxamine during the night at 40
      mg/kg.

      On days 5 - 10, the subjects will receive their first chelation regimen, deferoxamine infused
      subcutaneously over 8 hours during the night. They will receive a daily multivitamin
      preparation containing 60 -100 mg of vitamin C, 1 mg of folic acid and 400 I.U. of vitamin E.
      On days 15 - 20, the subjects will be given deferasirox 30 minutes prior to breakfast.
      Finally, on days 25 - 30, the subjects will receive both deferoxamine and deferasirox, the
      combination of drugs being given either sequentially (deferasirox in the morning and
      deferoxamine at night) or simultaneously (infusion of deferoxamine beginning 30 minutes prior
      to taking deferasirox). Non-drug days allow for clearance of stool iron induced by the
      previous treatment. A period of 4 days was chosen because this includes the normal
      gastrointestinal transit time of most individuals. A stool marker (brilliant blue) will be
      administered before the first and after the last dose of each drug to help in quantifying
      fecal iron excretion.

      Upon admission and discharge, each subject will be given a complete physical examination and
      various clinical and laboratory parameters will be measured. These include a routine blood
      profile (complete blood count with differential, and platelet count), a serum chemistry
      profile (fasting blood sugar, total protein, albumin, AST, ALT, BUN, creatinine, bilirubin
      (total), bilirubin (direct), alkaline phosphatase, uric acid, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium,
      zinc, copper, sodium, potassium, chloride and carbon dioxide) and a urinalysis (protein,
      beta-2 microglobulin, glucose, ketones, hemoglobin, pH, specific gravity and bacteria; if
      abnormal, a microscopic examination for RBC, WBC, casts, crystals and cells). Additional
      blood tests to be done at admission include serum ferritin, serum iron, iron binding
      capacity, % saturation, vitamin C, a serum pregnancy test, hepatitis C antibody and HIV-PCR
      with viral load. At the beginning and end of the study, an ophthalmology workup including a
      slit lamp and retinal examination, an audiogram, and an electrocardiogram will also be
      performed. In addition to those studies conducted upon admission and discharge, serial blood
      tests and urinalyses will be done on days 6, 10, 14, 16, 20, 24, 26 and 30 to ensure adequate
      monitoring of organ function.

      Each subject will be placed on a fixed low-iron diet consisting of four rotating meal plans
      designed by our nutritionists in consultation with the subjects themselves. Twenty-four hour
      specimens of urine and stool will be collected daily and their iron content determined by
      atomic absorption. Net excretion will be determined taking into account the iron content of
      all uneaten food. The excretion of copper and zinc will also be monitored to insure that
      these physiologically important metals are not depleted. Each subject will be given a unit of
      blood on days 1, 11, 21 and 34. This will ensure that the level of erythropoiesis is
      approximately the same before each drug regimen.

      In order to reduce the stress and boredom of the 34-day hospitalization, it is anticipated
      that the subjects will be studied in pairs so that they will always have someone in a similar
      situation to interact with. They will have free access to television, the internet and local
      phone service while in the clinical research unit. The subjects must eat breakfast and dinner
      in the research unit and sleep there. Otherwise, they may go out on pass during the day and
      after dinner in the evenings for shopping, entertainment, etc. We will pack their lunch if
      they choose to go out for the day as they will not be allowed to consume any food or drink
      other than what is provided in their agreed upon diet. Visitors will be allowed during normal
      hospital visiting hours.
    
  