
    
      Appropriate management reduces the mortality of severe trauma victims defined by an Injury
      Severity Score (ISS) greater than 15 or the need for specialized and/or urgent treatment.
      This is based on a pre-hospital medical assessment of severity, the initiation of life-saving
      treatments at the pre-hospital level, and referral to a hospital with human and material
      resources adapted to the patient's severity.

      The trauma hospital organisation in France is of the "exclusive" type. It contrasts trauma
      centres with other hospitals, only providing care for severe trauma victims in the former,
      which are most often confused with university hospitals. The choice of referral to this type
      of centre is made using a triage algorithm known as "de Vittel". In addition to an
      insufficient network within a region leading to longer hospital access time, this
      organisation leads to saturation of the referral centres by patients with few lesions. For
      this reason, this organisation has been rethought in an innovative way within the
      Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, in favour of an "inclusive" system that takes the form of a
      network of hospitals with capacities to receive severely traumatised patients that vary
      according to their equipment and personnel. Patients are referred within this network
      according to their severity category (unstable, stabilized or stable).

      The main objective is to show that the 28-day mortality of severely traumatized persons
      oriented according to their severity in an inclusive system is lower, at identical severity,
      than in a conventional exclusive system in which the orientation is guided by the Vittel
      algorithm.

      Secondary objectives are to show that the management of severe traumatized persons oriented
      according to their severity in an inclusive system, compared to the management in an
      exclusive conventional system in which the orientation is guided by the Vittel/ASCOTT
      algorithm, is associated, at identical severity, with :

        -  Less under-triage;

        -  Less over-triage;

        -  A lower incidence of secondary transfers to a trauma center;

        -  A greater number of days living without mechanical ventilation (during the first 28
           days);

        -  More days living without resuscitation (within the first 28 days);

        -  More frequent and rapid use of whole-body CT scans with contrast injection;

        -  More frequent and rapid use of specialized emergency therapies (laparotomy or hemostasis
           thoracotomy, embolization, craniectomy, intracranial pressure measurement, chest
           drainage).
    
  