
    
      The study will consist of 2 parts (Part-I and Part-II). In Part I of the study, kidney
      transplant recipients who are low-risk for rejection and meet the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria for study Part-I will be approached for informed consent in the peri-transplant
      period, defined as 7 days before to 5 days after transplantation. Basic clinical history and
      kidney transplant function that are reviewed for routine transplant care are utilized to
      screen patients who are approached for study discussion and informed consent.

      Patients who agree to participation in the study will have received Thymoglobulin induction
      of at least 4.5 mg/Kg body weight total dose. These patients will have their corticosteroids
      withdrawn by day 30 post-transplantation and will be followed with kidney function labs at
      least weekly through day-90 post-transplantation. Withdrawal of corticosteroids in patients
      who are immunologically at low risk for acute rejection similar to this study population and
      have received at least 4.5 mg/kg total dose of Thymoglobulin is standard practice. Patients
      meeting inclusion and exclusion criteria for Part-II of the study will continue with the
      study. Those failing to meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria for Part-II of the study will
      conclude the study and will be followed per CPMC standard of care.

      In Part II, study patients will be randomized to one of the two groups in a 2:1 ratio. Two
      patients will be randomized to the study group for every one patient to the standard of care
      group. A total of 75 patients will be enrolled. Fifty to the study group and 25 to the
      standard of care group. The patients will have post transplantation follow-up labs as
      standard of care and clinic visits also as standard of care. There are no additional clinic
      visits for the study purposes or study procedures. TruGraf blood will be collected at the
      same time as the standard of care blood tests and additional phlebotomy is not required.
    
  