
    
      The goal of this study is to compare a traditional single port expander with a two-port
      expander for equivalency when used for breast reconstruction following mastectomy.
      Complication rates that will be tracked include seroma, mastectomy skin flap necrosis,
      infection, wound dehiscence, need for explantation of the expander. Management of seromas
      will be compared between the two groups. The investigators hypothesize that the AlloX2
      expander will be as effective in achieving the final outcome of completion of the second
      stage of reconstruction with equal or improved complication rates.

      Study Design A prospective 1:1 randomized, single center, open label study will compare the
      traditional 1- port tissue expander with the AlloX2 2-port expander placed during immediate
      tissue expander breast reconstruction. Due to the nature of the surgery, the study cannot be
      blinded. Patients will be followed until completion of expansion and exchange for the
      permanent implant which typically takes 2 to 3 months. Risks factors that have been
      previously identified to be associated with increased postoperative complications include
      smoking, obesity, breast size, diabetes, radiation therapy, and expander fill volume will be
      identified. The final outcome is completion of expansion and exchange to permanent implant.

      Standard operative procedure and postoperative care will be done. Both groups will have the
      same two external drains placed which is standard operative procedure. Complications will be
      noted at each postoperative clinic visit and entered into a database. Complication rates will
      be compared between the two groups and associations with risk factors will be analyzed. There
      will be no cross-over into the other group in case of reconstructive failure. Treatment
      failures will be treated in the same fashion in the two groups.
    
  