
    
      As in other Latin-american countries, access to rehabilitation programmes is limited, even
      though their effectiveness has been proved among patients with heart surgery and endorsed in
      current practice guidelines. In this randomised trial, the investigators aim to assess
      whether an integrative technological platform might improve the exercise capacity of patients
      that have undergone heart surgery.

      Eligible patients include adult (>18 years old) patients who have undergone any kind of heart
      surgery in the Hospital Gustavo Fricke between January and December 2016. Patients will be
      enrolled within 3 weeks of their cardiac surgery into the trial. Patients with any
      contraindication to physical exercise (see below), Parkinson's disease, severe dementia or
      psychiatric comorbidities that preclude the initiation of the programme will be excluded. All
      patients will receive physical training delivered by a group of physical therapists divided
      in twelve 90-minute sessions. The overall goal of these sessions will be to obtain a workload
      of 80% - 90% of maximum oxygen consumption (VO2) as established by ergospirometric
      assessments (Cardiovit CS-200). In addition to exercise, patients will also receive
      nutritional support, education, risk factor modification and psychological assessments using
      the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale that has been validated in Spanish-speaking
      countries.

      Randomisation will be performed by a statistician and study personnel will be kept unaware of
      the specific method used. Patients in the intervention arm will receive a telerehabilitation
      strategy comprised by a portable EKG device that will be aimed at establishing heart rate,
      stress responses and recovery times after physical activities. This sensor will be used to
      monitor compliance with a prescribed physical therapy programme. In addition, a second sensor
      will be deployed in the form of a smartphone application that will provide alerts for
      patients and healthcare providers whenever an adverse event is recorded. The application will
      also provide motivational messages for participants to optimize adherence to the exercise
      programme, as well as information regarding individual improvements in physical activities.

      All patients will undergo an ergospirometry at baseline, 4 weeks and 8 weeks after completion
      of the initial physical therapy sessions. Clinicians, outcome assessors and analysts well be
      kept unaware of treatment allocations. All analyses will be undertaken under the intention to
      treat principle. No prespecified subgroup analyses have been programmed.
    
  