
    
      Despite the relative ubiquity of breastfeeding-related pain, exploratory studies suggest
      women are largely unprepared for breastfeeding-related pain in the early postpartum period
      [1-3]. In turn, postpartum women often experience an incongruence between how breastfeeding
      is idealized by Western society, and the reality of their early breastfeeding experiences.
      Furthermore, painful breastfeeding experiences serve to intensify this incongruity and may
      lead to disillusionment, feelings of negative self-worth and premature breastfeeding
      cessation [1,3]. As such, the overarching goals of this one-year project are to compare usual
      prenatal education to anticipatory guidance to: 1) examine the effectiveness of a
      breastfeeding education session using anticipatory guidance on breastfeeding outcomes and
      satisfaction during the postpartum period; and 2) test the feasibility of the methods and
      procedures needed for the successful implementation and validity of a full-scale randomized
      controlled trial (RCT). This one-year project has 5 objectives:

      To fill a knowledge gap in nursing and allied health-related literature by examining the
      effect of a one-hour, nurse-led, breastfeeding education session using anticipatory guidance
      during pregnancy on: Objective 1: breastfeeding duration and exclusivity versus those
      receiving usual prenatal education; Objective 2: overall satisfaction with the educational
      experience versus those receiving usual prenatal education; Objective 3: breastfeeding
      self-efficacy and infant feeding attitudes; Objective 4: postpartum breastfeeding-related
      pain and; Objective 5: To determine if this intervention study protocol is practical (e.g.,
      accrual rates, satisfaction, compliance, sample size) and to test the process, resources,
      management and scientific basis [4] for a future, full-scale RCT.

      Forty pregnant women enrolled in prenatal classes provided by the Middlesex London Health
      Unit (MLHU) and who are intending to breastfeed will be enrolled in this feasibility
      randomized controlled trial.

      Following ethics approval, interested pregnant women who have enrolled in/awaiting antenatal
      classes at the MLHU will contact the RA to discuss the study. Interested women will be
      screened for eligibility, and if eligible and consenting, baseline data will be collected.
      Participants will then be randomized to either intervention (n=20) or control group (n=20).
      Randomization will be achieved by using sealed, opaque, sequentially numbered envelopes
      containing randomly generated numbers, prepared by an RA external to the study. An RA will
      open the next sequentially numbered envelope and reveal the group allocation to the
      participant. The control group will receive usual antenatal education provided to all women
      who enroll in MLHU prenatal classes. The intervention group will receive an additional
      one-hour 'booster session' (by a perinatal RN) of antenatal education specifically focused on
      the postpartum experience of breastfeeding, including anticipatory guidance around
      breastfeeding-related pain, and management strategies. To control for contamination, women
      who have peers/family already in the study will be excluded. An emailed link to a follow-up
      questionnaire will be sent at 2 and 4 weeks postpartum to determine if they are breastfeeding
      or not, breastfeeding exclusivity, level of breastfeeding-related pain, breastfeeding
      self-efficacy, maternal attitudes toward infant feeding, and maternal satisfaction with
      antenatal education.
    
  