
    
      Outcomes:

      Primary Outcome Measures:

      • The duration of insertion between the Foley catheter groups with and without a stylette.

      Secondary Outcome Measures:

      • Pain assessed by visual analogue scale (VAS), in women randomly allocated to rigid stylette
      or no rigid stylette placement of a Foley catheter for induction of labor.

      Tertiary Outcome Measure:

      • Compare the failure rate of the placement of a Foley catheter for induction of labor in
      women randomly allocated to rigid stylette or no rigid stylette

      Design and Methods:

      The decision to proceed with induction of labor with Foley catheter will be made by the
      attending obstetrician caring for the patient. Women requiring induction of labor will be
      consented to be in the study when the need for induction is confirmed. After obtaining
      informed consent, the nurse involved in the patient care will be notified of the patient's
      participation in the study. Random assignment to either a Foley bulb with 5 French stylette
      versus without will be achieved by the resident physician selecting the next sealed, opaque
      envelopes containing the assignment information. The envelopes only show the randomization
      number on the outside. Envelopes will be kept on the Labor and Delivery ward. It will be
      impossible for the performing physician or the patient to be blinded to the condition of the
      study due to the instruments needed for the different techniques. The performing physician
      will be decided prior to the envelop selection and will be the same resident physician who
      obtained the patient's Bishop Score. A 22 French Foley catheter will be used in both groups
      of the study. A 5 French stylette (also known as a rigid catheter guide or urethral
      manipulator used in the TVT procedure) will be used in the group assigned to the stylette.

      Pre-induction cervical examination and assessment of Bishop score to be done by an OB/GYN
      resident physician (PGY 2-4) on the labor and delivery ward. Insertion technique for the
      Foley bulb with or without the 5 French stylette will be started in the same way. The patient
      will be placed in the dorsal lithotomy position. The labor bed will be disassembled in the
      normal fashion as is done for laboring patients with the foot of the bed removed. The
      patient's feet will then be placed in foot rests. The OB/GYN resident (PGY 2-4) will then
      perform a vaginal examination to identify the internal os. The Foley catheter, with or
      without stylette, will then be guided over the examiner's hand and into the endocervix. When
      the Foley balloon is past the internal os, the balloon will be inflated with 50cc normal
      saline. The Foley catheter will be placed on gentle traction and taped to the right medial
      thigh of the patient. Gentle traction will be reapplied every 30-60 minutes with
      reapplication of the tape to the right medial thigh by the Registered Nurse. This will be
      continued until expulsion of the Foley balloon or at a maximum duration of 12-24 hours. After
      expulsion of the Foley balloon, induction of labor will be further carried out with oxytocin
      infusion and/or with artificial rupture of membranes.. If the Foley catheter is removed at 24
      hours status post insertion, the procedure will counted as a failed induction of labor with
      the Foley catheter and other methods of induction will be continued (i.e. Misoprostol,
      Artificial rupture or membranes, Oxytocin, etc.).

      The time will begin at the start of the vaginal examination for placement of the Foley
      catheter and end after the balloon has been filled completely with saline.

      Timeframe: Participants will be enrolled from April 2013 to January 2014 or until we have
      successfully enrolled 128 (64 per group) participants in the study. Data will be collected
      throughout the duration of the study to allow for all information from the hospital stay to
      be entered in the patient's medical record. Data analysis will occur from January 2014 to
      February 2014. Data presentation could occur up to 2 years after the complete of the study.

      Data Collection:

      The following variables will be recorded: Age; Race (0=NA; 1=Caucasian; 2=African
      American/Black; 3=Hispanic; 4=Asian 5=Other); BMI; Gravidity and Parity; Gestational Age;
      Reason for Indication for Induction (0=NA; 1=Post-term pregnancy; 2=Spontaneous Rupture of
      the Membranes; 3=Maternal disease; 4=Fetal indications; 5=Psychosocial parameters; 6= In
      vitro fertilization; 7=Advanced maternal age; 8 Maternal Request; 9=Other); History of
      Previous Cesarean Deliveries; Diabetes mellitus (0=NA; 1=Type I; 2=Type II; 3=Prediabetes;
      4=GDM); Hypertensive disorders (0=NA; 1=Chronic HTN; 2= Gestational HTN; 3=Mild Preeclampsia;
      4=Severe Preeclampsia; 5=Eclampsia); Renal Disease (0=No; 1=Yes); Other Comorbidities (0=No;
      1=Yes); Documented Chorioamnionitis (0=No; 1=Yes); Epidural (0=No; 1=Yes); Inadvertent
      Rupture of Membranes (0=No; 1=Yes); Type of Delivery; Pain Assessment (0-10); Patient
      Satisfaction; Type of Delivery.

      Points of time recorded will be: Time of insertion (Placement of Foley catheter); Time of
      expulsion of catheter; Time taken to place catheter; Time oxytocin started; Time oxytocin
      ended; Duration of treatment (Insertion to expulsion); Duration of induction (induction to
      delivery); Duration of oxytocin.

      All variables will be recorded on an Excel spreadsheet by the resident physician or study
      coordinator. See attached example.
    
  