
    
      Almost half of the causes of death in the industrial world are due to cardio-vascular
      disease. Two of the main risk factors for CV disease have become much more prevalent during
      the last decades, reaching epidemic dimensions in the 21st century: hypertension and obesity.
      In 2003-2004, 66% of the adult US population had a BMI over 25, while 32% had a BMI over 30
      .Hypertension is more prevalent in obese than in lean subjects .The cause and effect
      relationship between these two conditions is supported by the fact that weight loss is
      associated with a decrease in blood pressure .

      Salt retention by the kidney is one of the important mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis
      of hypertension in obesity. Studies in animal models and in humans showed that increased salt
      reabsorption occurs in the tubules in obesity . Another renal functional abnormality
      occurring in obesity is glomerular hyperfiltration, characterized by increased RPF and
      increased GFR up to twice the normal level . The structural basis to these functional
      abnormalities is renal hypertrophy and glomerular enlargement.

      These functional and structural abnormalities have deleterious consequences:

        1. Increased urinary albumin excretion. Microalbuminuria, an important risk factor for CV
           disease, has a high prevalence in obese subjects .

        2. Increased risk for the development of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, the so-called
           obesity related glomerulopathy. The incidence of this disease has multiplied 10 times
           within 15 yrs in the USA .

        3. Increased rate of progression of chronic renal insufficiency in kidney disease not
           primarily caused by obesity. Following initial glomerular damage from any cause, the
           number of remnant functioning glomeruli decreases. The consequent compensatory increase
           in single nephron filtration rate of these remnant glomeruli leads to further glomerular
           damage in kidney disease not related to obesity . In the obese with chronic renal
           damage, the obesity related hyperfiltration amplifies the compensatory augmentation in
           single nephron GFR of remnant nephrons, thus worsening glomerular damage, irrespective
           of the cause of the primary insult.

      The clinical relevance of these abnormalities is reflected in the sharp increase in the risk
      of developing end stage renal disease in the obese. This relative risk, independently of
      confounders as diabetes mellitus, hypertension and dyslipidemia, is 3 to 5 depending on the
      severity of obesity .

      Considering the role of hyperfiltration in the pathogenesis of CKD in the obese, attenuation
      of hyperfiltration by pharmacological means may slow down the development and progression of
      chronic renal failure. One of the tools available is activating TGF. Tubuloglomerular
      feedback (TGF) refers to the alterations in GFR that can be induced by changes in tubular
      flow rate. An increase in the delivery of chloride to the macula densa results in a reduction
      in GFR, resulting in a decrease in the tubular flow rate delivered to the macula densa . An
      increase in chloride delivery to the macula densa can be obtained by administrating
      acetazolamide, a diuretic acting on the proximal tubule. We have previously shown that
      administration of acetazolamide to obese subjects results in attenuation of glomerular
      hyperfiltration.

      The aim of the present study is to show that the effect of acetazolamide on GFR is specific
      and not due to its diuretic effect. We will study the effects of furosemide, a diuretic which
      does not activate TGF ,on GFR and RPF in obese subjects.

      METHODS

      Inclusion criteria:

      10 obese men (BMI>30), aged 18 to 55, with glomerular hyperfiltration (creatinine
      clearance>130 ml/min) will be included in the study.

      Exclusion criteria:

      Any of the following conditions:

        -  Heart failure

        -  Known allergy to furosemide, inulin or amino-hippurate

        -  Pharmacologic treatment for hypertension, cardiac disease, diabetes mellitus

        -  Treatment with corticosteroids or NSAID

      Methods:

      A 24-hour urine collection will be performed during the week prior to the renal function test
      studies for assessment of sodium intake. Subjects will receive 300 mg of lithium carbonate at
      22.00 the day before the renal function tests. They will be instructed to drink 250 ml of
      water at bedtime. Renal function tests will start at 08.00 a.m. after a 10-hour fast,
      excepting a drink of 250 ml of water at 07.00 a.m. Intravenous catheters will be placed in
      each upper limb for infusion of clearance markers and blood sampling. After blood sampling
      for urea, creatinine, proteins, glucose, electrolytes, blood gases, insulin, renin,
      aldosterone, Hba1c, CBC. A priming dose of inulin (50 mg/kg) and p-aminohippuric acid (8
      mg/kg) will be administered. Thereafter, inulin and p-aminohippuric acid will be infused
      continuously. A 200-300 ml water load will be given during the first 60-min prime. Four
      accurately timed urine collections of 40-60 minutes will then be obtained by spontaneous
      voiding. Peripheral venous blood will be drawn to bracket each urine collection. Arterial
      pressure will be measured by a trained observer, after 30 minutes of rest in the supine
      position, using an electronic oscillometric blood pressure measuring device (Datascope,
      Accutorr). The cuff will be appropriately sized to the diameter of the arm and the arm
      positioned at the heart level. At least 4 measurements will be performed during the study,
      each measurement being the mean of 3 readings.

      Subjects will be started on furosemide 20 mg every 12 hours, starting on day 1 at 15.00 after
      the renal function studies. Nine doses will be taken, the last dose on day 4 at 7 am.

      In case the blood pressure does not decrease following 20 mg bid furosemide administration,
      the study will be repeated after 4 weeks using a dose of 40 mg bid.

      Laboratory procedures: Plasma and urinary concentrations of inulin and p-aminohippuric acid
      will be analyzed by colorimetric methods (22,23). Lithium in serum and urine will be measured
      using the ICP-OES (Inductively Coupled Plasma Optical Emission Spectrometer) method. Urine
      microalbumin will be determined by competitive chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay (Imulite,
      DPC, Los Angeles, CA, USA).

      Calculations: GFR will be determined from the average value for the timed inulin clearances,
      and renal plasma flow (RPF) - from the average value for the timed p-aminohippurate
      clearances. The fractional excretion of lithium (FE Li) will be calculated as lithium
      clearance / GFR, using two timed urine collections. FE Li will be determined as the average
      value for these two measurements Statistical Analysis: The significance of differences
      between groups will be evaluated by paired and unpaired two-tailed Student's t-test. The
      Student's t-test will be applied to non-normally distributed data (albumin excretion rate and
      fractional lithium excretion) after log transformation. P<0.05 will be considered as
      significant. The response to treatment with furosemide will be compared to the previously
      studied response to treatment with acetazolamide.
    
  