
    
      False alarms may be particularly prevalent in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) where
      uncontrolled motion of infants can intensify the problem. The performance of pulse oximeters
      is of particular importance in the NICU because of the danger that both hyperoxemia and
      hypoxemia pose to newborns; hyperoxemia can lead to chronic lung disease or retinopathy of
      prematurity, and hypoxemia depresses spontaneous ventilation. High false alarm rates
      contribute to the problem of noise in the NICU. They also have the potential to endanger
      patients if clinicians become inured to the continual alarms and ignore some that may be
      clinically relevant. There have been few studies on the utility of pulse oximeter alarms in
      the NICU, particularly with the new-generation technology. This study will build on the small
      body of existing literature on alarm rates in new-generation pulse oximeters in neonates and
      provide details about the relationship of the alarms to clinical interventions.

      This is an observational study of 50 infants at three hospitals in the United States. The
      observer will be an experienced nurse with comprehensive training to ensure consistency. The
      infants and clinical staff will be observed for four hours continuously. Observers will note
      the timing of alarms, response, interrupted clinical staff activities, and any clinical
      interventions, and timing of interventions. Clinical staff will also be questioned on whether
      the alarm was consistent with a desaturation event. Infant characteristics may affect the
      frequency of alarms. Data collected will include age, gender, weight, ethnicity, diagnosis,
      and medications.

      This study will evaluate the proportion of nuisance alarms relative to the proportion of
      clinically relevant alarms. It will also evaluate the differences in alarm frequencies across
      infant characteristics and characterize nurse activities interrupted by the alarms.
    
  