
    
      The following is a presentation of a prospective protocol, named FIGHHT, including patients
      with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (HNSCC) who are referred for surgery.

      This is a prospective imaging/biomarker expression study where patients referred for surgery
      for HNSCC will be included. The purpose of the study is to investigate if heterogeneity in
      HNSCC as seen in functional imaging with PET/MR can be correlated to biologic heterogeneity
      in surgical specimens.

      Multiparametric imaging(MPI) is performed before surgery using a PET/MR system (Siemens
      Biograph mMR) with a 3 T magnet using a head and neck coil. The scan protocol includes
      diffusion weighted MRI, dynamic contrast enhanced perfusion MRI and FDG-PET (4 MBq/kg).
      Morphometric imaging is performed with a 3D T2 weighted sequence (SPACE, voxel size 1.0 mm
      isotropic in vivo and 0.5 mm isotropic for specimens).

      The scans are evaluated by a radiologist and a specialist in nuclear medicine and regions of
      interest and reference areas (anatomical landmarks) are marked. The tumor and if indicated
      lymp nodes are removed en bloc and per-operatively the reference areas and other anatomical
      landmarks are marked in the specimen with intravenous tubes. The specimen is fixed to a
      corkboard and scanned morphometric (as described) using a knee coil before and after formalin
      fixation within 1 hour after surgery. The whole surgical specimen is sectioned for
      histological processing.

      Tissue blocks will undergo microscopic pathological evaluation and IHC staining. The specific
      selection of cancer related IHC biomarkers is based on their relationship with tumor cell
      metabolism, radiotherapy resistance (proliferation and hypoxia), association with FDG
      accumulation and institutional experience from a previous study.

      The quantified measurements from the FDG PET, DWI and DCE scan will be correlated to the
      expression of IHC biomarkers.
    
  