
    
      Informing the patient an obtaining informed consent is one of the major duties physicians
      have to perform before beginning a medical treatment. However, patients often experience the
      informed consent taking as not satisfying. In the past, several approaches were used to try
      to improve the informed consent taking, such as printed information sheets and multimedia
      tools.

      A novel concept introduced several years ago is the utilization of a multimedia tool
      including a so-called traffic light system. At our clinic, a computer-based tutorial for
      informed consent of patients undergoing cataract surgery ("CatInfo" tool) was developed and
      tested. The patients see and hear a presentation covering the topics of cataract disease, the
      surgery, and associated risks and complications. After each chapter a graphic representation
      of a traffic light is shown on the screen. At this page the patient has three choices: if the
      patient understood everything and wish to continue, the green bar has to be clicked; if there
      are further questions, the patient clicks the yellow bar; or if the patient wishes to repeat
      the chapter due to any reason, the patient clicks the red bar.

      In previous studies, it was shown that patients who used the CatInfo tool had better
      knowledge about cataract surgery compared to the ones that saw a placebo video. Furthermore,
      the overall satisfaction of patients with the CatInfo tool was high (median 9.1 of 10
      measured with a visual analogue scale).

      Since many cataract patients benefited from using the CatInfo tool, the idea arose to create
      and test a similar multimedia information tool for patients receiving a drug injection into
      the vitreous of the eye for treatment of retinal diseases (e.g. patients suffering from
      neovascular age-related macular degeneration, diabetic macular edema, or retinal venous
      occlusive disease). Therefore, the "MacInfo" tool was developed as a multidisciplinary
      project including patients, graphic designers, and ophthalmologists.

      Furthermore, it would be helpful for the physician to have a legal valid and written
      documentation of the informed consent process, serving as proof that the patient was informed
      correctly about all necessary topics concerning the medical treatment, expected benefits,
      risks, complications, etc. A novel and technology-driven approach may be the use of Automated
      Speech Recognition (ASR). ASR records the informed consent discussion, followed by an
      algorithmic analysis of the conversation, and a subsequent translation of the interaction
      into a legally valid document.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate if the "MacInfo" tool improves the patients' knowledge
      about intravitreal drug injections, associated risks and the underlying diseases of
      treatment-naive patients and if ASR is a suitable technology for improving informed consent
      process documentation in daily routine.
    
  