
    
      Among Asian patients, intracranial stenosis is more common and accounts for about 30-50% of
      all strokes. The risk of recurrent stroke or TIA in presence of intracranial stenosis of a
      major intracranial artery and recent TIA/ stroke is about 23% at 1 year despite treatment.
      Recurrence rate for stroke/TIA in intracranial atherosclerosis is dependent on degree of
      stenosis as well as presence of collaterals. In WASID study, patients with more than 70%
      stenosis had greater risk of recurrent event then those with 50-69%. Interestingly, patients
      with more than 70% intracranial stenosis with good collaterals demonstrated a lower risk for
      subsequent cerebral ischemic events.

      The two main mechanisms of ischemic stroke (IS) in these patients are thromboembolism and
      cerebral hemodynamic insufficiency. While Transcranial Doppler (TCD) monitoring can establish
      thrombo-embolic phenomenon and help in planning the appropriate antithrombotic treatment,
      assessment of dynamic cerebral hemodynamic insufficiency remains a complex issue, and may
      serve as a potential target for improving the outcomes (and reducing recurrent cerebral
      ischemia) in patients with severe intracranial stenoses.

      Treatment options for Intracranial stenosis:

      Anti-platelet agents are recommended for secondary prevention of IS. WASID trial compared
      warfarin with INR of 2-3 against aspirin, did not show any difference in outcome of stroke
      recurrence. Furthermore, aspirin was found to be safer as compared to warfarin.

      Use of short-term double antiplatelet therapy is shown to be effective in reducing stroke/TIA
      recurrence risk. In CLAIR study, patients with recent symptoms (</=7 days) and with
      intracranial stenosis were randomized to clopidogrel and aspirin versus aspirin monotherapy.
      Combination anti-platelet therapy reduced micro-embolic signals on TCD on Day 2 and 7. Use of
      double antiplatelet in intracranial stenosis was also supported by findings of SAMMPRIS trial
      in which patient with recent stroke of TIA with 70-99% intracranial stenosis were randomized
      to angioplasty or maximal medical treatment. The 90 day recurrence risk of 5.8% in the
      medical arm was much lower than 10.7% recurrence rate observed in WASID trial.

      Surgical treatment:

      Extracranial to intracranial bypass has been compared with medical management in patients
      with intracranial stenosis and it did not lower the risk of recurrent ischemic stroke.
      Furthermore, it was associated with worse outcome as compared to medical management. Also,
      the recently published COSS study failed to show any benefit of surgical treatment for
      carotid occlusion, largely related to better than expected event rates in the medical arm.

      Endovascular Treatment:

      Endovascular treatment has been used as a potential therapeutic option for intracranial
      atherosclerosis. In 2005, FDA approved self expanding Wingspan stent for use in medically
      refractory patients who harbor 50-99% stenosis of major intracranial artery. In 2011
      Chimowitz et al published results of SAMMPRIS trial, which compared percutaneous
      trans-luminal angioplasty and stenting with medical management. Patients with recent TIA or
      stroke attributed to 70-99% stenosis of intracranial vessels were recruited in this trial.
      Enrollment of this trial was stopped after 451 patients were recruited as angioplasty and
      stenting group was associated with 14.7% event rate (stroke or death) at 30-days as compared
      to medical management arm (5.8% event rate).

      Cerebral vasodilatory reserve:

      The assessment of cerebral vasodilatory reserve (CVR) in patients with persistent arterial
      occlusive disease is important since inadequate CVR in symptomatic patients is considered a
      major risk factor for subsequent ischemic events. By using refined techniques for measuring
      cerebral blood volume (CBV) and cerebral blood flow (CBF), in addition to standard clinical
      and angiographic studies, it is possible to identify a small subgroup of patients with
      impaired CVR who are at risk of subsequent stroke. Accordingly, impaired CVR is often
      regarded as the basis for performing extra-/intracranial (EC/IC) bypass surgery with the aim
      of increasing CBF and restore CVR in this highly selected patient subgroup.

      Identifying patients who are at increased risk for hemodynamic stroke is important because
      they may benefit from flow augmentation procedures, such as carotid endarterectomy, EC-IC
      bypass, or even angioplasty. The cerebral hemodynamic status can be determined by measuring
      CBF before and after vasodilatory challenge, which can be done with either hypercapnia or
      acetazolamide. Acetazolamide, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, has been shown to increase CBF
      in healthy subjects by inducing transient vasodilatation.

      Cerebral autoregulation enables a constant CBF over a wide range of systemic blood pressure
      by varying the diameter of the intracranial arterioles. This may fail in some patients with
      severe steno-occlusive disease. TCD can measure vasomotor reactivity (VMR) by assessment of
      flow velocities in response to increasing carbon dioxide levels. This can be performed by
      simple breath-holding test and calculating the so-called 'breath holding index (BHI)', BHI is
      calculated as the relative increase in the MFV during breath holding divided by the time of
      apnea in seconds. In normal persons, the BHI amounts to 1.2±0.6. Silverstrini et al
      prospectively evaluated BHI in case-controlled studies and showed that impaired VMR can help
      to identify patients at higher risk of stroke in a population with asymptomatic carotid
      stenosis or a previously symptomatic carotid occlusion. A decreased VMR suggests failure of
      collateral flow to adapt to the stenosis progression. Various studies, using different
      provocative measures for assessing the VMR, demonstrated a remarkable ipsilateral event rate
      of around 30% (30% risk of stroke/ TIA during about 2 years).

      In a recent study, the investigators demonstrated the phenomenon of 'intracranial steal' in
      patients with persisting intracranial occlusions where, hypercapnia can paradoxically
      decrease the residual flow velocity in the affected vessel at the expected time of normal
      brain vasodilation when blood pool is shifted to non-ischemic areas. The phenomenon of
      "reversed Robin Hood", an analogy with "rob the poor to feed the rich" was replicated by
      acetazolamide-challenged HMPAO-SPECT imaging. The investigators have demonstrated recently
      the value of multimodality evaluation of CVR is feasible and may aid in taking therapeutic
      decisions regarding revascularization procedures.

      Enhanced External Counter Pulsation (EECP) is a new noninvasive therapy used to treat
      patients with angina, congestive heart failure, acute myocardial infarction and cardiogenic
      shock by augmenting blood flow to the cardiac and systemic arterial circuits. EECP's
      hemodynamic effects include 20% to 25% improvement in arterial flow volume in the carotid,
      renal and hepatic arteries, with a 20% to 40% improvement in coronary artery blood flow
      accompanied by a 12% increase in left ventricular (LV) stroke volume.

      EECP as a frontline treatment for revascularization in patients with angina refractory to
      medical therapy has shown similar findings to coronary artery bypass and percutaneous
      coronary interventions including improvement in cardiac functional class, decreased anginal
      episodes, and reduction in nitroglycerin use. EECP has been shown to produce similar
      hemodynamic effects to intra-aortic balloon pumps (IABP), yet is a noninvasive technology
      carrying less implementation risk.

      Lastly, TCD measurements in recovering ischemic stroke patients undergoing EECP have
      demonstrated a significant increase in MCA flow velocities. Peak diastolic augmented
      velocities (PDAV) averaged 72 + 29 cm/second a 196% increase in flow(RMCA), and 78 + 30
      cm/second a 199% increase in flow (LMCA) on EECP, significantly higher than pre-procedural
      EDV (RMCA 37+11cm/second, p=0.014; LMCA 39+9cm/second, p=0.022). Given the altered waveform
      morphology, traditional calculation of MFV using peak systole and end-diastole would fail to
      capture EECP's flow augmentation effects. Augmented MFV (AMFV) was recalculated by
      substituting EDV with a measure derived from the summed average of PDAV and EDV (augmented
      diastolic velocity [ADV]).

      Patients in whom a long stenotic segment involved both terminal ICA and proximal MCA would be
      classified as having a steno-occlusive disease of terminal ICA. Steno-occlusive disease of
      ICA or MCA would be considered severe (>70%) according to the velocity criteria and presence
      of 'blunted' flow spectra in the arterial segment distal to the stenosis. Therefore, tandem
      lesions in a single arterial tree (intracranial ICA and MCA, proximal MCA and distal MCA,
      extracranial ICA and ipsilateral intracranial ICA or extracranial ICA and ipsilateral MCA),
      if associated with blunted flow spectra in distal MCA would qualify the criteria for >70%
      stenosis. Importantly, the TCD diagnostic criteria for intracranial stenosis in our
      neurovascular laboratory have been validated against CT angiography.

      Patients would be randomized (1:1 by using drawing previously prepared chits in a bag) into
      either maximal medical management (plus sham EECP) or maximal medical management plus EECP.
      EECP sessions are planned 5 times/week for a total of 35 sessions. CVR would be measured at
      baseline as well as at 4 months of EECP treatment initiation. Improvement in CVR on
      symptomatic side would be measured by TCD-BHI as well as acetazolamide challenged HMPAO-SPECT
      and compared with patients in medical management (and sham EECP) arm for significant
      difference. Patients will also be followed up for recurrence of stroke/TIA during the study
      period.

      Maximal medical management would be same in both groups as per the current AHA/ASA
      guidelines. Briefly, all ischemic stroke cases with intracranial stenosis receive dual
      antiplatelet agents (aspirin and clopidogrel for 1 month followed by clopidogrel or aspirin
      long term). The investigators aim to keep HbA1c at 7% or less in all cases. Blood pressure
      target in the stroke patients eligible for this study (at least 1 month after acute stroke)
      is less than 140/90mmHg. For lipids, the target LDL is less than 2.6mmol/L.
    
  