
    
      This single centre, randomized cross-over study includes ten consecutive stable chronic
      hemodialysis (HD) patients who experienced stable dialysis sessions during the last 4 weeks,
      and had no known coagulation disorder, active inflammation or malignancy.

      Double-needle vascular access is achieved through a native arterio-venous fistula or a
      well-functioning double lumen tunnelled central venous catheter.

      In a first test series, each patient is dialyzed for 240min (at midweek) in 4 different
      regimens, randomly using 2 different dialyzers and 2 different anticoagulation schemes.
      Patients receive their regular brand of Low-Molecular-Weight Heparin anticoagulation at the
      beginning of the dialysis session, and this randomly either at their regular dose (full dose
      1/1) or at only 50% of their regular dose (half dose 1/2). All test sessions are performed
      with blood flow at 300mL/min and dialysate flow at 500mL/min in post dilution
      hemodiafiltration (HDF) mode (substitution flow 75mL/min). Ultrafiltration rates is set
      according to the patient's interdialytic weight gain and clinical status:

        1. ATA™ Solacea 19H - HDF - 1/1 anticoagulation

        2. ATA™ Solacea 19H - HDF - 1/2 anticoagulation

        3. polysulfone FX800 - HDF - 1/1 anticoagulation

        4. polysulfone FX800 - HDF - 1/2 anticoagulation

      During the 4 experimental midweek sessions, blood is sampled from the arterial and venous
      blood lines, and spent dialysate is sampled from the outlet line, all at 60min after the
      dialysis start. Blood samples are immediately centrifuged and serum and dialysate are stored
      at -80°C until batch analysis.

      Concentrations of urea, kappa and lambda free light chains, and myoglobin are determined.
      Extraction ratios and adsorption on the membrane are calculated from concentrations.

      At the end of the dialysis session, a standard rinsing procedure of the hemodialyzer is
      performed using exact 300mL rinsing solution. Next, the hemodialyzer is dried using
      continuous positive pressure ventilation. Dialyzer fibre blocking is visualized in the
      dialyzer outlet potting using a 3D CT scanning technique on micrometer resolution. HECTOR is
      a High Energy CT scanner Optimized for Research, built by the Ghent University Centre for
      X-ray Tomography (UGCT) in collaboration with the UGCT spin-off company XRE (Gent, Belgium).
      In front of the X-ray source, the dialyzer is mounted vertically on a precision rotation
      stage, and radiographies were recorded over 360° with an angular interval of 0.15°. Scan
      conditions are optimized to maximize the signal-to-noise ratio based on the sample size and
      structure, and the scanner properties. The tube voltage is set at 80kV, at a power of 20
      Watts, the maximal power that allowed imaging at a resolution of 25µm. A total of 2401
      projections are recorded with 500ms exposure each, resulting in a total exposure time of 20
      minutes. Acquired images at 0 (projection 1) and 360° (projection 2401) are compared to
      exclude movement of the hemodialyzer during the scanning process. Reconstruction of the raw
      projection data is performed with the Octopus Reconstruction software package, licensed by
      XRE23.

      Fibers are counted in the central cross-section of the dialyzer outlet potting in a
      computer-based way using the Fiji image processing toolkit of ImageJ analysis software
      (ImageJ 1.51H, NIH, Bethesda, USA), an open-source platform for biological-image analysis.

      In a second test series in 10 stable HD patients, no blood sampling is performed but
      dialyzers are scanned post dialysis. The following different dialyzers in HD modus at midweek
      are tested:

        1. ATA™ Solacea 19H - HD - 1/1 anticoagulation

        2. ATA™ Solacea 19H - HD - 1/2 anticoagulation

        3. polysulfone FX800 - HD - 1/1 anticoagulation

        4. polysulfone FX800 - HD - 1/2 anticoagulation

        5. polysulfone FX800 - HD - 1/2 anticoagulation - with predialysis albmuin priming of the
           membrane

        6. Evodial - HD - no anticoagulation

        7. Evodial - HD - no anticoagulation - with predialysis albmuin priming of the membrane

      In a third test series in 10 stable HD patients, no blood sampling is performed but dialyzers
      are scanned post dialysis. The following different dialyzers at midweek are tested:

        1. ATA™ Solacea 19H - pre dilution HDF (substitution 150mL/min) - 1/4 anticoagulation

        2. ATA™ Solacea 19H - post dilution HDF (substitution 75mL/min) - 1/4 anticoagulation

        3. ATA™ Solacea 19H - HD - 1/4 anticoagulation

        4. ATA™ Solacea 19H - pre dilution HDF (substitution 150mL/min) - no anticoagulation

        5. ATA™ Solacea 19H - post dilution HDF (substitution 75mL/min) - no anticoagulation

        6. ATA™ Solacea 19H - HD - no anticoagulation

      First outcome measure: relative number of open fibers in each tested dialyzer. Second outcome
      measure: dialyzer performance (extraction ratio, adsorption).
    
  