
    
      This study uses vaccines named gp100 or MAGE-3 to immunize patients with melanoma. The type
      of melanoma they will be used for contains a protein that is also found in the vaccines.
      These vaccines are designed to stimulate immune cells, also called T cells, to recognize and
      kill melanoma cells. Leuprolide will be studied to determine whether it will (is designed to)
      improve your response to the vaccine.

      If you are eligible for this treatment, you will be assigned to one of the two groups that
      either receive one vaccine or two different vaccines, depending on your tissue type (either
      gp100 vaccine alone or gp100 and MAGE-3 vaccines). A small amount of the vaccine(s) will be
      injected under your skin to test your body's immune response to the vaccines. The size of the
      skin reaction will be measured at 48-72 hours. This skin test will be done before you receive
      any vaccine, at 6 months, and at 12 months, if possible.The participant and/or participant's
      family will be given detailed verbal and written instructions on how to measure any reaction
      to the skin tests. A data sheet and ruler (cm/mm) will be given to the participant.

      You will then be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of 2 treatment groups.
      Participants in one group will receive leuprolide with the vaccine(s). Participants in the
      other group will not receive leuprolide. Which group you are assigned to will depend
      partially on your age.

      If you are assigned to receive leuprolide injection, you will also have a bone mineral
      density test to check on the strength of your bones.

      Before the treatment starts, you will be asked to answer a questionnaire about your quality
      of life and sexual functioning. Then at 3 months and 12 months of treatment, you will be
      asked again to answer the same questionnaire. It should take about 20 minutes each time to
      finish the questionnaire.

      The vaccines will be injected in the skin every 3 weeks for a total of 48 weeks. Those
      patients in Group I will receive 32 injections of peptide, whereas those patients in Group II
      will receive 64 injections of peptide over a 48 week period. If you are assigned to receive
      leuprolide, then leuprolide will be injected in the muscle at the beginning of the study and
      at 12 weeks, for a total of 2 additional injections. Both the vaccine and leuprolide
      injections will be given each time at the melanoma outpatient clinic at M. D. Anderson.

      Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be taken at 6 weeks, 12 weeks, then every 12 weeks up to 48
      weeks, or at any time if your tumor starts to grow back. Researchers will use this blood to
      find out how well your immune cells are working to fight your tumor cells.

      At around 24 weeks and 48 weeks into treatment, your will have CT scans of the chest, abdomen
      and pelvis to check on the status of your disease. At around 24 weeks, if you are receiving
      leuprolide and had an abnormal bone mineral density test before the treatment, you will also
      have the second bone mineral density test to check on the strength of your bones.

      You may be taken off study if your disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur. If
      you are taken off study, you will be asked to have repeat scans and a physical exam,
      including blood (about 4 tablespoons) for routine tests.

      Following the first 48 week treatment period, you will be evaluated every 3 months for one
      year, every 4 months for one year, every 6 months for one year, and then once a year from
      then on if clinically feasible.

      You will have an MRI/CT of the brain, chest, abdomen and pelvis to check on the status of
      your disease. If your disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur, you will be taken
      off study.

      Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine lab tests. An additional 4 tablespoons
      of blood will be drawn at each follow-up visit to determine how long the t-cell counts remain
      high.

      This is an investigational study. Gp100 and MAGE-3 vaccines are experimental and authorized
      for research use only. Leuprolide is approved in treating prostate cancer patients and other
      gynecological diseases, but is not approved for treatment of melanoma. Up to 100 patients
      will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  