
    
      Slovenian athletes (n = 300; 18-40 years) of regional or national competitive standard will
      be recruited from the endurance oriented and power oriented sports disciplines. Healthy
      unrelated individuals without any competitive sport experience will serve as controls (n=
      200; 18-40 years). After completing the questionnaire (for athletes: covering demographics,
      geographic ancestry, sports classification, discipline, and history, as well as frequency and
      volume of training; for control group: demographics, geographic ancestry habits of daily
      living), genotyping analyses will be performed. The athletes and controls will be genotyped
      for 30 candidate gene polymorphisms considered likely to influence endurance performance.
      Molecular genetic analysis will be performed with DNA samples obtained from the capillary
      whole blood. Genotyping for 30 gene polymorphisms will be performed by Real-Time PCR on
      LightCycler® 96 Instrument (Roche) and KASP (Kompetitive Allele Specific PCR) genotyping
      technology.

      In addition, 40 athletes with endurance genetic variant will be selected to participate in
      the acute exercise study. In order to investigate the acute effects of low and high intensity
      exercise the concentration of circulating myokines will be measured.

      Three distinct experimental sessions scheduled 96 h apart, at the same time of the day and in
      random order will be applied to this sub-group of athletes.

      In the first session, aerobic power will be determined using an incremental test to
      exhaustion on a cycling ergometer (Velodyn, Racermate ™, USA). Oxygen consumption (VO2) will
      be determined breath by breath using a Quark gas analysis system (Quark, Cosmed, Rim, Italy).
      The interventions during the other two experimental session will consist of cycling exercise
      with continuous 60 min cycling at 50% PPO (low intensity), and 8 x 5 min at 80% PPO (between
      intervals 1.5 min at 75 W) exercise (high intensity).

      The participants will be asked to follow the prescribed diet regime, to avoid the intake of
      alcohol and to not perform any physical activity in the 24 hours prior to the experimental
      sessions. The experimental sessions will be performed from 8 to 11 am, in random order and
      scheduled 96 h apart.

      Before each intervention, the individuals will remain seated in the laboratory for a period
      of 20 minutes with a room temperature between 22-24ºC. During this period, resting blood
      samples will be collected. Two more samples of blood will be collected, immediately
      post-exercise intervention and 2h post-exercise. Venous blood will be collected into EDTA
      tubes, centrifuge at 2500-3000g for 20 minutes, and a separate plasma will be stored at -80 °
      C for the further analysis.

      The quantification of biomarkers will be done using the MAGPIX® system, magnetic bead-based
      multi-analyte panels and MILLIPLEX® Analyst 5.1 software (MAGPIX®, Merck Millipore). For the
      myokine analysis a commercial kit HMYOMAG-56K will be used.

      Genotype distribution and allele frequencies between each of the two groups of athletes
      (endurance and power) and controls will be compared using χ2 tests. Endurance genotype score
      (EGS) will be construct. First, each genotype will be scored within each polymorphism. Thus,
      a genotype score (GS) of 2, 1 and 0 to each individual genotype theoretically associated to
      highest, medium or lowest potential of endurance phenotypes will be assigned. Second, the GS
      of each single genotype will be summed ∑(i=1)^nSNPi. Third, the EGS will be transformed to a
      0-100 scale for easier interpretation, as follows: EGS=(100/2n)∑_(i=1)^nSNPi. An EGS of 100
      represents an 'optimal' polygenic profile for endurance athlete-that is, that all GS are 2.
      In contrast, an EGS of 0 represents the 'worst' possible profile for endurance athlete, that
      is, all GS are 0. The mean the EGS obtained in the three study groups will be calculated. The
      EGS of endurance, power athletes and non-athletes (controls) will be compared with one-way
      analysis of variance (ANOVA), and Tukey post hoc test will be used for between-group
      comparisons. We will also performed ANOVA to compare the EGS between elite- and
      national-level athletes within each group of endurance and power athletes. Data normality was
      verified through an exploratory analysis using the Shapiro-Wilk test. Two-way mixed ANOVA
      will be applied to check the main interaction effects of time by exercise session
      (time*session) and of time (time) on myokine plasma concentration. For statistically
      significant effects, a post-hoc Tukey test will be adopted for multiple comparisons. All
      values will be expressed as mean and standard deviation (SD). P values of <0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant. Bonferroni's correction for multiple testing will be
      performed by multiplying the P value with the number of tests where appropriate. Statistical
      analyses will be carried out using the SPSS program, version 21 (Chicago, IL).
    
  