
    
      Non-invasive modality for brain monitoring can potentially serve as a major contribution to
      conventional monitoring techniques for patients with neuropathologies, to assure minimal
      discomfort to the bedbound patients, and provide information about critical physiological
      signs to the physicians. The lack of a precise diagnostic technique for numerous
      neuropathologies for patients in neurosurgical clinics can further hinder therapeutic
      effectiveness and, therefore, influence patient recovery and healing. Neuro-critical care
      involves monitoring standard vital signs and cerebral physiological signs, mainly focusing on
      intracranial pressure (ICP), temperature, cerebral blood flow velocity, arterial blood
      pressure, cerebral perfusion pressure, brain tissue oxygenation etc. The collaboration of
      state of the art brain monitoring vary between different intensive care units serves a
      significant drawback in some cases, as accuracy of diagnosis and monitoring is challenged and
      thereby there is an eminent need for interrelationship brain monitoring approach. That can
      also be leveraged by applying the monitoring noninvasively, as it particularly beneficial for
      clinical applications that routinely require the inevitable and dynamic transport of patients
      between hospital units (imaging, surgical room, etc.).

      Subjects who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria for this study, with a signed informed
      consent form, will be enrolled into the study. Eligible patients will be divided to 2 groups:

        1. Patients undergoing Invasive ICP monitoring

        2. Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) patients with Fisher Grade of 3 or 4

      The non-invasive measurements recording sessions will be according to the protocol scheme per
      each group:

        1. Eligible patients undergoing Invasive ICP monitoring will be monitored by the HS-1000,
           in parallel to the invasive ICP monitor, for a single recording session.

        2. Eligible SAH patients with Fisher Grade of 3 or 4 will be monitored by the HS-1000, in
           parallel to the invasive ICP monitor, for three recording sessions.

      For all eligible patients, non-invasive measurements by the HS-1000 device will be conducted
      in parallel with the standard monitoring modalities, as used at the site without any change
      in the patient's management.
    
  