
    
      Colitis due to Clostridium difficile has been increasingly recognized as a serious nosocomial
      problem. Recommended therapy is with metronidazole, 500 mg four times daily for 10 days.
      About 80% of patients respond to this therapy. However, the response may be be delayed, in
      which case debilitation due to diarrhea progresses. The 20% who do not respond tend to be
      sicker to start, and debilitation due to diarrhea is a severe problem. In reviewing the
      medical literature, we discovered that the earliest papers on C. difficile colitis emphasized
      symptomatic therapy with 'lomotil' (diphenoxylate with atropine).

      Treatment to suppress the diarrhea fell out of favor in the late 1970's because of the
      theoretical consideration that it was better to expel than to retain the bacterial toxins.
      However, the patients who are affected by C. difficile colitis are increasingly elderly and
      debilitated, and suffer substantial morbidity from the diarrhea. We have shown that the
      90-day associated mortality is >20%.

      Loperamide is a standard treatment for diarrhea, and is available over the counter under the
      name, Imodium. Based on a few anecdotal reports, this drug is regarded as contraindicated in
      patients whose diarrheal disease is bacterial. But it is used widely, and generally without
      any diagnosis being established. We now propose to administer loperamide or placebo to
      patients with CDAD in order to determine whether the antidiarrheal drug reduces morbidity
      associated with the infection. We will monitor our patients closely both to observe potential
      benefits and/or adverse events.

      In the addendum, we propose to include patients who have antibiotic-associated diarrheal
      disease that is not due to C. difficile. There are many patients who have
      antibiotic-associated diarrheal disease who test negative for C. difficile. We believe that
      these patient may benefit from loperamide treatment as well.
    
  