
    
      Pain and distress in children as a result of care procedures is documented (1) (2). Acute
      pain may have consequences in the short and long term(6) (7) (8,9). According to a Canadian
      study(10) the prevalence of procedural pain is 78% in the first 24 hours of hospitalization,
      dressing changes are common and are part of procedures that generate pain, including severe
      pain.

      The influence of distress and anxiety is demontred in the modulation of pain perception
      (18,19). Therefore, the prevention of procedural pain must be multimodal (20). The value of
      non-pharmacological means to reduce pain and reduce the distress of the child during
      procedures is documented. (21-26). These approaches also help to limit the use of restraint
      during procedure. This practice is strating to be explored in the professional literature
      (27-32). The hypothesis of "transient empathic blindness" in the use of strong restraint
      during care " (37) could help to understand what happens in these circumstances. This
      phenomenon is to be linked to either a child-centred approach or one that focuses on the
      performance of the procedure. The Child Centered Care Theory suggests that child-centered
      care should be produced by focusing on the child himself or herself (38,39). These approaches
      are based on a combination of attitudes and behaviours that adjust to the child's reactions,
      welcome his emotions, respect his pacing, and allow him to make choices. This observation
      opens up new perspectives in the way in which the role of non-pharmacological methods is
      considered, particularly those involving more specifically human interactions. For they allow
      a practical and effective mediation of the relationship with the child.

      According to a review of the literature concerning the effectiveness of integrative
      approaches to pain and anxiety in children and adolescents with cancer (46), music is one of
      the main strategies used by paediatric professionals to reduce pain and anxiety in children
      with distraction, virtual reality, hypno-analgesia, and massage, although the lack of
      randomized clinical trials concerning the use of these methods is to be deplored.

      Randomized clinical trials on the value of music for procedural (23,53,54) or postoperative
      (55-57) pain have been conducted. There are several modalities for using music in the health
      field. These may be listening to recorded music (55,58,59) or to a specific programme to be
      listened to, or listening to so-called interactive music, i.e. a live musical session with
      the child by a musician (60,61). Interactive (or active) music, i.e., provided by a qualified
      musician trained in hospital intervention, using voice, body language and facial expression,
      can involve the child in a way that recorded music cannot (62). A meta-analysis of 30 early
      studies of the use of music in medical and dental procedures supports this assertion (63).
      One study compared the effects of live singing and guitar playing on adult patients
      hospitalized for cancer with the effects of recorded music of the same type. Active music
      allows for personalized musical expression that can be improvised in the context of care.
      This can be particularly crucial for young children to feel more comfortable. Indeed, musical
      support provided by song and an instrument may be best adapted to the child's immediate
      experience, as well as that of the parents and healthcare professionals providing the
      treatment. Indeed, we can imagine that music can help to introduce good interaction, which
      helps to regulate professional relations and relations with the patient and other
      professionals.

      Live music was found to be more effective than recorded music in reducing anxiety and
      discomfort. (65) It is also known that parental stress can be significant when their child is
      ill and during medical procedures(68,69). Listening to music can reduce parental stress and
      improve parent-child interactions(48,70).

      (48,70) Based on this finding, interactive music can transform the behaviours, attitudes,
      beliefs and convictions of the child, parents and caregivers.

      Based on this observation, we could imagine that interactive music transforms the behaviours,
      attitudes, beliefs and convictions of the child, parents and caregivers when performing
      dressings, thus changing the child's approach and thus his behaviour and perception of
      treatment and pain. It is proposed that a child-centred approach improves care. The research
      hypothesis is therefore about the possibility that interactive music may promote a
      child-centred approach.

      To date, no qualitative study has investigated the use of interactive music from the
      perspective of the participants in the theoretical perspective of the child-centred approach.

      Qualitative research could explore what happens when children receive dressings on an
      outpatient basis in the presence of a musician trained in interactive music distribution at a
      teaching hospital by generating qualitative data through non-participatory observations of
      clinical procedures and semi-structured interviews with participants (musicians, health
      professionals, parents and children).

      The aim is to question the triangulation of interactions from a philosophical and political
      perspective. The originality of this research is to seek to highlight the impact of
      interactive music on the philosophy of care through the central theoretical concept of "Child
      Centered Care". More globally, the vocation of this qualitative study is to widen the
      questioning to the political dimension by questioning the intervention of interactive music
      (human intervention) as a mediator of the social link. This exploratory qualitative study
      guided by the principles of grounded theory (71,72) will examine the actions, inactions and
      interactions that occur throughout the course of dressing changes, with an emphasis on the
      child's place in the interactions.
    
  