
    
      One-center, observational, non-interventional, prospective study of the efficacy of
      azilsartan medoxomil in patients with arterial hypertension associated with stable ischemic
      heart disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus.

      During the study 5 visits to the research center are planned. At each visit, a physical
      examination, sampling of bio-samples for evaluation in the local laboratory, and collection
      of information on adverse events will be performed. 24-hours monitoring of blood pressure
      will be performed at screening, after 1 months of therapy and at the final visit (6 months of
      therapy).

      Data will be collected during 5 consecutive visits to the research center. The observation
      period will be about 6 months, the active treatment period will be at least 6 months (24
      weeks). Patients included in the study will be observed in an outpatient clinic according to
      the local practice of the research center.

      It is planned that potentially eligible patients will be invited to the screening visit.
      Based on the results of daily monitoring of blood pressure, a final decision will be made
      about the suitability of the patient to participate in the study. Patients who have not
      reached the target values of blood pressure will start taking the study drug (Edarbi). By not
      achieving the target values of blood pressure, the mean daily systolic blood pressure is more
      than 130 mm Hg and the diastolic blood pressure is more than 90 mm Hg. The length of time
      between Visit 1 and Visit 2 is suspected to be no longer than 2 weeks.

      All examinations (examination and evaluation of vital functions, laboratory tests,
      instrumental examinations) will be performed in accordance with the general standards of
      medical practice and in accordance with the routine practice of the institution.

      Based on the number of patients hospitalized in the Research Institute For Complex Issues Of
      Cardiovascular Diseases (1500 patients), as well as the data on the prevalence of type 2
      diabetes in this group (23.5%, 353 patients), the required sample size will be 184 patients
      (Confidence interval ± 5 %, the confidence probability is 95%).

      SS = Z2 * (p) * (1-p) C2 where: Z = Z factor (1,96 for 95% confidence interval) p =
      percentage of respondents required, in decimal form (0,5 by default) c = confidence interval,
      in decimal form (for example, 0,04 = ±4%).
    
  