
    
      Aim 1:

      40 cadaveric forearm/hand specimens will be obtained from the Mayo Clinic Anatomical Bequest
      program. 10 will be used to refine the ligament injury model and 30 will be used as follows.
      The specimens will undergo radiographic screening and will be excluded from the study if they
      have evidence of fracture, bony trauma, significant arthritic changes, or previous surgeries.
      The tendons will be loaded. The remaining soft tissues will be dissected from the proximal
      ulna and radius. Polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) resin will be used to affix the proximal
      radius and ulna in a circular acrylic fixture. The custom wrist motion simulator was designed
      to generate muscle-assisted flexion-extension and radial-ulnar deviation movements and is
      CT-compatible. Each tendon will be dynamically loaded with a constant 10 N, maintained
      throughout the movement in the following conditions: wrist flexion-extension and radial-ulnar
      deviation. The hand will be fixed in a grip that is connected to a programmable linear
      actuator. The linear actuator drives the grip back-and-forth along the x-axis with
      free-motion along the z-axis. The linear actuator will be programmed to allow the wrist to
      perform a full radial-ulnar or flexion-extension motion at 30 deg/sec which simulates in vivo
      wrist motion speeds. A motion cycle is approximately 2 seconds. The wrist will be cycled 100
      times in flexion-extension prior to each testing condition. A static CT image will be
      acquired in the neutral posture. Then, each wrist will be imaged using 4DCT during
      flexion-extension and radial-ulnar deviation, in the following conditions: intact (control),
      volar SLIL cut, membranous SLIL cut, dorsal SLIL cut, radioscaphocapitate ligament cut, and
      long radiolunate ligament cut.

      Aim 2:

      4DCT scanning will be performed bilaterally on 60 patients (30 males, 30 females) with
      unilateral SLIL injury who are scheduled to undergo a surgical intervention. In addition,
      patients will have pre-surgical volar and dorsal arthroscopic confirmation of ligament
      injury, categorized by Geissler and European Wrist Arthroscopy Society (EWAS)
      classifications; video recording of the arthroscopy will be obtained for later analysis. PRWE
      and VAS questionnaires will be completed at the 4DCT visit for the injured wrist and the
      Total Patient Rated Wrist Evaluation (PRWE) score (sum of pain and function subscales) and
      composite change in Visual Analog Pain Scale (VAS) score used in the analysis. 4DCT wrist
      data will be obtained while the subjects perform flexion-extension and radial-ulnar
      deviation. The dynamic image sequence will be processed with existing software tools to
      obtain metrics describing the interosseous distances between the articular surfaces of the
      scaphoid, lunate, and radius, during the movement cycles. Given the difficulty of diagnosing
      SLIL injury, the uninjured contralateral wrist is often used as a "control" for comparison by
      physicians; therefore, the difference in right/left metrics will be used in the study.

      Aim 3:

      The same 60 patients ( see Aim 2) will be evaluated. Surgeons will assess pre-surgical
      scapholunate interosseus distances (quantified using 4DCT in Aim 2) and document a treatment
      plan to address the particular injury. Subsequently, 4DCT-based treatment plans will be
      compared with arthroscopic evaluation (obtained in Aim 2); any existing wrist x-rays (e.g.
      AP, lateral, stress views) and MRIs may be used in this comparison as well. The surgeon will
      then select and perform the targeted surgical intervention based on both 4DCT and
      arthroscopic findings. 4DCT will be performed, and the PRWE and VAS completed by patients at
      1 year postoperatively; quantification of radioscaphoid contact patterns will be assessed
      during bilateral wrist flexion-extension and radial-ulnar deviation to determine if normal
      patterns of motion are restored.
    
  