
    
      COMPARISON OF THE APPLICATION OF LIDOCAINE WITH INTRAPERITONEAL BUPIVACAINE IN CESARIAN
      OPERATIONS WOUND INFILTRATION: RANDOMIZED, DOUBLE-BLIND, PLACEBO CONTROLLED STUDY.

      INTRODUCTION The most common surgical procedure in pregnant women is cesarean . Postoperative
      pain control is important to reduce morbidity and mortality, and this becomes even more
      important after cesarean delivery. A mother with pain has trouble feeding the newborn . In
      addition, severe postpartum pain is associated with chronic pain, and the mother faces a
      2.5-fold increased risk of chronic pain and a 3-fold increased risk of postpartum depression
      compared to mild ones .

      One of the most important features of a good anesthesia application is a good postoperative
      pain management. This management is more difficult in the postpartum period. Because the main
      analgesics used are opioids that are excreted from milk and the newborn may be exposed to the
      side effects of these drugs . Therefore, multimodal approach is recommended in pain
      management. In multimodal analgesia, the drugs interact with each other and show a
      synergistic and additive effect, thus providing better pain control with fewer side effects .

      Neuraxial blocks, peripheral nerve blocks, NSAIDS and local anesthetic infiltration of the
      wound, intraperitoneal local anesthetic delivery were used as part of the multimodal
      approach.

      Surgical wound infiltration (LWI) of local anesthetics is an important component of
      multimodal analgesia . Some of the pain from surgery is caused by an inflammatory response to
      the surgical incision; therefore, reducing this inflammation can provide a better analgesia
      and also minimize side effects .

      Ease of use and safety of intraperitoneal local anesthetics (IPLA) has been demonstrated in
      studies and has become a useful alternative to opioid-based analgesic regimens for the
      treatment of acute postoperative pain. As an effective adjuvant to postoperative multimodal
      analgesia, their use in open abdominal operations including gynecological surgery and open
      abdominal hysterectomy has been reported .

      In 1975, Ranney and his friends described intraperitoneal local anesthetic (IPLA)
      administration in 218 patients who delivered by cesarean section. Although IPLA has received
      little attention following this publication, recent publications have been shown that IPLA
      can be used in the treatment of intraoperative pain, prevent postoperative nausea, reduce
      early postoperative pain and opioid requirements, and shorten hospitalization duration.

      Zohar and friends evaluated the effectiveness of IPLA after surgical procedures related to
      both somatic and visceral pain, and showed that patient-controlled IPLA reduced the need for
      opioids after bilateral Salpingo-oopherectomy and total abdominal hysterectomy .

      Investigators aim is to compare the effectiveness of LWI and IPLA applications on
      postoperative analgesia in women undergoing elective cesarean delivery under spinal
      anesthesia (SA).

      Investigators hypothesis, H0, was that there was no statistically significant difference
      between the three groups in the mean postoperative pain scores (VAS scores 0 to 10) at the
      24th hour during movement.

      H1 was a statistically significant difference between the mean postoperative pain scores at
      the 24th hour during the movement between the three groups.

      The primary aim of the study was pain scores during the postoperative 24th hour mobilization.

      Secondary outcome was total fentanyl consumption (µg) in the first postoperative 24 hours.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS This prospective randomized placebo-controlled double-blind study was
      performed on 150 pregnant women aged 18-50 years who underwent a Pfannenstiel incision under
      spinal anesthesia of ASA I-II, ≥34th gestational week after obtaining the approval of the
      Atatürk University Medical Faculty Hospital ethics committee and the written consent of
      patients. to be scheduled. Patients with neuraxial anesthesia contraindications, patients
      allergic to drugs to be used in the study, BMI> 35 kg / m2, diabetes, preeclampsia,
      cardiovascular disease, chronic pain and neuropathic pain, patients who have been given
      opioids in operation due to intraoperative pain, patients with unsuccessful spinal anesthesia
      who underwent general anesthesia, patients with excessive bleeding during the operation,
      uterine atony, placement of the drain in the area to be infiltrated, patients who do not want
      spinal anesthesia, cannot understand VAS, have a history of drug addiction and psychiatric
      illness will be excluded.

      Before the operation, the patients were explained about the procedure, purpose of the study
      and what VAS was and how it would be used in the postoperative period, and if they feel pain,
      they could be informed about analgesics at any time after surgery.

      After patients have transferred to the operation room, an intravenous (iv) access is obtained
      with an applicator size of 20 and routine monitorization consisting of electrocardiogram
      (ECG), peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) and non-invasive blood pressure being performed.
      After the skin is prepared sterile and local infiltration with 2% lidocaine is done, from
      L3-L4 or L4-L5 range on midline all the patients had received Spinal Anesthesia (SA) and the
      solution containing 7mg isobaric bupivacaine + 15µg fentanyl was given to the spinal interval
      in 30 seconds. After the procedure was completed, the patients were placed in the supine
      position by placing a height under their right hip with a 15 ° left slope. When the sensorial
      blockade has reached the segments T4-T6 operations were started. All cases were performed
      with the Pfannenstiel incision. Hypotension was described as systolic blood pressure falling
      below the basal value by 20%. If hypotension occurs, it will be treated with ephedrine until
      blood pressure reaches baseline (initial dose 10 mg, intravenously) and rapid colloid or
      crystalloid infusion. If hypotension persists or recurs, vasopressor treatment will be
      repeated every 1 minute. Bradycardia will be described as having a heart rate of 50 beats /
      min and will be treated with 1mg iv atropine.

      The patients were randomly assigned equally into Group IPLA, Group LWI and Group C. For this,
      computerized random numbers table was used. Study drugs were prepared sterile by an
      anesthesiologist who did not know about the study or did not take part in the evaluation of
      the study results.

      In the group IPLA, after the birth of the newborn and placenta, the uterus is closed and the
      blood accumulated in the pelvis is carefully wiped with surgical towels, after hemostasis is
      fully achieved, a total of 20 ml solution containing 10 cc of 0.5% bupivacaine +10 cc 2%
      lidocaine and 2 injectors containing 20ml saline and the 20ml solution were given to the
      surgeon. The 20 ml solution containing bupivacaine and lidocaine was injected into the
      uterine peritoneal region by spraying 5 mL to each quadrant of the uterus before closing the
      parietal peritoneum or fascia. The parietal peritoneal layer was sutured or left open at the
      surgeon's preference. At the end of the operation, 20 ml of saline solution was applied
      subcutaneously in the form of LWI instead of the incision before the skin was closed.

      To the group LWI, a solution containing 20 ml of saline was added to all four quadrants of
      the uterus in 5 ml volume and 20 ml solution containing lidocaine and bupivacaine were
      subcutaneously in the form of LWI before the skin was closed.

      In Group C, one of the two sterile injectors containing 20 ml of saline was applied to the
      uterine peritoneal region and the other was applied to the incision area as a local
      subcutaneous wound infiltration.

      Study design will be discussed and standardized at a meeting with obstetricians before the
      start of the research. The study will be blinded because the person administering the study
      drug did not know which drug was using and the person who evaluated did not know which group
      was evaluating.

      From randomization to completion of statistical analysis, the patient, responsible
      anesthesiologist and study staff responsible for collecting data will be blinded to the
      treatment group. The collected data will be stored in a locked cabinet in the anesthesiology
      department.

      Paracetamol 1g and Dexketoprofen 50 mg were administered intravenously to patients 30 minutes
      before the end of the operation. After the operation, multimodal analgesia was applied to all
      patients with paracetamol from 15mg / kg every 6 hours for 24 hours and 50 mg dexketoprofen
      every 12 hours. At the end of the operation, patients started IV PCA. Implemented when 25µg
      fentanyl iv bolus VAS≥30 was set by adjusting 10 min lock time.

      Pain during movement and rest was assessed using the visual analog score (VAS) (0-10).

      Nausea and vomiting were evaluated on a scale of 0 to 3. 0 = no nausea or vomiting, 1 = mild
      nausea that does not require treatment, 2 = moderate nausea that responds to treatment, 3 =
      severe nausea or vomiting that does not respond to treatment.

      Itching was also rated on a scale of 0 to 3. 0 = no itching, 1 = mild itching that does not
      require treatment, 2 = moderate itching that responds to treatment, and 3 = severe itching
      that does not respond to treatment.

      These evaluations were made at the 2nd, 12th, and 24th hours after intrathecal anesthesia.
      When nausea and vomiting occurred, 4 mg iv ondansetron was administered and repeated every 8
      hours as needed. Pruritus was treated with a 10 mg cetirizine tablet.

      Patients' age (years), weight (kg), height (meters), BMI (kg / m2), gestational week,
      operation time (hour), analgesia duration (hour) (time from spinal anesthesia to the first
      morphine requirement), cumulative fentanyl consumption (µg) in the first 24 hours
      postoperatively, number of patients not requiring IV fentanyl, first ambulation time (hour),
      time of the beginning of bowel movements (hour), local inflammation at the site of the wound,
      patient satisfaction assessed on a 5-point Likert scale (excellent, very good, good, bad and
      very bad) 24 hours after surgery were also recorded.

      POWER When VAS score is 25 ± 15mm (mean ± std) in the control group and VAS score (mean ±
      std) is 17 ± 15 (effect size = 0.569) in the study group, the difference between these values
      can be statistically significant at 80% power and 95% confidence levels in order to be
      statistically significant, the inclusion of 50 patients in each group was calculated with the
      G * power program.
    
  