
    
      The management of neovascular glaucoma (NVG) is a challenge for the ophthalmologist and
      surgery is frequently needed to control intraocular pressure (IOP). The success rates of a
      drainage device is usually lower in NVG than in other forms of glaucoma. Triamcinolone
      intra-vitreous injections acetate has been used to treat macular edema secondary to diabetic
      retinopathy and central retinal vein occlusion and also to control inflammation in
      ophthalmologic surgeries.

      In the present study we will compare the outcome and complications of Silicone Ahmed Valve in
      GNV eyes with and without intra-vitreous triamcinolone injection.

      49 Patients with clinically uncontrolled neovascular glaucoma were selected from the glaucoma
      sector of Federal university of Sao Paulo. After retinal panfotocoagulation (RPF), patients
      who still are uncontrolled are enrolled to the study. Patients were randomized to one of two
      groups:

        1. Silicone Ahmed Implant

        2. Silicone Ahmed Implant with intra-vitreous Triamcinolone injection

      Inclusion Criteria:

      Patients with NVG and uncontrolled IOP despite the use of maximum tolerated glaucoma
      medication Patients over 18 years old. Patients who can understand and sign the inform
      consent form.

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Active Sclerites Uveitic NVG Previous psiquiatric condition Patients who can understand and
      sign the inform consent form Visual acuity worse than hand motion Previous retina surgery
      with buckle implant

      Surgery description A fornix-based conjunctival flap was created between two adjacent recti
      muscles. Before placement of the tube implant body to the sclera, tube was irrigated with
      saline solution to open the valve mechanism. The implant's polypropylene body was sutured to
      sclera with 6.0 silk suture. The tube then trimmed and the anterior chamber was entered from
      1mm posterior to corneoscleral limbus with 23-gauge needle. A human donor scleral flap was
      placed over the tube and sutured to the sclera with 10.0 nylon suture. The conjunctiva was
      sutured to the limbus. In the triamcinolone group, a intra-vitreous injection of 0,1mL
      triamcinolone acetate (40mg/ml) was performed with a 30-gauge needle.

      Follow up after surgery was in the 1st, 4th, 7th, 15th, 30th days and after that monthly or
      whenever needed for clinical reasons.
    
  