
    
      -  Low income Latina mothers (N=218) who are primary grocery shoppers for the family will
           be recruited through community based organization to take part in the study.
           Participation will include completion of survey instruments at baseline, immediately
           following the intervention; and a subset of participants (N=68) will also complete a
           2-month follow-up survey and provide up to two weekly grocery store receipts from the
           prior 1-2 months at baseline and 2-month followup assessment points. The survey will
           collect data on demographics, knowledge about healthy eating, self efficacy, perceived
           stress and family history of relevant health issues. Grocery store receipts will be
           coded and used to evaluate pre-post changes in shopping of healthy vs unhealthy foods.
           The study compares two conditions: in the control condition, participants will view a
           14-minute video on grocery shopping that teaches participants how to make healthy food
           choices. In the intervention condition, participants will view the aforementioned video
           in addition to a 15-minute video on how to manage stressors that arise during grocery
           shopping. -Surveys are to entered manually into chosen database by research assistant.

        -  100% of data entries will be checked by Project specialist for accuracy.

        -  A total of 218 participants will be recruited to partake in the control condition Group
           A or Group B of the intervention.

        -  Because of the exploratory nature of the study, power calculations were not used to
           determine sample size.

        -  Group x time analyses will compare changes in knowledge, attitudes and self efficacy
           before and after exposure to the videos in the entire sample; and in the subsample
           followed for 2 months, compare baseline to 2-month followup changes in knowledge,
           attitudes, self efficacy, mindfulness and stress related measures as well as behavior
           change in food choices during grocery shopping.
    
  