
    
      40% of minor head injuries are diagnosed with post-concussion syndrome 3 months after injury
      (Ingebrigtsen, Waterloo, Marup-Jensen, Attner, & Romner, 1998). These individuals have
      persistent symptoms after completing conventional rehabilitation programs. Persistent
      post-concussion symptoms not only decrease quality of life (Ingebrigtsen et al, 1998), but
      also impair cognitive and motor performance and increase the likelihood of impaired driving
      performance (Preece, Horswill, & Geffen, 2010) and motor vehicle accidents (Bivona et al,
      2012). While case reports indicate that biofeedback can reduce the number and severity of
      post-concussive symptoms (Lagos, Thompson, & Vaschillo, 2013; Thompson, Thompson, Reid-Chung,
      & Thompson, 2013), no studies have systematically evaluated these biofeedback treatment
      programs.

      HRV biofeedback works by displaying beat-to-beat heart rate data to the participant, and
      through operant conditioning with breathing techniques, the participant learns to control
      their HRV (Lehrer & Gevirtz, 2014). This results in an increase in parasympathetic (PNS)
      activity and decrease in sympathetic (SNS) activity, which leads to reduced anxiety, and
      increased focus and concentration (Lagos, Bottiglieri, Vaschillo, & Vaschillo, 2012).
      Neurofeedback works in a similar fashion, except it monitors brain wave power, frequency, and
      connectivity using quantitative electroencephalogram (EEG). Brain functioning is displayed
      while playing an electronic game, and the participant learns through operant conditioning to
      increase the amplitude of desired EEG frequencies, such as low beta waves that are associated
      with active problem solving, usually while simultaneously decreasing the amplitudes of
      undesired EEG frequencies (Conder & Conder, 2014).

      This will be an eight-week intervention where participants suffering from long-term
      post-concussion symptoms will be recruited using email from the cohort of individuals that
      have been discharged after completing a concussion rehabilitation protocol (BrainEx90) at
      Parkwood Institute in London, Ontario. Non-concussed control participants will be recruited
      using posters. Participants will complete pre, mid, and post-intervention driving simulation
      tasks, electrocardiogram and HRV measures, and subjective questionnaires. These will be
      utilized to evaluate the effectiveness of HRV biofeedback and neurofeedback in this difficult
      to treat population.
    
  