
    
      This prospective randomized study will be carried out on adult patients complaining of acute
      herpes zoster presented at Tanta University Hospitals after approval from ethics committee
      for twelve months.

      An informed consent will be taken from each patient. All data of patients will be
      confidential with secret codes and private file for each patient. All given data will be used
      for the current medical research only.

      Any unexpected risk encountered during the course of the research will be cleared to the
      participant as well as to the Ethical Committee on time. Every patient will receive an
      explanation to the purpose of the study and will have a secret code number to ensure privacy
      of the participants and confidentiality of their data.

      The study will be terminated in case of incidence of severe hypotension no responding to
      ephedrine (Mean arterial blood pressure less than 60 mmHg) or severe bradycardia not
      responding to atropine (Heart rate less than 40 b/min). The participants and the ethical
      committee will be announced.

      There will be adequate supervision to maintain the privacy of patients and confidentiality of
      data. There will be no conflict of interest, nor conflict with religion, law, or society
      standards. The research will be beneficial to the society and has no risk of environmental
      pollution.

      After inclusion, adequate history taking, clinical examination, and laboratory investigation
      (as needed) will be done for all patients. Every patient will be educated about the use of
      the 0-10 numerical rating scale for pain assessment (NPRS: with endpoints of 'no pain' and
      'worst pain').

      Each patient will receive:

        -  Acyclovir 800 mg orally every 5 times per day (for immuno-compromised patients 10 mg/kg
           IV 3 times per day) for 7 days.

        -  Pregabalin start with 50 mg orally every 8hours for 7 days then increase to 150 mg every
           12 hours

      Groups:

      Participants will be divided into two groups; each group consists of (88) patients. The
      sample size calculation was made using Epi-Info software program created by the WHO

        -  Group I (control group): Patients will receive sham block weekly for three times

        -  Group II (SGB group): Patients will receive stellate ganglion block weekly for three
           times

      Equipment

        -  10-mL syringe - For local anesthetic

        -  22- or 25-gauge, 1.5-inch short-bevel needle

        -  Skin temperature monitor

        -  Ultrasound machine with a 6-12 MHz linear type probe.

        -  Appropriate equipment and medications for medical resuscitation

      Technique of SGB:

      The patient will be positioned supine with slight neck extension and rotation to the
      contralateral side. After adequate asepsis of the neck, the probe will be placed
      perpendicular to tracheal axis at the cricoid cartilage. An initial scan will be obtained to
      identify structures: thyroid gland, carotid artery and jugular vein.

      The transverse process at C6 should be identified as the initial landmark because of its
      prominent anterior tubercle (The Chassaignac tubercle). The long muscle of the neck (longus
      colli) is found above it.

      The puncture should be in-plane to see the tip of the needle all the time. The needle will be
      directed medially until it passes through the deep cervical fascia above the longus colli
      muscle.

      Considering repeated aspiration test, a 7 ml injectate (for SGB group: 6ml bupivicain 0.25%+
      1 ml methylpredinosolone 40mg) will be done while observing the dissection between the
      carotid artery and the longus colli muscle.

      After finishing the block:

      The patient will be transferred to the recovery room for 30-60 min to assess any potential
      complications. After that he will be discharged.

      Review appointments will be arranged weekly for 4 weeks then every 2 weeks for 4 months.
    
  