
    
      Coronaviruses are a large family of ribonucleic acid viruses that cause mild to moderate
      upper respiratory diseases in humans. There is an urgent need for COVID-19 therapeutics due
      to the S-shaped curve expansion of the infections, widespread pandemic status, and global
      burden. Given the similarities between SARS-CoV-2 and other coronaviruses, and its relative
      ease of sample acquisition and study, it has been widely accepted that drug repositioning is
      a promising approach to make available an effective, safety-assured treatment in a timely
      manner.

      This open label, randomized, controlled, investigator-initiated, multi-centre trial aims to
      establish metabolic improvements in COVID-19 subjects by dietary supplementation with
      cofactors N-acetylcysteine, L-carnitine tartrate, nicotinamide riboside and serine plus
      standard therapy. The investigational drug products, the mixture of the four co-factors will
      be administered as a powder with strawberry aroma to be dissolved in 200 ml of preferably
      cold still drinking water and be consumed within 5 minutes.

      This study is planned as a Phase II / III clinical drug research to be conducted in patients
      diagnosed with COVID-19. Patients will be ambulatory and after the diagnosis/confirmation of
      diagnosis, will be sent home with their treatment. However, patients may be hospitalised
      during this initial examination period due to deterioration in their physical health or due
      to any medical condition which was not present at admission.

      The primary objective is to assess the clinical efficacy of the combination of metabolic
      cofactors supplementation and hydroxychloroquine in COVID-19 patients. For the primary
      purpose, the proportion of patients who were hospitalised during the course of disease until
      14 days after the initial diagnosis of Covid-19 disease will be compared. Patients who were
      hospitalised during the 14-day period, but at any time point after consenting will be
      evaluated as an end-point occurrence.

      The secondary aim in this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of metabolic
      cofactors supplementation and hydroxychloroquine combination.

      The initial part of the Phase II/III study is planned as a Phase II study which will enrol
      100 patients and after an interim analysis it will conclude as a Phase III study (300
      patients). Totally 400 COVID-19 disease patients will be randomized on a 3:1 basis to the
      combination metabolic cofactors supplementation and hydroxychloroquine or hydroxychloroquine+
      placebo in eight clinical sites in Turkey.
    
  