
    
      Vitamin D has an important role in calcium homeostasis and the regulation of bone metabolism.
      It also appears to play a role in various infectious, immunologic, neurologic, cardiovascular
      and respiratory disorders. Both, biological and observational studies have identified vitamin
      D deficiency as a risk factor for adverse outcomes during critical illness. However,
      administration of high dose vitamin D to a general population of critically ill patients with
      vitamin D deficiency did not reduce mortality or hospital length of stay. The exception was a
      pre-defined sub-group of patients with Vitamin D levels in the very low range (<30 nmol/L)
      where hospital mortality was significantly lower in patients treated with Vitamin D.

      Vitamin D Metabolism The majority of vitamin D is produced through the direct action of
      sunlight on 7-dehydrocholesterol in the skin. The inert Vitamin D3 produced in this manner,
      together with Vitamin D2 or D3 from dietary sources, require hydroxylation in the liver to
      25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] which is the main circulating form. Conversion of this still
      inactive substance to the active form, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH)2D], by the enzyme
      1α-hydroxylase occurs primarily, but not exclusively, in the proximal renal tubules.
      Circulatory phosphorous, parathyroid hormone (PTH) and fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23)
      play an important regulatory role in this process. FGF23 is a bone derived hormone that
      inhibits renal tubular absorption of phosphate and reduces circulating 1,25(OH)2D. PTH is a
      hormone secreted by the parathyroid glands in response to hypocalcaemia. It acts to increase
      the concentration of calcium through several pathways one of which is the upregulation of
      1α-hydroxylase, the enzyme responsible for converting 25(OH)D to 1,25(OH)2D.

      The majority of both 25(OH)D and 1,25(OH)2D is bound to Vitamin D Binding Protein (VDBP) in
      circulation. The nuclear Vitamin D Receptors (VDR) which regulate the transcription and
      expression of Vitamin D targeted genes are only activated by unbound 1,25(OH)2D, which is
      less than 1% of total circulating Vitamin D.

      Vitamin D in chronic kidney disease In patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) on chronic
      dialysis, Vitamin D deficiency is common (>80%), and the supplementation with active Vitamin
      D preparations is strongly recommended to prevent or ameliorate the effects of
      hyperparathyroid high-turnover bone disease and to reduce the cardiovascular risk.

      Vitamin D in general ICU patients ICUs worldwide have reported Vitamin D deficiency ranging
      from 60-100%. A randomized controlled trial (RCT) in a general population of critically ill
      patients with vitamin D deficiency showed that administration of high dose vitamin D did not
      reduce mortality or hospital length of stay. The exception was a pre-defined sub-group of
      patients with Vitamin D levels in the very low range (<30 nmol/L) in whom hospital mortality
      was significantly lower in patients treated with Vitamin D. Another RCT investigated the role
      of 2 different doses of cholecalciferol in 50 critically ill adults with the systemic
      inflammatory response syndrome. The study showed that prior to randomization 56% of patients
      were classified as Vitamin D deficient. By day 7 after randomization, Vitamin D levels
      normalized in >60% of patients and PTH levels decreased over the study period.

      Vitamin D and AKI AKI is an abrupt deterioration in kidney function which develops over hours
      or days for a variety of reasons and can range from mild impairment to acute kidney failure.
      It affects >50% of critically ill patients worldwide and is independently associated with an
      increased risk of complications, a longer stay in hospital and high risk of dying. AKI
      survivors have an increased risk of CKD and premature mortality. A recent study also
      confirmed a significantly increased risk of bone fractures in patients who survived an
      episode of AKI requiring renal replacement therapy (RRT).

      The causal mechanisms behind the morbidity and mortality associated with AKI are still not
      fully understood but Vitamin D may play an important role.

      The hypothesis of this study is that critically ill patients with AKI have significantly
      lower Vitamin D levels than critically ill patients without AKI.
    
  