
    
      The current standard of care for advanced (AJCC-7 edition stage III and IV) oropharyngeal
      squamous cell carcinoma are concomitant chemoradiation, or surgery followed by adjuvant
      radiation therapy with or without concomitant chemotherapy. These approaches have persistent
      and significant lifelong side effects and sequelae related to treatment, and in particular
      related to radiotherapy. The side effects of radiotherapy (augmented with concomitant
      chemotherapy) include soft tissue fibrosis, loss of salivary function, dry mouth, life long
      disturbed taste function, poor dental health with rapidly decaying teeth, dysfunction of
      swallowing, significant loss of the mobility of the base of tongue and pharyngeal
      constrictors, loss of laryngeal elevation, esophageal stricture, and at times severe side
      effects such as soft tissue necrosis or osteoradionecrosis of the mandible. About 10% of the
      patients undergoing chemoradiation for oropharyngeal cancer develop long term swallowing
      dysfunction with feeding tube dependency. As a result , patient's quality of life (QOL) is
      adversely affected. Improvements in the side effect profile of treatment, the functional
      outcome, and the QOL remain very important areas of advancement in treating this patient
      population. Improvements in functional outcome need to be achieved while maintaining or
      improving the oncologic outcome and cure rates for cancer, compared to the standard of care.

      Use of Taxane based chemotherapy along with Platinum drugs (Cisplatin and Carboplatin) in
      high dose neoadjuvant setting, coupled with Transoral Laser Microsurgery (TLM) or Transoral
      Robotic Assisted Surgery (TORS), allows potential for improved oncologic outcome as well as
      avoidance of long term sequelae of high dose radiation therapy to head and neck. These
      transoral surgical approaches (TLM and TORS) provide improved functional outcome compared
      with traditional open composite resections and complex reconstructive algorithms for
      oropharynx. TLM and TORS are currently in clinical use for early (stage T1 and T2 with N0 or
      N+ve) oropharyngeal cancer.

      De-escalation treatment strategies of TORS followed by adjuvant radiotherapy are being
      investigated currently. However even without de-escalation there is overall 18-20% rate of
      treatment failure and half of failures are due to distant metastasis in the absence of
      loco-regional recurrence. In this study the investigators propose systemic escalation of
      treatment with neoadjuvant chemotherapy (docetaxel and cisplatin) followed by de-escalated
      locoregional treatment with transoral surgery and neck dissection reserving radiotherapy for
      salvage.

      This approach has the potential for improved functional outcome by avoiding short and more
      importantly long term and permanent sequelae of radiation therapy in oropharyngeal cancer
      treatment. This approach is a new paradigm in treatment of oropharyngeal cancer, and can
      significantly improve the functional outcome of cancer treatment.
    
  