
    
      Stereotactic ablative body radiotherapy (SABR) offers the ability to deliver a high dose of
      radiotherapy accurately to small tumours. It is an established, effective, non-invasive
      treatment option for early lung cancers as an alternative to surgery and in the treatment of
      limited spread of cancer (called oligo-metastatic disease) in the context of clinical trials
      (CORE, SARON, ABC-07 etc.). In order to deliver a high dose of radiation without damaging the
      surrounding structures, an accurate map of the tumour and the surrounding organs and their
      relationship to each other when moving (for e.g. during breathing) is important. This is
      usually achieved by getting a radiotherapy treatment planning 4 dimensional CT scan (4D-CT).
      When either the tumour or organ around them (like the lung) are moving excessively it becomes
      difficult to target the radiation beams and often the only solution is to treat a larger
      volume which covers the extent of the movement. Treating larger volumes often leads to more
      toxicity to the surrounding tissues.Therefore managing motion is critical to increasing
      tumour control probability (TCP) and reducing normal tissue complication probability (NTCP).
      In this context, the question of reducing the movement caused by breathing, of tumours in the
      lower lung and upper abdomen (like the liver, adrenals, kidney etc) is an area of intense
      interest. Various technical and physical methods exist to help improve motion management in
      patients under going radiotherapy. By limiting the movement, the target volume is smaller and
      this enables treatment of the tumour to high doses with lesser toxicity as some of the
      toxicity of radiotherapy is proportionate to the volume treated i.e. lower the volume of
      treatment lesser the risk of toxicity.

      Abdominal compression is one such method and is well accepted to be beneficial in reducing
      tumour motion.

      However, many of the previous studies require expensive and resource intensive immobilisation
      devices, costing, in many cases in excess of £10,000. This study will investigate the use of
      an independent compression device which can be used with any existing immobilisation system
      and costs in the region of £1,500. If proven to be beneficial this will allow many smaller
      centres or centres with budget limitations to also achieve the benefits of abdominal
      compression without extensive resource and cost requirements.
    
  