
    
      Intracranial aneurysms are "blisters" which form within the arteries at the base of the
      brain. A rupture of an aneurysm may lead to subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The mortality
      rates of patients suffering from a SAH is 40 to 44 percent , with many survivors enduring
      major disability. Most of the deaths from SAH are due to rapid and massive brain injury from
      the initial bleeding, which is not correctable by medical and surgical intervention. Thus,
      prevention of aneurysm formation is of paramount importance.

      Scientific evidence suggests that a genetic component plays an important role in the
      development of intracranial aneurysms, however the specific genes have not been identified.
      The Familial Intracranial Aneurysm Study is a collaborative research effort of neurologists
      and neurosurgeons throughout the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand to identify
      possible genes that may increase the risk of stroke, and particularly, the development of
      aneurysms in the blood vessels of the brain. This study will involve 475 families with
      multiple affected family members, and will also determine the effect of environmental factors
      such as cigarette smoking and high blood pressure on the expression of the genes.A group of
      physicians from throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand have formed a
      collaborative effect to identify genes that may be important in the development of aneurysms
      in the blood vessels of the brain. This study of affected individuals and families, known as
      the Familial Intracranial Aneurysm (FIA) study, is sponsored by the National Institutes of
      Health and has involved over 475 families.

      FIA II will involve an additional 200 families plus 1800 subjects with an Intracranial
      Aneurysm but no family history. These families and individuals will be used to replicate the
      findings of FIA I. FIA II will take place in North America only.

      To be eligible to participate in this study, families must have two or more affected pairs of
      siblings (brothers/sisters) or 3 or more family members affected with intracranial aneurysms.
      Subjects can participate if they do not have an eligible family history, but do have a
      confirmed intracranial aneurysm.

      Participants will be asked to complete a family history questionnaire (if they have a family
      history) and a medical history questionnaire. They will also have their blood pressure
      measured and will give a small sample of blood. In addition, medical records will be
      requested to confirm the diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms. There will be no monetary
      compensation for participation.

      The identification of susceptibility genes, along with a better understanding of
      environmental interactions such as cigarette smoking, may result in preventing the
      development of intracranial aneurysms and/or intracranial aneurysm ruptures in people who are
      at risk for this condition.
    
  