
    
      AIM 1:

      To determine whether MS is associated with intramuscular lipid accumulation and impaired
      skeletal muscle metabolism and perfusion in human PAH.

      Rationale: MS and IR are highly prevalent amongst PAH patients even in the absence of obesity
      and diabetes. There are several lines of evidence in the literature that IR develops with the
      accumulation of fatty-acid metabolites within insulin-responsive tissues, especially
      intramyocellular lipid deposition within skeletal muscles. Although the mechanism accounting
      for lipid accumulation remains elusive, a reduction in lipid oxidation as a result of
      reduction in mitochondrial density has been proposed. The objectives of Aim 1 are 1) to
      confirm that PAH patients have increased intramuscular lipid accumulation; 2) to determine
      whether intramuscular lipid accumulation is associated with impaired skeletal muscle
      metabolism; 3) to demonstrate that these abnormalities correlate with MS and IR and skeletal
      muscle function amongst PAH patients.

      Experimental approaches: The proposed experiments will be performed on PAH patients (n=10-20)
      vs. 10 healthy but sedentary subjects matched for age, gender, height and weight (definition
      based on current recommendations), excluding patients with clinically relevant conditions
      (e.g. diabetes). These individuals are continuously identified through our systematic plasma
      biobanking process at the time of right heart catheterization (CER#20735), in which roughly
      40% of PAH patients with no obesity/diabetes have MS. In addition to routinely performed
      analyses: A) blood sample will be drawn for Apolipoprotein A1, Apolipoprotein B, glycated
      hemoglobin, fasting blood glucose, insulin, adiponectin and leptin. B) MR imaging will be
      used to assess fat infiltration within the quadriceps muscle, liver and heart (see appendix
      for details). C) Volitional and non volitional strength and endurance of the dominant
      quadriceps and VO2peak on cycle ergometer will be assessed, as previously described. D)
      Percutaneous biopsy specimens of the vastus lateralis muscle of the nondominant leg will be
      taken. Part of the specimen (≈100mg) will be used for immunohistochemistry fiber typing
      (ethanol modified technique), capillarisation (quantitative IF using CD31-antibody) and
      intramyocellular lipid accumulation (Oil red O staining, which stains only the most
      hydrophobic and neutral lipids, as the investigators previously described. The extracellular
      flux analyzer Seahorse XF24 will be used on the remaining tissues for real time measurements
      of oxygen consumption and extracellular acidification rates (glycolysis). To ensure that
      physical inactivity is not responsible for skeletal muscle lipid accumulation, subjects'
      daily life physical activities will be objectively quantified during one week using a
      physical activity monitor (SenseWear® armband).

      Interpretation: This multimodality approach will provide comprehensive information to
      confirm: 1) PAH patients exhibit significant increases in quadriceps muscle lipid
      accumulation compared to controls; 2) lipid accumulation is increased within the skeletal
      muscle of PAH patients with MS compared to PAH without MS despite similar levels of physical
      activity; 3) Lipid accumulation is associated with a reduction in lipid oxidation in vivo; 4)
      MS/IR and quadriceps muscle function correlate with muscle lipid accumulation/glucose
      oxidative phosphorylation capacity.

      Sample size and analysis: Comparisons between groups will be performed using one-way ANOVA
      followed by a Tukey-Kramer post-test, after confirmation of normality/equal variances
      (Levene's test). 10 subjects/group will allow detecting a 1.5±0.5 fold increase in quadriceps
      muscle lipid accumulation assessed by MRI (primary outcome) with type 1 and 2 errors of 5%
      and 15%. Based on our preliminary data (Fig.3C), these estimates are conservative.

      Alternative approach: Insulin action in the liver has many similarities with insulin action
      in muscle. Although our proposal focuses on skeletal muscles, ectopic lipid accumulation in
      the liver is also increasingly recognized as contributing to MS and IR. Since MRI sequences
      to assess fat infiltration take few minutes only, liver and abdominal adiposity will be
      assessed during the same exam MR study, as previously described.

      AIM 2:

      To assess whether IR and MS is related to defects in insulin signalling within PAH skeletal
      muscles.

      Rationale: Numerous studies confirmed a reduction in expression of the peroxisome
      proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) γ coactivator 1α in the muscles of patients with type
      2 diabetes mellitus, reducing the mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation that promotes the
      accumulation of diacylglycerol within the muscle. In skeletal muscles, insulin binds to its
      receptor, activating the receptor tyrosine kinase activity, with subsequent phosphorylation
      and activation of insulin-receptor substrate 1 (IRS1), ultimately promoting the docking and
      fusion of glucose transporter (GLUT4)-containing vesicles to the plasma membrane.
      Accumulation of intracellular diacylglycerol has been shown to specifically activate protein
      kinases C (PKC) θ, resulting in reduction in tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS1. Consistently,
      activation of muscle PKCθ and increased serine (inactivation) phosphorylation of IRS1 has
      been noted in the muscles of individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus and IR. More recently,
      the activation of the nuclear respiratory factor-2 (NRF2)-Keap1 pathway (improving
      mitochondrial oxygen consumption, ATP production and beta-oxidation of fatty acids) has been
      shown to reduce glucose uptake and IR.

      Experimental approaches: The same experimental groups and experimental design as described in
      aim 1 will be used. A) In order to examine the mechanisms responsible for the reduction of
      mitochondrial activity in PAH skeletal muscles, the expression of several key transcriptional
      factors and coregulators that are known to regulate mitochondrial biogenesis will be
      examined, including PPARγ coactivator 1α (PGC-1α), NRF-2, and mitochondrial transcription
      factor A (WB and immunoprecipitation assay). Mitochondrial oxidative (citrate synthase,
      hexokinase) and glycolytic (lactate dehydrogenase, phosphofructokinase) enzymes activity
      (spectrophotometric techniques) will also be assessed. B) In order to assess the potential
      role of IRS-1 serine phosphorylation in the pathogenesis of IR, the investigators will also
      examine IRS-1 serine phosphorylation on several serine residues (Ser307, Ser312, Ser616,
      Ser636) that have been implicated to interfere with insulin signaling in vitro (WB). PKCθ
      expression and activity will be assessed using isoform-specific PKC antibodies (WB) and a PKC
      enzyme assay kit.

      Interpretation: The investigators expect to demonstrate that: 1) PAH patients exhibit reduced
      expression/activation of PPARγ1α, and NRF-2, increased phosphorylation of IRS-1 on critical
      serine sites and PKCθ activation, leading to a metabolic shift toward glycolysis; 2) these
      abnormalities dominate amongst PAH-MS patients compared to PAH without MS.

      Alternative approach: PKCθ activation has been predominantly associated with MS. However, the
      same experiments could be done for other members of the PKC gene family. In the event that
      "classical MS pathways" described above do not account for IR/MS in PAH, the role of skeletal
      muscle Uncoupling Protein-2 and Sirtuin-3, which have recently been implicated in both IR/MS
      and PAH, will be explored.
    
  