
    
      The principle treatment for children with phenylketonuria (PKU) is a low protein diet. Part
      of this treatment requires the administration of a phenylalanine-free protein substitute in
      order to meet basic protein requirements for normal growth and development. Several brands of
      phenylalanine-free protein substitutes are already available in various forms - liquid, semi
      solid, tablet. However, compliance with taking protein substitutes continues to be a
      challenge. As a low protein diet is recommended for life, long term compliance is a growing
      concern. As a result, improving the choice in terms of product type may aid compliance. XPhe
      minis are phenylalanine-free protein substitute tablets enriched with vitamins, minerals and
      trace elements designed for children and adults with PKU. It is anticipated that they will be
      a suitable alternative choice for PKU patients, broadening the variety of protein substitutes
      they can choose from in order to suit their lifestyle and preferences.

      This is a prospective, observational tolerance study in 10 children with PKU. Subjects who
      are currently taking a second stage protein substitute will be recruited for a 7-day trial,
      taking the ready-to-use protein substitute tablets to evaluate the tolerability and
      acceptability of the study product. Therefore, subjects will replace some or all of their
      usual protein substitute with the new product.

      During the 7-days trial subjects or caregivers will be asked to complete a daily
      questionnaire recording information on: • Usage and compliance • Ease of use and any issues
      with administration • Any gastro-intestinal side-effects.

      A questionnaire will also be completed at the beginning and end of the study that will
      consider perceptions about taste, appearance, smell, ease of administration; how it is taken;
      and any other problems or symptoms.

      The amount of tablets prescribed will be calculated to provide the same amount of protein as
      their usual protein substitute.

      Subjects will continue to have weekly finger-prick blood tests as is routine in PKU. The
      results whilst on the study product will be compared with results whilst on their usual
      protein substitute.

      10 children with PKU will be recruited. When an appropriate subject has been identified, a
      study information sheet will be sent to the subject or parents/caregivers. They will be
      invited to request further information about the study if they wish by contacting the Lead
      Dietitian. Recruitment of each patient will be by written informed consent, which will be
      completed by the parents/primary caregivers and taken by the Lead Dietitian. Children will
      also complete an assent/consent form and will receive an information sheet, if considered
      appropriate for their level of understanding.
    
  