
    
      Treatment with an intragastric balloon (IGB) for morbid obesity is a temporary treatment
      reached as a second step, when the initial nutritional multidisciplinary approach has failed;
      however, its value is not clear compared with other conventional medical treatments ], though
      some authors have stated that IGB achieves higher weight loss than conventional diet
      treatments (12.2% of the initial weight) ]; and others have positioned IGB as the first valid
      step in order to achieve weight loss in patients who are adequate for a future gastric bypass
      surgery. Genco et al (2009) have compared the treatment with IGB only vs. laparoscopic sleeve
      gastrectomy (LSG), and have found no differences in the amount of weight loss at 6 months,
      but a reduction in adverse events caused by IGB treatment.

      One of the potential future indications for the intragastric balloon could be its use as a
      bridge-treatment until bariatric surgery, not only in order to achieve weight loss before
      surgery, but also to select the group of patients who might benefit more from derivative
      surgery, as suggested by some authors or its use in special populations such as super-obese
      patients . The objective would be to reduce weight before the surgical procedure, in order to
      improve comorbidities, facilitate the surgical technique, and potentially reduce any surgical
      complications.

      It is increasingly frequent in many surgical units to try and achieve weigh loss before
      bariatric surgery, using intragastric balloons (IGB). However, this therapeutic approach
      currently presents dubious utility. Our study intends to contribute with our experience in
      the evaluation of IGB before surgery for achieving weight loss, and its impact on
      post-surgical morbidity.

      Bariatric surgery shows an important morbidity and there are not to many randomized
      prospective studies using intragastric- balloons (IGB-BIB®) to evaluate if getting weight
      lost really matter on decreasing surgical complications before Bariatric surgery OBJECTIVE:
      To study the usefulness of preoperative IGB-BIB® "grA" [sleeve resection (SR) or gastric
      bypass (GB)] to help decrease postsurgical complications. Secondly we try to check the rate
      of IGB-BIB® failures (a total weight loss less than 10% of the initial weight), and the
      impact on decreasing hospital stay and rate of surgical reoperations. METHODS: The study was
      a clinical prospective and randomized essay coming from 2009. Cases (grA) had an IGB during 6
      months before surgery vs Controls (grB)
    
  