
    
      Each participant will receive standard monitoring (ECG, SpO2, capnography, SBP, oesophageal
      temperature) and intravenous access will be established. A standard anesthesia protocol will
      be applied involving propofol 2mg/kg (iv) and remifentanil in TCI (target-controlled
      infusion). Cis-atracurium 0.2 mg/kg (iv) will be given to facilitate endotracheal intubation.
      Anesthesia will be maintained with desflurane in a 50% air/O2 mixture A standard anesthesia
      protocol will be applied involving propofol 2mg/kg (iv) and remifentanil in TCI
      (target-controlled infusion). Cis-atracurium 0.2 mg/kg (iv) will be given to facilitate
      endotracheal intubation. Anesthesia will be maintained with air to oxygen mixture of 50%, and
      desflurane adjusted to achieve a target BIS between 40 and 50. Remifentanil target level will
      be titrated according to analgesic demands defined by a > 20% change of heart rate or blood
      pressure compared with baseline. The duration of both anesthesia and surgical procedure will
      be registered. Furthermore, the level of sedation upon anesthesia emergence will be recorded
      using the Ramsey sedation scale.

      Postoperatively pain assessment will be performed by the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and
      Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) at anesthesia emergence and at 2, 4, 6, 12, 18, and 24 h after
      surgery conclusion. Time to first analgesic request and total analgesics consumption
      postoperatively (morphine equivalents) will be recorded.

      Episodes of shivering, as well as episodes of nausea and vomiting (PONV) and other
      postoperative adverse events, will be recorded at emergence and 24 hours thereafter.

      Finally, patients' global satisfaction will be assessed the second day and one month after
      surgery using the Quality of Recovery Scale(QoR-40). In the meantime, blood samples will be
      taken at the time before the surgical stimulus, 6 hours and 24 hours after wound infiltration
      to measure cortisol, TNF-a, and IL-6 plasma concentration.
    
  