
    
      The lacrimal sac and the nasolacrimal duct are contiguous structures . The part of the sac
      superior to the medial canthal tendon (MCT) is called the fundus, with its vertical length
      being 3-5 mm . The body of the sac, inferior to the MCT, is about 10 mm in length. The
      lacrimal sac fossa comprises of the anterior frontal process of the maxillary bone and the
      posterior lacrimal bone .

      Lacrimal clearance relies on several factors, such as gravity, capillary attraction forces,
      evaporation, absorption by the conjunctival surface and the lacrimal "pump" which relies on
      the action of the orbicularis oculi muscle, particularly its deeper part (Horner's muscle).
      During the eye closing, the Horner's muscle contracts and the temporal four-fifths part of
      the canaliculus is pressed and closed, the nasal one-fifth part is pulled posteriorly and
      opens with shortening of the canalicular length. Therefore, the lacrimal fluid is effectively
      transported from temporal to nasal sides, finally reaching the lacrimal sac cavity. During
      the eye opening, as the Horner's muscle relaxes, the temporal four-fifths part of the
      canaliculus is expanded and the nasal one-fifth part is pressed and closed. The upper part of
      the lacrimal sac is directly affected by the Horner's muscle movement. During eye closing the
      sac expands temporally, during the eye opening the sac shrinks with an additional help of its
      elasticity.

      The clinical evaluation of the lacrimal drainage system was originally outlined by Lester
      Jones. Evaluation was in the form of a dye disappearance test followed by a Jones I and Jones
      II test. The dye disappearance test (DDT) is useful for assessing the presence or absence of
      adequate lacrimal outflow, especially in unilateral cases. Using a drop of sterile 2%
      fluorescein solution or a moistened fluorescein strip, the examiner instills fluorescein into
      the conjunctival fornices of each eye and then observes the tear film.

      Endoscopic DCR is a widely accepted treatment option for epiphora and dacryocystitis.
      endoscopic DCR has been widely performed as it has several advantages over external DCR
      including the absence of face scarring and better visualization via endoscopy. The purpose of
      DCR is to create a bypass, a rhinostoma, between the lacrimal sac and the nasal cavity.

      Obstruction site in the lacrimal system is one of the characteristics contributing to a poor
      prognosis. False localization of the lacrimal sac and inadequate removal of the medial wall
      of the sac are the most common causes of failure . A systematic review showed that there was
      a trend towards improved outcomes and reduced granulation without increased complication
      rates in groups where nasal mucosal and lacrimal flaps were preserved. A study reviewing 100
      failed DCR patients showed that inadequate osteotomy, incomplete sac marsupialization, and
      cicatricial closure of the ostium were the most common causes of failure.

      To avoid or prevent obstruction of the neo-ostium, many modified techniques have been
      attempted. These include complete separation of the sac from the nasolacrimal duct to divert
      lacrimal flow to the neo-ostium, use of steroids or mitomycin-C , silicon tubing and use of
      mucosal flaps after wide resection of bone surrounding the sac .

      Initially, endoscopic DCR relied on the creation of a relatively small fenstrum into the
      lacrimal sac, with the surgeon opening only the lower half of the sac. Many authors claim
      that the axilla of the middle turbinate is a landmark for the roof of the lacrimal sac.
      However, Wormald and co-authors, in a study with 47 CT-DCG patients, showed that the major
      part of the lacrimal sac (10 mm) is situated above the axilla of the middle turbinate,
      extending 1-2 mm below this landmark.

      Obtaining a large marsupialized lacrimal sac with wide removal of the covering bone, medial
      wall of the sac and use of mucosal flaps yields a good surgical result that is comparable to
      the results of conventional endoscopic DCR techniques with two advantages first, primary
      surgical failures are amenable to technically simple and highly successful surgical
      revisions, second, there is a possibility for obtaining wide fenstrum without silicone tube
      stenting.

      Success after lacrimal surgery is ill defined, and this has led to confusion in the
      interpretation of results for various surgical methods. The most practical measure of success
      is the control of symptoms, although this can be at odds with anatomic outcome.

      Subjective success in turn can be assessed from the patients' symptoms. Complete relief or
      significant improvement of complaints can be considered a subjective success.

      Anatomical patency can readily be judged in objective tests: functional endoscopic dye test
      or inspection of the ostium, irrigation or fluorescein retention test. Functional NLDO was
      first described by Demorest and Miller in 1955 to encompass lacrimal drainage dysfunction in
      the presence of anatomical patency. In those cases, there is a need to exclude other
      conditions causing epiphora, such as hyper-secretion, lacrimal pump failure, discontinuous
      drainage apparatus and partial lacrimal duct obstruction. The anatomical success rate i.e.
      the patency is reported to be higher than the functional success, which highlights the
      importance of measuring the physiological success and there relief of the patient's symptoms.
    
  