
    
      General anesthesia and/or sedation will be prescribed according to institutional practices
      and clinical judgment; type, amount and duration will be recorded.

      A standard esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) will be performed prior to the enteroscopy. If
      during this preliminary exam the endoscopist identifies any stricture or believes the patient
      has anatomy that would cause excessive resistance during Novel Motorized Spiral insertion or
      examination, the patient will be withdrawn from the study and the reason for study withdrawal
      will be noted.

      The Novel Motorized Spiral endoscope will be inserted and advanced with the assistance of
      motorized clockwise spiral rotation, (controlled directly by the operating physician via the
      foot pedal). If at any point a stricture is observed or excessive resistance to the
      advancement of the endoscope is encountered, further advancement of the endoscope must cease
      and the reason for procedure termination documented on the case report form.

      After reaching the depth of insertion required for patient treatment or diagnosis, the
      endoscope will be withdrawn using motorized counter-clockwise spiral rotation, also
      controlled by the foot pedal. Maximum depth of insertion will be recorded as the maximum
      insertion depth when failure to advance the endoscope tip after repositioning the patient,
      applying abdominal pressure and/or using other standard measures fails to advance the
      endoscope OR the investigator decides to terminate advancement based on clinical judgment.
      During withdrawal, the endoscopist will cumulatively estimate the length of bowel released
      from the endoscope tip in order to calculate the total depth of insertion. Insertion depth
      will be referenced to the Ligament Treitz. If the clinician decides to mark the point of
      maximum insertion, the tissue may be tattooed by first creating a saline bleb, followed by
      the injection of India ink (e.g., SPOT).

      Tissue sampling and/or therapies will be performed during withdrawal as clinically
      appropriate. The details of all sampling and/or therapies (number, type & location) will be
      recorded.

      The comfort and cardiopulmonary stability of the patient will be monitored throughout the
      procedure, as per the standard of care - this includes continuous pulse oximetry, blood
      pressure, and heart rate monitoring.

      Photographs or video recordings are used to document any significant lesions and any tissue
      trauma.

      Postprocedural measures Patients will be hospitalized for at least 24 hours after NMSE
      because of the potential risk of delayed adverse events. Only liquid diet is allowed during
      the first 12 hours in asymptomatic patients. Clinical investigation and determination of the
      blood cell count and the serum level of C-reactive protein will be done after 24 hours. 30
      days after the procedure patients will be interviewed by a telephone call for evaluation of
      complaints or delayed complications. Discomfort (location and severity (0-10 VAS) should be
      documented immediately after NMSE, after 24 hours and before discharge.
    
  