
    
      The study will be a cluster-randomized controlled trial. The CONSORT recommendations for
      cluster randomized trials will be followed (29). The study period is divided into two phases:
      a three months intervention and a three months post-intervention follow-up phase. The
      intervention will be delivered through institutional religious women groups. A collaboration
      has been established with Our Lady of Africa Parish, Mbuya. Mbuya Catholic Parish has six sub
      parishes. These sub parishes will act as the clusters and will be the unit of randomization.
      Within the sub parishes, there are existing women groups. These existing groups will be
      utilized for face to face intervention group sessions. For the intervention purposes, each
      group will be limited to a maximum of 14 members.

      Intervention

      In the intervention arm, participants will be exposed to the developed intervention materials
      (booklet) and face to face group sessions. In the group session, focus will be on increasing
      knowledge, skills and self-efficacy to develop a lifelong healthy and gastronomic
      relationship with food and physical activity. Specifically, the intervention will focus on
      increasing; women's ability to evaluate nutrition information; consumption of fruits and
      vegetables; and engagement in moderate physical activity. Investigators will provide
      information, skills training and feedback through monitoring. The intervention consists of
      five interactive group sessions. The group sessions will be two hours in length. In summary,
      the intervention will include;

        -  Profiling of personal gaps/needs; based on the baseline measurements, participants will
           be guided to compare their personal profiles (physical activity and fruit and vegetable
           intake) with WHO health recommendations,

        -  From this profiling, participants will brainstorm barriers and solutions to gaps in
           personal profile compared to health recommendations,

        -  Participants will then be guided to identify opportunities within their environment to
           improve personal profile, set personal SMART goals, and to come up with action plans to
           attain the set goals,

        -  Periodic feedback sessions aimed at reviewing and adapting the goals will be given.
           During feedback sessions, role models (participants who attain their goals) will share
           their experiences; challenges and enabling factors to motivate the other group members.

      Vegetable recipes, practical tips to improve; food literacy, fruit and vegetable consumption
      and physical activity levels will be provided. The sessions will be moderated by a research
      team led by a PhD student who is trained in motivational interviewing.

      Control arm

      In the control arm, participants will only be given the developed intervention materials.
      Face to face group sessions will not be held for the control arm. Therefore, the research
      team will interface with the control groups at three moments; baseline
      measurements/distribution of developed intervention materials to the participants (designed
      in form of the usual awareness programs), post intervention measurements and post follow-up
      measurements.
    
  