
    
      The management of impacted M3s is a high volume procedure. In the United States, the cost of
      M3 removal has been estimated to be over 2 billion dollars, not including costs for consults,
      x-rays, medications, surgical center charges, or over 5 million surgical extractions and
      treatment of postoperative inflammatory complications (Flick. 1999). Practices associated
      with M3 removal can have a significant impact on large numbers of patients, providers, and
      payers. There is currently no consensus on the use of systemic antibiotic prophylaxis to
      decrease the risk of inflammatory complications following M3 removal.The most common
      post-operative inflammatory complications following M3 extraction are alveolar osteitis (AO)
      and wound infection (Larsen, 1992; Piecuch et al., 1995; Sekar et al., 2001). AO, aka "dry
      socket," is a wound-healing problem characterized by severe, unremitting pain. The reported
      frequency of AO is 6-68%. Bacterial colonization stimulates plasmin production and
      fibrinolysis with dissolution of the extraction site clot . More than 45% of patients who
      sustain AO require 4 or 5 more postoperative appointments for resolution of symptoms (Larsen,
      1992; Andra et al., 1990). Given its common occurrence, identifying treatments, i.e. systemic
      antibiotics, to decrease the rate of AO following M3 extraction would be an important
      contribution to enhancing patient outcomes. The second common postoperative inflammatory
      condition following M3 extraction is wound infection. The reported frequency of postoperative
      infection ranges from 1.2 - 27%, with most studies reporting a frequency of <10%. Because
      wound infections are bacterial, it is hypothesized that using systemic antibiotics will
      reduce the rate of postoperative wound infections. There are, however, no definitive
      prospective studies that support or refute the necessity of systemic antibiotics in the
      prevention of postoperative inflammatory complications of AO or infection.

      All studies published to date addressing the role of systemic antibiotics and M3 removal have
      one or more major methodological flaws in study design characterized as :1) no or ambiguous
      definition of the outcome variable, 2) inadequate sample size, 3) non-uniformity of protocol
      design, 4) lack of randomization techniques and 5) poor-follow-up monitoring. Clearly, there
      is a need for a definitive, rigorous, well-designed placebo-controlled randomized clinical
      trial to ascertain the efficacy of systemic antibiotics in preventing postoperative
      inflammatory complications after M3 removal.

      .
    
  