
    
      Objective

      An influential model of cortical organization proposes that the primate visual system is
      divided into two functionally distinct pathways (Ungerleider & Mishkin, 1982). The ventral or
      what visual pathway, which projects from occipital cortex into the ventral temporal cortex,
      is principally used for object recognition and identification. The dorsal or where pathway,
      which projects from occipital cortex into the parietal cortex, is principally used for
      locating the position of objects in the visual field and for action planning (Milner &
      Goodale, 1995; Kravitz et al., 2011). In the proposed series of experiments we will
      investigate how neural representations in the ventral and dorsal pathways contribute to a
      range of cognitive tasks including object and scene recognition, attentional selection and
      face processing. These experiments will principally use transcranial magnetic stimulation
      (TMS) in combination with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).

      TMS provides a unique experimental tool for studies of human cognitive function because it
      can be used to transiently and safely disrupt the neural processing in a targeted cortical
      region while subjects perform concurrent behavioral tasks that depend on the operations of
      that region. Furthermore TMS can be combined with neuroimaging techniques such as fMRI to
      examine the remote effects of the induced neural disruption in other task-dependent regions
      distributed across cortex. We plan to use TMS to address unanswered questions concerning the
      functioning of the distributed neural networks for different categories of object recognition
      and in the attention network of the human brain.

      Study Population

      We plan to test 320 neurologically normal subjects aged between 18 and 50 years old. Subjects
      will also take part in an fMRI experiment prior to any subsequent TMS experiments in order to
      localize the stimulation sites of interest.

      Design

      The aim of the proposed series of experiments is to examine the effects of the TMS induced
      neural disruption on behavioral task performance and the neural correlates of the impaired
      performance as measured with fMRI. Broadly these experiments can be divided into studies that
      use online and offline TMS. In on-line experiments, TMS will be applied during behavioral
      tasks. In off-line experiments, theta burst stimulation (TBS) will be delivered before the
      experimental task and off-line experiments may combine TBS with fMRI.

      - TMS target site localization

      Prior to both online and offline studies subjects will take part in an fMRI experiment
      designed to localize particular cortical regions of interest (ROIs). The fMRI experiment will
      require the subject to view either a series of different object categories (e.g. faces,
      bodies, scenes) or flickering sections of black and white checkerboards in the fMRI scanner.
      The results of these fMRI experiments will be used to identify regions of cortex that will
      then be targeted with TMS. We will identify TMS target sites using the stereotaxic Brainsight
      co-registration software and the scalp location will be marked individually on each subject.

      -Online behavioral TMS experiments

      Online TMS experiments are designed to address the direct effects of the induced neural
      disruption on the targeted TMS site only. TMS is delivered during every trial to assess the
      effects on concurrent task performance. Subjects will perform a range of visual behavioral
      tasks while online TMS is delivered over the cortical region of interest or over control
      sites (e.g. vertex). Repetitive TMS will be delivered at a frequency of 10Hz for 500ms. In
      some experiments we will alternatively deliver double-pulse TMS at different latencies after
      stimulus onset to assess when the targeted region is likely to be involved in task
      performance.

      -Offline TBS experiments

      Offline thetaburst (TBS) experiments are also designed to assess the effects of the induced
      disruption in the stimulated region. However, rather than delivering TMS during every
      experimental trial Thetaburst TMS (TBS) is delivered over the targeted region of interest
      (ROI) for latencies up to 60 seconds prior to the subject performing any behavioral task. The
      neural effects of this induced disruption have then been shown to last for up to 30 minutes
      (Huang et al., 2005). In the offline TBS experiments we propose to deliver 60 seconds of the
      TBS over the stimulated ROI. In some of the proposed experiment participants will then be
      placed in an fMRI scanner before and after TBS stimulation. During both fMRI sessions
      subjects will perform a series of visual discrimination tasks to assess the effects of TBS
      disruption both on their behavior and on activity in remote cortical areas as measured with
      BOLD activation.

      Outcome measures

      The dependent variables in the online behavioral TMS experiments will be performance
      accuracy, sensitivity (d ) and reaction time (RT) measures collected during the concurrently
      performed behavioral tasks. Dependent variables in the offline fMRI TBS experiments will be
      task performance as well as reduced neuronal activity as measured by decreased BOLD
      activation in the targeted and remote ROIs.
    
  