
    
      Pilot Study of 20 prospective cardiology patients with loop recorders currently implanted for
      standard clinical indications.

      Eligible Subjects will be brought into the office of John Wilson, MD or Marshall Winner, MD.
      After informed consent is obtained from Hatton Research Staff the following will be
      performed:

        -  subjects will have an initial loop recorder download to USB flash drive

        -  12 lead EKG

        -  Annotated QT intervals on a 30 second rhythm strip

        -  24 hour Holter monitor placed by Hatton Research Staff in order to confirm the loop
           recorder data.

        -  Subjects will be instructed on the Holter monitors care and use.

        -  Subjects will be scheduled to come back to the office after 24 hours to return the
           Holter monitor and have a final loop recorder download completed.

        -  Data from the loop recorder, Holter monitor, 12 lead EKG, and 30 second rhythm strip
           will be downloaded and de-identified per Hatton Research Staff.

        -  All de-identified data from the initial loop recorder download, 12 lead EKG, 30 second
           rhythm strip, final loop recorder download, and Holter monitor will be sent to Medtronic
           for algorithm development.

      Independent Variables: These variables include age and race Dependent Variables: These
      variables include the data from the loop recorder, 12 lead EKG, Holter monitor and 30 second
      rhythm strip.

      Intervention or experimental aspect of the study Subjects will have a 12 lead EKG performed
      with 30 second rhythm strip Subjects will complete a period of 24 hours in which they will
      wear a Holter monitor applied by Hatton Research Staff.

      Statistical Analysis

        -  Descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation) will be calculated for all continuous
           variables. Continuous variables will be compared using Student's - T test or ANOVA as
           appropriate.

        -  Frequency and percentages will be calculated for all categorical variables.

        -  Categorical data will be compared using chi square or Fisher's Exact Test as appropriate

        -  Data variables will be assessed by Hatton Research Specialist
    
  