
    
      CPC is a monocationic molecule in nature, with a substantivity of 3 to 5 hours, soluble in
      alcohol and in aqueous solutions, and can act as a

      detergent and antiseptic. It is neither corrosive nor oxidizing and has a neutral pH. It has
      viricidal activity, since its mechanism of action is linked

      to the alteration of the lipid envelope, allowing the degradation of the lipid bilayer in
      enveloped viruses -such as respiratory syncytial virus

      and coronaviruses-, through physicochemical interactions, causing the breakdown and
      inactivation of the virus. Substantial viricidal activity

      is observed even at very low concentrations of CPC without development of resistance.
      Furthermore, the CPC in the formulation reduces

      the mortality and morbidity associated with the influenza virus in vivo.

      In 2015 the Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety (SCSS) of the European Union (SCCS /
      1548/15) reviewed the CPC's toxicity, local

      toxicology and safety data, with safety conclusions for concentrations less than 0.1% for its
      oral use.

      Study procedures will be as follows:

      The study activities will take place in 1 day (total interval of 3 hours from the baseline
      sample collection to the last sample collection).

      The investigator will obtain the informed consent of subjects with a positive result of PCR
      or antigen test for SARS-CoV-2 and will verify that the subject meets all the inclusion
      criteria and none of the exclusion criteria. The researcher will assign a correlative kit
      number (randomization), instruct the subject in the procedure of self-collection of a saliva
      sample and the subject will self-collect the first saliva sample in front of the
      investigator, who will be able to correct the errors observed in the self-take.

      Hour 0: The subject will rinse and gargle with 15 mL of mouthwash (experimental or placebo)
      for 1 minute (30 seconds of rinsing and 30 seconds of gargling). The researcher will indicate
      to the subject the hours in which the second and third saliva samples should be taken. The
      subject must refrain from brushing their teeth, eating and drinking, except water, and may
      return home.

      Hour 1: One hour after mouthwash use, the subject will self-collect the second saliva sample.
      The subject must refrain from brushing teeth, eating and drinking, except water, until the
      third sample is collected at 3 hours.

      Hour 3: Three hours after the use of the mouthwash, the subject will self-collect the third
      saliva sample.
    
  