
    
      Healthcare is changing towards more patient focused care. The organization of the care
      process related to quality, efficiency and accessibility is one of the main areas of interest
      within the next years for clinicians, healthcare managers and policy makers. A main method to
      (re)organize a care process is the development and implementation of a care pathway. Care
      pathways, also known as clinical pathways or critical pathways, are used worldwide for a
      variety of patient groups. The European Pathway Association (E-P-A) defines a care pathway
      as: "A complex intervention for the mutual decision making and organization of predictable
      care for a well-defined group of patients during a well defined period. Defining
      characteristics of pathways includes: an explicit statement of the goals and key elements of
      care based on evidence, best practice and patient expectations; the facilitations of the
      communication and coordination of roles, and sequencing the activities of the
      multidisciplinary care team, patients and their relatives; the documentation, monitoring, and
      evaluation of variances and outcomes; and the identification of relevant resources".

      Very few prospective studies have been performed and published on the impact of pathways on
      quality and efficiency of care. The European Quality of Care Pathways (EQCP)-study will
      involve exacerbation of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) to evaluate pathway
      effectiveness. Literature shows that adherence to international guidelines with regard to
      inhospital management of COPD exacerbation is low, especially in non pharmacological
      treatment.11-19 Currently, only three non-randomized trials about the impact of a care
      pathway for inpatient management of COPD exacerbation are published. The studies are
      conducted between 1995 and 2001, and the methodology is doubtful. However the studies
      indicate that a COPD exacerbation care pathway improves performance with regard to diagnostic
      assessment and use of standing orders, and that it diminishes the number of
      rehospitalisation, shortens length of stay (LOS) and reduces mortality.

      In the context of the high volume of hospitalized COPD patients, high costs and high risk,
      and the complex coordination of care among multiple caregivers, a care pathway could enhance
      the quality of care in these patients by improving patient outcomes, promoting patient
      safety, increasing patient satisfaction, improving multidisciplinary teamwork and optimizing
      the use of resources.

      The goal of the European Quality of Care Pathways (EQCP) study is:

        -  To evaluate the care pathway effectiveness in acute hospitals and their immediate link
           with primary care;

        -  To evaluate the effect of care pathways on team processes and team perceived
           organization of care.
    
  