
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the structure preservation rate for patients with locally advanced resectable
      nasal and paranasal sinus squamous cell carcinoma (NPNSCC) with or without neoadjuvant
      therapy; all patients will undergo surgical resection and postoperative standard care.

      II. Evaluate overall survival (OS) for patients with locally advanced resectable NPNSCC with
      or without neoadjuvant therapy followed by surgical resection and postoperative standard
      care.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) for this patient population. II. Examine the rate
      of structure preservation for the orbit (freedom from orbital exenteration).

      III. Evaluate site reported p16 data and correlate with outcome. IV. Determine the accuracy
      of baseline/post-chemotherapy magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and fludeoxyglucose F-18
      positron emission tomography/computed tomography (FDG PET/CT)-based prediction of orbit and
      skull base preservation.

      V. Determine the accuracy of baseline/post-chemotherapy MRI and/or FDG PET/CT-based
      prediction of 2-year overall survival.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effects of tobacco, operationalized as combustible tobacco (1a), other
      forms of tobacco (1b), and environmental tobacco exposure (ETS) (1c) on provider-reported
      cancer-treatment toxicity (adverse events [both clinical and hematologic] and dose
      modifications).

      II. To determine the effects of tobacco on patient-reported physical symptoms and
      psychological symptoms.

      III. To examine quitting behaviors and behavioral counseling/support and cessation medication
      utilization.

      IV. To explore the effect of tobacco use and exposure on treatment duration, relative dose
      intensity, and therapeutic benefit.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients undergo standard of care surgery. Beginning 4-6 weeks after surgery, patients
      undergo image guided intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) once daily (QD) for 5
      fractions per week for 30 fractions. Patients with positive margins/positive extracapsular
      spread (ECS) in lymph nodes undergo image guided IMRT QD for 5 fractions per week for 30
      fractions and cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1-2 hours or carboplatin IV over 30 minutes
      (for patients who are ineligible to receive cisplatin) weekly for 6 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour and cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours on day 1.
      Patients who are ineligible to receive cisplatin receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on
      day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo standard of care surgery no later
      than 6 weeks following the last dose of chemotherapy. Beginning 4-6 weeks after surgery,
      patients undergo image guided IMRT QD for 5 fractions per week for 30 fractions. Patients
      with positive margins/positive ECS in lymph nodes undergo image guided IMRT QD for 5
      fractions per week for 30 fractions and cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours or carboplatin IV over 30
      minutes (for patients who are ineligible to receive cisplatin) weekly for 6 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months if < 2 years
      from study entry and then every 6 months if 2-5 years from study entry.
    
  