
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety of ixazomib (ixazomib citrate) given with dose-adjusted etoposide,
      prednisone, vincristine (vincristine sulfate), cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin (doxorubicin
      hydrochloride), and rituximab (DA-EPOCH-R) in patients with aggressive, v-myc avian
      myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (MYC)-aberrant lymphoid malignancies, and to
      determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of the combination. (Phase I) II. To evaluate
      the efficacy, as measured by 12-month progression free survival (PFS), of ixazomib given with
      DA-EPOCH-R in patients with aggressive, MYC-aberrant lymphoid malignancies. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Further evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicity. II. Further evaluate the clinical
      efficacy, as measured by response rate and overall survival (OS).

      III. Assess the predictive value of fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography
      (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scans on PFS.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the impact of cell of origin (COO) upon response rate, PFS, and OS.

      II. Assess the feasibility and outcomes of consolidation stem cell transplant (SCT).

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of ixazomib citrate followed by a phase II
      study.

      INDUCTION:

      Patients receive ixazomib citrate orally (PO) on day 1 and day 8 or 15; etoposide
      intravenously (IV), vincristine sulfate IV, and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously
      over 96 hours on days 1-4; prednisone PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-5; rituximab IV should
      be started at 50 mg/hr, and increased in 50-mg/hr increments every 30 minutes to a maximum
      rate of 400 mg/hr on day 1; and cyclophosphamide IV over 90 minutes on day 5.

      CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM (CNS) PROPHYLAXIS:

      Patients with a negative lumbar puncture (LP) receive methotrexate intrathecally (IT) once
      per course. Patients with a positive LP receive methotrexate IT or intraventricularly OR
      cytarabine IT or intraventricularly OR methotrexate IT or intraventricularly, cytarabine IT
      or intraventricularly, and therapeutic hydrocortisone IT or intraventricularly.

      MAINTENANCE:

      Patients not treated with consolidative SCT, receive ixazomib citrate PO BID on days 1, 8,
      and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to one year (or as long as deriving benefit)
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year.
    
  