
    
      Human milk is the recommended diet for preterm infants and it requires fortification to meet
      their high nutrient requirements. This study addresses a gap in knowledge about the optimal
      strategy for human milk fortification in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU).

      Infants will be recruited from a single site (Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston MA).
      Eligible infants are NICU inpatients born <31 weeks' gestation and enrolled within 21 days of
      birth, whose mothers are providing breast milk. Exclusion criteria include major congenital
      anomalies, severe fetal growth restriction (weight <3rd percentile), clinically significant
      gastrointestinal pathology, triplets or higher order multiples, and expected death or
      transfer. Infants who require fluid restriction <140 mL/kg/day will also be excluded.

      The study period begins when infants have reached full volume (150-160 mL/kg/day) human milk
      feedings fortified to 24 kcal per ounce. Participants will be randomized to one of two diet
      groups; twins will be randomized separately. The study diet will continue until 36 weeks'
      postmenstrual age or hospital discharge, whichever comes first.

      Available maternal milk will be pooled with donor milk (if needed) to reach the total daily
      fluid volume; this "base" milk will be analyzed with a point-of-care human milk analyzer
      (Miris, AB). All infants will receive at minimum the standard human milk fortification
      (multicomponent fortifier to 24 kcal/oz plus liquid protein 0.27 g/dL). In one group
      (control), we will follow the standard of care for milk fortification, only adding more
      protein and/or energy if weight gain is lagging. In the other group (intervention), we will
      individually target fortification with additional protein and/or energy so that the "base"
      milk always contains protein 1 g/dL and energy 67 kcal/dL.

      Outcome measures will include physical growth during the diet intervention period, including
      gain in weight, length, and head circumference and body composition with air displacement
      plethysmography at the end of the diet intervention. At term equivalent age, participants
      will undergo brain magnetic resonance imaging. At 2 years corrected age, outcomes include
      standard and novel neurodevelopmental tests including the Bayley-III and tests of emerging
      executive function; and physical size.
    
  