
    
      Malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum continues to be a global problem with devastating
      consequences. New interventions are needed to combat malaria, and progress is being made in
      development of vaccines: a subunit vaccine called RTSS confers partial protection against
      clinical malaria in children and is nearing licensure; a whole organism product called PfSPZ
      Vaccine can confer sterile protection against infection, and is now undergoing field trials.
      NIAID is involved in field trials of PfSPZ Vaccine and other vaccines, and a key question in
      vaccine trial design has been whether concurrent parasitemia will impair vaccine responses.
      The primary hypothesis in this study is that T cell suppression and regulation will decrease
      following antimalarial treatment that clears blood stage parasites for an extended period of
      time.

      Up to 200 children will be recruited into longitudinal studies that will be conducted in
      Ouelessebougou and neighboring villages in Mali. In August 2015, up to 50 children presenting
      for Seasonal Malaria Chemoprevention (SMC) in a village where the government has implemented
      SMC will be enrolled, as well as up to 50 age-matched children residing in an adjacent
      village where SMC has not been implemented by the government of Mali; and then followed
      through the rainy season. In January 2016, up to 100 healthy children in Ouelessebougou
      village area will be enrolled and randomized to receive or not receive a course of
      artemether-lumefantrine, and then followed for the duration of the dry season (Jan-Jun 2016)
      and the subsequent rainy season (Jul-Dec 2016). Samples in both cohort studies (age-matched
      SMC study; randomized artemether-lumefantrine study) will be collected from the children at
      the time of monthly visits and assessed in ex vivo assays for markers of T cell suppression
      as the primary outcome of this study. For our secondary outcomes, we will examine levels of
      regulatory T cells, measure T cell responses in stimulation assays, and survey parasitemia by
      blood smear and by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays. We expect that levels of T cell
      suppression and regulatory T cells will be similar between groups before antimalarial
      treatment or malaria infection, but after treatment or in those subjects that remain
      uninfected these levels will be significantly lower as compared to the untreated and or
      infected subjects.
    
  