
    
      Chronic non-healing venous leg ulcers (VLUs) have an intrinsic healing impairment that is
      associated with dysfunctional gene expression patterns. We have shown that tissue from the
      non-healing edge of chronic VLUs exhibits characteristic histopathology including epidermal
      hyperproliferation, dermal fibrosis, accumulation of intracellular pro-collagen and
      dysregulation of genes involved in epidermal differentiation, migration and proliferation. We
      have demonstrated that biopsies taken from the non-healing edges of VLUs before and after
      debridement have distinct morphologies and distinguishable gene expression patterns,
      providing the biological basis and justification of debridement. These observations are
      supported by the findings that primary cells grown from tissue biopsies before and after
      debridement also have distinct and typical genomic patterns, with cells from pre-debridement
      edge biopsies exhibiting a non-healing phenotype as evidenced by loss of migration and loss
      of ability to respond to growth factor stimuli. Moreover, we used a genomic approach in a
      clinical trial to determine mechanism of action of cell based therapy in patients with VLU
      and identified a specific set of genes responsible for therapeutic reprogramming that shifts
      non-healing ulcer into acute wound-like healing VLU.

      Taken together, preliminary data suggests a loss of healing potential, prior to debridement
      which is distinct from cells taken from a post-debridement biopsy, which show an ability to
      migrate and respond to growth factors. Limited clinical data suggests a positive response in
      wound size reduction in VLUs following wound debridement, but debridement is not performed,
      routinely, consistently and systematically and thus is often not considered standard of care
      for VLUs. Furthermore, in contrast to the edge of diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) where a
      possible margin of debridement maybe visually delineated by callus at the wound edge, VLUs
      lack callus and therefore it is much more difficult to assess to what extent debridement
      should be performed, thereby questioning its overall benefit and efficacy. Therefore, we
      hypothesize that genes (their transcription level or protein patterns) can be utilized to
      guide wound edge debridement in patients with VLUs and further that such guided debridement
      will improve healing outcome in patients suffering from chronic non-healing VLUs. Moreover,
      we propose to use genomic profiles to further advance and guide development of PCR-based
      approach or immunostains that can serve as a simplified diagnostic test to identify
      debridement margin and non-healing VLUs tissue.
    
  