
    
      -  Dental patients will be recruited in a consecutive manner from the outpatient Diagnostic
           center, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University.

        -  Before the interview, the aim of the study will be explained to the patient and the
           patient's acceptance to participate in the survey will be received.

        -  Full questionnaire will be filled, then full mouth periodontal examination and charting
           will be done for each patient.

        -  The questionnaire will be filled through a face-to-face personal interview with the
           patient using simple, short, easily comprehended questions (Goulart A.C., Armani F. et
           al. 2017, Machado V., Aguilera E. M. et al. 2020). The questionnaire will be translated
           by a certified translator into Arabic and validated. All the interviews will be done by
           the same investigator.

        -  Non-respondent patients or patients refusing to participate will be reported with the
           cause of their refusal.

        -  The questionnaire which will be applied in study will include sociodemographic and
           medical questionnaires. These covariates will include gender, age, marital status
           (single, married/union of fact, divorced or widowed), occupation (student, employed,
           unemployed or retired) and smoking habits (current status: never, former, current).
           Education will be categorized according to the 2011 International Standard
           Classification of Education (ISCED-2011) (UNESCO 2012): no education (ISCED 0 level),
           elementary (ISCED 1-2 levels), middle (ISCED 3-4 levels), higher (ISCED 5- 8 levels)
           (ISCED 2011). Blood pressure will be measured at the clinic by automated
           sphygmomanometer device. Finally, measurements of height and weight will be taken at the
           clinical exam and body mass index (BMI) will be calculated as kg/m2.

        -  Clinical examination will be held on a dental unit using the light of the unit and a
           mirror. Periodontal status will be evaluated by full mouth charting using UNC 15
           periodontal probe, including assessment of plaque index (PI), bleeding on probing (BOP),
           Probing Depth (PD), Clinical Attachment Level (CAL), gingival recession depth (Rec) and
           radiographic X-Ray imaging.

        -  Periodontitis case is defined according to the latest available EFP/AAP consensus. It
           will be defined if interdental CAL is detectable at ≥ 2 non-adjacent teeth, or buccal or
           oral CAL ≥ 3 mm with PPD > 3 mm at ≥ 2 teeth. Periodontitis staging will be defined
           according to severity and extent. Concerning severity, interdental CAL at the site of
           the greatest loss of 1-2 mm, 3-4 and ≥5 was considered as mild (Stage 1), moderate
           (Stage 2), and severe (Stage 3 and Stage 4), respectively (Tonetti, Greenwell et al.
           2018).
    
  