
    
      A combined education and counselling treatment has been developed using a care plan and
      stories delivered via computer based animated software, with associated flip charts and
      information sheets. The new treatment will take about 60 minutes to administer and will be
      delivered on two occasions. It will include a discussion and assessment phase, setting of
      goals, and completion of a care plan. Three 5-minute stories will be shown during the
      session. Each story will have been adapted for use by the community Aboriginal Mental Health
      Workers prior to base line. The process for development of the stories in each community will
      involve showing the generic resources and any completed community specific resources - and
      allowing time for the stories to be adjusted by the community. The new community - specific
      resources will then be used in the treatment sessions - conducted by the chief investigator-
      a consultant psychiatrist with 15 years experience working with indigenous mental health
      clients and an indigenous research officer and Aboriginal Mental Health Worker (or Health
      Worker). The Aboriginal Mental Health Workers will receive training in the stories at two
      stages - through the consultation and workshop phase of the story development, and through
      the delivery phase with clients and carers. The stories and care planning intervention aim to
      promote change through encouraging clients in their own choices and their own control of
      their lives, and through setting goals to make changes if they choose. The intervention
      involves culturally appropriate sharing of information with clients and carers about illness
      and treatment. The information sharing is two way - as clients are invited to share their own
      stories during the process.

      Overview

      The project design is 2 years from base line to end. Base line measures of psychosocial
      functioning will be completed for clients and carers at commencement of the project. The
      measures will include self-completion and clinician completed scales. There will also be an
      interview - focusing on protective factors, precipitants of illness, symptoms, goals for
      change, and strategies for change. The new treatment will be delivered between base line and
      6 weeks for group one, and in the six weeks following the six-month measures for group two.
      Follow up measures will be completed six months post new treatment, and every six months for
      2 years post new treatment for group one. Follow up measures will be completed six months
      post new treatment for group two with 18 months follow up. Aboriginal Mental Health Workers
      will also have base line and follow up measures of knowledge and confidence in treatment -
      and qualitative information will be gathered about the client's progress and about the
      Aboriginal Mental Health Worker's experience of the new treatment.

      Informed Consent

      Patients, carers and Aboriginal Mental Health Workers will be given information about the
      project in written and spoken form, with the Aboriginal research officer, prior to obtaining
      their consent to participate.

      Recruitment of participants Participants will be recruited by Aboriginal Mental Health
      Workers - or nominated by mental health staff or the General Practitioner. The treating
      doctors will be notified of the nomination in each case and, if they have no concerns, the
      Aboriginal Mental Health Worker will arrange the information and consent session with the
      research team. The participants will be clients who have a primary chronic mental illness,
      are aged over 18 years, are able to give informed consent, and are current clients. The
      diagnoses for inclusion are Schizophrenia, Delusional disorder, Schizoaffective disorder,
      Drug-induced psychosis, Non-specific psychoses, and Affective psychoses. People with
      Intellectual disability or organic brain disorders will be excluded. The criteria for
      chronicity for the purposes of the project are defined by two or more episodes of illness
      severe enough to require medical intervention and treatment. The carer will be identified by
      discussion between the client and the Aboriginal Mental Health Worker or Health Worker.

      Random allocation to two groups within communities The consenting clients and carers will be
      allocated within communities randomly to Group 1 (treatment group) and Group 2 (control
      group). The researchers will not direct the allocation or be involved in choosing the groups.
      The control group will still receive the new treatment - but they will receive the new
      treatment 6 months after Group 1.

      Baseline measures

      Baseline data will be collected on all consumers at base line - gender, age, place of
      residence, psychiatric and alcohol and other drug history, social history, family situation,
      strengths and skills. The number of people in the home and home stressors will also be
      recorded. A formal psychiatric diagnosis will be applied following review of history and
      previous diagnoses, and base line measures. Measures will be taken at base line and every six
      months up to 2 years. The new treatment will be given twice - once after the base line
      measures are completed and a follow up session 2 to 6 weeks later. The measures rate
      symptoms, social functioning. substance dependence and the client's knowledge of their
      illness. The following three brief base line and follow up measures will be used for clients
      in addition to the interview.

      Client rated scales

      Partners in Health Scale (PIH), Kessler 10, Severity of Dependence Scale,

      Carer rated scales

      The carer will be interviewed with the client. There will be two occasions when the carer is
      asked for a separate rating - their own K10 and their view of the client's substance misuse
      worry score.

      Clinician rated scales Health of the Nation Outcome Scales, Life Skills Profile, Global
      Assessment of Functioning,

      Clinical File Audit

      A file audit at base line and at 12 months and 2 years will score the following:

      Mental health assessment recorded in preceding 3 months Involvement of specialist mental
      health services in assessment and treatment planning Early warning signs recorded Causes of
      getting sick again noted Strategies to address causes of getting sick again incorporated in
      treatment plan Care Plan developed Care Plan goals reviewed Service contact, hospital
      admission, number of hospital days, and mental health act detention data will also be
      reviewed. This routinely collected data will be examined by the research team for number of
      attendances of the client at the health clinic, service events by the regional mental health
      service, and hospital admission and detention occasions in the 12 months prior to the project
      and for the 2 years duration of the project.

      Interview - Qualitative data

      A clinical assessment and a care plan will be completed. There will be a semi-structured
      discussion about the client's experience of mental illness, which will be recorded by written
      notes. The AMHW, carer, and indigenous research officer will be present. At any time the
      carer will only be present if the client gives consent to that. This interview will cover
      symptoms, treatment, and goals for change, barriers to change, and strategies for change.
      After the second new treatment the client and carer will be asked their opinion of the care
      package and whether they found it easy to use, interesting and acceptable, and whether they
      believed it had changed their knowledge or attitudes to illness in any way and if so - in
      what way.
    
  