
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The success of any therapeutic intervention, whether preventive or curative, is ultimately
      dependent on the individual's adherence to treatment. Unfortunately, the failure of a large
      percentage of patients to adhere to prescribed medical regimens is a widely recognized and
      well documented phenomenon. It has been estimated that as many as 50 percent of patients do
      not take their prescribed medications, and of those remaining, less than two-thirds take
      their medication as prescribed.

      The interventions, implemented at the outset of pharmacologic intervention within the
      clinical trial, were timed to yield maximum effectiveness. Such randomized induction studies
      had not yet been undertaken. By capitalizing on a new unobtrusive assessment technique that
      generated the time of medication intake over prolonged periods, the study produced a unique
      set of data suitable for the study of recurring cycles in medication intake patterns.

      The study was part of a two grant initiative entitled "Evaluation of Adherence Interventions
      in Clinical Trials". The initiative was developed by the Behavioral Medicine Branch staff and
      Clinical Trials Branch staff as well as members of the Clinical Applications and Prevention
      Advisory Committee Behavioral Medicine and Prevention Working Groups. The initiative was
      released in September, 1991 and awarded in September, 1992.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Randomized, double-blind, two-group design. Within each of the groups, half of the subjects
      were on lovastatin and half on placebo. The main outcome measure was medication intake
      monitored daily and unobtrusively with the MEMS electronic monitor. For each subject, event
      time series of six months duration were obtained. The effect of these interventions were
      determined on average adherence at two and six months; and variability of adherence. In
      addition, the relative cost effectiveness of each intervention was examined by a
      recalculation of sample size needs based upon increased adherence and related cholesterol
      lowering. Ancillary goals of the study included: determining the components of variability of
      medication intake using statistical modeling techniques; and covariates of treatment effects,
      including baseline daily hassles, problem solving skills, and generalized expectancy for
      success.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  