
    
      3. OBJECTIVES The objectives are to (1) detect ILD within a population of early RA and (2)
      identify potential predictive factors of the development of ILD.

      4. METHODS

      The study is held in the Rheumatology, Pneumology and Radiology departments of the Cliniques
      universitaires Saint-Luc. Patients will be recruited in the rheumatology department (RA
      consultations). Recruitment will also be possible while patients are hospitalized for a
      work-up of their RA. At the time of the consultation, the following tests will be performed:

      Data collection Clinical data (Standard of Care, SOC)

        1. Demographic data

        2. Environmental inquiry (smoking status, occupation, domestic exposure)

        3. Past medical history

        4. Assessment of RA:

             1. ACR/EULAR core set clinical data (joints count, DAS score, HAQ)

             2. Hand and feet Xrays Biological assessment

        1. Biological data (SOC)

             1. CRP

             2. Rheumatoid factor

             3. Anti-CCP antibodies

             4. Antinuclear antibodies

        2. Genetic sampling (non-SOC) a. Detection of the rs35705950 variant for MUC5B promoter
           Lung assessment (SOC)

      1. Lung function tests (standard of care)

        1. Dynamic and static volumes (FVC, FEV1, TPC, RV)

        2. Lung diffusion capacity for CO (DLCO) 2. Chest Xrays 3. High resolution CT scanner
           (HRCT)

        1. Good clinical practice (INAMI/RIZIV)

        2. Including expiratory slices (detection of early air trapping) Primary outcome Detection
           of an interstitial lung disease associated with RA. RA-ILD is defined by the presence of
           reticulations, ground-glass opacity and/or honeycombing at HRCT not explained by another
           cause (i.e. cardiac disease, infection or neoplasia). The expected frequency of RA-ILD
           is 14% (based on local retrospective study on 1000 RA patients).

           Secondary outcomes 1. Proportion of different ILD subtypes (usual interstitial
           pneumonia, non-specific interstitial pneumonia, others) 2. Detection of non-ILD lung
           involvement of RA including:

           - Rheumatoid nodules

           - Emphysema

           - Bronchiectasis not related to an ILD

           - Bronchiolitis obliterans 3. Proportion of patients carrying the variant rs35705950 of
           the MUC5B promoter 4. Proportion of patients with anti-CCP antibodies 5. Proportion of
           patients with a relevant toxic exposure (smoking, drug, occupational or domestic
           exposure) 4.4 Expected timeline

           Start of recruitment: 01-July-2019 End of recruitment: 31-Dec-2022 Based on our local
           recruitment of RA patients, it is expect to recruit 300 patients.

           4.5. Méthodes d'analyse des données y compris des données manquantes, inutilisées ou
           Erronées All statistical analysis, including power calculation, will be performed in
           collaboration with the "Plate-forme en méthodologie statistique" of the UCLouvain.
           Pre-study estimations revealed that a sample size of 289 patients produces a two-sided
           95% confidence interval with a precision (half-width) of 0,04 when the actual proportion
           is near 0,14.

           5. POPULATION 5.1 Inclusion criteria

           - Adults aged 18 to 90 years-old

           - Diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) based on ACR-EULAR 2010 criteria

           - Onset of disease duration at least 1 year and at most 10 years prior to inclusion 5.3
           Exclusion criteria

           - Pregnancy

             -  Inability to provide informed consent

             -  Inability to perform lung function tests or to comply with the protocol

             -  Active pulmonary infection 6. CONFIDENTIALITY We will ensure study data
                confidentiality and anonymization (Law of 08 December 1992 on Privacy Protection,
                Law of 22 August 2002 on patients' rights and GDPR): A number will identify each
                subject. Only the PI and co-PI will have the ability to link the subject's number
                to his/her medical file. All data will be stored in a database, which will be held
                on CUSL' computer server. Access to data will be secured by (1) identification of
                PI and co-PI on their office desk and (2) by a specific password.

                7. ETHICS This protocol is submitted for approval to our local Ethics committee
                (Comité d'Ethique Hospitalo-facultaire CUSL-UCLouvain).

                8. INSURANCE

           An appropriate insurance will be taken to cover the risks ("assurance sans faute").
    
  