
    
      Material - Method Our study was carried out with the approval numbered 13281952-929 from
      Elazig Training and Research Hospital. All procedures performed in studies involving human
      participants were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or
      national research committee and with the 1964 Helsinki declaration and its later amendments
      or comparable ethical standards. 1752 patients who met the criteria of patient selection in
      terms of obesity and metabolic disease surgery, operated in the Elazığ Training and Research
      Hospital General Surgery Clinic between January 2016 and October 2018 were evaluated
      retrospectively. Patients' data were obtained from epicrisis forms in the hospital computer
      system, patient follow-up charts and patient files. Data for OS-MRS and Clavien Dindo
      complication classification were obtained from patient follow-up charts, patient files and
      hospital computer records. Patients' demographic data (age, sex), presence of comorbidities,
      complications (wound complications, thromboembolic events, leakage from anastomosis, splenic
      infarction proven by imaging methods, bleeding detected due to low hemoglobin and hematocite
      values during follow-up, acute renal failure due to deterioration in biochemical parameters)
      seen in follow up period before discharge (postoperative first 72 hours), complication type
      (major and minor), whether emergency surgery was performed, BMI values, postoperative
      hospitalization and OS-MRS. Additionally, while grouping according to BMI values, patients
      with BMI values below 40 were excluded and three groups with BMI values of 40 - 45 kg / m^2,
      45 - 50 kg / m^2 and 50 kg / m^2 and above were created. It was investigated whether there
      were any complications among these groups and the presence of major or minor complications by
      CD classification. 1617 patients who met the inclusion criteria were evaluated.

      IBM Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) 20.0 was used for statistical evaluation.
      Kolmogorow-Smirnov test results were examined in terms of the suitability of the groups for
      normal distribution. In comparisons between groups, independent sample t-test or Mann Whitney
      U test was used to evaluate numerical data according to normality test. In the evaluation of
      categorical data, chi-square analysis and Fischer's exact test were performed. In terms of
      the relation between complication formation and BMI, univariate analysis and multivariate
      analysis were performed. Numerical data were given as mean ± standard deviation (ss) (minimum
      - maximum values) or median (minimum - maximum values) according to normality test.
      Categorical data are given as count (n) and percentage (%).
    
  