
    
      The neoadjuvant setting has been the target of increasing interest recently, as it offers the
      possibility of direct evaluation of treatment effect on tumour size, better surgical results
      as well as for the possible research opportunities it provides via the comparative analysis
      of tumour biology and clinical outcomes before and after treatment.

      Invasive lobular breast cancer (ILBC) is the second most common histologic subtype (5-15%)
      after invasive ductal breast cancer (IDBC). Despite clinical and pathologic differences, ILBC
      is still treated as IDBC. Indeed, subjects with ILBC tend to have lower response rates to
      conventional chemotherapeutic agents and some results have suggested that they might derive
      increased benefit with aromatase inhibitors.

      CDK4/6 inhibitors in combination with endocrine therapy are FDA-approved for the treatment of
      ER-positive/HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer following the results of 7 positive phase
      3 trials. These agents are currently tested in phase 3 studies in the adjuvant setting and
      might achieve the status of standard of care for subjects with ER-positive/HER2-negative
      early breast cancer treated with curative intent. In the NeoPAL (UCBG10/4, NCT02400567)
      neoadjuvant randomized study, Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) 0-1 status was achieved for 7.7%
      of subjects in the letrozole + palbociclib arm. This rate is not available for the 7 subjects
      with lobular breast cancer enrolled in this arm.

      In lobular breast cancer, loss of E-cadherin (CDH1) expression is the most frequent oncogenic
      event and is present in 90% of cases. In vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo model systems as well as
      different functional profiling modalities (genetic and chemical screens) have been used to
      identify CDH1 synthetic lethality interactions. In vivo, ROS1 inhibitors produced profound
      antitumor effects in multiple models of E-cadherin-defective breast cancer, providing the
      preclinical rationale for assessing ROS1 inhibitors in this setting. A study is currently
      investigating this hypothesis in ER+/HER2- metastatic lobular breast cancer (NCT03620643).

      Entrectinib is a potent small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets oncogenic
      rearrangements in NTRK, ROS1, and ALK. In vitro, entrectinib potently ROS1 at low nanomolar
      concentrations, with an average median inhibitory concentration of 0.007 μM against ROS1.

      This single arm, multi-center, phase 2 trial will include pre and post-menopausal women with
      ER-positive/HER2-negative early stage invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast to evaluate
      the effect of combining endocrine therapy with entrectinib. Subjects will receive four 28-day
      cycles of letrozole 2.5 mg daily in combination with entrectinib 600 mg daily. Pre-menopausal
      women will receive goserelin 3.6 mg every 28 days.

      Subjects' response to therapy will be evaluated at screening, after 2 cycles and after the 4
      cycles of treatment by breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). An ECG will be performed at
      screening and then before cycle 2. Surgery will take place after at least 16 weeks of
      treatment, during week 18 (+ 7-day window). Breast and axillary surgery will follow local
      practice.

      Post-operative therapy will be at the discretion of the investigator and will follow local
      practice.
    
  