
    
      In December 2019, China reported the first cluster of severe acute respiratory syndrome due
      to a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2). The disease rapidly spread into a global pandemic of
      public health emergency worldwide leading to more than 330.000 deaths (data from May 25th,
      2020). We have, to date, no demonstration on the efficacy of any drug to cure or prevent
      severe evolution of the disease (COVID-19). The primary target of SARS-CoV-2 is the lung with
      frequent occurrence of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) justifying supportive care,
      including invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV). The characteristics of ARDS in COVID-19
      patients appeared atypical due to the dissociation between initial well-conserved lung
      compliance and severe hypoxemia, attributed to pulmonary vasoregulation disruption and local
      thrombogenesis. Strikingly high D-dimers levels, caused by both inflammation storm and
      coagulation activation, have been early reported in COVID-19 patients and have been
      associated with increased mortality. A single observational study suggests that
      anticoagulation is associated with a decreased mortality in severe COVID-19 patients. These
      reports have led to several therapeutic propositions in terms of anticoagulant therapy from
      worldwide scientific societies (Khider et al JMV 2020). Publications recently reported
      thrombotic complications in series of severe COVID-19 patients admitted in ICU, but the
      frequency of pulmonary embolism (PE) in larger cohort of COVID-19 patients of any severity
      remains uncertain.

      This cohort enrolled patients in whom PE is proven by CTPA and compared them into two
      subgroups of controls matched for age and sex in whom PE was either excluded or non
      suspected:

        1. COVID-19 patients with a negative CTPA and

        2. COVID-19 patients in whom only an unhenced CT was performed.
    
  