
    
      Firefighters work some of the most challenging schedules known under highly stressful and
      demanding conditions. The need to work frequent extended shifts leads to acute and chronic
      sleep deficiency as well as disruption of circadian rhythms. Firefighters on-call overnight
      are also particularly susceptible to sleep inertia, the neurocognitive impairment experienced
      immediately upon waking. In addition, it is likely that a significant proportion of
      firefighters suffer from undiagnosed sleep disorders, which further impair sleep and
      exacerbate fatigue.

      The proposed fatigue countermeasure aims to increase sleep opportunities, and thereby improve
      firefighter safety and health. We will be conducting a station-level, randomized clinical
      trial of policies designed to maximize sleep opportunities during current 24-hour shifts to
      improve alertness, performance, health and safety in firefighters.

      We will leverage the comprehensive fatigue management program we developed and the web-based
      technology we implemented in previous Federal Emergency Management Agency projects, and will
      continue to offer our web-based education program and sleep disorders screening. By
      conducting a collaborative study involving sleep medicine clinicians, sleep researchers, a
      consultant on alarms, together with the representatives from the management, and union
      leadership of the fire department, we expect we will develop a sleep optimization program
      with a high probability of success and test the hypotheses that increasing the sleep
      opportunity of firefighters will improve the alertness, performance, safety and physical and
      mental health of firefighters. The results of this study will provide policy makers with the
      scientific evidence they require to develop effective fatigue countermeasure programs for
      firefighters.

      We will be conducting a randomized clinical trial, providing the most rigorous evaluation
      possible in an operational setting. Half the fire stations in a department will be randomly
      assigned to complete the intervention, termed Operation Fight Fatigue, in the first year of
      the study. The other half of the fire stations will complete the intervention in the second
      year. In this way, all firefighters will have the chance to benefit. We expect the fatigue
      countermeasure intervention to improve the alertness, performance, health and safety of
      firefighters. We will be evaluating a cost-effective intervention to improve the safety and
      health of firefighters in departments throughout the United States.
    
  