
    
      After adequate stroke prevention (e.g. anticoagulation) and rate control, the optimum
      strategy for patients who continue to be symptomatic with persistent AF has not been
      established. Cardioversion with antiarrhythmic medication is commonly used as a first-line
      rhythm control strategy despite very high recurrence rates of the index arrhythmia and high
      serious complications associated with this strategy. Further treatment options, such as
      catheter ablation or implantation of a pacemaker and ablation of the atrioventricular (AV)
      node, are considered once AF recurs. The benefits of first-line ablation in patients
      presenting with persistent AF has not been tested. We seek to perform a blinded, randomised
      trial comparing an electrical cardioversion-led strategy with a pulmonary-vein isolation
      strategy for the treatment of persistent atrial fibrillation.

      No blinded randomised controlled trial comparing early-ablation strategies to
      cardioversion-led strategies has been performed. The rationale for blinding where possible in
      clinical trials is well established. The recently published ORBITA trial performed a blinded,
      multicentre randomised trial of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in stable angina
      compared to a placebo procedure. This trial demonstrated that the efficacy of invasive
      procedures can be assessed with a placebo procedure and that this type of trial remains
      necessary. Knowledge of treatment assignment influences physician behaviour, drug
      recommendations and encourages bias in outcome reporting. The treatment effect size and the
      effects of confounding factors will be exaggerated and thus limit the interpretation of the
      true patient experienced outcomes either strategy. In a comparison of surgical procedures, a
      sham-control arm represents the gold standard of blinding. A systematic review of
      placebo-controlled surgical trials found no evidence of harm to participants assigned to the
      placebo group. For a procedure whose primary purpose is to give sustained symptomatic relief,
      definitive quantification of the true placebo-controlled effect size of AF ablation is
      necessary. There is a need to clarify the relationship between patient reported symptoms and
      the arrhythmia itself. Patient reported symptoms may not always be related to the severity of
      the arrhythmia or quality of life. No bias-resistant blinded, randomised, trial has yet been
      performed seeking to measure the benefits of AF ablation.
    
  