
    
      Despite significant advancements in psychiatric research, the majority of adults with mental
      health disorders do not benefit from current evidence-based treatments, especially if they
      have difficulties managing negative emotions. One solution to this unmet clinical need is to
      take a neuroscience-informed approach to treatment development in order to radically change
      patient care. Despite an explosion of research on the neurobiological underpinnings of
      emotion, emotion regulation, and psychopathology, there have been few attempts to use such
      findings to advance behavioral treatments. Neuroscience-informed treatment development could
      optimize psychotherapy gains and reduce burden on therapists and clients. Therefore, we
      propose to build a fundamentally novel approach to treating difficulties managing negative
      emotions (or emotion dysregulation) that builds on the strength of current therapies, but
      that also accelerates and enhances gains.

      Adults with several different psychiatric disorders have difficulty managing negative
      emotions, a problem that has been traced back to impairments in the fronto-limbic brain
      circuitry. In healthy samples this neural network is activated in response to tasks requiring
      regulation of emotional arousal and disrupting this circuit leads to psychiatric symptoms. In
      psychiatric samples, this circuit is underperforming as evidenced by (1) hyperactivity in the
      amygdala (the brain structure that signals emotional arousal), (2) slow return to baseline
      after amygdala activation, (3) hypoactivity in frontal regions (responsible for regulation),
      and (3) insufficient cross-talk between these regions when patients experience negative
      emotional arousal. Evidence-based cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy and neurostimulation are
      two different interventions that can remediate function in impaired brain circuits. Both
      interventions have evidence of success in changing the fronto-limbic network but also need
      improvement. Therefore, the investigators plan to combine magnetic brain stimulation and
      cognitive restructuring (an evidence-based behavioral treatment for difficulties managing
      emotions) in a one-session intervention.

      The investigators propose to recruit 65 transdiagnostic adults (i.e., who meet criteria for
      any DSM 5 disorder) who engage in cognitive restructuring with low frequency as measured by
      an established questionnaire and to randomly assign them to either real or sham repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). All included participants will practice reducing
      negative emotions (induced with standardized autobiographical stressors) using cognitive
      restructuring while undergoing high frequency or sham rTMS to the right or left dorsolateral
      prefrontal cortex. Standardized, established procedures will be used to teach cognitive
      restructuring, to generate personalized stressors, to induce negative emotional arousal, and
      to implement the one session of rTMS. Immediate effects will be evaluated using measures of
      emotional arousal and regulation during the intervention and for one week afterwards using 8
      daily automated mobile phone calls. Long-term effects in emotion regulation, functional and
      psychiatric impairment will be examined at 1-week and 1-month follow-up interviews. The
      investigators hypothesize that rTMS will enhance cognitive restructuring by yielding a
      quicker reduction in emotional arousal when compared to sham TMS, and will lead to more
      frequent use of the cognitive restructuring in the natural environment. If successful, this
      study may be the first in a series of investigations using innovative paradigms to optimize
      treatment for psychiatric disorders and it could lead to the next generation of
      neuroscience-informed behavioral interventions.

      An additional 40 participants will be recruited for the study using identical
      inclusion/exclusion criteria as the main portion of the study, however, if their score on the
      emotion regulation questionnaire is above the low frequency, a group of participants who meet
      for medium to high frequency on the scale will be allowed to participate in this arm if the
      also score high on the difficulties with emotion regulation scale and meet all other
      inclusion/exclusion criteria as well as can undergo an MRI. Participants in the imaging
      portion of the study will undergo an MRI before the intervention day. This imaging session
      will include training in the emotion regulation task to be performed in the scanner,
      including practice in reappraisal and distraction; a memory cue assessment to rehearse cuing
      of memories; a mock scan if necessary, MRI safety screening confirmation, structural
      (Diffusion tensor imaging and anatomical) and functional MRI (fMRI) images will be collected.
      During the fMRI scan, participants will complete the emotional regulation task where they
      will be asked to recall an emotional memory from the Emotional Memory selection tasks and
      then be cued to reappraise, distract or allow negative emotions. At the end of the trials,
      participants will rate their current emotional state. Participants in the imaging portion of
      the study will be randomized to sham or left dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex stimulation
      only. After undergoing the intervention visit, they will then return to complete a second MRI
      after 1 week where they will reoriented to the emotion regulation task, have structural and
      functional MRI images collected with the emotion regulation task occurring during the fMRI
      portion.

      They will also complete the online questionnaires as the other groups and then will return to
      the clinic within 30days for the final follow-up visit.
    
  