
    
      Active muscles require an optimal amount of local blood flow to meet the functional and
      metabolic demand of the exercising muscle. It is well known that maximal aerobic work
      capacity and exercise tolerance are reduced in CKD, contributing to functional impairment and
      loss of independence. A multitude of factors may be responsible for this outcome including
      reduced blood flow to active muscle beds brought on by greater levels of oxidative stress in
      CKD. Aging and some individuals with disease (coronary artery disease, hypertension,
      diabetes) exhibit elevated resting sympathetic nerve activity (SNA), leading to greater
      vasoconstriction and pressor responses during exercise. However, the magnitude of this effect
      remains unknown in CKD. Importantly, there are a lack of interventions aimed at improving
      blood flow and reduce sympathetic mediated vasoconstriction in patients with CKD.

      Recent evidence in aging humans suggest that curcumin supplementation improves vascular
      function by reducing oxidative stress. However, it remains unknown whether acute curcumin
      supplementation can be regarded as an effective therapeutic strategy aimed at modulating
      exercise vasodilation and sympathetic mediated vasoconstriction in CKD. Understanding the
      mechanisms that impair vascular function within exercising muscle is important when
      understanding implications for systemic blood pressure regulation, cardiovascular disease and
      functional work capacity in CKD. Therefore, identifying a low cost, non-pharmaceutical
      intervention and its potential impact on improving vascular function in CKD is a priority in
      preventative cardiovascular disease medicine.

      The present proposal aims to examine the effect of sympathetic vasoconstriction on the
      differential changes in exercising blood flow in response to acute oral supplementation with
      curcumin in patients with CKD.
    
  