
    
      PROJECT TEAM N.Fusun Toraman (NFT) cell phone: +90 505 355 9045 e.mail:
      fusuntoraman@gmail.com Meral Bilgilisoy Filiz (MBF) cell phone: +90 505 647 5840 e.mail:
      mbilgilisoy@gmail.com Aslı Karadag Ozdemir (AKO) cell phone: +90 555 276 6334
      e.mail:aslikaradagoz@gmail.com Yasemin Karaman (YK) cell phone: +90 533 375 0070 e.mail:
      dryaseminkaraman@hotmail.com Sevim Yıldız (SY) cell phone: +90 535 967 3870 e.mail:
      syildiz07@yahoo.com

      PROJECT PRESENTATION AND ETHICAL APPROVAL The project team and the physicians of the Physical
      Therapy and Rehabilitation Clinic were informed about the research topic, content and
      applications and their suggestions were recorded (August 2017). The research was submitted to
      the Antalya Training and Research Hospital Ethical Committee and Ethic approval was obtained
      (September 21, 2017 / Decision number 2017-177). The research was presented as a 3001-TUBITAK
      project on December 2017, and Contract is signed (September 07, 2018 / Project number
      118S014). Project start date was determined as September 21, 2018 by TUBITAK.

      The Contract of Project was submitted to the Research and Development Office of Antalya
      Training and Research Hospital and Purchasing Officers were determined by them (September 13,
      2018 / 00076415138). Technical specifications were prepared for the purchase of Regenflex
      Starter and EasyPRP, bidding process was made, contract was written and products purchased
      (October 30, 2018 / 00079677083). Technical specification was prepared for the purchase of
      the computer, bidding process was made, contract was prepared and computer purchased (October
      02, 2018 / 00077859953). Technical specification was prepared for the laboratory testing,
      bidding process was made, contract was prepared (November 22, 2018).It was learned that the
      research project should be sent to Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency
      Department of Clinical Research at the meeting entitled as Good Clinical Researches which was
      held on November 30, 2018, at Ministry of Health, Ankara. The project was sent to Turkey
      Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency Department of Clinical Research on December 17,
      2018 and start time of the project was changed to January 07, 2019. The mandatory amendment
      on the commencement date of the project was reported to TUBITAK by writing an official letter
      with attached information related with the Basic Principles of Clinical Trials. Additionally,
      a similar official letter sent to TUBITAK was written to the Ethical Committee of Antalya
      Training and Research Hospital and Clinical Research and Development Unit on December 19,
      2018.The project is approved by Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency Department
      of Clinical Research (January 03, 2019/No:71146310-511.06-E.1116/subject:2018-157) PATIENT
      RECRUITMENT: Hospital records of patients admitted to Outpatient Clinics of Physical Therapy
      and Rehabilitation with the diagnostic code M17.0-M17.9, M24.1, M25.5, between 50-79 ages,
      and between March and August 2018 were controlled in order to determine how many months were
      necessary for patient selection and radiological results of the patients were evaluated. At
      the end of the evaluation, it was decided that two months of the patient recruitment time
      were sufficient. It is decided to recruit the patients diagnosed as knee osteoarthritis after
      clinical, laboratory and radiological examination and referred to the project team between
      January and March 2019. Diagnosis of the knee osteoarthritis is made according to American
      College of Rheumatology diagnostic criterias. The patients are informed about the content of
      the study by the principal investigator and the research assistant (NFT, and AKO,
      respectively]. The criterias of inclusion and exclusion, follow-up times and importance of
      follow-up are explained to the patients and consent is obtained from the patients who meet
      the criteria. NFT ve AKO examine the patients and select the patients using inclusion and
      exclusion criterias. If the sufficient number of patients do not meet the criterias for
      inclusion between the dates specified, the patients are referred from Physical Therapy and
      Rehabilitation Outpatient Clinics of Ataturk State Hospital. The patients are selected using
      the inclusion and exclusion criterias.

      ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE: NFT and AKO get information related with age, sex, medical and family
      history, comorbidities, menopausal characteristics of the female patients, radiologic and
      laboratory diagnostic tests, education, occupation, socioeconomic status, habits, medication
      use, cognitive level, physical activity status, dominant extremity. Then activity and rest
      pain is asked, body composition, physical performance tests, and isokinetic test are applied,
      questionnaires of disease-specific and overall quality of life are filled. Under AKO
      supervision physical performance tests are performed by a single occupational therapist, and
      isokinetic test and body composition measures are performed by a single physiotherapist. The
      weight-bearing knee radiologies are evaluated independently by SY and NFT according to
      Kellgren Lawrence criterias. Randomization is performed by MBF after all examinations are
      completed. The groups are stratified as PRP and HA using covariate adaptive randomization as
      age and osteoarthritis severity covariate.MRI is performed after appointment of radiology
      department. Two of MRI in the morning and two of MRI in the afternoon are performed daily.
      The patients who can not perform MRI examinations are recommended to undergo sedation. The
      patients who do not want to undergo MRI with sedation are excluded from the study by
      establishing the definition of non-volunteers. MRI is performed at the beginning and at the
      end of the study and the evaluation will be made by the two radiologist independently (SY,
      and YK). Total of 16 patients- eight patients of the HA group in the morning time, eight of
      the patients of the PRP group in the afternoon as daily- are injected by MBF. Injections are
      performed by using suprapatellar intraarticular route, ultrasound guided and 20G injector and
      are repeated after one month. Three passive flexion and extension movement is performed after
      injection, and after fifteen minutes of the rest the patient is sent to home. On the day of
      the injection, it is recommended that the patient does not perform intensive activities for
      24 hours and should not remain standing for a long time. If there is pain and swelling on the
      knee, it is recommended to use 500 mg of paracetamol which does not contain codeine, cold
      application three times a day and not to use nonsteroid antiinflammatory medicines. If pain
      persists, it is recommended to communicate with the physiatrist who performs injection
      (MBF).Exercise brochure is prepared for both of the groups to be performed one day after
      injection and is recommended to continue for one year. Cold application, analgesic and NSAID
      use, exercise compliance/adherence, and adverse events related with the injections are asked
      to the patients on each of the evaluation time and the results are recorded.Patient
      satisfaction with a 6-point Likert scale is evaluated on each time of the evaluation. Each of
      the patient is examined at baseline, and also at the first, at the third, at the sixth, at
      the ninth and at the twelfth months for all of the outcome measures. MRI is assessed at
      baseline and at the twelfth month. Follow-up is provided by phone calling and inviting the
      patient.

      DATA COLLECTION PROCEDURE: The groups are encoded and randomized by MBF. The questionnaires
      are filled by AKO. All of the results of examination, laboratory, radiography and outcome
      measures will be saved in a separate file for each of the patient by AKO. The data in the
      files is recorded to the computer by AKO in every weekend. The written files and computer
      data are checked by MBF.

      DATA ANALYSIS PROCEDURE: Dependent variables are pain, physical performance measures, muscle
      strength, quality of life, patient satisfaction, Whole-Organ Magnetic Resonance Imaging Score
      (WORMS). Independent variables are PRP and HA. Sample size is determined as a minimum
      clinical important difference (MCID) of 1.33 on a scale of 0-10 on the Western Ontario and
      McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC). It is calculated that at least 46
      patients should be in each group as a total sample size of 92 with 0.80 power and a standard
      deviation of 2.25 by taking into account the MCID in WOMAC. Considering the drop outs, it is
      decided to take 60 patients for each group and 120 patients in total. Statistical analysis is
      performed using SPSS version 18. The frequency analysis is used for the demographic data, and
      the variance homogenity and distribution of the variables are analysed with Levene test and
      Kolmogorov Smirnov test respectively. The mean and standard deviation are calculated for the
      baseline outcome measures which are normally distributed and homogen and independent t-test
      is used to compare the groups. Median, minimum and maximum values are calculated for the
      baseline outcome measures which are not normally distributed and non-homogen and Mann-Whitney
      U test is used for the group comparison. The significance is set as p<0.05. The effect of
      time and group is analysed by using repeated two-way analysis of variance (RM-ANOVA) or
      two-way analysis of covariance (RM ANCOVA) taking into account the difference in baseline
      measurements. In RM-ANOVA or RM-ANCOVA tests, the selection of univariate or multivariate
      approach is selected according to the data distribution, the sphericity and epsilon value. A
      multivariate approach is chosen for variables which are not normally distributed. The
      univariate approach is used when the sphericity test is not significant in variables that
      fulfill the normal distribution assumption. When the sphericity test is significant, the
      cut-point of epsilon value which is 0.750 is checked. If the epsilon is ≥ 0.750, the highest
      value of univariate test approach and if the epsilon <0.750 the multivariate approach is
      recorded. The effect sizes calculated are recorded for group and time effects for RM-ANOVA
      and RM-ANCOVA tests. The effect sizes are interpreted as follows: negligible effect of
      between 0.00-0.10, the small effect of between 0.10-0.30, the medium effect of between
      0.30-0.50; high effect of between 0.50-0.70; very high effect of between 0.70-0.90, and
      perfect effect of between 0.90-1.00. The post hoc Bonferroni test is used to compare the
      group effect and time effect. Significance value for the pain, the quality of life, the
      muscle strength, the physical function measures, and the patient satisfaction is p <0.01
      (0.05/5), and for MRI measure is p <0.025 (0.05/2). MRI results by the two independent
      researcher (YK and SY) and baseline knee radiology are evaluated by the two independent
      researcher (SY and NFT). Interobserver reliability for MRI and baseline knee radiology
      results is calculated by using Pearson or Spearman correlation according to the distribution
      properties of the variables. The correlation between pain, physical function, muscle strength
      and magnetic resonance change will be calculated by Pearson or Spearman correlation according
      to the variables distribution properties. Mean imputation technique is used for missing
      values on a variable. All of the statistical analysis is performed by NFT and is checked by
      Full Software Engineering Advertising Promotion Tourism Organization Industry Trade Limited
      Company.
    
  