
    
      Until recently, the tuberculin skin test (TST) was the only available diagnostic assay for
      detection of latent infection with M. tuberculosis (LTBI). Despite the low overall incidence
      of symptomatic tuberculosis infection in low-prevalence countries, the potential mortality
      and morbidity mandate constant vigilance to identify patients at risk for reactivation. Due
      to systemic immunosuppression, immunocompromised patients with latent M. tuberculosis
      infection are at increased risk of progression to active disease. This applies to patients
      with various causes of immunodeficiency such as HIV-infected patients, allogeneic stem cell
      and solid organ transplant recipients, patients with rheumatoid arthritis and patients with
      chronic renal failure. Therefore, current guidelines aimed at preventing tuberculosis
      infection in immunocompromized individuals recommend a generalized screening for evidence of
      latent infection to target appropriate preventative prophylaxis. At present, tuberculosis
      control programs exclusively rely on the tuberculin skin test to identify a latent infection
      in asymptomatic individuals.

      Recently, novel in vitro assays termed T cell interferon-gamma release assay (TIGRA) have
      become available that are based on the detection of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production
      in T cells or supernatants after stimulation with highly specific antigens of M.
      tuberculosis. Two TIGRA are commercially available, the ELISPOT based T.SPOT.TB and the ELISA
      based QuantiFERON-TB Gold test (now available as an "IN-TUBE" version). Current evidence
      suggests that TIGRA based on cocktails containing ESAT-6 and CFP-10 have the potential to
      become useful diagnostic tools. It has, however, been shown, that rates of indeterminate and
      positive results may differ between both tests, suggesting that they might provide different
      results in routine clinical practice. Moreover, there is only inadequate evidence on the
      value of those TIGRA in the management of immunocompromised individuals. Based on the current
      literature and most recent meta-analyses, there is an urgent need for head-to-head
      comparative studies of the two commercially available tests in immunocompromised patients.
      This study is designed to carry out a head-to-head comparison of the T.SPOT.TB and the ELISA
      based QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube test with the TST in immunosuppressed populations. In a
      second step that will be addressed at a later stage, this study may be extended to
      longitudinally assess the predictive value of a positive blood test for progression to active
      disease.

      The study will be performed within the tuberculosis network european trialsgroup (TBNET). It
      will be performed in a multicenter setting involving 23 participating centers from a total of
      14 european countries. The study aims to include a total of 1800 study subjects distributed
      as follows: 200 HIV infected individuals with high and low CD4 T cells/µl (above and below
      250 CD4 T cell/µl), respectively, 200 patients with chronic renal failure, 200 stem cell
      transplant recipients, 200 solid organ transplantation (lung, liver, kidney, kidney-pancreas)
      patients, 200 patients with rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, 200 immunocompromised patients
      with confirmed tuberculosis, 200 immunocompetent individuals with similar risk factors as
      patients, and 200 immunocompetent controls with no known risk of exposure or tuberculosis
      will serve as control groups.
    
  