
    
      Introduction: Metastasis of epithelial tumors, such as breast cancer, to the brain is a
      common problem, with significant consequences with respect to neurological dysfunction and
      shortening of survival. One necessary step for tumor growth anywhere is the development of a
      blood supply.

      Objectives: We seek to compare a new, non-invasive method of assessing neo-vascularization,
      dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) with a
      gold-standard-microvessel counts-and to see if we can identify gene expression patterns
      within the tumor itself, from areas shown as low flow versus those that are high-flow on
      DCE-MRI if there are features within the tumor itself that influence the degree of
      neovascularization. This prospective study will only be utilized in conjunction the protocol
      entitled "Analysis of Brain Metastasis in Patients with Breast Cancer, with and without
      over-expression of HER-2" that is evaluating breast tumors metastatic to the brain.

      Study Population: A series of women with breast cancer metastatic to the brain who do (n=39)
      or do not (n=39) over-express the growth factor receptor, HER-2, entered into a prospective
      trial in which pre-operative MRI imaging is performed as a matter of standard medical
      practice. At the time of this pre-operative MR, we propose to add one additional, 10-minute
      MR series, a dynamic, contrast-enhance image to assess the extent of blood flow through
      various aspects of the tumor.

      Anticipated Risks and Benefits: There are no obvious risks or benefits to patients who
      participate in this protocol. It is felt that this study involves no more than minimal risk.

      Estimation of Outcome/Potential Meaning: We believe that this protocol will help us identify
      tumors with higher or lower degrees of neovascularization as well as identify tumor-intrinsic
      factors via microarrays performed on microdissected tissues. This is becoming an important
      issues as cytostatic treatments, such as anti-angiogenic agents, enter the clinical area, and
      are used singly or in combination with cytotoxic therapies.
    
  