
    
      Asthma with eosinophilic inflammation in the airways and/or blood eosinophilia is associated
      with clinical severity including the risk of exacerbations and relevant comorbidities (e.g.
      nasal polyposis). Interleukin-5 (IL-5) is a cytokine essential for eosinophil trafficking and
      survival. Clinical trials of blocking IL-5 with anti-IL-5 antibodies (mepolizumab and
      reslizumab) in patients with uncontrolled eosinophilic asthma resulted in an improvement in
      exacerbation rate and oral corticosteroid use. In some studies with mepolizumab and
      reslizumab there was a beneficial effect on lung function (FEV1). In addition, many patients
      described a profound impact on asthma symptoms and quality of life in personal reports which
      is not uniformly reflected in clinical trials.

      The MEMORY trial is the first to primarily evaluate the effect of mepolizumab treatment on
      pulmonary function in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma. Importantly, using spirometry
      and bodyplethysmography will allow to evaluate additional parameters beyond FEV1 that more
      closely mirror the pathophysiological changes and functional aspects of airflow limitation in
      asthma in real life, e.g. airway resistance, hyperinflation and diffusion capacity. The
      proposed trial will answer the important questions: if, and if so, which parameters of airway
      (patho-) physiology as assessed by bodyplethysmography best reflect clinical response to
      mepolizumab therapy in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma. In addition, the time course
      to clinical response will be assessed. Equally important, there is only a loose correlation
      between FEV1 and parameters of asthma control and asthma-related quality of life. This is why
      another new and important aspect of this trial is to carefully monitor asthma control and
      asthma quality in life in correlation with lung function changes beyond FEV1. Finally, it is
      tempting to speculate that the proposed trial will contribute to the question how to best
      define clinical response to mepolizumab.
    
  