
    
      Our primary goal in this prospective observational study is to observe laboring women's
      sensitivity to, and characteristics of, labor pain, for the primary outcome of postpartum
      depression. Secondary endpoints include parenting self-efficacy, maternal-infant attachment,
      and infant development. The purpose of this pilot phase is to establish study protocol
      feasibility, and secondarily to determine trends that will inform future sample size
      calculations for a larger prospective study.

      Our key research questions are:

        1. What is the association between perceived intensity and unpleasantness of labor pain and
           postpartum behavioral health outcomes?

        2. Do personality, psychological, and genetic factors associated with depression correlate
           with differences in labor pain experience?

      Our hypothesis is that new mothers who have lower pain intensity and unpleasantness during
      the labor and delivery period will have a reduced risk for postpartum depression, defined by
      Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Score (EPDS) score. We secondarily hypothesize that women with
      lower labor pain intensity and unpleasantness scores will have improved maternal-infant
      attachment, higher parenting self-efficacy, lower perceived stress, and that their infants
      will exhibit improved child development.

      Methods: Baseline assessments of depression, anxiety, resiliency, perceived social support,
      pain catastrophising, and quantitative sensory testing (QST) will be undertaken. Baseline
      saliva samples will be collected for future genetic analysis. Throughout labor, pain will be
      assessed at high density and frequency by an electronic pain diary (mobile app developed by
      the study team), delivered at the bedside by a portable electronic device (Android tablet)
      provided by the study team. Labor variables will be recorded, including number of manual
      epidural supplemental doses, total dose of local anesthetic delivered, and the outcome of
      labor. Postpartum assessments will include depression, pain inventory, anxiety, perceived
      stress, maternal-infant bonding, breastfeeding, child development, and parenting
      self-efficacy.
    
  