
    
      Among critical congenital heart lesions, hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) and related
      single right ventricle (RV) anomalies are associated with the highest morbidity and
      mortality. The first stage in palliation for patients with these defects is the Norwood
      procedure. The essential components of the Norwood procedure include (1) an atrial
      septectomy, (2) anastomosis of the proximal pulmonary artery to the aorta with homograft
      augmentation of the aortic arch, and (3) establishment of a source of pulmonary blood flow,
      with either a modified Blalock-Taussig shunt (MBTS) or the right ventricle to pulmonary
      artery (RV-to-PA) shunt. In May 2005, the Pediatric Heart Network began a multi-center,
      randomized trial, the Single Ventricle Reconstruction (SVR) Trial, comparing outcomes in
      subjects with HLHS or other single RV anomalies palliated using the Norwood procedure with
      either a MBTS or the RV-to-PA shunt. The primary outcome of this trial was freedom from death
      or cardiac transplantation by 12 months post-randomization.

      The Single Ventricle Reconstruction Extension (SVR II) Study is an extension of the SVR Trial
      that compares clinical outcomes and RV performance following the RV-to-PA shunt versus MBTS
      modifications of the Norwood procedure in subjects at 6 years post-randomization. Data is
      collected annually between ages 2 and 6 years, as well as before and after the Fontan
      surgery. Vital status and medical history is ascertained annually until the last enrolled
      subject is 6 years old. Data is obtained through medical record review, phone interview with
      the parent or guardian, electrocardiography (ECG), core laboratory analysis of
      echocardiographic images and Holter monitors, and completion of questionnaires regarding
      neurodevelopmental outcomes, behavior, health-related quality of life, and family
      functioning. The primary outcome variable in SVR II will be freedom from death or cardiac
      transplantation at 6 years post-randomization. All subjects who were randomized in the SVR
      trial will be included in analysis of this endpoint.
    
  