
    
      Background: Intravenous thrombolysis (IVT) and intra-arterial thrombolysis (IAT) have been
      shown to be effective treatments for acute stroke in controlled randomized trials and
      meta-analyses. However, prospective studies comparing IVT and IAT have not been performed,
      and it is not known which patients benefit more from IVT or IAT. Non-invasive neurovascular
      imaging techniques such as magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) or computed tomography
      angiography (CTA) have the potential to improve patient selection for the optimal mode of
      thrombolytic therapy and provide data of pre-treatment neurovascular findings of patients
      treated with IVT. IAT series have identified several prognostic factors for favourable or
      poor outcome predictors such as vessel recanalization, location of the vascular occlusion or
      NIHSS at admission. Additional studies have shown that recanalization rates in patients with
      central ves-sel occlusions such as middle cerebral artery (MCA) main stem or MCA main branch
      or basilar artery (BA) is higher when treated with IAT compared to IVT. Therefore, the
      investigators hypothesize that IAT might be more efficacious in these patients.

      Objective: Prospective observational multicenter registry with the following aims: To compare
      the safety and efficacy of IAT and IVT in patients with acute ischemic stroke. To improve
      safety of IAT and IVT by monitoring the in-hospital management.

      Methods: Consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke who are treated with IVT or IAT
      within 6 hours of symptom onset in a Swiss stroke unit will be eligible for this registry.
      Patients are given either intravenous rt-PA or receive IAT such as intra-arterial urokinase,
      intra-arterial rt-PA or mechanical endovascular recanalization techniques. Patient
      involvement in the registry shall not influence any treatment decision. Patients will undergo
      a complete diagnostic work up including a clinical neurological examination using the
      National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score on admission, laboratory
      examination, brain and neurovascular imaging, echocardiography, 24-hours ECG to determine
      stroke etiology using the Trial of Org 10172 in Acute Stroke Treatment (TOAST) criteria. The
      treating physician will initiate secondary prevention of stroke as soon as possible. All
      patients will be examined by CT and CTA or MRI and MRA on day 1 and in any case of clinical
      deterioration to exclude intracranial haemorrhage and to assess recanalization of the
      occluded vessel (using the thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) grading system).
      Clinical outcome will be evaluated on day 1 and at 3 months using the National Institute of
      Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score, modified Rankin Scale score (mRS), Barthel Index (BI), and
      assessing adverse events and quality of life. The proportion of patients with favourable
      outcome (mRS 0 to 2) at 3 months after IVT and IAT will serve as the primary outcome measure.
      In addition, subgroup analyses will be performed stratified by NIHSS, location of vessel
      occlusion, time to hospital admission and time to treatment. Secondary outcome measures will
      include quality of life and the proportion of patients with an excellent outcome (mRS 0 or 1)
      at 3 months, BI 75 to 100 at 3 months, mortality at 3 months, rapid neurological improvement
      during the first 24 hours, complete or partial recanalization, and symptomatic intracranial
      haemorrhage.
    
  