
    
      Premature ejaculation is considered the most common male sexual disorder. affecting
      approximately 4-39 % of men in general community. In 2008, the International Society for
      Sexual Medicine defined premature ejaculation as a male sexual dysfunction that is
      characterized by ejaculation that always or nearly always occurs within or before 1 minute of
      vaginal penetration. Moreover it is associated with presence of distress, frustration,
      bother, negative personal consequences, depression and the avoidance of sexual intimacy.

      Many etiological theories have been included in the pathogenesis of premature ejaculation:
      neurobiological, psychological, environmental and endocrine factors. So a lot of therapeutic
      modalities, such as behavioral therapy, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs),
      adrenergic alpha 1 antagonists, local anesthetic creams, clomipramine, phosphodiesterase type
      5 inhibitors and centrally acting analgesics have been used for the treatment of premature
      ejaculation.

      Previous studies reported that tamsulosin which is alpha blocker agent used as primary
      therapeutic agent for BPH is effective in the improvement of sexual function. However studies
      on the effect of tamsulosin on ejaculation reported that tamsulosin had inhibitory effect in
      the emission phase of ejaculation including decreased ejaculatory volume. So inhibitory
      effect of tamsulosin on ejaculation may be beneficial to patients suffering from premature
      ejaculation.

      Historically, PE was considered psychological problem and was treated by behavioral treatment
      and psychotherapy but there is pharmacological studies increase the evidence that PE may be
      related to decreased serotonergic neurotransmission. So selective serotonin reuptake
      inhibitors (SSRIs ) such as : paroxetine, fluoxetine, dapoxetine, and sertraline are among
      the recommended pharmacological treatments for treating PE. But there is no universal
      agreement on the type, the dose and administration protocol.

      So a study is needed to compare the value of combination therapy of both tamsulosin and
      paroxetine with the value of single therapy of either of them and consider Intravaginal
      Ejaculatory Latency Time (IELT) and ejaculatory control ability of patients after using
      tamsulosin and paroxetine.
    
  