
    
      The study is Prospective , Comparative , double-blind , placebo-controlled study with
      randomization

      Patients with post traumatic brain injury either moderate (glasgow coma scale GCS = 9-12) or
      severe (GCS = 3-8) admitted in one of the neurosurgical ICU of the following centers; kasr El
      Aini Hospitals, Beni- Suef University Hospital or Beni- Suef General Hospital.

      Study design and statistical inferences Patients with traumatic brain injury included in the
      study will be randomly allocated into one of two equal groups (30 patients each): -

      Group (A): will receive MgSo4. Group (B): will receive normal saline as a placebo.

      Each patient will receive all other standard management as indicated on individual basis
      (e.g. Antiepileptics, brain dehydrating measures, antibiotics, ventilatory support, or
      surgical intervention when deemed necessary).

      The Glasgow outcome scale (GOS) will be used to categorize the outcome after 2 months as
      follows:

        1. Death

        2. Persistent vegetative state: Minimal responsiveness

        3. Severe disability: Conscious but disabled; dependent on others for daily support

        4. Moderate disability: Disabled but independent; can work in sheltered setting

        5. Good recovery: Resumption of normal life despite minor deficits

      For each patient, the following will be recorded:

        1. Personal data: name, age, sex, address, tel. No.

        2. Mode of trauma: fall from height, road traffic accidents, or isolated head trauma.

        3. Neurological assessment on admission using the Glasgow coma score.

        4. Associated injuries or neurological deficits.

        5. Findings of initial CT brain, as well as follow up scans.

        6. Any previous illness.

      Administration :

      Administration regimen of Mgso4 will be as following:

      Initial dose: within 24 hrs of trauma 50 mg / kg / IV infusion over 1 hour. Maintenance dose:
      25 mg / kg twice daily for 48 hrs.

      In order to avoid Mgso4 toxicity, infusion of the medication (either Mgso4 or placebo) will
      be abruptly terminated whenever:

        1. Urine output < 0.5 ml / kg / hour over 4 hours

        2. Blood urea > 50 mg/ dL .

        3. Fall of systolic BP < 90 mm Hg.

        4. Respiratory center depression (respiratory rate less than 12 per minute).

        5. Cardiac arrhythmia.

        6. Loss of deep tendon reflexes.

      The third supervisor will be responsible for the safety measures of the study, which will be
      evaluated by continuous monitoring of vital signs, arterial blood pressure (systolic,
      diastolic), urine output, serum chemistry.

      Preparation of the drug:

      The medication will be prepared by three assistants other than the researcher, one in each
      center where the study will be conducted.

      For each patient, a set of bottles will be prepared (initial dose, and 4 maintenance doses).
      After preparation, each set of bottles will be labeled using the same code consisting of
      letters (A, B, C, D, E, F) and figures (0 to 9). Total number of codes will be 60 which is
      the total number of patients allocated (A0, A1, A2,....A9& B0, B1, ......B9& C1,...C9&
      D0-D9&E0-E9& F0-F9).

      Only the second supervisor will be acquainted with the key of the code, either it is the
      studied treatment (Mg So4), or normal saline (placebo). He will be responsible for the random
      allocation of the patients, and instructing the assistants to prepare either the treatment or
      the placebo, and their subsequent coding. He will not be informed about the results which
      will be regularly followed by the first supervisor. The key will be kept hidden from the
      researcher who will be responsible for recording the results. The key will be disclosed only
      after conclusion of the study and collecting the results in order to operate the statistical
      analysis.

      Each amp of Mgso4 (0.5 gm / 5ml) will be dissolved in 13.5 ml normal saline (at that
      concentration, Mgso4 will remain chemically stable for 3 months in room air). For simplicity,
      this will compose a unit and will be labeled as mentioned. So one unit equals 500 mg
      dissolved in 13.5 ml normal saline. For each patient, the number of units will be calculated
      according to the body weight. For example, the initial dose or the daily dose of 70 kg
      patient equals 7 units (70 x 50 = 3500 mg). For this patient, 3 bottles will be prepared on
      admission, each bottle will be labeled the same as the units, and each bottle will contain 7
      units. The first bottle will be given as the initial dose, and the other two bottles will be
      divided to 4 equal doses, and will be given over the next 48 hrs. For placebo, the same will
      be done, but only using normal saline. Which is identical to Mgso4 regarding color and
      aspect.
    
  