
    
      Delirium is an acutely occurred and transient brain dysfunction characterized with cognitive
      dysfunction, lowered consciousness, disturbed attention, abnormal psychoactivity, and
      disordered sleep-wake rhythm. Delirium is frequent in mechanically ventilated patients in the
      intensive care unit (ICU), with reported incidences up to 70% or 87%. Possible reasons
      leading to delirium include the intervention-heavy environment of the ICU, mechanical
      ventilation and sleep disturbances. The occurrence of delirium is associated with worse
      outcomes including prolonged mechanical ventilation and ICU stay, increased complications,
      prolonged hospital stay, higher mortality, and elevated medical expenses. It is also
      associated with worse long-term outcomes including declined cognitive function, lowered life
      quality, and elevated long-term mortality.

      Dexmedetomidine is a high selective alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist with anxiolytic, sedative
      and analgesic effects. When used for sedation in mechanically ventilated patients (dose range
      0.2-1.4 ug/kg/h), it reduces the consumption of other sedatives and analgesics, ameliorates
      the rhythm and structure of sleep, and decreases the occurrence of delirium. In recent
      studies of the investigators, low-dose dexmedetomidine infusion (0.1 ug/kg/h) ameliorated
      sleep quality; for elderly patients admitted to the ICU after surgery, prophylactic low-dose
      dexmedetomidine infusion reduced the incidence of delirium (for patients with mechanical
      ventilation: 28.8% with placebo vs. 11.5% with dexmedetomidine, P<0.0001; for patients
      without mechanical ventilation: 15.1% with placebo vs. 6.3% with dexmedetomidine, P=0.014).

      For patients undergoing mechanical ventilation, light sedation is better than deep sedation
      for the outcomes, which is manifested as shortened length of ICU stay, shortened duration of
      mechanical ventilation, and decreased mortality. Some authors even reported that no sedation
      (analgesia only) provides better outcome than light sedation, because it further shortens the
      durations of mechanical ventilation and ICU stay. In the above studies of the investigators,
      the recruited patients were less severe because the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health
      Evaluation II (APACHE II) score was low (mean score from 10.2 to 10.6) and the duration of
      mechanical ventilation was short (median 6.9 hours in the control group). The investigators
      hypothesize that, for ICU patients with prolonged mechanical ventilation, low-dose
      dexmedetomidine infusion (0.1 ug/kg/h) may also be effective in improving sleep and
      decreasing delirium. The purpose of this study is to investigate whether low-dose
      dexmedetomidine infusion can reduce the incidence of delirium in ICU patients with prolonged
      duration of mechanical ventilation (>= 24 hours).
    
  