
    
      Study Design and Overview:

      Social-emotional learning programs have a strong evidence base documenting their
      effectiveness. More recently, there has been increasing interest in social-emotional learning
      programs that include mindfulness; however, there is much less research on these programs,
      and much of the existing work has been hampered by small sample sizes. In this project, the
      investigators will examine the association between participation in the MindUP program and
      social-emotional outcomes in grade three students. The investigators are using a
      quasi-experimental design with pre-post data collection from students and educators. Students
      are nested in classrooms, and the clustered nature of the data will be accounted for in
      analyses. The study will identify changes in social-emotional behaviour, executive
      functioning, classroom climate, academic skills, and self-concept through a combination of
      teacher and self-report data using standardized scales.

      Participants:

      The investigators plan to recruit approximately 24 educators and 450 grade three students in
      approximately 24 classrooms. More or fewer classrooms will be recruited as needed to reach
      the intended sample size of 150 students in each of the three conditions.

      Procedures:

      The school district partnering on this project will identify 24 classrooms to participate.
      The first condition (~150 children in 8-10 classrooms) will participate in MindUP during the
      school year. The second condition (~150 children in 8-10 classrooms) includes children who
      have been participating in MindUP since kindergarten receiving the program in grade 3. The
      third group is a comparison condition where teachers will not implement the program. All
      implementing teachers will receive a half-day training on trauma-informed practice and a
      full-day training in MindUP before beginning the intervention.

      Classroom teachers will send home consent forms for guardians to complete. Children will
      provide their own assent when the researchers come to classrooms to collect data. Surveys
      will be completed in October 2019 and again in May 2020. In November 2020, the students'
      grade 4 teachers will provide ratings for a 6-month follow-up.

      To understand program implementation, educators will be asked to complete a brief online
      survey at the end of each week to report on their weekly engagement with MindUP lesson plans
      generally, and breathing breaks specifically. They will also be asked to report additional
      SEL activities. Educators in comparison classrooms will complete a weekly summary of their
      SEL learning activities as well.

      Planned Analyses The primary comparisons will be between the group receiving MindUP for the
      first time versus the comparison groups (both immediately after intervention, and at 6-month
      follow-up). A secondary set of analyses will compare the group who have received MindUP for
      three years previously to the comparison group to see if they continue to make gains relative
      to the comparison group. Finally, we will also conduct moderator analyses using
      parent-reported adversity to test our hypothesis that students who have experienced more
      adversity will show greater gains.
    
  