
    
      Bipolar disorder (BPD) is a chronic disorder characterized by manic and depressive episodes
      that disrupt healthy, functional lives. Despite recent advances in medication treatments,
      many BPD patients do not take their medications. Medication nonadherence is associated with
      multiple risks, such as relapse, rehospitalization, lengthier hospital stays, and, in some
      cases, increased risk of suicide. Some studies have shown that treatment adherence in BPD can
      be improved, particularly through psychological education, development of self-management
      strategies or behaviors, and ongoing relapse prevention.

      This study will examine the effectiveness of medication adherence treatment modules
      specialized to deal with specific reasons for nonadherence. Participants, all of whom have a
      history of medication nonadherence, will undergo structured interviews and complete
      self-report questionnaires to determine individual reasons for nonadherence. Based on their
      individual profiles, participants will be assigned to one or more of the following
      intervention modules:

        1. Psychoeducation: This module uses education about BPD and related treatment to address
           patient issues such as opposition to preventive efforts, denial of the need for or
           effectiveness of medication, negative attitudes toward drugs in general, lack of
           information about mood stabilizers, and stigma or embarrassment related to BPD
           treatment.

        2. Substance abuse: This module targets substance abuse problems that interfere with
           medication adherence.

        3. Communication with providers: This module addresses fear of medication side effects by
           improving communication with health care providers.

        4. Medication routines management: This module addresses difficulties establishing a
           medication routine and outside opposition to medications by developing strategies for
           consistent medication adherence routines.

      Each module will involve four 60-minute sessions conducted in a 4- to 6-week period. The
      study therapist will conduct each of these sessions individually with the participant,
      combining or coadministering modules in a single session if participants are assigned to more
      than one module. Depending on which module or modules participants are assigned to, they may
      also be contacted by phone one to three times by the therapist to complete all module
      materials.

      This study will be conducted in two phases. In the first, an initial group of participants
      will undergo the module treatments and then participants and therapists will be interviewed
      about the effectiveness and feasibility of the interventions. This feedback will be used to
      refine the modules. In the second phase, a second group of participants will undergo
      treatment in the refined modules and provide more feedback. All participants will continue
      with their regular treatment while undergoing module treatments.

      Participation in this study will last 4 to 6 weeks, with follow-up interviews and assessments
      ending 6 months after completion of the intervention. In all, there will be five assessments,
      completed at an initial screening visit, just before treatment, just after treatment, and 3
      and 6 months after the completion of treatment. The initial assessments will last 60 to 90
      minutes and involve questionnaires and a structured interview. The other four assessments
      will last 45 to 60 minutes. Treatment adherence, attitudes toward medications, BPD symptoms,
      and overall functioning will be measured at each assessment. The number of pills used in each
      participant's prescription bottles will also be counted as a measure of medication adherence.
    
  