
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the overall response rate (complete response or partial response) after
      treatment with CXCR4 antagonist BL-8040 (BL-8040) and pembrolizumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the ability of BL-8040 by itself and in combination with pembrolizumab to
      increase T cell infiltration into the tumor.

      II. To determine if BL-8040 treatment results in increases in circulating immune cells.

      III. To estimate the safety and tolerability of intravenous administration of pembrolizumab
      in combination with sub-cutaneously injected BL-8040 in subjects with advanced pancreatic
      cancer.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate overall response rate (ORR) per immune-related (ir) Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) and duration of response (DOR), disease control rate (DCR),
      time to progression (TTP), progression free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) per
      RECIST and irRECIST assessed by MD Anderson investigators.

      II. To explore the association between PD-L1 expression by immunohistochemistry, shed PD-L1
      level, somatic gene expression profiling and antitumor efficacy of pembrolizumab based on
      RECIST 1.1 imaging criteria as well as overall survival.

      III. To explore the relationship between genomic variation and response to the treatment
      administered.

      IV. Tissue and blood immune monitoring will be conducted through our immune platform group as
      detailed per the biomarker section based on 3 biopsies done at the following time points: 1)
      pre-treatment, 2) during the third week of cycle 2 or beginning of cycle 3, and 3) voluntary
      upon end of cycle 1 (BL-8040 [BL] monotherapy) on days 10 to 14.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive CXCR4 antagonist BL-8040 subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-5 and 8-12 of cycle 1
      and days 1, 4, 8, and 11 of subsequent cycles. Beginning cycle 2, patients also receive
      pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over about 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days
      for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 10
      and 12 weeks.
    
  