
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare satisfaction with physician-patient communication and decisional conflict in
           patients with metastatic cancer undergoing a computer-based survey with vs without a
           communication aid.

        -  Compare patient expectations regarding potential benefits and adverse reactions
           associated with treatment options in patients undergoing the computer-based survey and
           communication aid.

        -  Compare the content of physician-patient consultations in patients undergoing the
           computer-based survey and communication aid.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, multicenter study.

      Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 study arms.

        -  Arm I (generic computer-based survey): Patients complete a 45- to 60-minute generic
           computer-based survey that assesses demographics, familiarity and comfort with
           computers, treatment history, and affective elements.

        -  Arm II (targeted computer-based survey and communication aid with physician summary
           report): Patients complete a 45- to 60-minute targeted computer-based survey assessing
           patient values, information needs, and distress. Patients then complete a targeted
           computer-based communication aid that addresses cognitive and affective components of
           cancer treatment education and provides communication skills training. After completion
           of the survey and communication aid, a summary report of the survey results is generated
           and provided to the patient's physician.

        -  Arm III (targeted computer-based survey and communication aid): Patients complete a
           targeted computer-based survey and communication aid as in arm II. No summary report is
           provided to the physician.

      After completion of a computer-based survey and communication aid, all patients undergo a
      consultation with their physician. A randomized subset of 25% of physician consultations* are
      audiotaped and later analyzed. Patients complete a 15-minute written survey after completion
      of the physician consultation and then at 3 months.

      NOTE: *Patients are stratified according to study arm (I vs II vs III) and consulting
      physician gender for this randomization.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 720 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  