
    
      Background

      Relapse following cigarette abstinence remains a common problem for smokers attempting to
      quit. Extensive research has focused on the acute withdrawal phase that occurs within the
      first 48 hours to one week; however, this study will focus on longer durations of abstinence.
      Current clinical wisdom suggests that the rate of relapse decreases as the length of
      abstinence increases; however, animal studies indicate that reactivity to drug-related cues
      actually increases over time, an effect that has not been studied in humans.

      Scientific Goal

      To examine the time course of cue reactivity in smokers who have been abstinent for 7, 14,
      and 35 days.

      Participant Population

      A total of up to 420 smokers who are planning to quit in the future, but not right now, and
      are willing to undergo a practice quit attempt. Target enrollment will include 50% women and
      50% minorities (mostly African-American).

      Experimental Design and Methods

      Smokers (N=420) will participate in one of 4 groups over a period of 24 to 52 days in
      sessions conducted in at the National Institute on Drug Abuse Intramural Research Program at
      251 Bayview Blvd, Suite 200, Baltimore, MD 21224, and in a separately approved site, the
      Human Behavioral Pharmacology Laboratory (HBPL, L484-496, 5841 S. Maryland Ave., Chicago, IL,
      60637). We expect that 190 participants will successfully complete the withdrawal phase (N=50
      in groups 1, 2, and 3a, N=40 in group 3b).

      Participants will be randomly assigned to abstain from all nicotine use for 7, 14, or 35 days
      and participate in one cue-reactivity session on day on the last day of abstinence (groups 1,
      2, and 3a; N=50 per condition). The cue-presentation task will involve visual, olfactory, and
      tactile cues. After cue presentation, participants will complete the Brief Questionnaire of
      Smoking Urges and other standardized mood questionnaires. Physiological responses and
      auditory reaction time will be obtained. Group 3b (N=40) will also abstain for 35 days, but
      will complete the cue-reactivity task two additional times to provide a within-study
      examination of the changes in cue reactivity over long periods of abstinence. On each
      laboratory visit, participants will give a urine sample to be tested for cotinine and a
      breath sample to be tested for carbon monoxide (CO) to verify abstinence from smoking.
      Participants will receive $20 in cash if both tests are negative, and they will accumulate a
      further $10 to be paid as a bonus at the end of the abstinence phase. After their required
      abstinence period of 7, 14, or 35 days, participants will enter a five-day step-down period
      during which they will continue to report to the laboratory for 10 min a day, and they will
      receive payments for abstinence in descending value across days. One of the primary outcome
      measures in the study is the time to return to smoking, beginning from the last day of
      required abstinence. After the step-down period, for the final 12 days of the study,
      volunteers will report to the lab every 3 days to give urine and breath samples and to report
      the number of cigarettes smoked. Participants will receive $15 for each visit to the
      laboratory, and they will receive an end-of-study bonus of $25 for attending all visits. This
      money will be paid regardless of whether they abstain from smoking.

      Benefits to Participants and/or Society

      There is no direct benefit to participants. These studies will provide the basis for future
      studies investigating relapse to drug use. They will also shed light on the role of cue
      reactivity and impulsivity in relapse. Knowledge about the time course of relapse will
      provide important information about the processes underlying drug use and relapse.

      Risks to Participants

      The risks to participants are minimal. Participants will be healthy cigarette smokers who
      will abstain from smoking for varying periods of time and may have increased craving at the
      end of the experimental cue-exposure session. They will be given guided relaxation at the end
      of the session to reduce craving to pre-session levels and will be fully debriefed following
      the study. Some participants experience depression or other adverse symptoms during nicotine
      withdrawal. These will be fully described to the participants, and, if the symptoms become
      severe, the psychologist/counselor will counsel participants. The only other risks involve
      loss of confidentiality from information obtained during screening.
    
  