
    
      As a result of the recent advances in the treatment of breast cancer carried out by dedicated
      researchers and made possible through breast cancer research, its mortality has been
      gradually declining. Naturally, the quality of survivorship has taken an important role in
      the last 3 decades. Unfortunately, for most women with breast cancer, their concerns about
      survival are followed closely with concerns about body image, sexuality, self-esteem and
      social life. Mastectomy, a mainstay in the treatment of breast cancer, is the primary cause
      of these latter concerns. The investigators are therefore charged with looking at the disease
      and the respective treatment of breast cancer holistically. Providing a comprehensive
      management of breast cancer today requires attention to both oncologic principles and to the
      patient's quality of life. A large part of the patient's quality of life comes from improved
      reconstructive and aesthetic outcomes following mastectomy. In short, breast reconstruction
      after mastectomy for cancer aims to improve body image and quality of life by reducing the
      negative psychological impact of the deformity. Multiple techniques exist to accomplish this
      goal. They include breast implants, autologous tissues, or occasionally, a combination
      thereof. Although the ultimate goal is to recreate an aesthetically pleasing breast that
      attempts to match the missing one, the decision to use a particular technique is
      multi-factorial. It may be influenced by the surgeon's skills, the patient's preferences,
      inherent contraindications with a patient, or the resources available in a particular
      setting. Breast reconstructions can be costly to patients (indirect costs), third party
      payers and society, especially as new technologies are introduced in clinical practice. In
      the last 2 decades third party payers and governments in different jurisdictions have been
      advocating for production of evidence that shows "value for money" germane to these different
      procedures.Presently, the two most common approaches to breast reconstruction are the AAT
      method and the TE/I method. These two approaches to breast reconstruction have yet to be
      submitted to an economic evaluation using state-of-the-art cost-effectiveness analysis.
    
  