
    
      This is a randomized, placebo controlled, three way cross over, double-blind, single site
      trial in adult subjects (18 years of age and older) who demonstrate grass specific
      Immunglobulin E (IgE) reactivity and have a history of grass pollen induced allergic
      rhinitis/rhinoconjunctivitis with or without controlled asthma. In the cross-over setting
      three treatments, namely placebo, Budesolv 10 or Rhinocort® aqua 64 will be evaluated.

      The primary objective of the trial is to demonstrate therapeutic equivalence/non-inferiority
      between Budesolv 10 and Rhinocort® aqua 64, a marketed comparator containing the same
      compound (budesonide), in patients suffering from grass pollen induced allergic
      rhinitis/rhinoconjunctivitis with or without controlled asthma on day 8 of treatment. A
      placebo group will be introduced to show effectiveness of treatment and hence validate the
      trial design.

      The evaluation will be based on the assessment of rhinitis symptoms during grass pollen
      challenge performed in the Vienna Challenge Chamber (environmental exposure chamber).

      Secondary objective of the trial is the early onset of action of Budesolv 10 compared to
      Rhinocort® aqua 64, determined on day one of treatment.

      Visit 1 + 2 - Screening + Inclusion period:

      Subjects will be screened for appropriate allergic response. A total nasal symptom score
      (TNSS) of at least 6 points out of 12 within the first two hours in the grass pollen
      challenge chamber is required to be included into the study.

      Visit 3 + 5 + 7 / "day 1":

      Eligible subjects will be randomly assigned to one of the three treatment arms (fully
      blinded) in the order of their screening numbers assigned at visit 1. Subjects will enter the
      study site about one hour ahead of the start of allergen provocation. After positive
      completion of all study relevant assessments, subjects enter the grass pollen challenge
      chamber for subjective and objective assessments for a period of 6 hours. One hour forty-five
      minutes after entry, the first treatment will be applied.

      The subjective nasal symptom score will be recorded every fifteen minutes during a 6-hour
      allergen exposure challenge. Every hour rhinomanometry will be performed to objectively
      evaluate the respiratory function of the nose. Additional rhinomanometry will be performed at
      two hours 30 minutes after entry. Subjects will continue treatment with two actuations into
      each nostril once a day until day 7.

      Visit 4 + 6 + 8 / "day 8":

      On day 8 of their respective treatment block, subjects will enter the study site about two
      hours before provocation will start. Subjects will take their last treatment dosage
      approximately one hour before entering the challenge chamber. The study medication device
      will be returned to study site staff for external analytical evaluations after usage
      (in-use-stability test). After receiving their last treatment dose and shortly before
      entering the challenge chamber, baseline symptom score will be assessed. Like on day one,
      subjects will be provoked for 6 hours with grass pollen allergens. Subjective symptom scores
      will be recorded every fifteen minutes, and rhinomanometry will be performed every hour
      during the challenge.

      Between the respective study treatments, a wash-out period of at least 20 days must be
      adhered to allowing complete dissipation of the previous treatment. After the wash-out
      period, subjects change to the next treatment block in the sequence. During the entire trial,
      subjects will be asked to monitor for adverse events (AEs), and they will record the use of
      concomitant medications on the provided form. Female subjects of child-bearing potential will
      complete a urine pregnancy test in the course of all visits.

      Following parameters will be assessed:

        -  Subjective symptom score (nasal, ocular, respiratory) during a grass pollen challenge
           lasting for 6 hours - every 15 minutes Active anterior rhinomanometry (AAR) - every 60
           minutes, additional measurement on day 1 at 2:30 after entry.

        -  Lung function tests using regular spirometry for FEV1 and FVC - every 120 minutes

        -  Nasal secretion weight - every 30 minutes

        -  Physical examination - at Screening and Follow up

        -  Vital signs - every visit, pre- and post-challenge

        -  Safety laboratory assessments: Complete blood count with differential, blood chemistry,
           liver function, urine dipstick test - at screening and last treatment visit, serology at
           screening and drug abuse test on investigator's decision

        -  Skin Prick Test with skin prick test solution (Manufacturer Allergopharma) - at
           Screening or within the previous 6 months

        -  Specific CAP analysis (g6) - at Screening or within the previous 6 months

        -  ECG - at screening and Follow up

        -  Adverse events - throughout the study

        -  Concomitant medication - throughout the study One week after the final provocation
           session, subjects will complete the trial after their follow up visit. Validated methods
           of data collection, analysis, and evaluation will be used for the trial.

      The trial endpoints are listed below:

      Primary efficacy endpoint:

      The primary efficacy endpoint will be the mean 'Total Nasal Symptom Score' (TNSS), calculated
      as the baseline adjusted mean of TNSS measured at 17 time points (every 15 minutes) during
      the grass pollen allergen exposure challenge from time point 2 to 6 hours on day 8.

      The TNSS is the sum of the symptoms "nasal congestion", "rhinorrhea", "itchy nose" and
      "sneezing". Each individual symptom will be scored on a 4-point categorical scale from 0-3
      (where "0"= none "1"=mild "2"=moderate "3"=severe).

      Key Secondary efficacy endpoint:

      Time point when onset of action can be observed.

      Additional secondary efficacy endpoints:

        -  Nasal airflow: will be assessed every hour during the six hour grass pollen allergen
           exposure challenge

        -  Nasal secretion: will be assessed every 30 minutes during the six-hour grass pollen
           allergen exposure challenge. Additional rhinomanometry will be done on day 1 at 2:30 h
           after entry in the challenge chamber

        -  Total ocular symptom score (TOSS) is the sum of the symptoms "ocular itching",
           "redness", "watery eyes".

        -  Total asthma symptom score (TASS) is the sum of the symptoms "cough", "wheeze",
           "dyspnea".

      Each individual symptom of TOSS and TASS will be scored on a 4-point categorical scale from
      0-3 (where "0"= none "1"=mild "2"=moderate "3"=severe). TOSS and TASS will be assessed every
      15 minutes during the six-hour grass pollen allergen exposure challenge.

      Safety endpoints:

        -  Adverse events (AEs)

        -  Safety laboratory

        -  ECG

        -  Spirometry (FeV1, FVC)
    
  