
    
      Insulin deficiency, due to autoimmune destruction of beta cells, is the primary factor
      responsible for the development of T1DM, and insulin replacement therapy is the mainstay for
      the management of hyperglycemia. However, insulin therapy often is associated with adverse
      events, including weight gain which promotes insulin resistance leading to an increase in
      insulin demand. This results in a self-perpetuating vicious cycle whereby the increase in
      insulin dose causes weight gain that worsens insulin sensitivity, and further enhances
      insulin requirement. Hyperinsulinemia per se also induces insulin resistance.

      To break this cycle, adjunctive therapies have been added to insulin in T1DM patients to
      lower the plasma glucose concentration. However, the addition of metformin, pioglitazone, and
      GLP-1 agonists to insulin in T1DM patients have not provided convincing evidence for a
      clinically meaningful reduction in the HbA1c or significant reduction in daily insulin dose.

      SGLT2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) are a novel class of antidiabetic agents which reduce the plasma
      glucose concentration by inhibiting renal glucose reuptake and producing glucosuria. Because
      of this unique mechanism of action, which is independent of insulin secretion and insulin
      action, SGLT2i have proven to be very effective in lowering the plasma glucose concentration
      in T1DM. Initial proof of concept studies have demonstrated that, compared to placebo, all
      members of this class (dapagliflozin, empagliflozin, canagliflozin and sotagliflozin)
      effectively lower the plasma glucose concentration, HbA1c and daily insulin dose in T1DM
      without increased risk of hypoglycemia. Further, SGLT2i improved cardiovascular risk factors
      in T1DM by promoting weight loss and decreasing blood pressure.

      Despite the promising potential for SGLT2i as adjunctive therapy to insulin in T1DM, recent
      large clinical trials have demonstrated two important limitations to this therapeutic
      strategy: First, although the decrease in HbA1c caused by SGLT2i in T1DM patients was
      statistically significant, the absolute decrease was relatively modest (0.30-0.45%). The
      investigators, previously have shown that SGLT2i stimulate an increase in the basal rate of
      hepatic glucose production (HGP) in T2DM patients. This SGLT2i-induced increase in HGP
      offsets by approximately one half the amount of glucose lost in the urine. Therefore, the
      investigators have hypothesize that, similar to what they have observed in T2DM patients, the
      addition of SGLT2i to insulin in T1DM patients stimulates HGP thereby attenuating the
      decrease in HbA1c. Further, the decrease in daily insulin dose after initiating therapy with
      SGLT2i in T1DM patients would be expected to enhance the increase in HGP and diminish the
      decrease in HbA1c. Thus, preventing the increase in HGP caused by SGLT2i in T1DM can be
      expected to markedly amplify the clinical efficacy of SGLT2i and enhance the reduction in
      HbA1c.

      A second limitation of the use of SGLT2i an adjunct therapy to insulin in T1DM patients is
      the increase in diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) risk. In three large clinical trials , the
      addition of SGLT2i to insulin in T1DM patients was associated with a 3-6% increase in DKA
      risk (see Table 1 below). Because of the significant morbidity and mortality associated with
      DKA, the increased DKA risk in T1DM has raised concerns about the use of SGLT2i as an adjunct
      therapy to insulin in T1DM patients despite their multiple metabolic benefits.

      The Investigators previously have demonstrated that SGLT2i cause a significant increase in
      plasma FFA concentration, fat oxidation and subsequent increase in plasma ketone
      concentration in T2DM patients (27). Therefore, they hypothesize that in T1DM, SGLT2i cause a
      similar increase in plasma FFA concentration, fat oxidation and plasma ketone concentration
      which in certain clinical conditions (e.g. acute illness) can increase the production of
      ketones and result in the development of DKA. Further, prevention of the increase in plasma
      FFA concentration will inhibit the increase in plasma ketone concentration and reduce DKA
      risk associated with SGLT2i use in T1DM patients.

      Pioglitazone inhibits lipolysis and markedly decreases the plasma FFA concentration. Further,
      pioglitazone is a potent inhibitor of HGP. These actions of pioglitazone are due to direct
      actions of the drug on adipocytes and liver, respectively, are mediated by PPAR gama, and are
      independent of the plasma insulin and glucagon concentrations. In fact, pioglitazone inhibits
      lipolysis and HGP in type 2 diabetic patients despite a decrease in plasma insulin
      concentration. Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that the addition of pioglitazone to
      SGLT2i in T1DM patients will prevent the rise in HGP caused by SGLT2i and, thereby, augment
      the decrease in HbA1c. Further, combination therapy with pioglitazone plus SGLT2i will
      prevent the increase in plasma FFA concentration and subsequent increase in plasma ketone
      concentration, thus reducing the risk of DKA.
    
  