
    
      Background: Mitral regurgitation (MR) is frequent and its prevalence is increasing with aging
      of the population. Organic MR, due to primary valvular lesions has severe consequences
      determined by its degree, with left ventricular (LV) remodeling and dysfunction, left atrial
      (LA) enlargement, leading to poor clinical outcome. Surgery can eliminate MR, but carries
      notable risks and is not applicable to all patients. Recent animal data suggest that
      beta-blockade in organic MR has significant positive effect, particularly on LV remodeling.
      Therefore, chronically decreasing MR, protecting LV and LA with beta-blockade are major goals
      of medical therapy. However, effects of chronic oral beta-blockade of human MR are uncertain
      and recent practice guidelines underscored these gaps in knowledge and did not recommend
      beta-blockade of MR. Hence, a trial of treatment of organic MR is needed. A large trial with
      mortality-morbidity end-points is desirable but premature without knowledge of magnitude of
      mechanistic effects of beta-blockade. The improvement of these intermediate end-points,
      mechanistically linked to outcome, is measurable with non-invasive quantitative techniques
      and forms the basis of the present clinical trial proposal. Hypothesis: Chronic beta-blockade
      therapy using Metoprolol weighed against placebo produces a sustained reduction of the
      consequences of organic MR. Specific aims are that treatment improves a) degree of MR
      (decreases regurgitant volume, primary end-point), b) LV remodeling (decreases LV
      end-diastolic volume index, second end-point), and c) LA enlargement (decreases LA volume,
      third end-point) as compared to placebo. Population: Patients with MR organic (intrinsic
      valve disease), isolated (no other valve disease) d moderate (regurgitant volume *30
      mL/beat). Methods: A randomized clinical trial, placebo controlled, double-blind, without
      crossover, of 12 months oral treatment with potent beta-blockade (Metoprolol XL 50 to 200mg
      QD) titrated to the maximally tolerated dose. The trial is preceded by an acute study to
      determine tolerance. End-points are measured by Doppler-Echocardiography for quantitation of
      MR (regurgitant volume) using combination of 3 simultaneous methods (quantitative Doppler,
      two-dimensional echocardiography, proximal flow convergence) and echocardiography for LV and
      LA volume measurement. In addition cardiopulmonary exercise testing will measure peak O2
      consumption at baseline and follow-up. This study seeks to enroll a total of 60 patients. The
      analysis will be based on intention to treat and compare changes in regurgitant volume, LV
      end-diastolic volume index and LA volume measured after one year of treatment with active
      drug or placebo. The results of this clinical trial should provide strong evidence regarding
      medical treatment of patients with organic MR and define future strategies to minimize
      mortality and morbidity of organic MR.
    
  