
    
      This prospective, single-blind, three arm, randomized, (2 device: 1 control), multicenter
      safety and efficacy trial is designed to enroll up to 603 total subjects in two consecutive
      phases: Phase I enrolled 258 subjects (including 54 Roll-Ins) and utilized the TriGuard HDH
      and Phase II will enroll up to 345 subjects (including 40-50 Roll-Ins) and will utilize the
      TriGUARD 3 (Figure 3b shows the patient flow/disposition).

      Phase I In phase I, a total of 204 evaluable subjects and 54 roll-in subjects were enrolled
      at 26 total investigational sites in the United States, Europe, and Israel, of which 20 sites
      were in the United States. A minimum of 50% of subjects were planned to be enrolled at US
      sites, and no single site was permitted to enroll more than 20% of all subjects.

      Subjects with indications for TAVI and who met study eligibility criteria were randomized 2:1
      (stratified by study site) to one of two treatment arms:

        -  Intervention (Phase 1 Cohort) - TAVI with the TriGuard HDH CEPD

        -  Control - standard unprotected TAVI At sites where the investigator did not have prior
           experience with the TriGuard device (minimum of 2 prior cases), up to 3 roll-in subjects
           were enrolled. Roll-in subjects were not randomized, but underwent TAVI with the
           TriGuard HDH device. These cases were proctored by a Sponsor representative.
           Investigational sites with ≥2 prior TriGuard cases were allowed to enroll 1 roll-in
           subject at the discretion of the site principal investigator.

      All subjects were to be followed clinically in-hospital and at 30 and 90 days, and to undergo
      diffusion-weighted MR imaging 2 to 5 days post-procedure, and neurologic and
      neuropsychological testing pre-procedure, post-procedure (2-5 days post-procedure), and at 30
      and 90 days.

      The initial randomized cohort expected to enroll up to 285 subjects. Note: Enrollment in
      Phase I has been halted after enrolling a total of 258 subjects (54 roll-ins and 204
      randomized subjects including 63 controls) based on the recommendation of the Data Monitoring
      Committee following a review of interim 30-day data on 90 subjects at the prespecified
      interim analysis time point. A next iteration device designed for increased efficacy, ease of
      use, and improved safety will be tested in Phase II (below).

      Phase II In Phase II, up to 295 randomized subjects and 40-50 roll-in subjects will be
      enrolled at up to 25 sites in the United States (inclusive of sites enrolling subjects in
      Phase I). No single site will be permitted to enroll more than 20% of all randomized subjects
      in Phase II.

      Subjects with indications for TAVI and who meet study eligibility criteria will be randomized
      2:1 (stratified by study site) to one of two treatment arms:

        -  Intervention - TAVI with the TriGUARD 3 CEPD

        -  Control - standard unprotected TAVI. Randomization will be stratified by implanted valve
           type (Medtronic vs. Edwards).

      No single valve type will be implanted in more than approximately 70% of randomized patients
      (phase II).

      Roll-in subjects (a minimum of 2 and a maximum of 3 Roll-ins per-site) will not be
      randomized, but will undergo TAVI with the TriGUARD 3 device. These cases will be proctored
      by a Sponsor representative.

      All subjects will be followed clinically in-hospital and at 30 days, undergo
      diffusion-weighted MR imaging 2 to 5 days post-procedure, and undergo neurologic (NIHSS)
      testing pre-procedure, post-procedure (2-5 days post-procedure), and at 30 days. A follow-up
      phone-call to assess the occurrence of death or stroke will be done at 90 days.

      The initial randomized cohort will consist of up to 225 subjects. After at least 50% of the
      initial randomized cohort (approximately 112 subjects) have reached the 30 day primary
      efficacy endpoint evaluation time point, a sample size reestimation will be performed in case
      the conditional power of the trial (assessed by the independent biostatistician) is >40% but
      <80%, subject to approval by the Sponsor. If this analysis determines that more than 225
      randomized subjects will be required to ensure adequate study power, enrollment may continue
      until the required number of subjects have been enrolled, or until the total subject limit
      for the study has been reached (whichever occurs first).
    
  