
    
      The data of 146 patients elder than 18 years, who admitted to the Emergency Department and
      General Surgery outpatient clinic with the complaint of abdominal pain diagnosed with acute
      appendicitis and who were operated by the same surgical team between June 2018 and June 2019
      were evaluated retrospectively after the approval of the local ethics committee. Patients'
      data were obtained by reviewing the patient follow charts, laboratory findings in the the
      electronic database of the hospital and epicrisis forms. Totally 76 patients excluded from
      the study; 22 patients were excluded because of the pathological diagnosis did not confirm
      acute appendicitis (negative appendectomies and appendiceal mucinous cystadenomas), 54
      patients who were operated by the other surgical team were excluded.

      The patients were assigned to the complicated acute appendicitis group (Group C) based on the
      preoperative imaging findings (periappendiceal abscess formation or significant
      periappendiceal fat tissue contamination in ultrasonography and computed tomography),
      intraoperative exploration findings (presence of gangrenous appendicitis, perforation or
      abscess formation), and pathological examination findings (acute phlegmonous appendicitis,
      acute gangrenous appendicitis or acute perforated appendicitis). The patients were assigned
      to the uncomplicated acute appendicitis group (Group UC) based on the increased diameter and
      wall thickness of the appendix and detection of minimal contamination in the surrounding fat
      tissue in the imaging tests; the presence of edema and the absence of gangrene, perforation
      or abscess in the the exploratory surgery of appendix, and confirmation of the diagnosis of
      acute appendicitis by the pathological examination findings [17-20].

      The WBC, IG count and IG percentage automatically calculated in the complete blood count
      (CBC) parameters. WBC count, neutrophil count, lymphocyte count, and IG% were measured using
      an automated hematological analyzer (XN 3000; Sysmex Corp., Kobe, Japan) from blood samples
      obtained at the initial admission to the emergency department . Neutrophyl and Lymphocyte
      counts were obtained from automatically from the CBC parameters and NLR was calculated
      manually.

      The demographic data (age, sex) of the patients, the white blood cell count (WBC), the
      neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and the IG count and percentage were evaluated
      retrospectively.

      Statistical Analysis Statistical analyses were performed with the IBM Statistical Package for
      Social Sciences (SPSS) version 20.0 software. The student t-test or Mann-Whitney U test were
      used for analyzing the quantitive values based on normality of the distrubution calculated
      with Shapiro Wilk Test. The chi-square test or Fischer's exact test was used for analyzing
      the categorical data. ROC analysis was used to determeine spesivity and sensitivity of the
      parameters. Binary logistic regression analysis was performed to determine the preoperative
      diagnostic accuracy of the parameters. The quantitive data were given mean ± standard
      deviation (minimum - maximum values) or median (minimum - maximum values). The qualitative
      values were given number of cases (n) and percentage (%). A p-value of <0.05 was considered
      statistically significant.
    
  