
    
      Despite significant advances in diagnosis and treatment of colorectal cancer (CRC), it
      remains the second most common cause of cancer-related death in the UK. The majority of
      deaths from CRC are related to distant metastasis, predominantly to the liver. Overall 5-year
      survival following liver resection and adjuvant chemotherapy for colorectal cancer liver
      metastases (CRCLM) is, at best, 40-60%. Despite surgery with curative intent, up to 60% of
      patients develop recurrence within 2 years of surgery. The preliminary EMT study was a Phase
      II RCT of EPA 2 g daily in patients (n=88) undergoing liver resection surgery for CRCLM.
      Although there was no difference in the primary endpoint (tumour proliferation index),
      metastases from the EPA arm had a lower vascularity score (suggesting possible
      anti-angiogenic activity) than placebo-treated tumours. Although EPA (or placebo) treatment
      was limited to the pre-operative period, overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival
      (DFS) were specified as exploratory end-points on the basis that oral dosing with EPA before
      liver surgery would provide tissue EPA exposure in the immediate peri-operative period with
      prolonged bioavailability in the post-operative period due to the slow tissue 'washout'
      kinetics of EPA. Survival analysis demonstrated that the median DFS in the EPA group was 22.6
      months compared with 14.7 months in the placebo group. Any DFS benefit was explained by a
      reduction in CRC recurrence from 12 months after surgery onwards.

      The EMT2 study is a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-centre, phase III
      trial of the omega-3 fatty acid (O3FA) eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) as the ethyl ester
      (icosapent ethyl [IPE; Vascepa®]) in patients undergoing liver resection surgery for
      colorectal cancer liver metastasis (CRCLM) with curative intent designed to determine whether
      EPA treatment improves Progression-Free Survival (PFS). A key secondary objective is overall
      survival (OS).

      Investigators will recruit adult individuals listed for CRCLM resection with curative intent.

      Randomisation will be 1:1 to receive either IPE capsules or placebo capsules. 4 capsules per
      day containing IPE (equivalent to 4 g EPA-ethyl ester [EE] daily) or 4 placebo capsules per
      day. Participants will start treatment a prior to CRCLM surgery and will continue to receive
      treatment for a minimum of 2 years and a maximum of 4 years post-liver resection.
      Participants are followed up for 60 days beyond the end of treatment.

      Participants are clinically assessed 6 months post-operatively (from liver resection) and at
      6-monthly intervals thereafter for disease progression/recurrence.
    
  