
    
      The first phase of the eMOM GDM -project consists of two parts.

      Phase 1.1. the usability of the sensors will be evaluated by asking participants with GDM
      diagnosis (n = up to 10) to use the sensors (Garmin Vivosmart 3, Medtronic Guardian Connect,
      Firstbeat Bodyguard 2, and Exced) and by collecting participants' blood glucose values from
      glucose meter (Contour Next ONE) for one week. Participants fill out a logbook for physical
      activity and sleeping for seven days, and a logbook for diet for three days during the study
      period. For ensuring the quality of food record a researcher will phone interview the
      participant based on her diet recordings.

      Before starting using the sensors, the participants will fill Background questionnaire and
      Technology acceptance questionnaire (UTAUT). After the usage period, the participants will
      fill the same Technology acceptance questionnaire (UTAUT) and take part in semi-structured
      interview. The interview has to parts. In the first part, participants will be interviewed
      about the acceptability of sensors. In the second part, researcher will show a non-functional
      prototype of eMoM GDM application to the participant and will ask predetermined questions.
      Interview will be recorded and data obtained from the interviews will be transcribed for
      analysis.

      Phase 1.2. will define major usability issues with different versions of functional
      prototypes of eMOM GDM application developed in the project before moving to phase 2 of the
      study. General pregnant women (n = up to 30 in total) and GDM women (n=up to 10) will use the
      available version of the application for one week, and afterward the participants with GDM
      will take part in semi-structured interview. Interview will be recorded and data will be
      transcribed for analysis. General pregnant women will fill out a web form of usability of the
      application after application week. Based on the responses of the form, the participants may
      be contacted for further inquiries about the usability issues they have reported. For
      ensuring the quality of food record a researcher will phone interview all participants based
      on her diet recordings.
    
  