
    
      All patients undergoing IVF/ICSI will be treated with a GnRH antagonist protocol. Recombinant
      FSH (Puregon, MSD) will be given on day 2 or day 3 of menstrual cycle for 5 days. The
      starting dose is individualized for each patient based on the following criteria: AMH <0.7
      ng/mL, dose 300 IU/day; AMH 0.7-2.1 ng/mL, dose 200 IU/day; AMH >2.1 ng/mL, dose 150 IU/day.
      After that, investigators can titrate the dose based on their clinical judgment. Follicular
      development will be monitored by ultrasound scanning and measurement of estradiol and
      progesterone levels, starting on day 5 of stimulation. Scanning and hormonal measurement will
      be repeated every 2 to 3 days, depending on the size of follicles. An antagonist is routinely
      used on day 5 until the day of triggering. Criteria for triggering, by hCG (Ovitrelle 250 mg,
      Merck, Germany) will be the presence of at least three leading follicles of 17 mm. In women
      with excessive follicular response (≥15 follicles ≥12 mm), 0,2 mg Triptorelin (Diphereline,
      Ipsen Beaufour, France) will be used when there are at least two leading follicles of 17 mm.
      Oocyte retrieval will be performed 36 hours after triggering.

      Randomization and allocation of participants to study groups will be performed on the day of
      egg pick up, after having obtained the semen from the husband. Eligible participants that
      have provided informed consent will be randomised to either ICSI or conventional IVF.

      In ICSI group, insemination will be performed by using ICSI, 3 - 4 hours after oocyte
      retrieval. OCCs will be stripped by using hyaluronidase. Only matured oocytes will be
      inseminated.

      In conventional IVF group, insemination will be performed by conventional IVF. Two hours
      after retrieval, collected OCCs will be inseminated for another 2 hours, at a concentration
      of 100,000 motile sperm/ml. Inseminated OCCs will be cultured overnight in culture medium.

      In both groups, fertilization check will be performed under inverted microscope at period of
      16-18 hours after insemination. On day 3, embryo evaluation will be performed at fixed time
      point 66±2 hours after fertilization, using the Istanbul consensus. Embryo transfer will be
      performed on day 3 under ultrasound guidance. A maximum of 2 embryos will be transferred into
      the uterus. The remaining grade 1 and 2 embryos will be frozen. Luteal-phase support will be
      done with estradiol (Valiera 2mg) 8mg/day and vaginal progesterone 800mg/day (Cyclogest
      400mg) until 7th week of gestation.

      If there are contra-indications for fresh embryo transfer, a freeze-all strategy will be
      applied, using Cryotech technique. Indications for freeze-all include: risk of ovarian
      hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS), premature progesterone rise (≥1.5 ng/ml), thin endometrium
      (<7 mm), fluid in cavity on day of embryo transfer, endometrial polyp, hydrosalpinx that have
      not removed before oocyte retrieval.

      In the next cycle, endometrium will be prepared by using estradiol (Valiera 2 mg, 8 mg/day)
      orally, starting from day 2-3 of menstrual cycle. When the endometrium thickness reaches 8 mm
      or more, patients will start using progesterone vaginally (Cyclogest 400 mg, 800 mg/day).
      Embryo transfer will be performed 3 days after using progesterone. On the day of embryo
      transfer, embryos will be thawed. In the frozen/thawed cycle, the best embryos will be
      utilized first, as in fresh transfer. Two hours after thawing, a maximum of 2 surviving
      embryos will be transferred into the uterus under ultrasound guidance. Luteal phase support
      will be provided with estradiol (Valiera 2mg) 8mg/day and vaginal progesterone 800 mg/day
      (Cyclogest 400 mg) until the seventh week of gestation.

      In both groups, clinicians who perform embryo transfer, either fresh or frozen cycles, will
      be blinded to the intervention.

      A serum hCG will be measured 2 weeks after embryo transferred, and if positive, an ultrasound
      scan of the uterus will be performed at gestational weeks 7 and 12. At 11 - 12 weeks of
      gestation, participants will be referred to the Outpatient clininc, O&G Department, My Duc
      hospital or An Sinh hospital for prenatal care until giving birth.
    
  