
    
      Low energy availability is a situation triggered by a low energy intake relatively to the
      total energy needs. It may typically occur when energy expenditure is increased by sporting
      activities concurrently to an unconscious or voluntarily insufficient increase in energy
      intake. This may cause a condition called Relative energy deficiency in sport (RED-s),
      indicating a high risk for several negative health effects and performance deterioration.
      Athletes competing in body weight sensitive sports or sports categorized by body weight, have
      been identified with higher prevalence of RED-s, and specifically young females. Although it
      is the total difference between energy needs and energy availability that causes such
      scenario, the methods used to regulate body weight do also matter. Athletes without proper
      guidance on nutritional needs, recovery strategies, and optimal body weight regulation have
      previously reported use of harmful dieting methods, like purging methods, dehydration
      methods, and use of pharmaceuticals. Thus, young females competing in weight sensitive sport,
      not receiving any professional health and performance coaching are at specific risk for
      acutely and longterm negative health effects from chronic or repeated cycles of body weight
      reduction.

      In a rapidly expanding martial arts industry in the US, there have been several reports on
      sexual assault. Still, no systematic and first-hand documentation on this issue has been
      completed. In Norway the same increase in popularity of material arts are noticed, an
      interest also seen among females. With regards to the limited knowledge on exercise practice,
      eating routines and health symptoms in female material art athletes, this study aims to
      expand this. By relying on a cross sectional cohort design with systematic registration of
      outcomes, this study also aim to expand on current limited knowledge on experiences of sexual
      harassment among females in material arts.

      All females aged 16-35 practicing material arts in Oslo (Norway) at the time of recruitment
      (september-december 2020) will be invited (estimated to be between 200-300 athletes). All
      participants will receive information on the aim of this study, and must sign informed
      consent before participation. All data will be measured once per athlete.
    
  