
    
      Amongst general surgical operations done in elective theaters, Hernioplasty is one of the
      most common. In the current era of new and developing maneuvers of inguinal hernia repairs,
      the conventional anterior, tension-free approach is considered a daycare method with minimal
      morbidities. However, mild to medium early postoperative pain is frequent with reported
      incidence of 21.6% in literature.

      The reasons of postoperative pain after hernia repair are multifactorial. Delikoukos et al
      mentioned that ilioinguinal nerve entrapment or mesh fixation in the periosteum of the pubic
      tubercle are major etiological factors in the occurrence of postoperative pain. Later studies
      highlighted that these factors are major culprits in chronic neuralgias with inconsistent
      involvement in early postoperative pain after mesh repair.This necessitated the exploration
      of other offenders causing early postoperative pain. In this context, surgeons focused on the
      role of hernial sac ligation in mesh repairs of indirect inguinal hernias. The notion behind
      this operative technique is the generation of pain as a consequence of highly pain sensitive
      parietal peritoneum trauma during ligation and division of hernia sac, the fact which was
      highlighted by Schulman et al nearly two decades ago. Despite this imperative reason, there
      is a noteworthy gap on this aspect of early pain with studies still addressing the chronic
      pain after mesh repair of inguinal hernias. A research reports that frequency of early
      postoperative pain at day one was significantly higher in 'hernial sac high ligation group'
      as compared to 'hernial sac non-ligation group' (mean postoperative pain on VAS; 3.5±1.5, and
      2.3±1.2 respectively, p<0.05), yet other studies report no significant difference in pain
      when evaluating different operative techniques.However further studies are needed to
      establish omission of hernia sac ligation as part of the standard procedure.

      Early postoperative pain not only results in delayed recovery and return to normal activity
      but also adds to the financial constraints of patient and health system.Therefore, the aim of
      this study is to compare the early postoperative pain after hernia sac ligation as compared
      to non-ligation in order to establish a definitive role of these operative techniques in the
      development of early postoperative pain after mesh repair of inguinal hernia so the superior
      of the two techniques will be employed subsequently.
    
  