
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the incidence of radiotherapy (RT)-induced oral mucositis of any grade, using
           the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group Acute Radiation Morbidity Scoring Criteria (RTOG
           ARMSC)-Mucous Membrane, in patients treated with 1 of 2 mouthwashes (sargramostim
           [GM-CSF] or salt and soda). (prevention portion of the study)

        -  Compare the effectiveness of the 2 mouthwashes in treating oral mucositis as defined by
           the incidence of RTOG ARMSC-Mucous Membrane grade 3 and 4 mucositis in patients in 1 of
           3 groups (salt and soda, continuing GM-CSF, or new GM-CSF). (treatment portion of the
           study)

      Secondary

        -  Compare the effectiveness of the 2 mouthwashes in preventing RT-induced oral mucositis
           by the following direct indices:

             -  Cumulative RT dose prior to onset of oral mucositis (prevention portion only)

             -  Severity of RT-induced oral mucositis at onset and during treatment (using Oral
                Mucositis Assessment Scale [OMAS])

             -  Severity of oral mucositis-related pain at onset and during treatment (using OMAS)

             -  Incidence of oral mucositis-related infection at onset and during treatment (using
                OMAS)

             -  Severity of oral mucositis-related problems with ingestion of food and fluids at
                onset and during treatment (using OMAS)

             -  Time to healing of RT-induced oral mucositis.

        -  Evaluate patients using the following indirect indices of oral mucositis morbidity
           during the prevention and treatment portions of the study.

             -  Tolerance to RT regimen

             -  Functional status

             -  Quality of life.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized, controlled, double-blinded study. Patients are
      stratified according to radiotherapy dose schedule (standard vs hyperfractionation vs
      intensity modulation) and concurrent chemotherapy (yes vs no).

        -  Prevention (no mucositis): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral sargramostim (GM-CSF) mouthwash, holding it in their
                mouths and swallowing it in intervals over 1 hour once daily.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive oral salt and soda mouthwash, holding it and swallowing it
                in intervals over 1 hour once daily.

      Treatment in both arms continues during 6-7 weeks of radiotherapy and/or the onset of
      mucositis. Patients also perform PRO-SELF: Mouth Aware (PSMA) twice daily.

        -  Treatment (onset of mucositis): Patients who are currently using GM-CSF mouthwash
           continue use as in prevention. Patients who are currently using salt and soda mouthwash
           are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm III: Patients receive GM-CSF mouthwash as in arm I.

             -  Arm IV: Patients receive salt and soda mouthwash as in arm II. In both arms,
                treatment continues until the mucositis heals. Patients perform PSMA four times
                daily during and for 3 months after radiotherapy.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and periodically after radiotherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every once a month for 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 222 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  