
    
      Our project will create a system that links community hospitals and ambulatory endoscopy
      centers throughout the province of Ontario, directly to the expert endoscopists at our
      tertiary referral center, to facilitate the timely assessment of polyps based on an
      electronic referral containing endoscopic video recordings or high-resolution images rather
      than a paper report through a centralized referral pathway. This polyp adjudication will
      happen in a timely fashion without involving in-person patient consultation, and will
      streamline the management of these patients to either referral for surgery or booking for
      endoscopic polyp removal by therapeutic colonoscopy at our center. Specific endoscopy time
      slots will be reserved for these patients to ensure they have efficient access to their
      treatment. This system represents a new care model for managing patients with concerning
      pre-cancerous lesions diagnosed in disparate local hospitals through a centralized process of
      referral, diagnostic evaluation and treatment at an expert tertiary referral centre.

      The primary aim of our study will be to track the outcomes of the new standard-of-care
      clinical pathway. Clinical objectives of the project include a reduction in wait times for
      expert assessment after diagnosis of a large or otherwise concerning polyp combined with
      reduced wait times for therapeutic removal of these polyps, minimizing unnecessary surgery
      for benign lesions, and facilitating early recommendation for surgery in those patients who
      truly require surgical resection. Additional objectives include the achievement of excellent
      rates of clinical success, complication rates similar to those reported in the literature,
      and high levels of satisfaction from referring doctors at participating centers. A final,
      major goal is to assess whether this pilot program could serve as a model to be expanded to
      other academic, tertiary referral centers throughout the province of Ontario.

      Our primary research question seeks to compare the diagnostic accuracy of expert polyp
      adjudication between the different modes of referral (video clip, color photograph, faxed
      images) against the real-time endoscopic diagnosis during therapeutic colonoscopy and the
      final pathologic result. The secondary research question is to follow the clinical outcomes
      of all patients who undergo endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) of a large or complex
      colorectal polyp to evaluate the efficacy and safety of this procedure at our expert tertiary
      referral center.
    
  