
    
      Currently, the only approved therapy for acute stroke patients is a medication called tissue
      plasminogen activator (tPA). This medication is given as an intravenous infusion and can
      dissolve blood clots, thereby restoring blood flow to the brain. Early restoration of blood
      flow can prevent the permanent damage to the brain which typically occurs after a stroke. As
      a result, patients who achieve early restoration of blood flow have less disability than
      stroke patients in whom blood flow is not restored. Unfortunately, only a very small fraction
      of stroke patients is treated with tPA and benefits from tPA. Nationwide only 3 percent of
      stroke patients receive this therapy. The short treatment time-window is one of the main
      reasons that patients are not eligible for this treatment. Previously, tPA was only
      recommended in the 0 - 3 hour time window after stroke onset, but recent studies have shown
      efficacy our to 4 ½ hours. AHA guidelines now recommend treatment with iv tPA up to 4 ½ hrs.
      However, the number of stroke patients who will benefit from treatment remains small despite
      expansion of the time-window from 3 to 4 ½ hrs. This is the result of two main limitations of
      tPA. First, the majority of stroke patients present beyond the 4 ½ hour time-window and will
      therefore remain ineligible for treatment. Second, stroke patients who receive tPA do not
      always benefit because the treatment does not restore blood flow in all patients. Our
      research has shown that depending on the location of the blood clot, blood flow is restored
      in only 20 to 50% of stroke patients treated with tPA.

      Patients with persistent blood vessel occlusions and no improvement in their clinical
      condition after receiving tPA or those arriving at the hospital outside the 4 1/2 hour time
      window routinely undergo mechanical clot removal to open an occluded blood vessel in the
      brain.

      Mechanical clot removal increases the percentage of stroke patients who achieve
      recanalization, and as a result may increase the proportion of patients who have good
      clinical outcomes. However it is unclear for which stroke patients mechanical thrombectomy is
      most suitable. Although effective at removing blood-clots, it appears that mechanical clot
      retrieval is not beneficial for all patients. Whereas some patients benefit, others
      experience no effect, and yet others are likely harmed by mechanical clot retrieval. In order
      to avoid harm and maximize benefit it is important to know, prior to initiation of the
      mechanical clot retrieval procedure, if the procedure is likely to result in a clinical
      improvement. The investigators hypothesize that the response to mechanical clot retrieval can
      be predicted based on characteristics of an MRI scan obtained just prior to the retrieval
      procedure. The investigators hope to learn if new MRI techniques can help identify which
      patients are most likely to benefit from mechanical clot removal after receiving tPA.
    
  