
    
      Increasing and maintaining physical activity among female breast cancer (BC) survivors during
      treatment remains an unresolved problem in BC survivorship care. BC survivors, from diagnosis
      until the end of life, go through many transitions. One major transition is the significant
      decline of physical activity immediately after diagnosis. Despite the known benefits of
      physical activity-speeding recovery time and reduced cancer recurrence risk-less than 30% of
      survivors met physical activity recommendations. Physical activity interventions have shown
      effectiveness in helping BC survivors increase activity during treatment, but limited
      evidence-based activity interventions have been disseminated into the clinic and community.
      To address this limitation, we are partnering with the UTMB breast cancer support group to
      conduct a 12-week physical activity intervention, Pink Warrior, which will investigate the
      feasibility of implementing active video game-based physical activity intervention among BC
      survivors undergoing treatment within the support group setting. Participants (N = 60) will
      be randomized to participate in the support group using the active video game-based physical
      activity intervention or to participate in the existing UTMB breast cancer support group with
      pedometers. Our specific aims are:

      Aim 1: Evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of active video game-based physical
      activity intervention among BC survivors undergoing treatment within the support group
      setting. Measures of feasibility will include weekly attendance records, number of completed
      home-based worksheets, number of participants completing the program activities,
      technological issues, and adverse events.

      Aim 2: Compare the support group using the active video game-based physical activity
      intervention to the existing UTMB breast cancer support group with pedometer. Primary
      outcomes will be changes in physical activity. Secondary outcomes will be changes in physical
      function, dietary pattern, and quality of life.

      Aim 3: Develop tools for implementation of the Pink Warrior intervention within the clinic
      and community settings. A trainer's manual for the Pink Warrior intervention will be
      developed and UTMB Breast Cancer Support Group facilitators will be trained by research staff
      to implement the program.
    
  