
    
      Lung cancer is one of the most common cancer, globally and locally. Patients with lung cancer
      are in a uniquely challenging situation in their disease, comorbidities, and treatment that
      may lead to worsened symptoms and many negative health consequences, including fatigue,
      irritability, and impaired daytime functioning.

      Physical activity (PA) is defined as 'any bodily movement produced by skeletal muscle that
      results in energy expenditure'. Several health benefits of increased PA have been reported
      for people with cancer. PA plays a critical role across the cancer trajectory, from
      prevention through to post-diagnosis and has been proposed as an alternative for improving
      physical and psychosocial health outcomes, reducing cancer recurrence, and cancer-specific
      and all-cause mortality. Although there are a variety of exercise intervention programs for
      cancer patients, those programs were quite intensive, requiring individuals to commit extra
      time and effort. Most clinicians underutilise exercise therapy, regardless of its low-cost
      way to improve symptoms and potential health outcomes. Feeling of overwhelmed appointments,
      lack of time, other barriers, including high cost and limited access to facilities are the
      most frequently reported barriers that prevent people from starting and maintaining exercise.
      Low motivation, fear to exercise, lack of knowledge about benefits are the most common
      barriers of engaging in physical activity for cancer patients.

      Hence, the current proposal is to use a brief messaging lifestyle modification intervention
      program to incorporating simple and easy-to-do patient-centred home-based
      lifestyle-integrated exercise (light to moderate physical activity) into daily activities of
      patients with lung cancer.

      The investigators hypothesised that patients in the experimental group would display
      significantly higher increases in physical activity and improvements in fatigue, emotion and
      quality of life, compared to the control group.

      The objectives are to examine the short-term clinical effects on impacts on fatigue, emotion
      and quality of life in patients with lung cancer, and to evaluate the feasibility of a brief
      lifestyle-integrated exercise program to increase physical activity by a pilot study with
      objective fitness and subjective questionnaire assessment, and focus group interviews.
    
  