
    
      Zinc is an essential nutrient that is required for children's normal growth and resistance to
      infections, including diarrhea and pneumonia, two major causes of child mortality. Current
      strategies for controlling the growth and infection-related complications of zinc deficiency
      include: 1) daily or weekly preventive zinc supplementation, and 2) therapeutic zinc
      supplementation for 10-14 days in relation to episodes of diarrhea. Information is needed on
      the relative impact of these intervention strategies on children's growth and risk of new
      episodes of diarrhea (and other infections).

      Preventive zinc supplements can be delivered either as a single nutrient (zinc) supplement or
      as a multiple micronutrient (MMN) supplement, such as micronutrient powders (MNP) added to
      young children's complementary food. Available research indicates that zinc delivered in MNP
      at the currently recommended dose (4.1-5 mg/d) has not had a measurable impact on
      zinc-related functional outcomes, like growth and prevention of infection. Moreover, some
      studies of MMN supplements have detected a greater incidence of diarrhea in the MMN group
      than in the non-intervention or placebo control groups. Thus, despite the beneficial effects
      of MNP on prevention of anemia and enhancing iron status, questions have been raised about
      the desirability of providing zinc in MNP (containing iron and other nutrients) versus a
      single nutrient formulation offered between meals. For these reasons, the present study is
      designed to compare both the zinc delivery plan (i.e., preventive versus therapeutic
      supplementation) as well as the form of delivering zinc (i.e., as a dispersible tablet given
      between meals or as a MNP given with meals) and to permit assessment of any adverse effects
      of MNP on the incidence of diarrhea.

      The study will be conducted as a community-based, randomized, placebo-controlled trial with
      four study groups in rural communities of Khammouane Province in Central Lao PDR.

      The project team will enroll a total of ~3,400 children whose ages will range from 6-23
      months. Children will be randomly assigned to one of four study group: 1) preventive zinc
      supplementation provided as LI-MNP plus ORS and placebo tablets for treatment of diarrhea; 2)
      placebo preventive supplementation provided as placebo powder plus ORS and placebo tablets
      for diarrhea ; 3) preventive zinc supplementation provided as dispersible zinc tablets
      (containing 7 mg zinc, to be given between meals) plus ORS and placebo tablets for diarrhea;
      and 4) therapeutic zinc supplementation provided as dispersible tablets (containing 20 mg
      zinc) for diarrhea plus ORS and placebo preventive tablets.

      The major outcomes that will be monitored include adherence to the interventions; physical
      growth; incidence, duration and severity of episodes of diarrhea; changes in MN status;
      immune function; environmental enteric dysfunction; parasite burden; hair cortisol
      concentration; neuro-behavioral development; and the occurrence of any adverse events.
    
  