
    
      The high vulnerability of PwD hospitalized generates the need to confront this challenge from
      a global and continuous perspective along with the clear lack of intervention studies with
      PwD hospitalized at a national and international level.

      The aim of this study is to design, implement and evaluate the effectiveness of an
      intervention program for nurses looking after hospitalized patients with proximal femur
      fracture and dementia or cognitive impairment, in acute hospitals and its impact in quality
      of care, morbidity reduction, improvement of continuity of care and reduction in costs.

      The study will be conducted in four traumatology units of high technology public hospitals
      across Spain: the autonomous communities included are Catalonia (Hospital Clinic Barcelona),
      Madrid (Hospital Puerta de Hierro Madrid), Cantabria (Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla) and
      Navarra (Complejo hospitalario de Navarra). The study will be held in a 3 year frame time.

      Participants will be patients with dementia and their caregiver elected consecutively
      (n=432), and healthcare professionals working in the traumatology unit. All questionnaires
      selected are valid and reliable and widely used among studies with PwD. All questionnaires
      were translated already to Spanish and we have permission of the authors for using them. They
      are structured in Likert scaling. The whole questionnaire can be completed in 45 minutes (for
      patient questions) and 15 minutes (for informal caregivers).

      Data will be collected by trained interviewers at hospital admission (within 24 hours),
      discharge, 1 moth follow up at the outpatient traumatology visit and 3 months follow up
      (phone call). Questionnaires have been customized in one document according to the collection
      phase. Questions will be responded according to patient and caregiver data.

      Procedure

      The study will be conducted in 3 phases:

        1. Pre-intervention stage: Program design Design of the intervention CARExDEM: It will be
           developed from the results obtained from the European study RightTimePlaceCare. They
           evaluated care of PwD and their caregivers in Europe using the Balance of Care
           methodology. This method implies expert healthcare professionals (nurses, physicians,
           physiotherapists, social workers and care assistants) in care of patients with dementia
           or cognitive impairment and traumatology. The experts will reach a consensus about the
           best care needed under these circumstances, constituting the educational intervention
           CARExDEM.

           CARExDEM is an educational program aimed for nurses and other health professionals
           looking after PwD and a femur fracture. Information and dynamic educational sessions
           will be adapted from clinical guidelines and best practices. This intervention pretends
           to provide nurses with strategies in the management of PwD in acute care and to raise
           awareness about the importance on individualized care in these patients to improve
           continuity of care in exacerbated situations on PwD.

           Educational training will be held, approved by unit managers and the research team, and
           all hospitals will follow the same protocol. The investigators will train nurses about
           the care guide including aspects such as use of physical restraints, psychotropic
           medication, falls, functional capacity and pain.

        2. Implementation of the intervention CARExDEM A pilot test will be monitored prior to
           implementation in each hospital. The investigators will consider opinions of experts and
           informal caregivers related to its applicability, follow up, population participation
           and time cost/savings. Once the intervention is implemented, the investigators will
           follow closely in case of doubts or barriers. Weekly meetings will be held to review the
           nurses training.

        3. Follow up and evaluation of the CARExDEM implementation related to costs Data will be
           introduced in a database and results will be evaluated by an expert statistician. The
           research team will discuss the results and outcomes will be presented in Congresses and
           articles.

      Intervention The intervention will be designed following the Balance of Care (BoC)
      methodology. This methodology implies multidisciplinary experts (nurses, physicians,
      physiotherapists, social workers and care assistants) evaluating resources and activities
      needed for an optimum care of PwD admitted to traumatology units.

      CARExDEM is an educational program addressed to nurses working in traumatology units and
      looking after patients with dementia. The intervention will be complemented with a checklist
      guide that will enhance implication and raise awareness when implementing it. Information and
      dynamics of training sessions will be adapted according to clinical guidelines and best
      practice.

      Statistical Analysis Descriptive analysis will be used for baseline data. Categorical
      variables will be represented with absolute frequencies and percentages. For continuous
      variables, mean values, standard deviation or medians will be calculated. To study the effect
      of the intervention, analysis of co-variance will be approached (ANCOVA), also Student's
      t-test in continuous variables and McNemar test in categorical variables. Sensibility will be
      analyzed to compare basal data of participants finishing the study and those who will not
      finish it. Outcomes measured will evaluate longitudinal changes from all the collection
      phases; baseline (admission), discharge, 1 month and 3 months follow up. Data from the four
      hospitals participating in the study also will be compared according to own resources.
      Confidence intervals of 95% will be calculated. Values of p< 0,05 will be considered
      significant. Confidence interval of 95% will be calculated. Statistical analysis will be done
      with R program, 3.2.3. Version for Windows. The research team will reflect about the analyzed
      data and will issue a final report including the CARExDEM program with the required
      modifications identified following the implementation evaluation. This will ease the
      implementation of the program in other hospitals subsequently.
    
  