
    
      Abstract Purpose: Our aim is study to determine the efficacy and safety of intravitreal
      adalimumab in patients with active vision threatening uveitis, diabetic macular edema (DME)
      and choroidal neovascularization (CNV) despite standard treatment and to ensure its safety in
      intravitreal use in humans and its rapid onset of action.

      Design: Pilot study, Non-Randomized, Open Label, Single Group Assignment, Safety Study.

      Participants: 15 eyes with refractory CNV, DME, or uveitis will be injected with intravitreal
      adalimumab on a 3 week interval. Patients will satisfy the inclusion and exclusion criteria
      listed at the end.

      Methods: Initial treatment will consist of intravitreal adalimumab injection (1.5 mg/ 0.03
      mL) in the eyes of patients with refractory CNV, DME, or uveitis and with visual acuity less
      than or equal to 20/70. Patients will be followed up every 3 weeks for a total of 6 weeks.
      Patients will have a baseline best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), slit lamp examination,
      dilated fundus examination, ocular coherence tomography (OCT), fluorescein angiography (F.A),
      and standard electroretinogram (ERG) and then these studies will be repeated every visit. If
      there is stabilization or improvement in visual acuity, decrease in edema on OCT and leakage
      on F.A after the first injection, then further injections will be given. The injection will
      be delayed if a patient develops an acute systemic infection and will be given when it
      subsides. If there is worsening of visual acuity after the first injection, patients will be
      shifted to the traditional treatment with intravitreal Avastin or intravitreal steroids. The
      paired sample Student t- test, Chi-square test, Pearson correlation and ANOVA will be used to
      analyze the mean visual acuity and central retinal thickness before and after treatment.

      Main outcome measures: to study the response to intravitreal adalimumab injection of patients
      with different visual acuity at baseline measured in terms of improvement in visual acuity,
      shrinkage in central retinal thickness, reduction in fluid leakage, and decrease in the
      active inflammatory uveitis.

      Conclusion: Our goal is to study the efficacy and intraocular safety of intravitreal
      adalimumab in the treatment of refractory CNV, DME, or uveitis.

      Background and Significance Inflammatory mediators are involved in the pathogenesis of
      diabetic retinopathy, choroidal neovascularization and uveitis. Owing to the propensity for
      visual loss, immunosuppressive treatment in the form of systemic and/or local therapy is
      often required for the management of cystoids macular edema from posterior uveitis, diabetes
      or age-related macular degeneration. There have been changes in the management of these
      conditions over the last few years, with immunomodulatory agents and new intraocular delivery
      systems. After the new trend of intravitreal corticosteroid and anti-VEGF, the new wave of
      so-called biologic response modifiers, predominantly monoclonal antibodies directed against
      inflammatory mediators or their receptors, but also some cytokines, represent a very
      promising generation of immunomodulating agents. There is rising evidence that these biologic
      drugs might be superior regarding their anti-inflammatory potential to conventional
      immunosuppressive therapies. Unfortunately, these new drugs are also very expensive so far.
      The yearly cost for a regular weight patient is around 20,000 dollars for Adalimumab or
      Infliximab. Therefore, they may not be universally available in countries with poorly funded
      health systems and for individuals with low economic status.

      Intravitreal injections of anti-VEGF and corticosteroids are currently the standard therapy
      in a multitude of retinal diseases such as choroidal neovascularization, diabetic
      maculopathy, proliferative diabetic retinopathy, and uveitis. However many patients respond
      only partially or develop complications like corticosteroid induced glaucoma or cataract. As
      such, we are looking for safe new therapies for various chorioretinal disorders aiming at
      visual improvement.

      Adalimumab (Humira) is a genetically engineered antibody against a proinflammatory cytokine,
      namely, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α). Adalimumab is the first member of a new class of
      TNF antibody compounds developed to contain exclusively human sequences. Adalimumab (ADA) is
      a subcutaneously (SC) self-administered fully human Ig G1 monoclonal antibody directed
      against tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) which will be used intravitreally.

      We do not know if adalimumab injections into the eye are effective and safe in most people.
      We are performing this pilot study to determine its efficacy and safety in patients with
      active vision threatening uveitis despite standard immunosuppressive therapy.

      Unlike infliximab, adalimumab contains no nonhuman sequences, making it indistinguishable in
      structure and function from naturally occurring human IgG1. Unlike infliximab, allergic
      reactions to adalimumab appear to be rare.

      Subcutaneous Adalimumab is currently used for the treatment of systemic inflammatory
      conditions and inflammatory disease of the eye with a relatively favorable safety profile.
      However, systemic administration carries the risk of systemic side effects, which in the case
      of adalimumab can be severe, such as increased risk of infection, reactivation of
      tuberculosis or increased risk for lymphoma.

      Intravitreal injection of Adalimumab The eye to be treated will be prepared with 5%
      povidone-iodine solution after which 1% lidocaine will be administered as a subconjunctival
      injection about 3 to 4 mm from the limbus to form a small bleb where the intravitreal
      injection will be given. Following that, 0.03ml of adalimumab will be injected intravitreally
      using a 30 gauge needle through the pars plana 3.5 mm from the limbus. Twenty minutes after
      the injection, a paracentesis will be performed in case the intraocular pressure was greater
      than 25 mmHg or if the optic nerve head was not adequately perfused. By the end of the
      procedure, the eyes will be covered by a patch for one day after which topical antibiotics
      (Ciloxan) will be applied 3 times per day for 3 days.

      Potential risks Intravitreal adalimumab have never been tried but as any intravitreal
      intervention, the risks of anti-VEGF therapy consist of local complications including
      endophthalmitis (0.16% per injection), retinal detachment (0.08% per injection), cataract
      (0.07% per injection), subconjuntival hemorrhage mainly related to the size of the needle
      used, and uveitis (0.09% per injection). Systemic administration carries the risk of systemic
      side effects, which in the case of adalimumab can be severe, such as increased risk of
      infection, reactivation of tuberculosis or increased risk for lymphoma. However, because the
      eye is a self contained organ relatively isolated from the systemic circulation by the tight
      blood retinal barrier, it is unknown how much the amount of the drug injected intravitreally
      gets reabsorbed systemically.

      Post-injection follow-up Patients will be examined every 3 weeks to measure the BCVA along
      with slit-lamp examination of the anterior segment, dilated fundus examination, OCT, F.A, and
      ERG. If any of the patients develops a decrease in visual acuity at least five letters of
      vision post first injection, he/she will be shifted to the traditional treatment with
      intravitreal avastin or intravitreal steroids. Else, if the vision is stable, patients will
      continue treatment

      The total follow-up period of every patient will be 6 weeks.

      Main outcome Our goal is to study the efficacy and intraocular safety of intravitreal
      adalimumab in the treatment of refractory CNV, DME, or uveitis and to ensure its rapid onset
      of action. The main outcome measure will be the proportion of patients who lose fewer than 15
      letters (3 lines) in BCVA score at 6 weeks compared with baseline. Secondary visual acuity
      endpoints at 6 weeks include 1) mean change from baseline in BCVA score; 2) the proportion of
      patients who gain ≥15 letters in BCVA; and 3) the proportion of patients with a Snellen
      visual acuity of 20/70 or worse compared with baseline. Other secondary endpoints include the
      effect of adalimumab on the central retinal thickness (CRT) as assessed by OCT and on the
      lesion size assessed by F.A.

      Literature Cited 1-Intravitreal Adalimumab

      1A- Manzano et al evaluated the ocular toxicity of escalating doses of intravitreous
      adalimumab (Humira) in the rabbit eye. Slit-lamp biomicroscopy and fundoscopy were carried
      out at baseline, day 1, 7 and 14 following intravitreous injection. Escalating doses of
      intravitreous adalimumab in rabbit eyes caused no detectable functional or structural ocular
      toxicity up to a dose of 0.50 mg. Administration of 1.0 mg in 0.1 ml was associated with an
      inflammatory reaction. (Manzano RP et al Ocular toxicity of intravitreous adalimumab (Humira)
      in the rabbit. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2008 Jun;246(6):907-11).

      1B- Use of intravitreal etanercept, another TNF antagonist in humans, with improvement in
      vision in diabetic macular edema (Tsilimbaris MK,et al. The use of intravitreal etanercept in
      diabetic macular oedema Semin Ophthalmol 2007 Apr-Jun;22(2):75-9).

      1C-Intravitreal Administration of the Anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor Agent Infliximab for
      Neovascular Age-related Macular Degeneration.Theodossiadis PG, Liarakos VS, Sfikakis PP,
      Vergados IA, Theodossiadis GP.Am J Ophthalmol. 2009 Feb 9. [Epub ahead of print]
    
  