
    
      Background:

      The chronotype is defined as the midpoint of sleep and describes biological construct of an
      organisms temporal organisation. It is itself determined by genetics, age, sex, and
      environment. Misalignment between the individual chronotype and socially determined schedules
      may result in a phenomenon which has been called "social jetlag". Emerging evidence indicates
      that a later chronotype and/or "social jetlag" predisposes to weight gain, higher BMI and
      higher odds for type 2 diabetes. A later chronotype has been also associated with a more
      adverse body composition. Since the chronotype progressively delays from adolescence until
      early adulthood (approx. 20 years of age), before it advances again, young adults may be
      particularly vulnerable to such adverse exposures. These exposures may result of a higher
      evening energy intake which in turn was observed for a later chronotype at adolescence. A
      preferred consumption of energy intake in the evening lead to higher total energy intake.
      Social schedules such as early starting hours at schools and universities, which potentially
      contribute to substantial "social jetlag", may influence individual meal timing. The
      chronotype, however, may be the main predictor for meal timing like skipping breakfast or
      not. However, it is not clear yet whether this affects predominantly early or late
      chronotypes in young adults.

      Data on the development of overweight / obesity prevalence in Germany indicates that rates
      are now constant or declining in most adult age groups, with the clear exception of young
      adults, in whom rates continue to be on the rise. Nonetheless, the potential contribution of
      chronotype and/or social jetlag to this secular trend has not been addressed in Germany.

      Hypothesis:

      The hypothesis of the ChroNu cohort is that individual chronotype and social jetlag are
      predictors of (changes in) body composition in young adulthood (ages 18-25 years) and that
      changes in chronotype / social jetlag will result in changes in body composition.

      Aim:

      Hence, the investigators aim to study the association between the body composition and the
      chronotype / social jetlag at first stage and in a follow-up after one year the causal
      relationship between changes in chronotype/social jetlag and body composition.

      Methods 1: participants In the ChroNu cohort study, the investigators will recruit at least
      300 students from Paderborn University aged 18 -25 years. Students will be contacted via
      social media, mailing-lists, poster and flyer, and presentation of the study in lectures. The
      ChroNu cohort study will last from Sept 2019 to approximately Febr 2020. The follow-up is
      scheduled for Sept 2020 - Febr 2021.

      Methods 2: Methods:

      In the screening of participants for ChroNu cohort study, eligible participants are asked to
      fill in the Munich Chronotype Questionnaire (MCTQ, © Roenneberg & co-workers 2015), which is
      a validated questionnaire to calculate the individual chronotype. In this questionnaire,
      participants are asked about their sleep timing separately for work days and work-free days:
      when they go to bed (bed time); when they prepare to sleep); how long it takes them to fall
      asleep (sleep latency); when they wake up (sleep end); and how long it takes them to get out
      of bed (sleep inertia). The mid-sleep point, which defines the chronotype, is calculated as
      the time when falling asleep plus half of the sleep duration. If the sleep duration is longer
      on free days than on work days this oversleep is corrected (corrected mid-sleep point): half
      of the difference in sleep duration is subtracted. Social jet lag is calculated as the
      difference between the mid-sleep time on work days and work-free days.

      The individual body composition, which is the outcome of this study, is analyzed using
      Bioimpedance Analysis (BIA) (mBCA 515, SECA). For the analyses, waist circumference, body
      size and body weight are required: waist circumference is measured midway between the lowest
      rib and the iliac crest by trained personal following the World Health Organisation (WHO)
      recommendations and entered in the BIA device. Body size is measured by means of an
      ultrasonic measuring station (seca 287 dp) from SECA and directly transferred to the BIA
      device. For measurement of body weight and body composition participants need to stand on the
      BIA device.

      Since the chronotype and potentially resultant social jetlag is affected by environment,
      participants are asked to fill in additional questionnaires on their daily routines and
      diurnal patterns in both physical activity and meal timing and food intake. Questions on
      daily routine include start and end time of both university and work if applicable.

      For a following ChroNu nutritional trial, the investigators are looking for the earliest and
      latest chronotypes among our ChoNu cohort. Participants each with the earliest and the latest
      mid-sleep points among our cohort seem to be suitable.

      Statistical analyses Linear mixed-effects regression models are used to analyze the
      associations between chronotype (continuously in h:mm) as predictor and BMI, body fat, and
      visceral fat. The same analyses will be performed for social jetlag as predictor.

      Multivariable linear and logistic mixed-effects regression models are performed to
      investigate associations between the chronotype and the circadian patterns of meal timing and
      physical activity. In second step, multivariable regression analysis is used to examine if
      the assocation between chronotype and body composition is mediated by the circadian patterns
      of both meal timing and physical activity. All basic models will be adjusted for age and
      additionally adjusted for potentially confounders which were considered as statistically
      significant.
    
  