
    
      1. Overall aims The aim of this study is to develop and evaluate the effects of a
           strengths-based group intervention called Be the Expert for Your Own (BEYO) among
           elderly patients with type 2 diabetes to facilitate their SOC and self-care, and
           accordingly improve their health outcomes.

        2. Study Design This study is designed to be a mixed method research incorporating both
           quantitative and qualitative components. A two-arm randomized controlled trial (RCT)
           will be conducted to assess the effects of a strengths-based group intervention compared
           with routine health education on SOC and self-care of elderly people with type 2
           diabetes. The theoretical framework for BEYO program is based on salutogenic theory
           proposed by Antonovsky (1987). Qualitative study will be conducted at the end of the
           program to explore patients' experience about BEYO and the mechanism through which BEYO
           can facilitate self-care, in terms of what component and how.

      2. Be the Expert for Your Own (BEYO) program

        1. Overview The BEYO protocol consists of 5 structured sessions among intervention
           facilitator and 8 type 2 diabetes patients.The common flow for structured sessions
           contains 7 steps. Rationale and aims for designing each step are described as follows.

           Step 1 - "Health education" As supported by the middle range theory and results from
           integrated review, knowledge acquisition is essential among patients with chronic
           disease to perform reflective, sufficient and reasoned self-care actions with a pattern.
           This step aims to equip patients with basic knowledge and essential skills to manage
           their disease.

           Step 2 - "Discuss self-care experience and identify deficit" This step aims to collect
           basic information about clients' experience of performing self-care in each specific
           area and identify major problems they encounter in this process. This step facilitates
           information exchange and experience sharing among clients and provides reference for
           intervention facilitator about clients' basic situation. Besides, giving enough
           opportunity to describe the problem makes it easier to redirect the conversation later
           if attendees restart talking about the problem.

           Step 3 - "Describe exceptions" One of the central beliefs for SFT is that there are
           always exceptions to problems. There are always times and situations when the problem
           occurs less or when the client feels like successfully managing even a slight part of
           the problem. After identifying self-care deficit, clients are asked to describe these
           exceptional times in this step to help them find out skills, resources, and strengths at
           their disposal. The close attention for exceptions improves clients' sense of
           self-mastery and their ability to plan further steps.

           Step 4 - "Identify the strengths" On the basis of review and analysis for exceptions, it
           is the right time to list out and summarize clients' strengths revealed in these
           exceptions. This step lays a foundation for establishing solutions later, for that
           detected strengths can be amplified and repeated to ultimately dismantle the problem.

           Step 5 - "Miracle question and scaling" The miracle question is a common tool in SFT as
           a way to build clear, client-centered and practical goals. Scaling questions help to
           break the goal down into small manageable steps that can be carried out in the short
           term. This step helps clients find out what they want to achieve through this program.
           Setting the goal by themselves facilitates an empowering and optimistic experience for
           clients that promoting goal-focused thinking during the self-care process and
           highlighting their responsibility for the future actions.

           Step 6 - "Establish the solution" After exploring strengths and setting up the goal,
           this step aims to link strengths and goals together to establish the solution. As the
           basic principles for SFT is focusing on strengths rather than weakness, resources rather
           than deficits, the created solution is more concerned with achievement than with solving
           problems, with hoping not just coping. It helps clients move forward in their lives.

           Step 7 - "Action plan" As the final step, a structured action plan is generated to
           transform the solution into arranged tasks. The action plan guides the behaviors of the
           clients and tracks the progress of implementation.

        2. The role of facilitator Different with the traditional teacher-centered didactic model,
           facilitators in BEYO program need to get out of the expert role and appreciate patients'
           capabilities from the aspect of truly human beings. Rather than being at the center of
           the group, the facilitator is a supporter to assist patients to identify what they want
           to achieve, to help them to think about strengths and resources during the group
           interactions, to build up solutions for their own situations and to make plans to reach
           the goal step by step.

           To build a hope-inducing relationship between the facilitator and clients has been
           emphasized as the context for practice to enhance the effectiveness of strengths-based
           techniques (Fischer, 1978). The foundation for a hope-inducing relationship includes
           empathy, genuineness and unconditional positive regard (Maluccio, 1979). To be empathy,
           facilitators need to perceive and communicate feelings of attendees with sensitivity,
           and think about the meaning of these feelings. Genuineness means that facilitators
           should be themselves in the helping process rather than presenting a professional
           facade. Unconditional positive regard asks facilitators to give positive feedback to
           every good change and to express the respect, acceptance, caring and concern for the
           client in a non-dominating way.

        3. Objectives for each session Session 1 aims to build social network among group members
           and make clients feel welcome. Group goals and task will be introduced to gel the
           clients around the group.

           Session 2-4 execute a common session flow to finally construct an action plan to achieve
           the client-centered goal. Themes for the total 3 sessions respectively cover the six
           areas as mentioned earlier. Except session 2, all the other sessions will start with
           reinforcing the positive change happening since the last session.

           Session 5 aims to celebrate the achievement, review the process, summarize clients'
           strengths and effective solutions, and set up plans for the future.

        4. Acceptability and feasibility evaluation Researchers will record numbers and proportions
           for recruitment, consent, attendance, and attrition rate. Duration of sessions and
           intervention activities will be recorded using field notes. The research team and the
           facilitator will discuss the delivery of the program and study progress every week.

      The focus-group interview will be conducted at the end of the study to explore patients'
      experience and opinions about the content and process, and barriers and enablers to
      compliance with the intervention.

      3. Subjects

      3.1 Sampling and recruitment The group of elderly patients with type 2 diabetes living in
      Changsha, a city in central China, is selected as the study population. Multi-stage random
      sampling will be used to recruit community-dwelling participants. First, two of the five
      municipal districts of Changsha City based on present administrative system will be randomly
      selected. Second, detailed information including names and numbers of community health
      service centers belong to each district can be achieved through government official websites.
      Two community health service centers respectively belong to the two districts will be
      randomly selected. Third, based on national standards of public health services, all the
      community-dwelling patients with type 2 diabetes should be recorded in the electronic medical
      system charged by the department of chronic disease management in the community health
      service center. Random number table method will be used to select potential participants in
      each of the two communities, using this electronic system. No private information of type 2
      diabetes patients will be retrieved except for their name, mailing address and contact
      number.

      An information sheet will be sent as a letter from the research team to the potential
      participant followed by a telephone call two days later. The phone call is mainly designed to
      (i) further make sure if the referrals meet the inclusion criteria, such as age and time of
      diagnosis; (ii) discuss the information sheet and obtain verbal informed consent for the
      project, (iii) verbally deliver Abbreviated Mental Test (AMT) and the Summary of Diabetes
      Self-Care Activities measure (SDSCA) to make sure the participants have intact cognitive
      function and experience at least some degree of self-care deficit for diabetes.

      3.2 Sample size calculation The significance level and the power are set at 5% and 80%
      respectively. The primary outcome is self-care of elderly patients with type 2 diabetes.
      However, based on the result of literature review, no previous studies used strengths-based
      intervention reported its effects on self-care. Based on the result of a meta-analysis
      assessing effects of group-based diabetes self-management education compared to routine
      treatment (Steinsbekk, Rygg, Lisulo, Rise, & Fretheim, 2012), the standardized mean
      difference for self-care skills was 0.55. Thus, a sample size of 53 in each group is enough
      to detect the difference in the means of self-care between two groups. Allowing for a dropout
      rate of 20%, a total of 132 participants will be required.

      3.3 Randomization After obtaining the signed informed consent form and collecting the
      baseline data, patients will be randomly allocated to the intervention or control group,
      using a computerized permuted block randomization with concealment.

      4. Data Collection Data collection will be commenced after receiving written informed consent
      voluntarily signed by participants. The baseline information (T0) will be collected before
      the randomization. After completing the intervention or control protocol, a follow-up data
      collection (T1) will be conducted immediately by a group of trained research assistants, who
      are blinded to the participants' group assignment and workshop attendance. Repeated data
      collection (T2) will take place at 3 months after the completion of the strength-based
      intervention by the same group of research assistants.

      5. Data Analysis Plan Invalid questionnaire (questionnaire with obvious logic error, or with
      more than 20% unanswered questions) will be excluded before put into the database. SPSS
      version 22.0 will be used to process data. The level of statistical significance will be set
      at 0.05. Q-Q plot, Skewness and Kurtosis will be used to examine the normality of continuous
      data. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the demographic characteristics,
      health status and patient-centered outcomes. The effectiveness of the intervention will be
      assessed based on the intention-to-treat (ITT) principle. The generalized estimating equation
      (GEE) model will be used to estimate the intervention effect over time. Hierarchical multiple
      regression analysis will be conducted to examine the mediating effect of sense of coherence.
    
  