
    
      The main goal of the study is to obtain a generalizable epidemiology of chronic post surgical
      pain (CPSP) by performing a large data collection in many European countries. The large
      sample will allow analysis of the incidence of CPSP, differences in incidence patterns in
      Europe, incidence in rare types of surgeries and specific populations. This observational,
      prospective study will help to better anticipate and potentially prevent the development of
      chronic post surgical pain (CPSP). In fact when CPSP occurs patients are frequently
      undiagnosed and pain is poorly managed such that patients may develop refractory chronic
      pain. Surgery is a major cause of chronic pain and it is unique in that there is potential to
      prevent it from occurring. Data from this study might alert respectively surgeons and
      anesthetists about the most important types of surgery and some perioperative techniques of
      pain prevention with an impact on the incidence of chronic post surgical pain(CPSP).
      Anesthesiologists, who are leading this project, might therefore, have an important role in
      preventing future cases of chronic post surgical pain (CPSP).

      Sample size calculation:

      The investigators expect that at least 30 sites will be able to participate and recruit 200
      patients a year, to a maximum of 6,000 patients, over the one year study period. Since the
      mean incidence of CPSP is approximately 30%, this will offer an estimated potential number of
      2000 patients with CPSP.

      Organisation:

      Investigators will use questionnaire in English, German, French, Spanish, Italian, Romanian,
      Swedish, Hebrew, Dutch and Russian. They will supervise data collection, ensure timely data
      return and act as guarantor for the integrity and quality of data collected.

      The Chief investigator, Professor Fletcher is a member of the PAIN OUT group and will closely
      work with the new group of investigators participating in the project on CPSP. His experience
      with the European PAIN OUT project will be very valuable to organize and coordinate the
      study. The European Society of Anaesthesiology (ESA) is supporting this project and will help
      with administrative coordination to build the European network.

      Time scale:

      The study will last two and a half years with one year for recruitment, one year for follow
      up and 6 months for analysis.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Incidence of chronic post surgical pain (CPSP) at 12 months for all types of surgeries
      analyzed will be expressed as mean and confidence interval 95%. The investigators will
      compare the incidence in various types of surgeries, different centres and countries.

      Risk factors of chronic post surgical pain (CPSP) will be analyzed using univariate and
      multivariate analysis. The most predictive factors will be chosen by fitting a logistic
      regression model using a forward selection procedure. By combining data from different
      centres, the investigators will determine most significant risk factors.
    
  