
    
      Objective:

      The purpose of this study is to develop and implement Checking In, a brief and interactive
      screening measure of distress, designed to identify emotional, physical, social, practical
      and spiritual concerns of pediatric patients. An accompanying provider summary sheet that
      delineates patient report of distress, will allow providers to triage services to patients
      and their families, thereby enhancing patient quality of life throughout the treatment
      trajectory.

      Objective 1: The primary objective of this protocol is to develop a brief electronic
      screening tool, Checking In, which would assist clinicians in assessing the presence of
      psychological distress in children and adolescents with cancer and other serious medical
      illnesses. In order to accomplish this aim, the researchers will conduct cognitive interviews
      with 60 pediatric patients in order to refine the questions and phrasing of items on Checking
      In. The results from this phase of the study of will be used to develop the electronic
      screen, which will be used to accomplish the remaining aims.

      Objective 2: To assess the feasibility of administering Checking In to pediatric patients and
      their caregivers. Researchers who administer Checking In will complete a brief questionnaire
      rating the feasibility of administration and all barriers encountered.

      Objective 3: To assess the feasibility of completing the Checking In screening tool among
      pediatric patients with cancer and other serious illnesses and their caregivers. This aim
      will be achieved by having the patients and their caregivers answer a brief questionnaire
      that assesses how feasible and acceptable they found Checking In to complete.

      Objective 4: To establish the utility of the Checking In summary report. Providers will
      complete a survey evaluating the usefulness of the summary report to indicate whether: 1) the
      report provided useful information, 2) the information was presented in a userfriendly
      manner, and 3) the summary report impacted care planning for the child.

      Objective 5: To assess the concurrent validity (i.e. the extent to which a test correlates
      with other previously validated measures of similar constructs) of Checking In as compared to
      validated measures of psychological symptoms (i.e. depression, anxiety, pain and fatigue) in
      patients with pediatric cancer, Neurofibromatosis Type 1 (NF1) or Primary Immune Deficiencies
      (PIDs).

      Secondary Objective 1: To compare patient and caregiver ratings of Checking In in order to
      determine agreement rates.

      -Study Population:

      Outpatients, ages 8-21, enrolled in a research study either at the Pediatric Clinic or the

      Primary Immune Deficiency Clinic at the NIH with a diagnosis of pediatric cancer, NF-1

      LiFraumeni or PIDs will be invited to participate in this study. Additionally, outpatients

      ages 8-21, receiving active cancer treatment or follow-up at Johns Hopkins, Children s

      Hospital Colorado, or Levine Children s Hospital will be invited to participate.

      -Design:

      The initial phase of this study will consist of the researchers conducting cognitive
      interviews with 60 patients in order to refine the questions and phrasing of items on
      Checking In. Preliminary questions for Checking In were derived and modified from the PI s
      previous protocol on the Distress Thermometer. During this first phase, a paper and pencil
      version of Checking In will be used.

      Results of this initial phase will be used in phase 2 to develop the electronic version of
      Checking In. A bid will be conducted through the NIH to hire a technology development group
      who will build the Checking In application. This will include the interface development,
      graphics, and ability for the application to generate a printout summary report.
      De-identified data from both phase 1 and the physician survey will be utilized to guide the
      application development.

      During phase 3, the electronic version of Checking In will be pilot tested and assessed for
      feasibility. Sixty quartets, including the patient, parent/caregiver, health care provider
      and associated staff member will be interviewed for this phase. Patients and their
      parent/caregiver will be given a tablet and asked to complete Checking In. They will then be
      asked to complete questionnaires assessing the feasibility of the interface of the Checking
      In application as well as it s content. A researcher who is present to ensure that the
      application runs smoothly and that the interface is feasible will also complete a feasibility
      questionnaire evaluating the interface. Health care providers will be given the associated
      summary reports and asked to complete a questionnaire assessing the report content and layout
      as well as impact on patient care.

      Once the electronic version of Checking In is finalized, researchers will begin phase 4 of
      the study. During phase 4, each patient will complete a brief electronic self-report distress
      scale, Checking In, and standardized measures of depression, anxiety, pain, fatigue, sleep
      disturbance, and peer relationships, as well as an evidence-based questionnaire for
      self-harm.

      Primary caregivers will rate their child s level of distress using Checking In, as well as
      complete measures assessing their child s depression, anxiety, pain, fatigue, sleep
      disturbance, suicide risk and peer relationships

      Both patients and primary caregivers will assess the feasibility of completing Checking In.
      Medical providers will rate the usefulness of the Checking In summary report, as well as
      provide a performance rating of the patient using Lansky/Karnofsky Performance status scores.
      Additionally, data collectors will assess the feasibility of administering Checking In in a
      pediatric outpatient clinic.

      -Outcome Measures

      Measures include Checking In; Phase 3 Feasibility Questionnaires, Phase 4 PROMIS measures of
      Anxiety, Depression, Fatigue, Pain Intensity, Pain Interference, Sleep Disturbance, Self Harm
      (evidence-based questionnaire) and Peer Relationships; and an Feasibility scale for
      completion of Checking In. Self- harm and suicide risk questions will only be asked to
      patients 10 and older.
    
  