
    
      Hip fractures are common injuries in the elderly population that result in significant
      morbidity and mortality and a significant burden on health care systems. Hip fractures can be
      treated with arthroplasty or with internal fixation, depending on the fracture pattern.
      Cephalomedullary nailing (CMN) has become one of the established treatments for
      intertrochanteric hip fractures with a wide variety of implant designs from many different
      companies. The TFN-ADVANCED™ Proximal femoral nailing system (TFN-A) is a novel implant for
      treating intertrochanteric and subtrochanteric proximal femur fractures with a paucity of
      published literature on the performance of this implant.

      A method to decrease the amount of fracture compression is to use the set screw to lock the
      helical screw "statically" so it does not slide to the same degree as if the helical screw is
      placed in the "dynamic" or sliding position. To the knowledge of the investigators, the role
      of statically locking the helical screw to prevent fracture collapse has not been studied.
      Statically locking CMN to treat hip fractures has become standard of care at the Royal
      Columbian Hospital with all the investigating surgeons having adopted this practice in an
      attempt to prevent significant fracture collapse and neck shortening. Anecdotally, the
      investigators have not seen significant rates of cephalic helical screw cut-out over the past
      five years, and believe the investigators' helical screw cut-out rates are lower than what is
      reported in the literature. The investigators have been using the Gamma Nail (Stryker) to
      statically lock the helical screw as the previous TFN lacked the ability for static locking.
      However, with the advent of the TFN-A, the investigators have adopted this implant as their
      long cephalomedullary nail of choice for fixation of pertrochanteric femur fractures.
    
  