
    
      This trial is a multicenter，prospective, randomized, parallel controlled trial. A total of
      approximately 802 patients (Age≥18years) who suffered from TIA/nondisabled stroke due to
      70-99% of the stenosis of one major intracranial artery (including anterior circulation and
      posterior circulation) during more than 21 days before the screening period will be enrolled.
      Patients fulfilling all of the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will be
      randomized into two groups according to the 1:1 ratio after offering informed content: 1)
      Experimental group will receive intracranial angioplasty plus aggressive medical care which
      is the same as the control group; 2) Control group will receive aggressive medical care only.
      Aggressive medical care includes 100 mg/day of aspirin during the follow-up period; 75 mg/day
      of clopidogrel within 90 days after enrollment, and whether clopidogrel should continue to be
      used depends on the actual situation of the subjects; 20mg/day of atorvastatin should be used
      during the year after enrollment, and whether it should continue to be used depends on the
      actual situation of the subjects. Both groups will receive risk factors management including
      blood pressure to maintain 130-140/90-100 mmHg and LDL lower than 70 mg/dl. The primary
      objective is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of intracranial angioplasty combined with
      aggressive medical care for symptomatic intracranial artery stenosis. The study consists of
      11 visits including the day of screening and randomization, the day when the subject receive
      intracranial angioplasty and/or aggressive medical care, the day before the subject is
      discharged from hospital, 30, 90,180 days and 1 year after enrollment, and every half a year
      after then until the third year. Demographic information, symptoms and signs, laboratory
      test, neuro-imaging assessment neurological function rating scale will be recorded during the
      program. The trial is anticipated to last from October 2018 to December 2023 with 802
      subjects recruited from 30 centers in China. All the related investigative organization and
      individuals will obey the Declaration of Helsinki and Chinese Good Clinical Practice
      standard. A Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will regularly monitor safety during the
      study. The trial has been approved by Institutional Review Board (IRB) and Ethics
      Committee(EC) in Being Tiantan hospital, Capital Medical University.
    
  