
    
      Background:

      The Veterans Health Administration (VHA) needs to develop efficient ways to broadly implement
      evidence based practices and foster a learning organization culture that systematically and
      continuously applies research to improve VA healthcare. Recognizing this need, VHA Health
      Services Research and Development (HSR&D) invited applications in the fall of 2003 for
      collaboration HSR&D investigators and Integrated Service Networks (VISNs) on a) implementing
      and evaluating an evidenced-based interventions or b) undergoing and evaluating an
      organizational or structural change to transform the VISN in to a learning organization that
      can efficiently implement evidence-based practices. Collaborations are intended to help
      improve clinical services locally within participating VISNs and provide templates for
      expanding successful changes nationwide.

      Objectives:

      Despite recognition that successful implementation of evidence-based clinical practices
      (EBCPs) usually depends on the on the structure and processes of the larger healthcare
      organization in which new clinical practices are introduced, the processes and dynamics of
      implementation are not well understood. The aim of this project was to deepen that
      understanding by testing an organizational model that we hypothesized would strengthen the
      ability of healthcare organizations to implement evidence-based clinical practices. The
      research objectives were to: - Test the hypothesis that medical centers with high fidelity to
      the organizational model would be more successful in improving system use of a selected EBCP;
      - Identify and analyze organizational factors that affect model implementation; - Test the
      feasibility of intervention activities to introduce and support the model.

      Methods:

      The three-year study used a mixed-methods pre-post comparison-group design to implement and
      evaluate the organizational model in medical centers in 3 VISNs in the Department of Veterans
      Affairs. The model posits that the implementation of evidence-based practices will be
      enhanced through the presence of three interacting components in the organization: 1) active
      leadership commitment to quality, 2) robust clinical process redesign to incorporate
      evidence-based practices into routine operations, and 3) use of management structures and
      processes to support and align redesign. The target clinical practice was hand-hygiene
      compliance. One VISN was randomly assigned to the intervention arm that implemented the
      organizational model; two VISNs were assigned to a comparison arm that participated in a more
      limited data feedback strategy. Measures included: 1) ratings of implementation fidelity, as
      measured on a 0-4 scale at the site level supported by narrative evidence by research team;
      2) percent compliance with national hand-hygiene guidelines for each site, as measured
      through structured observations by medical center staff; 3) staff ratings of team
      effectiveness and facility emphasis on quality, as measured through a written survey; and 4)
      factors affecting model implementation, as identified qualitatively through interviews and
      quantitatively through staff surveys

      Status:

      Data collection and analysis is complete. Manuscript preparation is ongoing.
    
  