
    
      Funded by Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI), this four-year, multi-site
      study aims to compare the effectiveness of a 16-week telerehabilitation (telerehab) exercise
      program and a facility-based exercise program on Multiple Sclerosis (MS) outcomes. The
      research study design is a two-stage randomized choice design aimed at non-inferiority.

      Four hundred participants with MS who have ambulatory difficulties will be recruited from
      nine sites. First level randomization will assign participants to one of two groups - Choice
      or Random. The participants in Choice will be able to choose in which program they wish to
      participate (telerehab or facility-based). Individuals in the Random group, will be further
      randomized to either the telerehab or facility-based program. The research protocol and
      associated tools will be reviewed and approved by all relevant Research Review Committees
      before any research takes place. The study will comply with best practices in human subjects'
      research including following HIPAA guidelines and using strict informed consent procedures.
      Clinical reported outcome measures and patient reported outcome measures will be administered
      at baseline, immediately post-intervention (at 16 weeks), and at 12 months post-intervention.
      Patient reported outcomes will also be administered at 2 months and 6 months after the start
      of the intervention.

      Dr. Deborah Backus is the principal investigator (PI) and Prof. Robert Motl is the
      co-Principal Investigator supported by collaborating co-Investigators at the Cleveland Clinic
      Mellen Center, Ohio; Marquette University, Wisconsin; University of Colorado, Denver;
      University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill; the University of Georgia; the Tanner Center for
      Multiple Sclerosis, Birmingham Alabama; Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
      Massachusetts; and the iConquerMS outcomes data collaborative (Accelerated Cure Project for
      MS). Shepherd Center is the primary and coordinating site for all study activities under Dr.
      Backus. University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) under the leadership of Prof. Motl will
      oversee delivery of the training programs, and statistical analysis under the direction of
      Dr. Gary Cutter.

      This study will yield important data regarding the comparative impact of exercise programs on
      MS outcomes and provide information to people with MS, health providers, payers, exercise
      partners, and policy makers about how people with MS who have ambulatory difficulties can
      safely and effectively exercise.
    
  