
    
      Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), defined as glucose intolerance and thus hyperglycemia
      with onset or first recognition during pregnancy, is steadily increasing in prevalence. In
      Denmark, the prevalence of GDM is around 2-3% of all pregnancies. GDM is associated with
      several adverse perinatal and maternal outcomes why early recognition and diagnosis is
      important. Early diagnosis and relevant treatment can prevent adverse outcomes of the baby
      and mother, such as macrosomia, shoulder dystocia, preeclampsia and hypoglycemia.

      The glucose levels will often normalize shortly after birth; however, up to 50% of all women
      in Denmark diagnosed with GDM develop T2D during the first 10 years after the pregnancy, have
      a threefold risk of developing metabolic syndrome2 10, while the recurrence risk of
      developing GDM in subsequent pregnancies varies between 30-84%. Furthermore, long term
      increased risks for children born with macrosomia or by a mother with GDM include
      cardiovascular disease, obesity and T2D.

      Glycemic control is a key factor in combatting the severe effects related to poorly
      controlled GDM. Management of GDM in Denmark consists of regular BG self-monitoring, dietary
      modifications, and in some cases insulin treatment. Additionally, obstetric control visits
      and PA advices are also a part of the standard GDM care program.

      Compared to non-pregnant women, pregnant women must be more careful in relation to especially
      the type of PA, why supervised exercise is often recommended in order to ensure safe and
      correct guidance. This is a heavy economic burden, why a structured, non-supervised type of
      PA with low a risk of injury, possibly high compliance and continuous monitoring would be
      preferable. Interval walking training (IWT) is a lenient type of structured, non-supervised
      PA. This type of PA is associated with an improved glucose regulation in patients with T2D
      after 4 months of IWT 5 times weekly (60 min./session) (Karstoft et al., 2013). Due to
      similar metabolic dysregulations in patients with T2D and GDM, the investigators are apt to
      believe that IWT, if feasible, can improve glycemic control in GDM patients. Furthermore, it
      is obvious to believe that IWT can be implemented as regular PA in GDM patients, as one study
      has shown that pregnant women mostly prefer walking as a type of PA during pregnancy.

      This open-label randomized controlled trial aims to enroll 20 patients randomized (1:1) to a
      control- (Con) or IWT-group. Both groups will follow the standard GDM care program at Odense
      University Hospital. Additionally, the IWT-group is prescribed three weekly IWT sessions of
      40-50 minutes each for 6 weeks. Each IWT session is guided and controlled by the smartphone
      application 'InterWalk', which individualize the training intensity to current fitness level
      of the patient through an on-board fitness test.
    
  