
    
      Study Design:

      This pilot study is a longitudinal cohort study of approximately 100 MSM, with a prospective
      follow-up period of 1 year for each participant. MSM will be recruited through community
      events, venues where MSM are known to congregate, online, and by participant referral.
      Following consent, a baseline visit will include a self-administered baseline survey, a
      clinical exam including an assessment for circumcision and STIs, and testing for HIV and
      other sexually transmitted infections (STIs), creatinine, AST/ALT and phosphorus levels, and
      drug screening.

      An HIV prevention package will be offered to participants starting at baseline, which will
      include condom choices, condom-compatible lubricant choices, risk-reduction counseling,
      linkage to care, and couples voluntary counseling and testing (CVCT). HIV-negative men can be
      screened for eligibility for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) with Emtricitabine/Tenofovir
      Disoproxil Fumarate (FTC/TDF), which will be made available for eligible men beginning at the
      1-month or 4-month study visit. Throughout the study, PEP for men with an exposure at high
      risk for HIV transmission will be made available.

      Men who test positive for HIV at baseline or during the study will be referred and actively
      linked to appropriate care and treatment services and will continue to be a part of the
      study. Men who test positive for STIs at baseline or during the study will receive treatment
      at the study clinic. Participants will complete follow-up visits at 3, 6, and 12 months that
      will include self-administered behavioral surveys and HIV testing, and STI testing at 6 and
      12 months.

      Men who are eligible and interested in initiating PrEP can return for a PrEP initiation
      visit, which will include rapid HIV testing, at two time points: 1 month after enrollment and
      4 months after enrollment. Men who initiate PrEP will have additional clinic visits for
      creatinine, AST/ALT, phosphate, protein and glucose level testing and rapid HIV testing the
      month following PrEP initiation (month 2 for those initiating PrEP at 1 month and month 5 for
      those initiating PrEP at 4 months) and every 3 months thereafter. If a participant on PrEP
      tests positive for HIV, they will discontinue PrEP but continue to be followed for their
      remaining study visits.

      Men who test positive for HIV at follow-up visits will have blood drawn for initial cluster
      of differentiation 4 (CD4) and HIV viral load testing, and will have CD4 testing at 6 and 12
      months and HIV viral load testing at 3, 6, and 12 months. Data on service utilization, condom
      use, lubricant use, HIV and STI testing outside the study site, and other outcomes will be
      collected via monthly short message service (SMS) text message surveys during the study
      period.

      Study Population:

      The study population will be men aged 18 years and older who self-report that they had anal
      intercourse with men in the past year, are current residents of the study city, are willing
      to provide contact information, and have a phone.

      Study Size:

      The sample will consist of approximately 100 MSM in Cape Town, South Africa. All 100 men will
      be followed for one year, and approximately 20% of the study population can be HIV-infected
      at baseline. Additional men who are HIV-positive at baseline will be enrolled in the baseline
      visit but not followed prospectively, and not counted as part of the 100 men in that study
      site.

      Study Intervention:

      The prevention package will be offered throughout the study and will include condom choices
      with an assortment of styles, sizes and features, condom-compatible lubricant choices with
      discreet packaging, risk reduction counseling, linkage to care, couples voluntary HIV
      counseling and testing (CVCT), and PrEP for eligible men beginning one month after
      enrollment. Condom choices, lubricant choices, and CVCT will be available to participants at
      drop-in visits at any time.

      Throughout the study, post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) for men with an exposure at high risk
      for HIV transmission will be available as standard of care.

      Community-level interventions will occur through training of health care providers to deliver
      sexual health services to MSM and lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT)
      sensitization, LGBT training for study staff and other staff of the clinical sites, and
      community mobilization efforts to improve health literacy and uptake of prevention services
      among MSM.

      Study Duration:

      Recruitment activities will be conducted for 3 months or until 100 MSM have been recruited.
      After enrollment, MSM will have a follow-up period of 1 year for each participant.

      Primary Objectives:

      This study has four primary objectives:

        1. Determine acceptability of the HIV prevention package.

        2. Determine uptake of individual elements of the HIV prevention package.

        3. Determine incidence of HIV, STIs and unprotected anal intercourse (UAI).

        4. Understand HIV risk and prevention behaviors among MSM.

      Participating Sites:

        1. Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia

        2. Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland

        3. University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California

        4. Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation, Cape Town, South Africa (Enrollment & Clinic site)
    
  