
    
      Introduction: Postoperative pain control remains a major challenge for surgical procedures,
      including laparoscopic gastric bypass. Pain management is particularly relevant in obese
      patients who experience a higher number of of cardiovascular and pulmonary events. effective
      pain management may reduce their risk of serious postoperative complications, such as deep
      venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli. The objective of this study is to evaluate the
      efficacy of intraperitoneal local anaesthetic, ropivacaine, to reduce postoperative pain in
      patients undergoing laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass.

      Methods and Analysis: A randomized controlled trial will be conducted to compare
      intraperitoneal ropivacaine (Intervention) versus normal saline (placebo) in 120 adult
      patients undergoing bariatric surgery. Ropivacaine will be infused over the oesophageal
      hiatus and throughout the abdomen. Patients in the control arm will undergo the same
      treatment as normal saline. The primary end point will be postoperative pain at 1, 2 and 4
      hours postoperatively. Pain measurements will then occur every 4 hours for 24 h and every 8h
      until discharge. Secondary endpoints will include opioid use, peak expiratory flow, 6 min
      walk distance and quality of life. Intention-to-treat analysis will be used and repeated
      measures will be analysed using mixed model approach. post-hoc pairwise comparison of the
      treatment groups at different time points will be carried out using multiple comparisons with
      adjustments to the type 1 error. Results of the study will inform the feasibility of
      effectiveness of intraperitoneal ropivacaine.

      Ethics and dissemination This study has been approved by the Ottawa Health Science Network
      Research Ethics Board and Health Canada in April 2014. The findings of the study will be
      disseminated through national and international conferences and peer-reviewed journals.
    
  