
    
      Although the efficacy of low-molecular-weight heparins(LMWH) in the prophylaxis of
      postoperative venous thromboembolism (VTE) is well established in a large number of studies,
      some aspects remain to be determined. The optimal duration of prophylactic treatment has not
      been clearly defined yet.

      Traditionally, surgical prophylaxis of VTE in patients undergoing high-risk orthopaedic
      surgery was extended for one or two weeks after the operation. However, the most recent
      studies carried out on this field have demonstrated that prolongation of prophylaxis with
      LMWH for 4-6 weeks significantly reduces the incidence of VTE (by more than half) in patients
      undergoing orthopaedic surgery with a high-risk of VTE.

      On the contrary, thromboprophylaxis in oncological surgery is generally limited to the period
      of hospitalisation, despite the fact that activation of coagulation is greater and more
      prolonged in patients undergoing surgery for neoplastic processes than in those patients not
      affected by cancer. The only two studies carried out to evaluate the efficacy of the
      prolongation of thromboprophylaxis for 4 weeks in this type of surgery seem to indicate that
      the VTE incidence could be reduced even further that with one-week prophylaxis, though these
      do not allow to establish a definitive conclusion.

      The present study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Bemiparin, a second-generation
      LMWH, in the prophylaxis of VTE (using a postoperative regimen, giving the first dose 6 hours
      after finishing the surgical procedure) for 28 days compared to 8 days, in oncological
      surgery.

      Additionally, some exploratory analyses will be carried out to evaluate:

        1. The biological effect of the sc. administration of Bemiparin (3,500 IU/day) on different
           biological markers involved in the tumoral development and its metastasis in patients
           undergoing an oncological abdominal or pelvic surgical operation.

        2. The effect of the sc. administration of Bemiparin (3,500 IU/day) on the evolution of the
           tumour in patients undergoing an oncological abdominal or pelvic surgical operation.

        3. The effect of the sc. administration of Bemiparin (3,500 IU/day) on the survival of the
           patients at 6 months from the operation.

      Four Study Committees have been created for this clinical trial in order to guarantee the
      safety of the patients as well as the highest quality data:

        -  Trial Steering Committee

        -  Data & Safety Monitoring Board

        -  Committee for the Evaluation of Phlebographies

        -  Committee for Adjudicating Clinical Events.
    
  