
    
      During pterygium excision and conjunctival autograft surgery, incision into the conjunctiva
      of the operated eye causes a significant amount of subconjunctival hemorrhage.
      Brimonidine-tartrate is a selective alpha-2-adrenergic agonist. The 0.15% concentration
      (Alphagan) is commonly used to treat glaucoma, while the 0.025% (Lumify) is an
      over-the-counter drop used for its vasoconstrictive anti-hyperemia effect. Brimonidine 0.15%
      has been evaluated in other studies to reduce bleeding in LASIK, cataract surgery, strabismus
      surgery, as well as intravitreal injections. In these mentioned clinical trials, brimonidine
      was found to safely reduce subconjunctival hemorrhage intraoperatively and hyperemia
      postoperatively. Interestingly, prophylactic topical brimonidine was found to increase risk
      of early flap slippage in LASIK due to molecular interference with flap stabilization.
      Because creation of a flap is not a component of pterygium surgery, preoperative brimonidine
      does not interfere with healing.

      A recent study by Ucar et al. has validated the use of preoperative brimonidine 0.15% for
      conjunctival whitening prior to pterygium surgery, allowing for minimized hyperemia and
      reduced surgical duration (Ucar, 2020). However, the long-term clinical outcomes, and
      efficacy of brimonidine 0.025% has yet to be examined. This study aims to further examine the
      comparative efficacy of preoperative brimonidine at different concentrations to reduce
      subconjunctival hemorrhage during pterygium surgery.

      Potential side effects of topical application of brimonidine eye drop may include blurred or
      loss of vision, burning, dry, or itching eyes, discharge or excessive tearing, disturbed
      color perception, double vision, halos around lights, headache, itching of the eye, night
      blindness, photophobia, redness of the eye or inner lining of the eyelid, swelling of the
      eyelid, tearing of the eye, tunnel vision. Side effects of this medication are self-limited,
      and reversible after the medication is stopped.

      The risk of this study to the subject is negligible as the standard surgical procedure will
      be followed. This trial will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, GCP, and the
      applicable regulatory requirement as set by William Osler Health System Ethics Review Board.
    
  