
    
      All patients undergoes temporal clear corneal incision, manual anterior continuous
      curvilinear capsulorhexis, bimanual irrigation/aspiration for lens removal and residual
      cortex, posterior capsule management based on the age of the patient either manual posterior
      capsulorhexis (PCCC) upto 6 years or leaving intact posterior capsule and implantation of
      single-piece AcrySof SN60WF (Alcon Laboratories, Forth Worth, Texas) hydrophobic acrylic IOL
      in-the-bag. Postoperatively, all the patients are examined first for high contrast
      sensitivity and then for low contrast at 1 week, 1 and 3 months respectively.

      The results are analyzed for corrected distance visual acuity (CDVA) which is recorded in
      LogMAR units at preoperative and 1 and 3 months postoperatively. Monocular high-contrast
      Snellen visual assessment for distance is done with the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy
      Study chart (Vector Vision acuity chart at 100% contrast) with Corrected distance visual
      acuity CDVA at 4 m under photopic condition.

      Similarly at preoperative and 1 and 3 months postoperatively contrast sensitivity testing is
      also performed using the CSV 1000E sine wave grating test face (Vector Vision, USA) with the
      patient seated at a distance of 2.5 m from the chart. The test is performed after the patient
      is adapted to the room luminance for 5 minutes. The non viewing eye was occluded for each
      measurement, and the best spectacle refractive correction is placed in front of the viewing
      eye. Testing is being tested under two lighting conditions: photopic (85cd/m2) and mesopic
      (2.7cd/m2). The contrast sensitivity values are documented in log units. Sensitivity levels
      at each frequency range from 0.7 to 2.08 (3 cpd), 0.91 to 2.29 (6 cpd), 0.61 to 1.99 (12
      cpd), and 0.17 to 1.55 (18 cpd) log units. This testing is performed with the patient wearing
      their refractive correction in form of spectacles.
    
  