
    
      Background: A number of studies evaluating unilateral continuous paravertebral block
      demonstrate equal or superior analgesia when compared to epidural analgesia for postoperative
      pain control (1-7). At the same time, these studies show a decreased incidence of side
      effects and complications, including: hypotension, pulmonary complications, urinary
      retention, nausea and vomiting and failed blocks. Several studies also indicate that
      bilateral paravertebral blocks provide adequate postoperative analgesia (8-14). However, no
      study has been performed to date that shows a direct comparison between epidural and
      bilateral paravertebral blocks in patients undergoing open liver resection.Objectives: This
      prospective, randomized study is intended to assess the efficacy and safety of bilateral
      continuous paravertebral blocks compared to continuous epidural block for open liver
      resection. Hypotheses: Bilateral paravertebral blocks are: 1) equally effective in
      controlling the perioperative pain; and 2) safe, with less frequent complications following
      open liver resection when compared to continuous epidural block.Methods: A hundred adult
      patients undergoing elective open liver resection will be randomized to receive a continuous
      epidural block or continuous bilateral paravertebral blocks for perioperative analgesia. The
      primary outcome will be the degree of pain control measured by visual analog scale at 24
      hours post surgery (at rest and while the patient is performing maximum incentive
      spirometry). The secondary outcomes will include: 1) Assessment of pain (at rest, with cough,
      and with ambulation) using the verbal numerical pain scale will be performed postoperatively
      every 8 hours by floor nursing staff until discharge. During the night the patient will not
      be awakened for pain assessment. 2) Intravenous opioid requirement: In addition to pain
      score, postoperative intravenous opioid requirements [hydromorphone (mg)] will also be
      recorded daily; Frequency of side effects and complications; and other functional status
      (volume of maximum incentive spirometry, time to extubation, total time for initial
      ambulation, the length of the hospital stay, time to return of bowel function, readiness for
      discharge from the hospital, and length of hospital stay). At one month post surgery,
      health-related quality of life, mortality, and any morbidities will be assessed. Each
      variable will be compared between the paravertebral group and the epidural group to examine
      the hypotheses above. Clinical Implications: Bilateral continuous paravertebral blocks could
      be an equally effective and safe alternative to a continuous epidural block for perioperative
      pain management in patients who undergo open liver resection.
    
  