
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism most often occur during hospitalization for
      surgery or chronic medical conditions. Consequently information on deep venous
      thrombosis/pulmonary embolism is derived from large referral hospitals, and there are
      substantial gaps in our understanding of the incidence, risk factors, and outcomes of deep
      venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism in the community. This was one of the first studies to
      compare hospital acquired deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism with deep venous
      thrombosis/pulmonary embolism among ambulatory residents in a community.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The five part study: 1. identified the incidence cohort and tested the hypotheses that over
      the 25 year study period the incidence of deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism had
      decreased, the extent of testing for suspected deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism had
      increased, and the number of tests obtained for patients with deep venous
      thrombosis/pulmonary embolism had increased. 2. determined the independent risk factors for
      deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism and estimated the population attribute risk due to
      each independent risk factor for deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism in a case-control
      study of the incidence cohort and community controls. 3. tested the hypothesis that deep
      venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism were independent risk factors for death after adjusting
      for age, sex and co-morbid conditions. 4. described the occurrence of the post-phlebitic
      syndrome, pulmonary hypertension, and recurrent deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism
      over the 25 year study period and identified the independent risk factors for lower extremity
      venous ulceration. 5. evaluated the accuracy of national pulmonary embolism mortality rates
      by comparing pulmonary embolism mortality rates calculated from a review of all the inpatient
      and outpatient medical records of Olmsted County deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism
      patients with death certificate pulmonary embolism mortality rates for Olmsted County from
      the National Center for Health Statistics. The study provided the most complete and
      comprehensive population based estimates of the incidence, risk factors, survival and
      outcomes of deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism available to date.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  