
    
      Patients with unresectable primary or secondary malignancies of the liver have limited
      treatment options which often only give a small survival benefit. RFA has been demonstrated
      to be effective in local tumour eradication and to extend patient survival. In this study RFA
      aspiration will be used to treat unresectable primary or secondary tumours of the liver. RFA
      will be used to develop a shell of tissue destruction around the tumour, with aspiration
      removing tissue and fluid from the centre of the lesion. The potential advantages of
      aspirating during ablation could be to reduce aerosol spread of tumour within the liver
      parenchyma and peritoneum. Additionally, aspirating the ablated tissue may reduce the
      incidence of systemic side effects related to RFA when larger lesions are treated. This study
      would establish the safety and efficiacy of RFA aspiration in the treatment of unresectable
      primary/secondary malignancies of the liver.

      This protocol is for a prospective multi-centre clinical trial of the use of RFA aspiration
      in the treatment of patients with primary/secondary malignancies of the liver, which are not
      suitable for formal liver resection. The basis for unresectability being the presence of
      extra-hepatic disease, limited liver synthetic function, co-morbidity (ASA>3), bilobar
      disease and anatomical location. Early and late complications relating to the usage of the
      RFA aspirator will be analysed. Additionally, local recurrence and long term survival will be
      assessed. If the use of the RFA aspirator produces improved survival with minimal morbidity
      and mortality. Then these initial results will justify further in depth studies to establish
      its clinical role.

      II. SPECIFIC AIMS/OBJECTIVES

      The primary aim for this trial is to assess whether the RFA aspirator device is safe and of
      clinical benefit in patients with primary or secondary malignant liver tumours.

      III. STUDY OVERVIEW

      It is anticipated that 100-200 participants will be recruited. The time period for patient
      recruitment will be for 2 years with follow up for 3 years. The total study period will be 5
      years in order to allow the assessment of complications, local ablation success and survival
      benefit.
    
  