
    
      Colorectal cancer is the third most common human malignant epithelial tumor and still
      represents the second cause of cancer death in the United States and Europe.

      Over the past few decades, there have been significant improvements in the treatment of
      patients with colonic and rectal cancers. In rectal cancer, the role of earlier diagnosis,
      improved preoperative staging, neoadjuvant therapy and total mesorectal excision have
      improved outcomes from oncological and patient recovery perspectives. Of these, arguably the
      most important for the surgeon was the advent of Total Mesorectal Excision (TME).

      Current thinking is that colonic tumors spread via hematogenous, lymphatic, and possibly
      perineural routes, with the lymphatics anatomically following the arterial supply. Current
      practice is to excise a proportion of the draining lymphatic bed to accurately stage the
      cancer and also clear possible lymphatic metastases.

      Recently, significant debate has centered on the degree of lymphatic clearance required;
      several reports have demonstrated improved oncologic outcomes with wider lymphovascular
      resections compared with current standard practice. Whether these improved outcomes are
      secondary to improved lymph node yield or an alternative technical effect has not yet been
      ascertained.

      In analogy to total mesorectal excision (TME) for rectal cancer complete mesocolic excision
      was recently introduced for curative treatment of colon cancer. Like TME, CME aims at
      complete en bloc clearance of the lymphatic drainage of the tumor enveloped in intact fascias
      of embryologic origin.

      Based on total mesorectal excision experience, further investigations of the importance of
      complete mesocolic excision and central vascular ligation surgery for colonic cancer were
      done by comparing a series of complete mesocolic excision and central vascular ligation
      specimens from Erlangen, Germany to standard excisions from Leeds, United Kingdom. Lymph node
      yields, tissue morphometry, and grading the plane of surgery were used to investigate
      differences between the techniques that could potentially explain the relative differences in
      survival.

      The group from Erlangen in Germany have advocated for CME in conjunction with central
      vascular ligation for colon cancer. Complete mesocolic excision is reported to differ from
      traditional colon cancer surgery by achieving a far more radical excision of the
      lymphovascular pedicle and mesocolon. In addition, the complete mesocolic excision technique
      promotes resection of the specimen with an intact visceral peritoneum together with proximal
      and distal resection margins of at least 10 cm. Arterial supply to the affected segment of
      bowel is taken at its origin from the superior mesenteric artery (right and transverse colon)
      and the aorta (left colon), described as central vascular ligation. Complete mesocolic
      excision has been shown to lead to increased lymph node harvest and more mesocolic tissue.

      In a comparison between the Leeds and Erlangen units, it was shown that complete mesocolic
      excision led to an almost doubling in both the number of lymph nodes retrieved and area of
      mesentery resected. However, a Danish study showed only a 9% increase in lymph node yield.

      Surgical concept of complete mesocolic excision represents sharp separation of the undamaged
      visceral fascia of mesocolon from parietal fascia of peritoneum and the end goal is
      mobilization of mesocolon and the approach to the appropriate vascular bundle. The scope of
      surgical intervention depends on localization of the tumor itself. In case that the tumor is
      located in the right colon next to caecum and ascending colon, it also implies the elevation
      of duodenum and the head of pancreas (Kocher maneuver) and access to the upper mesenteric
      vein and artery and its branches. For tumors of the left colon, mobilization of sigma and
      descending colon is necessary, total separation from the parietal peritoneum, urethra,
      testicular or ovarian blood vessels, as well as separation from the kidney fat tissue.

      The apparent improved outcomes with complete mesocolic excision are yet to be confirmed with
      a formal Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT). Proposed explanations for the apparent
      improvements are that increasing lymph node yield permits stage migration, that increased
      lymph node yield removes a source of metastases, and that it has nothing to do with
      lymphatics but is due to the preservation of an intact peritoneum.
    
  