
    
      Objectives of the study To analyse the properties of a new scale that evaluates feeding and
      eating disorders of young children. This scale is a hetero-questionnaire that was build by an
      expert team. It includes 46 questions scored with a Likert scale. These questions identify 4
      fields: behaviour during the meal, oromotor skills, sensory sensitivity and familial
      environment. Each field gives a sub-score, their addition gives a global score

      Methods

      To evaluate the metrological qualities of this questionnaire, the investigators are going to
      investigate 300 children followed-up in Necker for either Aversive/restrictive food intake
      disorders (ARFID) or for chronic congenital disease very often complicated with feeding and
      eating disorders:

        -  oesophageal atresia,

        -  cardiac malformations,

        -  Pierre Robin sequence,

        -  cleft lip and palate,

        -  autism spectrum disorders,

        -  ex-prematurity < 32 AG,

        -  chromosomal anomalies,

      They want to test the statistical significance of the score. For that, they will test:

        -  the face validity,

        -  the structure validity

        -  and, the internal consistence of Oralquest. The interconcept validity will be analysed
           by comparing the Oralquest results to the best gold standard tests that are found for
           each field tested by Oralquest.

      For the global score : The screening test : self-questionnaire, the Montreal Children Feeding
      Scale.

      For the behavior score : the symptom check list (items regarding eating). For the oromotor
      skills : (Schedule for Oral-Motor Assessment) for the children aged 9-24 months and the
      Oral-Motor Assessment Scale for the children aged 2-6 years).

      For the familial environment : The STAI (State Trait Anxiety Inventory).

      The reproductibility will be tested by :

        -  Test-retest

        -  Inter examiner reproductibility

        -  sensibility

        -  specificity
    
  