
    
      Laparoscopic surgery (LS) has gained popularity both amongst surgeon as well as patients. The
      appeal of LS is based on improved patient reported outcomes (PRO). The main PROs like post
      operative pain, hospital stay and ability to return to activity are better with LS. The
      improvement in PROs has been attributed to attenuated post operative inflammatory response.
      The post operative inflammatory response has been studied by the changes in various cytokine
      pathways. The cytokine response has been shown to be subdued after LS as compare to
      conventional surgery. This benefit of subdued cytokine response has been shown to translate
      into better PROs.

      Laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) has been considered an index LS. It is also an index LS for
      evaluation of potentially beneficial intervention in LS. The surgical discourse in last two
      decades has been to achieve clinical equivalence of LS with conventional surgery. The
      clinical outcomes with LC have stabilized. The current scientific discourse is geared towards
      improving PROs. A multi dimensional approach including pre-operative optimisation, protocoled
      anaesthesia technique, and 'systems approach' based surgery and standardised dissection
      techniques have been recommended.

      Peri-operative music has been shown to improve PROs in LC . A recently published
      meta-analysis has established the benefits of peri-operative music in post operative
      convalescence. Peri-operative music has been shown to affect the neurohumoral and cyto-immune
      expressions of various 'cluster of differentiation' (CD) markers, on various cell lines.

      Despite the established efficacy of music, there is reluctance amongst surgeon to adopt it
      routinely. There is no clarity and scientific curiosity about the type of music and the
      timing of music intervention, for the observed benefits of peri-operative music. The
      biomolecular basis of the reported benefits, of music in surgical setting has not been
      studied in an objective manner.

      With this background the investigators hypothesized that per-operative music should have
      measurable bio-molecular footprint in postoperative convalescence use. With this hypothesis
      the investigators wish to study the per-operative music effects on the PROs, in laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy with measurable bio-molecular or/and bio-cellular markers.
    
  