
    
      Chronic diseases such as heart failure are a major burden for healthcare systems They are
      punctuated by exacerbations, often markers of poor prognosis, and are associated with
      expensive unscheduled hospitalizations. After initial diagnosis, despite the development of
      both drug and physical therapies, the rate of re-hospitalization for heart failure remains
      high with 50% or more of patients readmitted within 6 months.

      Recommendations for the treatment of heart failure patients are extremely precise and justify
      close collaboration between local community services and the hospital. However there is often
      considerable divergence between recommended care and the reality, due in particular to the
      difficulty in monitoring ambulatory patients. For example, the dose titration of
      beta-blockers or ACE inhibitors need to be monitored, and dosages of diuretics need to be
      adapted to avoid side effects which affect the quality of life of patients and limit
      medication adherence etc. The establishment of 'ambulatory' care networks (including
      multidisciplinary health professionnals of city and hospital and therapeutic patient
      education) such as that in Isère County in France has demonstrated its effectiveness.

      However, more advanced tools for patient monitoring still need to be assessed, particularly
      'home monitoring', because there is not yet consensus as to the role tele-monitoring should
      play in the context of heart failure, and to date recommendations are vague. Assess the
      clinical and medico-economic benefit of an innovative patient monitoring strategy 'AUTONOM @
      DOM' is needed.

      The primary aim of this study is then to assess a system of home based telemonitoring .The
      main outcome is unscheduled hospitalisation for heart failure. secondary aims were to assess
      the efficacy of this system, quality of life and medico-economic benefit.

      This pilot study is realised in the Isère and Essonne counties of France. Patients diagnosed
      with heart failure will be randomized to one of the following groups:

        -  conventional care including at least a patient education program (ETICS program in
           Essone county and RESIC38 network in Isere county);

        -  conventional care, plus home telemonitoring including a recording of the heart rate,
           blood pressure and weight, remotely transmitted to the cardiologist by an approved
           validated system that includes an alert monitoring feature.

      The study will last one year starting in April 2014.
    
  