
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the optimum dose of clofarabine in combination with cytarabine and
           idarubicin in patients with previously untreated intermediate- and high-risk acute
           myeloid leukemia or high-risk myelodysplasia. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the safety and tolerance of this regimen in order to determine the
           recommended phase II dose. (Phase I)

        -  To explore the antitumor activity of this regimen in these patients. (Phase II)

        -  To determine the activity expressed as complete remission (CR)/CR with incomplete
           hematopoietic recovery (CRi) rate following induction therapy. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  To determine the activity expressed as CR/CRi rate following induction (1 or 2 courses)
           and consolidation therapy. (Phase I)

        -  To determine hematopoietic recovery (platelets and neutrophils) after induction and
           consolidation therapy.

        -  To determine safety and tolerability of this regimen. (Phase II)

        -  To determine activity expressed as CR/CRi rate after consolidation therapy. (Phase II)

        -  To determine feasibility of blood CD34 harvesting after consolidation therapy. (Phase
           II)

        -  To determine disease-free and overall survival from CR/CRi. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of clofarabine followed by an
      randomized phase II study. Patients are stratified according to center, and presence of poor
      prognostic features (WBC at diagnosis ≥ 100,000/μL vs presence of very high risk cytogenetic
      features -5/5q-, -7/7q-, presence of complex abnormalities [> 3 abnormalities], 3q, t[6;9],
      or t[9;22]). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Induction therapy:

             -  Arm I: Patients receive idarubicin IV over 5 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5,
                cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-10, and clofarabine IV over 1 hour on days 2,
                4, 6, 8, and 10.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive idarubicin IV and cytarabine IV as in arm I. Patients also
                receive clofarabine IV by push injection over 10 minutes on days 2, 4, 6, 8, and
                10.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Patients receive cytarabine IV over 2 hours every 12 hours on
           days 1-6 and idarubicin IV over 5 minutes once daily on days 4-6.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for 12 months.
    
  