
    
      The study intends to determine the optimal time to start ART by comparing three treatment
      strategies of ART initiation in HIV/TB co-infected patients. Four hundred fifty newly
      diagnosed HIV infected patients with active TB and CD4 cell count < 200 cells/mm3 will be
      prospectively recruited to be assigned randomly in parallel into one of the three treatment
      groups (n=150 in each group) and HAART will be started at different time points as described
      below with extensive counseling and adherence support.

        -  Arm-A (Immediate Treatment Group): Receipt of antiretroviral therapy one week after
           starting anti-TB treatment.

        -  Arm-B (Deferred Treatment Group-1): Antiretroviral therapy will be initiated at the 4th
           week of starting anti-TB treatment (in the middle of the intensive phase TB treatment).

        -  Arm-C (Deferred Treatment Group-2): Antiretroviral therapy will be initiated at the 8th
           week of starting anti-TB treatment (after completion of the intensive phase of TB
           treatment).

      Study Design: Interventional, prospective, randomized, open-label three-armed trial with no
      placebo, Active control, parallel assignment, safety and efficacy study.

      Study population: Previously untreated HIV-infected adult patients with TB and CD4 cell
      counts < 200/mm3 at the time of TB diagnosis.

      Expected Total Enrollment = 450

      Treatment: Patients will receive first-line preferred regimen for patients with TB and HIV
      coinfection (rifampicin containing short course TB treatment and efavirenz-containing HAART
      regimen. The intensive phase of anti-TB therapy consists of 2 months treatment with
      Rifampicin, Isoniazid, Pyrazinamide and Ethambutol followed by the continuation phase with
      Isoniazid and Rifampicin daily for 4 months under Directly Observed Therapy (DOTS). After the
      initiation of TB treatment, patients in Arm-A, Arm-B and Arm-C will start EFV-containing
      HAART regimen (efavirenz + Lamivudine (3TC) + Stavudine (d4T) after one week, in the
      middle(at 4th week) and at the end (8th week) of the intensive phase TB treatment
      respectively. Primar prophylaxis with cotrimoxazole will be offered to all patients.
    
  