
    
      The Programmed cell death protein 1 (PD1)/Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) axis is an
      important immune checkpoint for T cell activation that is used by tumors to evade the host
      immune response. Blocking signaling with the PD-L1 antibody MPDL3280A results in ongoing T
      cell activity and can induce durable tumor regression across numerous solid tumor types.
      PD-L1 is not only expressed by tumor cells but also by immune cells, activated vascular
      endothelial cells and in immune privileged sites such as the eye. An obstacle to using PD-L1
      expression as predictive biomarker might be its potential heterogeneous expression and fast
      dynamics. For PD1/PD-L1 pathway inhibition PD-L1 tumor surface expression, positive in
      40-100% of all melanoma patients and 35-95% of all non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
      patients, was proposed as a potential biomarker. In early clinical trials, PD-L1 expression
      has been associated with response to PD1/PD-L1 inhibition. However, other clinical trials
      reported response to PD1/PD-L1 checkpoint inhibitors in up to 47% of PD-L1-negative melanomas
      assessed by a single biopsy. In bladder cancer weak to strong PD-L1 expression has been
      reported in 30% of the patients, however also response in PD-L1-negative patients has been
      seen. For triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) little is known, but early response data are
      also very promising.

      Radio-labeling of MPDL3280A with the positron emission tomography (PET) radionuclide
      Zirconium-89 (89Zr) enables non-invasive imaging and quantification of PD-L1 distribution in
      cancer patients. By performing a 89Zr-MPDL3280A-PET scan prior to treatment with MPDL3280A,
      the uptake of the tracer in the primary and metastatic tumor lesions and normal organ
      distribution can be evaluated, as well as the use of a 89Zr-MPDL3280A-PET as a complementary
      tool for patient selection in the future. There is currently no information with regards to
      tumor saturation or inflammation induced by checkpoint inhibitors. This can be measured with
      SUV of 89Zr-MPDL3280A PET changes during a therapeutic dosing with MPDL3280A.
    
  