
    
      Relevance:

      This research is aligned with efforts to decrease infant mortality and associated racial
      disparities via culturally competent interventions, and our aim is that it will be possible
      to model a larger intervention trial using the data generated in this pilot study. The
      project showcases work which is clinically meaningful, addresses an important racial health
      disparity in a vulnerable population (predominantly African-American expectant women) and is
      allied with hospital quality measures (PC-05, exclusive breastfeeding in hospital).

      Background:

      Exclusive breastfeeding through age 6 months is the optimal infant feeding method due to
      lifesaving benefits for children and mothers (AAP, others). Exclusive breastfeeding
      in-hospital is critical because in-hospital formula supplementation doubles risk of
      non-exclusive breastfeeding at 30-60 days (Chantry et al, 2014). While breastfeeding
      initiation rates have increased at our inner-city Baby Friendly - designated maternity
      hospital, exclusive breastfeeding lags. CDC mPINC data (maternity practices in infant
      nutrition and care, 2015) demonstrate this is a national problem, with >50% of surveyed
      hospitals endorsing supplementation of "10-49%" of breastfed infants.

      Study Objective and Aims:

      The study objective is to evaluate acceptance/satisfaction of 2 prenatal interventions
      (breastfeeding champion and positive messaging) and to determine if these affect exclusive
      breastfeeding intention and practice.

      Study Aims are "1." To determine if intention to exclusively breastfeed changes from before
      to after the intervention is implemented "2." To determine the acceptance and satisfaction of
      the interventions "3." To determine and compare the rates of exclusive breastfeeding
      in-hospital and at 2-weeks postpartum among women who received the champion and positive
      messaging interventions

      Methods:

      Study Design: The study is a pretest-posttest sequential group design chosen to evaluate the
      effect of two prenatal breastfeeding interventions on exclusive breastfeeding intention.
      Intervention A (Breastfeeding Champion) and Intervention B (Positive Messaging) will be
      administered during months 1 and 2, respectively, of the study.

      Population and Setting: The setting is University Hospitals MacDonald Women's Hospital, an
      academic tertiary care birthing center in urban Cleveland, OH with approximately 3,800
      deliveries per year. The eligible population includes expectant women ages 14 years and up
      (with guardian present if ages 14-17 years) who are attending a prenatal visit at an on-site
      clinic and have completed required breastfeeding education presented at or before 28 weeks of
      gestation. The clinics serve a predominantly African-American WIC-eligible population.

      Interventions: Both interventions use a secured and protected iPad, and the total interaction
      with the participant will take about 10 minutes. Intervention A utilizes information about
      Breastfeeding Champions from the Coffective™ program: participants will be guided to tap and
      scroll through the content and will receive a follow up handout and encouragement to select a
      Champion. Intervention B utilizes positive messaging from several sources and is modelled on
      the WIC Loving Support™ approach: participants will click on (istock-purchased) photographs
      which each reveal an informational statement about exclusive breastfeeding benefits and tips,
      followed by receipt of a summary handout.

      Data Collection: After informed consent is obtained, sociodemographic information and a
      pretest to include feeding intention will be administered. Then following the 5-8 minute
      iPad-based intervention, a short posttest will be administered, which asks a Likert based
      question about intervention satisfaction and about feeding intention post-intervention.
      Postpartum, actual feeding method in hospital and at 2 weeks will be gathered by chart
      review. REDCap will be utilized for data entry.

      Outcome Measures: These will reflect the aims:

      "1." Intention to exclusively breastfeed post-intervention "2." Likert-based satisfaction
      with intervention received "3." Rates of exclusive breastfeeding in-hospital and at 2 weeks
      post-partum

      Data Collection Tools: These were created by the study team.

      Data analysis and Sample Size considerations:

      Sample size - Aim #1 of the study is to determine if intention to exclusively breastfeed
      changes from before to after the interventions are implemented. There are no published data
      on this question utilizing these interventions with which to formulate a hypothesis and
      perform the requisite sample size to test that hypothesis. This will be considered a
      hypothesis generating study and feasibility of enrollment will determine the sample size. We
      will approach all eligible women during 2-month study period. We anticipate that
      approximately 31 women per week will be eligible, of whom approximately 80% will agree to
      participate, and over a 2-month study period, 250 women could be enrolled.

      Data analysis - Nominal variables will be described using frequencies and percentages.
      Normally distributed continuous variables will be described using means and standard
      deviations, and non-normally distributed continuous variables will be described using medians
      and IQRs (interquartile ranges). We will compare nominal variables, e.g. those who received
      differing interventions (champion versus positive messaging) using Chi squared analyses or
      Fisher's exact test as appropriate. Distributionally appropriate two-sample tests will be
      used to compare continuous variables. Additional analyses may be carried out as the data
      indicate, and will be considered exploratory.
    
  