
    
      Strategy

      Patients attending the Ophthalmology departments, who fulfil the criteria as outlined below
      in patient recruitment criteria, will be asked for written consent to volunteer for this
      study. Tears will be removed and stored in a sterile labelled eppendorf at -70 degrees C
      until further analysis. An impression cytology sample will be taken from the inflamed cornea
      and stored in viral transport medium and sent to the regional virology laboratory, Belfast
      for extraction and storage procedures. Blood samples will be taken and stored appropriately
      until the paired 3 month samples are available for antibody testing. Monoclonal antibody will
      be applied for the in vivo diagnosis of HSK as outlined below and viewed using an in vivo
      confocal microscope. Photographic evidence of the result will be recorded for each patient.
      Data for the nested real time PCR analysis and the monoclonal antibody test will be recorded
      separately by different individuals for each patient as the study progresses. Patient records
      will also be updated with the results of the tear and blood tests as the study progresses.

      Recruitment Potential:

      Over 200 eye patients in the RVH Belfast, over 300 patients in Bedford and over 600 patients
      in BMEC in Birmingham are treated each year with topical acyclovir for suspected HSV-1
      infection. The number of patients treated within the community by GPs would significantly
      increase this number. The vast majority of these patients will have never had any laboratory
      confirmation of herpetic infection. The patient throughput through each hospital each year
      should enable adequate recruitment to this study over the three year period. This should
      ensure that the study is entirely viable from the perspective of patient numbers.

      Patient numbers needed for a viable study

      At present we are unable to perform statistical power calculations, as we are not aware of
      the sensitivity of either of the two proposed diagnostic assays. Previous work by Kaye SB20.,
      et al has suggested a PCR technique with a sensitivity of 82% when used in human corneas). In
      contrast, the PCR technique used here should have a much superior sensitivity due to the use
      of real time analysis and the nested methodology used. These tests will be compared against
      the clinical diagnosis of an experienced consultant ophthalmologist.

      We accept the need for statistical power calculations in order to calculate a recruitment
      level needed for a valid study. We will therefore carry out an initial study using all of
      these diagnostic assays on 50 patients and the results from this will be used to perform
      power calculations using the sample size method for one-sided equivalence of sensitivities
      based upon McNemar s test21 to ensure adequate numbers are recruited. In addition, we hope to
      over recruit (20% above this required number) to allow for patient dropout from the study.

      Patient Recruitment Criteria

      Patients over the age of 16 years in which the cause of keratitis is difficult to diagnose
      and in which HSK has to be excluded will be enrolled for this study. Immunosuppressed
      patients including patients treated with systemic steroids will be excluded. All patients
      will be asked for verbal and written consent. All patients will continue to be followed
      according to clinical requirements. In addition to routine assessment additional clinical
      categorisation by the attending consultants into those patients thought to (a) have, and (b)
      not have, clinical evidence in keeping with herpetic infection will be recorded.

      In vivo immunofluorescence diagnostic procedure

      30 microlitres of fluorescent-labelled mAB (2mg/ml), (same mAB as used in the previous study
      by Sharma A., et al7) in normal saline solution will be applied to the eye. After 20 minutes
      unbound antibody will be rinsed away with saline solution. The eye will be viewed with a slit
      lamp or an in vivo confocal microscope if available. mAB penetration through the layers of
      the cornea will be recorded. In addition, evidence of stromal inflammation will be recorded
      and its relationship to specific fluorescence noted. This will indicate the contribution of
      active herpetic infection (by specific fluorescence in either epithelium, stroma or both) as
      a causative effect rather than an immunological response to latent virus.

      Comparison of in vivo results with nested real time PCR technique

      Impression cytology will be carried out, prior to the application of the antibody, to confirm
      the presence/absence of viral antigens using nested real time PCR analysis. The potential for
      amplicon contamination associated with nucleic acid amplification test use is well recognised
      and makes mandatory the use of (a) separate, designated work stations and (b) a
      uni-directional work-flow from specimen preparation to amplified product analysis; this model
      of operation is standard in the regional virology laboratory. All PCR experiments will
      therefore be carried out under the supervision of Dr. Hugh O'Neill in the Regional Virology
      Laboratory, RVH, Belfast.

      Impression cytology samples will be sent to the laboratory in viral transport medium. Each
      specimen will be vortexed for 15 seconds on receipt in the laboratory to resuspend the
      cellular content. A volume will be removed for PCR and the remainder will be stored.

      Nested PCR will be undertaken using primers recognising the HSV-1 gpD gene (HSV-1 outer
      products will be 221 and 184 base pairs (bp) while the inner products will be 138 and 101 bp
      respectively). Hot-start PCR will be performed in a Perkin Elmer GeneAmp 2400 thermal cycler
      with 10 μl specimen plus 40 μl of mix and subjected to 35 first round cycles. One microlitre
      of product will be transferred to 49μl of second round mix for 25 second round cycles.
      Impression cytology samples taken from non-inflamed eyes from recruits with no history of
      herpetic eye infection will be used as known negative samples. A positive HSV control and a
      distilled water negative control will also be included in each run. First and second round
      products will be visualised together on ethidium bromide-stained 2% agarose gels and
      photographed (Polaroid). Appropriately sized bands present on second round only, or present
      on both first and second rounds, will be recorded as positive and strong positive
      respectively. All positive specimens will be re-tested.

      Laboratory staff responsible for the PCR test will not be aware of the results from the in
      vivo antibody test. Comparison will be made between the sensitivity and specificity of the
      monoclonal antibody in vivo assay and the nested real time PCR diagnosis.

      Investigating the effect of mAB on the ocular surface inflammatory milieu Analysis of the
      general cytokine profile will also be assessed by monitoring the cytokine profile of tears at
      two different time points: prior to monoclonal antibody treatment and again 30 minutes after
      the application of the antibody. Cytokine profile of tears will be analysed using proteomics
      with a protein biochip (RANDOX Labs. Ltd.) capable of simultaneous quantitative detection of
      an array of pro- and anti- inflammatory cytokines. Tear samples from patients suspected of
      active herpetic infection but who have not received antibody will serve as controls. Such
      analysis will allow statements to be made regarding the potential inflammatory/immunological
      reaction to the monoclonal antibody.

      Investigating a potential systemic immunological reaction the mouse mAB Ten millilitres of
      clotted blood will be taken prior to the application of the monoclonal antibody to test for
      the presence of pre-existing antibody. In addition, at the 3 month check up a further 10
      millilitres of blood will be taken and analysed again for antibodies which may have formed in
      the three month interface after the application of the monoclonal to the cornea.

      The avascular cornea is thought to be an immunologically privileged site, making the
      potential of an immune response to the antibody less likely.
    
  