
    
      The proportion of older acute care physicians (ACP), emergency, critical care & anesthesia,
      has been steadily increasing. Ageing is associated with physiological changes, which in turn
      can influence a physician's clinical abilities and decision-making. The litigation and
      physician disciplinary data suggests that incidents involving all physicians are likely to
      occur later in practice, with degree of injury identified in the claims being of greater
      severity. However research, investigating how age-related physiological changes affect
      clinical performance and patient safety, is lacking.

      CRM skills are essential skills within acute care specialties, and are vital for patient
      safety. CRM encompasses technical skills, as well as a rapid and organized approach to
      non-technical, cognitive skills such as decision-making, task management, situational
      awareness and team management. High-fidelity full body mannequin simulation-based education
      is effective for learning CRM, including transfer of skills from the simulated setting to the
      clinical setting and improving patient outcome. However, there is a gap in the literature on
      whether physicians' age influences baseline CRM performance and also learning from
      simulation-based education.

      Although the effectiveness of high-fidelity simulation-based education has been studied
      extensively in junior learner populations (students, residents, fellows), there are a limited
      number of studies investigating its effectiveness in teaching CRM in the ageing physician
      population. In fact, a recent systematic review looking at the role of simulation in
      continuing medical education (CME) in ACPs supported that there is limited evidence
      supporting improved learning. Despite not knowing whether simulation is the correct tool in
      an ageing population, it is being recommended as a training, regulation and assessment tool
      for practicing physicians.

      Objectives:

      The goals of this study are to:

        1. Investigate whether ageing has a correlation with baseline CRM skills of ACPs using
           simulated crisis scenarios and

        2. Assess whether ageing influences learning from high fidelity simulation.
    
  