
    
      Estrogen receptor (ER) positive constitutes about 75% of all breast cancer(BC). Neoadjuvant
      endocrine therapy(NET) plays an important part in primary therapy of the hormone receptor
      (HR) -positive and HER2 -negative breast cancer. Recent studies revealed that the
      third-generation aromatase inhibitors (AIs) have superior ORR than tamoxifen in the
      HR-positive BC post-menopausal patients. The Z1031 trial showed that Letrozole obtained
      better ORR than the other two AIs anastrozole and exemestane after 16-18 weeks NET, although
      without any statistically significance.

      In spite of these findings, the optimal duration of NET has not been fully elaborated,
      Although prolonged treatment might further reduce the tumor size. Further clinical benefits
      were achieved when the period of treatment of neoadjuvant letrozole prolonged more than three
      to four months. The 2015 St. Gallen International Consensus Conference recommended continuing
      neoadjuvant therapy in highly hormone-sensitive breast cancer for a minimum of 4-8 months.
      However, most studies aim to identify the excellent efficacy of the AIs compared with other
      drugs but not the duration of NET therapy. Antonio et al. suggest that the time to maximum
      clinical efficacy may be the optimal period of treatment for the patients; And the median
      time to maximum efficacy was 4.2 months (95% CI, 4.0-4.5). The present study evaluated the
      time to CR/PR and the ORR after 6 months of NET.

      Previous clinical studies investigating NET mainly focused on post-menopausal women, data on
      pre-menopausal women is still relatively lacking due to the widely perception that more
      benefit may be achieved from neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NCT) among younger patients. The
      result of Z1031 trial showed superiority of neoadjuvant of AIs and promoted wider application
      of AIs as NET in the HR-positive post-menopausal women, and the clinical response rate (CRR)
      of letrozole was 74.8% after 16-18 weeks of treatment. The combination of AIs and GnRH
      analogue may be alternative for selected pre-menopausal patients. The STAGE trial showed the
      overall response rates of anastrozole plus goserelin in pre-menopausal patients was 70.4%
      after 6 months of NET. However, studies comparing the ORR and optimal duration of NET between
      pre-menopausal and post-menopausal patients were rare.

      The purpose of the our research was to compare the duration to CR/PR and the ORR after 6
      months of NET between pre-menopausal and post-menopausal women with highly endocrine
      responsive operable BC.
    
  