
    
      Background and rationale of the study:

      The incidence of the thyroid carcinoma has dramatically increased in the last few
      decades.1Total thyroidectomy with or without central compartment dissection is the treatment
      of choice for thyroid carcinoma. Vocal cord palsy (VCP) due to injury to the recurrent
      laryngeal nerve (RLN) is one of the most dreaded complications of this surgery. The symptoms
      associated with this complication include hoarseness of voice, voice fatigue and aspiration.
      Vocal cord palsy can be either temporary or permanent. The reported incidence of temporary
      VCP varies from 0-12%.2-4 However, the incidence of permanent VCP has been reported to be
      much lower varying from 0 to 3.5%.4,5Many patients may not present with symptoms of
      hoarseness and a post-operative laryngoscopic examination is required in all patients who
      have undergone surgery for thyroid cancer.6 However, the morbidity associated with VCP
      significantly affects the quality of life of the patient and at times require intervention to
      prevent aspiration or to improve voice quality.7 In a recent publication from our institute
      the invesigator found a temporary VCP rate of 11.8%.8

      Intra operative nerve monitoring (IONM) is a technique of monitoring the RLN during surgery,
      to help identification and safe guarding of the nerve during total thyroidectomy as well as
      central compartment clearance (CCC). This is a well established technique with many centers
      in the world routinely using monitoring during surgery. There have been 4 RCTs and 2 meta
      analysis looking at the role of IONM in decreasing RLN palsy after thyroidectomy. The results
      from the same have been equivocal with 3 of 4 RCTs showing no added benefit in decreasing RLN
      palsy rates with the use of IONM.9-12 Of the 2 meta analysis, there was a decrease in RLN
      palsy rates in one of the meta analysis. 13 however the other Meta analysis by Higgins et al
      showed no improvement in RLN palsy rates with the use of IONM.14 In the meta analysis by Yang
      et al, published in 2016, there was a 44% (p=ns) decrease in temporary RLN palsy rates in the
      thyroid cancer cohort. However, the literature on use of IONM is still equivocal in
      literature. The other issue with available literature on use of IONM is that, most studies
      have looked at a heterogenous population of patients being operated for benign and malignant
      disease. Also most patients in the series evaluated have been patients who have undergone
      surgery for benign multinodular goiters. The extent of RLN dissection in these patients is
      limited as compared to patients undergoing surgery for thyroid cancers which involve total
      thyroidectomy and central compartment dissections. There have been no RCTs looking at the
      role of IONM in preventing RLN palsy in thyroid cancer surgeries. Also none of the RCTs
      performed have had a formal sample size calculation and robust analysis.

      Section B: Aims and Objectives Aim: To assess the role of IONM in thyroid cancer surgery

      Primary objective:

      • To assess if the use of IONM can decrease the rates of temporary RLN palsy after thyroid
      cancer surgery

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To assess if the use of IONM can decrease permanent RLN palsy rates in patients with
           thyroid cancers

        -  To assess voice parameters in patients with RLN palsy
    
  