
    
      Background. Advances in cancer treatment mean that a growing number of Americans are living
      with cancer and experiencing it as a chronic, long-term condition. National panels led by
      consumers have identified the need for improved cancer care in the areas of communication
      between providers and patients and their families, care planning, attention to nonmedical
      needs, care coordination and provision of evidence-based treatment. The patient-centered
      medical home (PCMH) model of care is being widely adopted as a way to provide accessible,
      proactive, coordinated care and self-care through primary care practices. During active
      treatment for cancer, the oncology practice is often the primary setting supporting the
      patient and coordinating cancer treatment. By implementing the patient-centered medical home
      model, an innovative oncology practice in Pennsylvania has been able to improve access and
      reduce emergency department visits and hospitalizations for its patients.

      Objectives. Building on these recommendations and experience, the National Committee for
      Quality Assurance has worked with the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship, the
      American Society of Clinical Oncology, Oncology Management Services, Independence Blue Cross,
      and RAND, as well as a broader multi-stakeholder advisory group, to define the
      Patient-Centered Oncology Care model. We sought PCORI support to pilot and evaluate this
      model. Specific research questions were:

        1. Does Patient-Centered Oncology Care improve patient experiences and quality of care?
           Does it reduce undesirable events like emergency department visits and hospital stays?

        2. How does adoption of Patient-Centered Oncology Care vary across a variety of practices
           and what factors affect adoption?

      Methods. The demonstration occurred in 5 oncology practices in southeastern Pennsylvania.
      Practices received implementation support during the 24-month demonstration period. They were
      evaluated using patient surveys, quality measures, and measures of emergency department and
      hospital use. Results from these practices were compared in two ways: 1) with their
      performance before they became oncology medical homes and 2) with other similar practices.
      Patients, clinicians, and health plan leaders helped design the project, and disseminate
      results. The project used Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) resources
      efficiently by building on ongoing efforts. Our evaluation consisted of a retrospective,
      pre-post study design with a concurrent non-randomized control group of 18 local practices
      for the utilization and patient experience outcomes. We used difference-in-difference
      regression models that accounted for practice-level clustering and used functional forms
      appropriate to the dependent variables. For quality, we compared baseline and follow-up pilot
      practice performance to national and regional benchmark performance data.

      Patient Outcomes. People with cancer are seeking high quality, coordinated and supportive
      care. The Patient-Centered Oncology Model has the potential to address current gaps in cancer
      care.
    
  