
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained supraventricular arrhythmia. It
      increases the risk of hospitalization and all-cause mortality. AF causes about 5-fold
      increase in the risk of stroke and 3-fold increase in the risk of heart failure.

      Catheter ablation in the treatment of AF (i.e. pulmonary vein isolation) is now the most
      effective method of prevention of arrhythmia recurrence, especially in paroxysmal AF. Still,
      efficacy of one procedure in a 1-year follow-up is between 20 and 80%, depending on
      demographic and clinical factors (concomitant diseases), and on the form of the arrhythmia
      (paroxysmal-persistent), it also depends on the method of ablation used and the experience of
      the centre. In a big European registry including over 1,300 patients antiarrhythmic
      drugs-free efficacy of catheter ablation in AF in 1-year follow-up was about 40%. Major
      finding in patients with AF recurrence after catheter ablation is pulmonary vein
      reconnection, so decreasing the risk of pulmonary vein reconnections seems crucial to
      diminish the risk of AF recurrence. Several novel technologies have been proposed lately to
      improve efficacy of AF ablation, their real importance needs validation in a clinical trial.

      Current standard is radiofrequency (RF) ablation with manual collection of ablation points
      (by operator or assistant). Automatic algorithm collect ablation points with additional
      criteria: catheter stability time, range of motion, and catheter-tissue contact force. The
      operator can see more precisely where the RF current has been applied and where are the gaps
      in the line.

      Background hypothesis is that automatic algorithm collecting ablation points (with certain
      catheter stability time, range of motion, and catheter-tissue contact force) prevents forming
      the gaps in the ablation line, thus preventing pulmonary vein reconnection and AF recurrence.
      The aim of the trial will be 1:1 comparison of the two methods of pulmonary vein isolation:
      with manual vs. automatic collection of ablation points using CARTO system and contact force
      catheter.
    
  