
    
      Prostate cancer has recently surpassed lung cancer to become the most common cancer of
      American men. The estimated number of new prostate cancer cases in 2005 is expected to be
      232,090, up from 198,000 in 2002. Prostate cancer represents 29% of all new cancer diagnoses
      in men and is comparable to the incidence of breast cancer in women. Prostate cancer
      continues to disproportionately affect minority men. For patients with early, localized
      prostate cancer, there are a number of treatment options, including surgical removal of the
      prostate, radiation therapy (external beam or implantation of radioactive "seeds"), hormonal
      therapy, cryoablation, or expectant monitoring ("watchful waiting"). Most of these currently
      available treatments for localized prostate cancer carry the risk of a number of iatrogenic
      symptoms, including urinary incontinence, ED, and others that vary depending on the treatment
      received.

      The need for symptom management education is greater for men with lower health literacy.
      Health literacy - "the ability to which individuals have the capacity to obtain, process, and
      understand health information services needed to make appropriate health decisions" - has
      been shown to be strongly related to health status and health outcomes. Persons with lower
      health literacy skills are significantly less likely to take preventive actions to improve
      their health. Health literacy is a particular concern for men with prostate cancer because
      African-American men, a group with a significantly higher prevalence of prostate cancer, are
      over-represented among lower literacy men with prostate cancer.3 The study proposed here will
      develop and evaluate in a randomized controlled trial (RCT) an empirically-derived symptom
      management intervention for lower literacy men with prostate cancer. The intervention will be
      based on a biopsychosocial model of prostate cancer symptom management developed from the
      more general the UCSF Symptom Management Model (SMM) and Bandura's Self-Efficacy Theory.

      The efficacy of the intervention will be evaluated with 200 men with localized prostate
      cancer randomized to receive either the new tailored symptom management program or usual
      care. Participants in both the intervention and control groups will receive a booklet on
      coping with cancer available to all patients treated at the UCSF Comprehensive Cancer Center.
      Intervention group participants also will receive a new symptom management intervention
      tailored to their individual symptom profile. Both groups will be followed for 6 months after
      enrollment, with assessments at enrollment and 5 additional timepoints.

      The proposed research project includes the following specific aims:

        1. Conduct an RCT to evaluate a tailored symptom management intervention targeted to lower
           literacy men with localized prostate cancer.

           The investigators hypothesize men who receive the tailored symptom management
           intervention (N=100) will report significantly less symptom distress at the 6-month
           follow-up than men in the control condition (N=100). Symptom distress will be measured
           by the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) Urinary Bother and Sexual Bother
           sub-scales. The intervention and control groups will be stratified by literacy level and
           type of prostate cancer treatment.

        2. Complete a planned training experience that will include courses in responsible conduct
           of research, symptom management, cancer care, cancer prevention, cancer epidemiology,
           clinical research with diverse communities, and longitudinal analysis methods that will
           provide the knowledge and skills necessary to successfully conduct the RCT.

        3. Assemble a group of key personnel with expertise necessary to guide the training
           experience and RCT. The primary mentor will be Leslie Schover, PhD, an expert in cancer
           symptom management. Other key personnel will include Stephen J. Lepore, PhD, Principal
           Investigator of a previous prostate cancer psychosocial intervention study; Brian J.
           Miles, MD, an expert in prostate cancer treatment; and Robert Morgan, PhD, a senior
           methodologist.
    
  