
    
      Training approaches based on established principles of motor learning and neural plasticity
      and non-invasive brain stimulation such as repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation and
      transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) show promise in modulating brain activity in
      order to enhance upper limb (UL) motor recovery. However, the potential for recovery may
      still not be attained if training programs do not specifically focus on remediating motor
      impairment as defined by motor control science. This project is driven by a major theory of
      motor control (Threshold Control Theory) suggesting that rather than directly specifying
      motor commands to muscles, descending systems regulate spatial thresholds (STs) of reflexes
      to generate and control voluntary movement within specific areas of joint space. In patients
      with stroke, ST control is diminished leading to the appearance of muscle spasticity,
      weakness and abnormal muscle activation patterns during voluntary movement within
      well-defined spatial (angular) zones. The investigators hypothesize that recovery of
      voluntary motor control is tightly linked to the recovery of threshold control. The
      investigators propose a training program that incorporates personalized tDCS to balance
      cortical hypo/hyperexcitability as well as personalized movement arm reaching training based
      on the identification of disorders in ST.

      Overall objectives of the proposal are:

        1. To test the effectiveness of personalized training programs to increase the range of
           regulation of STs in the elbow during reaching.

        2. To determine the effects of repetitive tDCS aimed at inhibiting excessive/exciting
           diminished cortical activity.

        3. To determine the feasibility of implementing personalized training programs in high and
           low-to-middle income countries.

      Sixty patients with sub-acute (3 wks-6 mos) stroke will be recruited in this multi-site
      international trial taking place in Canada, Israel and India. Participants will have
      spasticity in the elbow flexors and/or extensors, with some active elbow control. Each site
      will recruit and randomize patients into one of 3 treatment groups. Group 1 will receive tDCS
      and practice personalized arm motor training. Group 2 will also receive tDCS with
      non-specific practice. Group 3 will receive Sham-tDCS and personalized practice. Training
      will consist of the application of tDCS in the first 30 minutes of a 50-minute arm reaching
      practice session,, 5 days per week for 2 weeks. Primary outcome measures (Pre, Post,
      Follow-up) are elbow flexor and extensor STs and related spasticity/active control zones.
      Secondary measures are clinical measures of UL motor activity. By accounting for the spatial
      structure of motor deficits, our research will benefit both researchers and clinicians by
      advancing our understanding of the mechanisms underlying unimpaired/impaired motor control
      and recovery.
    
  