
    
      The efficacy of cabergoline is dose related and determined by percentage of Dopamine 2
      receptor occupancy and prolonged receptor affinity. Activation of membrane receptors and
      target cell responses is proportional to the degree of receptor occupancy. Greater the drug
      concentration, greater is the binding and receptor occupancy and greater is the efficacy of
      the drug. Receptor occupancy can be increased either by using high dose of cabergoline or by
      rapid escalation of cabergoline. The patients, who respond to increasing dosages of
      cabergoline, probably do so by increased receptor occupancy with higher doses.

      Rapid escalation of doses of cabergoline is another approach to increase the drug
      concentration and increase the occupancy of the receptor. Earlier decrease in serum prolactin
      levels with rapid escalation may help in reducing the cumulative dose of cabergoline and
      total duration of treatment. Though studies with high doses of cabergoline have been
      performed in prolactinomas with normalization of prolactin levels in almost 100%, but
      systematic studies using rapid escalation of cabergoline in prolactinomas are lacking except
      the one by Bhansali et al. In their study, serum prolactin became normal in 93 per cent of
      the patients with a mean duration of 8.2 wk. The mean decrease in serum prolactin was 99 per
      cent by four weeks, however a similar decrease (93 to 99%) in prolactin was achieved in other
      studies with a time lag of 48 to 160 wk. This supports the notion that rapid hike in doses of
      cabergoline decreases serum prolactin levels faster and it becomes normal in the majority of
      patients earlier6. However it was an uncontrolled study with limited number of subjects.

      Therefore present study was planned to study the efficacy of rapid escalation of Cabergoline
      versus conventional dosing in patients with macroprolactinomas. Rapid escalation of
      cabergoline dose may help in earlier normalization of prolactin and shrinkage of tumor mass,
      and thus decrease the cumulative dose of cabergoline altogether.
    
  