
    
      In both the developed and developing world, humans are continuously exposed to a plethora of
      environmental toxins, both in nature and as the result of anthropomorphic activity. Aflatoxin
      B1, one such example, is one of the most toxic substances known to man, but it is all around
      us and can be found in our food, and especially cereals which form over 70% of Kenya staple
      food.

      Limiting cereal intake is not always easy, as it is one of the most plentiful and nutritious
      food sources in Kenya and is the primary source of dietary energy for many societies in
      Kenya.

      We have recently discovered a novel property of lactic acid bacteria in which aflatoxin B1,
      is sequestered and/or detoxified by the microbes causing reduction of toxin levels in their
      environment. We hypothesize that sequestration of toxins in the gastrointestinal tract by
      ingested probiotic bacteria will cause a reduction in host toxin uptake by carrying them out
      of the body in the feces preventing their passage from the gastrointestinal tract into the
      host. Our primary objective is to test our hypothesis that consumption of a probiotic yogurt
      will result in decreased levels of Aflatoxin B1 in a group of school-aged children. The
      secondary objective is to determine the baseline levels of aflatoxin B1 in a group of
      school-aged children in eastern Kenya. The tertiary objective is to establish the baseline
      gastrointestinal microbiota of these children and how consumption of a probiotic yogurt
      affects the microbiota.

      A class of 60 pupils from Identified primary school, approximately 7 years old, will be
      randomized to two groups matching ages, sex and weight. They will receive a daily 100g
      serving of the probiotic yogurt and a portion of local milk in between the trial period.
      Before the first administration of the yogurt/milk, blood, urine and feces will be collected.
      After 30 days; biological specimens will again be collected to observe potential reductions
      in toxin levels.
    
  