
    
      Abbreviations:- ANC:- Absolute neutrophil count DIC:- Disseminated intra-vascular coagulation
      HLH:- Hemophagocytic lymphohistocytosis IAHS:- Infection associated hemophagocytic syndrome
      MAS:- Macrophage activation syndrome MODS:- Multi-organ dysfunction syndrome NK cell:-
      Natural Killer cells ReHLH:- reactive HLH SoJIA:- Systemic onset juvenile idiopathic
      arthritis SLE:- Systemic lupu erythematosus WBC:- white blood cell count

      Background and Introduction:- The first appearance in literature of description of patients
      with what was later to be known as macrophage activation syndrome (MAS) is probably the
      description of SoJIA patients who had a fulminant course with hepatic failure by Boone et al1
      and those with coagulopathy by Silverman et al2. However the term "macrophage activation
      syndrome" (and Syndromes of inappropriate macrophage activation in childhood) was first used
      in medical literature by French pediatricians and hemat-oncologists3-5. The credit for the
      same is wrongly attributed to Stephen et al, who were actually the first to use the term in
      "rheumatology" literature in their description of 4 SoJIA patients with this complication6.
      It is evident from the quoted literature that MAS at the time of it's intial recognition as a
      symptom complex or complication of rheumatic illness, was a universally fatal illness. Since
      then our understanding of it's pathology and it's treatment has grown considerably.

      The main defect in MAS is deficient NK cell activity. Hence a trigger which stimulates the
      immune system leads to unchecked CD8+ T cell proliferation which persists even after
      elimination of the trigger. These T cells secrete IFN-gamma which leads to macrophage
      overstimulation. This in turn activates a cytokine storm production (TNF a, IL 1 and IL 6)
      and phagocytosis of marrow elements by the marcophages, ultimately leading to MODS7. MAS
      usually occurs in the setting of an untreated or inadequately controlled rheumatic disease
      with severe systemic inflammation. The diagnosis is difficult particularly against this
      background and therefore a high clinical suspicion is paramount.

      Among the many rheumatic diseases MAS has been predominantly described associated with SoJIA.
      The next most common rheumatic illness described has been SLE. The hallmarks of this
      complication are Bone marrow suppression, DIC with abnormal bleeding, encephalopathy/
      seizures, and hepatitis. MAS has been increasing been recognized to have similarities with
      Class II histiocytic disorders or hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH). In the most
      recent classification of these disorders Class II disorders have been further subdivided into
      primary (due to a genetic defect), secondary (due to infections, malignancies,
      immunodeficiency) and reactive (due to rheumatic diseases)8. The last category alludes to
      MAS.

      Rationale and justification:-The HLH disorders are diagnosed using the HLH criteria. However
      as pointed out by Kelly et al9 and Ravelli et al10 use of this criteria to diagnose patients
      with MAS (i.e. Reactive HLH) would lead to a unacceptable loss of sensitivity and significant
      delay. Some components of the HLH criteria such as Soluble NK cell activity, CD-25 values
      above normal for age, and molecular diagnosis consistent with HLH are neither practical nor
      feasible in most clinical settings for a majority of rheumatology patients.

      Ravelli et al came up with a different set of criteria for patients with MAS based on data of
      patients reported in literature10. A comparison of the 2 criteria in a retrospective
      longitudinal study11 (albeit with a very small sample size) showed that the Ravelli et al
      criteria to be much more sensitive and enabled patients to be diagnosed much earlier than
      when the HLH-2004 criteria was used. In both SoJIA and uncontrolled rheumatic disease the
      patient is liable to have high WBC counts and high platelet counts. Bone marrow suppression
      which is one of the pathognomic features of MAS would be picked up very late if absolute cut
      off values were utilized. Kelly et al used the same arguments in their review to suggest that
      in MAS/ReHLH, the trend of change in laboratory parameters would be more useful than absolute
      cut offs.

      Hence we propose new candidate criteria which are based on trends of laboratory parameters
      which would probably be able to predict MAS earlier than absolute cut offs of laboratory
      parameters.MAS has now undergone a name change (to Reactive HLH) and an image change (from an
      universally terminal illness to a dreaded but treatable complication). Hence the need for
      recognition and early diagnosis is more important today than ever before. In this era of
      potent and novel immuno-modulatory medications, a sensitive criteria which would pick up
      patients prone to develop MAS or in the process of developing MAS would give us the edge to
      finally help us rein in this terrifying disease.
    
  