
    
      Breast cancer remains a worldwide big killer with a rate of deaths compared with newly
      diagnosed cases not lower than 20%. Mammography is the primary imaging modality for the early
      detection of clinically occult breast cancer. Mammography is established as the primary
      investigation for population-based breast cancer screening. Advances in mammographic
      technique regarding both hardware and software applications are still not sufficient to
      overcome mammography's limitation with regard to both sensitivity and specificity. Depending
      on several factors, such as age and breast density, mammography screening is associated with
      a false-negative rate of 10-20 %.

      Digital Breast Tomosynthesis (TS) is a novel technique that is able to study the breast using
      3D reconstructions of the tissue from multiple low-dose digital mammographic images acquired
      in several planes in a 15 to 50 degree angle. This process aims at a increasing the number of
      lesion visible due to the reduction of overlapping breast tissue.

      In TS, to overcome these limitations, a digital mammography (DM) unit is modified to allow
      the X-ray tube to move through a proscribed arc of excursion acquiring a fixed number of
      discrete projection images while the breast remains in compression. The individual projection
      images are extremely low in dose, so the composite dose incurred during a TS acquisition may
      be similar to that of a standard 2D mammography. The radiologically dense breasts are
      associated with decreased sensitivity of mammography, both in the clinical and screening
      setting as well as its established association with breast cancer risk. The systematic
      application of ultrasound (US) in women with radiologically dense breasts and negative
      mammogram has been shown to be associated with an additional cancer detection rate.
      Incremental ultrasound detection of cancer may be considered in the range of 0.27% to 0.52%
      of ultrasound-screened women in different density categories [10]. In addition, the main
      limitation of US in breast screening is represented by false- positive findings. These
      findings result in additional investigation or unnecessary surgical biopsy.

      The study aims to demonstrate at least statistical equivalence, or non-significant difference
      between TS and US in women with dense breasts.

      If the equivalence between TS and US will be demonstrated, US may be substituted by TS with
      great benefits for the patients and for the healthcare resources we aim to:

        1. Assess if TS may detect additional cancers in dense breasts that approximate US
           detection capability but with less false positive findings than US.

        2. If TS detects new cancers in dense breasts similarly to US (approximate rate or
           marginally lower rate), evaluate the true positive/false positive ratio.

        3. Cost-analysis. In case of less false positives detected by TS, the TP/ FP trade-off
           might be strongly in favour of TS with a great potential of costs reduction.
    
  