
    
      MDS cells over-produce proteins found in normal bone marrow cells. These proteins can be used
      to stimulate the body's immune system to kill the MDS cells. PR-1 is a peptide derived from a
      protein, and PR1 peptide vaccine is given to help immune cells kill MDS cells. The vaccine is
      given together with granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), which
      increases production of white blood cells and is intended to increase the number of immune
      cells.

      Before you can start treatment on the study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the study. You will have a
      bone marrow aspirate (about 1 tablespoon) for routine tests and for special studies. To
      collect a bone marrow aspirate, an area of the hip is numbed with anesthetic and a small
      amount of bone marrow is withdrawn through a large needle. Blood (about 6 tablespoons) will
      be drawn. The blood tests are being done to compare pre-treatment blood counts to
      post-treatment counts, and the aspirate is being done to allow comparison of the number of
      MDS cells before and after treatment. Both the blood counts and aspirate will show whether
      the therapy was successful. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood
      pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive the PR-1 vaccine
      as an injection under the skin once every 3 weeks. You will receive a total of 4
      vaccinations. Each vaccination requires 4 shots: 2 of PR-1 vaccine and 2 of GM-CSF. GM-CSF is
      given to increase the number of immune cells that might respond to the vaccine and eventually
      kill MDS cells. PR-1 vaccine is mixed with montanide ISA 51, which is used to dissolve and
      stabilize the vaccine.

      Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests 1 time every 3 weeks and (about 3
      tablespoons) will be drawn each time before you receive the vaccinations and at follow up
      visits for the length of the study. You will have a bone marrow aspiration 4 weeks after the
      4th and 8th vaccinations (about 1 tablespoon) for routine and for the special tests. These
      tests will allow researchers to find out if the number of immune cells has increased, whether
      these cells are able to attack the MDS cells, and whether the cells are related to a change
      in blood counts. At this time (13 weeks from the first PR-1 vaccine), if your immune system
      is reacting to the vaccinations, no further vaccinations will be given. This is to avoid
      production of immune cells that might block the effects of the cells already produced by the
      first 4 vaccinations. If, at this time (13 weeks from the first PR-1 vaccine), your immune
      system is not reacting to the drug, you will be offered an additional 4 vaccinations. These
      additional vaccinations will again be given once every 3 weeks. During this time, blood
      (about 4 tablespoons) will again be drawn once every 3 weeks for routine and special testing.

      You will be taken off study at any time if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects
      occur.

      Twenty-nine (29) weeks after beginning the study, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to
      check for a response to the vaccine. If you have not responded, you will be taken off study.

      If you have responded, you will continue to be followed. Follow-up will involve monthly
      routine blood tests (1 tablespoon of blood) for 6 months. These can be done at home with
      results sent to M. D. Anderson. Every 3 months, you will return to M. D. Anderson for a bone
      marrow aspirate and routine blood tests including the special testing studies.

      This is an investigational study. This vaccine is authorized for use in research only and is
      not commercially available. About 30 patients will take part in this multicenter study. About
      20 patients will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  