
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      The causes of sporadic motor neuron diseases, primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) and amyotrophic
      lateral sclerosis (ALS) are unknown. Genes have been identified for some forms of familial
      motor neuron diseases. We don't know whether genes also play a role in sporadic motor neuron
      disease, for example through risk-factor genes or by the interaction of multiple genes as a
      complex genetic disorder. Identification of genetic contributions to sporadic motor neuron
      diseases requires analysis of DNA from patients.

      The goal of this protocol is to collect blood samples from patients with motor neuron disease
      for creation of cell lines to bank in a repository created through an NINDS initiative. The
      cell lines will be used for DNA extraction. The repository provides anonymized samples of
      patient DNA or cell lines to investigators who are seeking to define genetic causes,
      contributions, and susceptibilities to neurological disorders. DNA and cell lines created
      from the blood sample are stripped of patient identifiers and stored indefinitely. A limited
      amount of clinical data, termed the clinical data elements, will be available for each coded
      sample. The samples will only be available for research. The results of testing will not be
      communicated to the patient.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      All patients will be enrolled in a primary protocol for the study of motor neuron diseases at
      NIH. This protocol will serve as a secondary protocol for sample collection and reporting of
      clinical data elements. Patients with Primary lateral sclerosis must meet the diagnostic
      criteria for PLS proposed by Pringle and patients with ALS must fulfill the revised El
      Escorial criteria for probable or definite ALS.

      DESIGN:

      Determination of diagnosis and eligibility will be carried out as part of the primary
      protocol. Patients will be informed of the DNA sample repository and its purpose. After
      informed consent is obtained, 2 tubes of blood will be drawn and assigned a unique identifier
      code. The coded samples, and a clinical data element form will then be sent to the
      repository, which will extract DNA and prepare cell lines. The identities of the subjects
      will not be stored. An aliquot of the sample will be forwarded to the associate investigator
      to look for disease associations with genetic markers.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      There is no specific outcome measure for this protocol. The samples will be made accessible
      to a wide variety of researchers seeking to determine the causes of motor neuron diseases and
      other neurological disorders through the repository's contract with NINDS.
    
  