
    
      This is a national multicentre study structured in three phases.

        -  Phase 1. Development of the PRoSIT tool and interface. The PRoSIT tool will identify all
           the drugs listed in the hospital discharge prescriptions and will automatically search
           for IMPs, through the thesaurus of interaction of the French Agency of Drug Safety. The
           PRoSIT interface will allow navigation from aggregated information to source documents.
           This module will include a never event alert system, will be updated daily, and will be
           available on demand for the prescribers and referent pharmacists.

        -  Phase 2. Evaluation of the PRoSIT system performance. This phase will validate the
           ability of the PRoSIT tool to identify severe IMPs among the drugs listed in the
           hospital discharge prescriptions. The performance of the PRoSIT system will be evaluated
           in comparison to a gold standard based of experts opinion of a representative sample of
           hospital discharge prescriptions in patients aged 65 years or over, hospitalized or seen
           in consultations in the centres of cardiology, internal medicine or neurology of three
           University Hospitals (Bordeaux, Rennes and HEGP).

        -  Phase 3. Impact of PRoSIT on the care organization. Once validated, the PRoSIT tool will
           be used and evaluated at Bordeaux University Hospital. Its use will be accompanied by a
           presentation to users (clinicians and hospital pharmacists) as well as though regular
           feedbacks. A qualitative analysis will allow evaluation of the appropriation of the
           PRoSIT system and its impact on the organization of care. Semi-structured interviews
           with practitioners and pharmacists, and a series of observations of the PRoSIT feedback
           will be conducted, in order to measure the collective dimension of the observed changes
           in practices.
    
  