
    
      The survey aims to support health policy making, this survey aims to comprehensively assess
      the capability and quality of PHC in different regions in China. The study is based on the
      China PEACE MPP network, including about 4000 rural and urban primary health care
      institutions scattered over 31 provinces in Mainland China. The investigators intended to
      enroll about 30,000 PHC healthcare providers. Meanwhile, the investigators drew a random
      samples (>50,000) of patients from MPP high-risk of CVD population. In this survey, data on
      structure, process, and outcome of PHC system in China will be collected by questionnaires,
      specified by organization, healthcare providers and patients. Meanwhile, the investigators
      will collect the original documents from participating PHC institutions, covering the aspects
      of finance, employment, essential medical list (EMS), public health service report and
      prescriptions. The investigators will analyze data in align with key indicators, to assess
      the capability and quality of PHC across different regions in China.

        1. PHC organizations: All rural and urban PHC institutions in the MPP network are invited
           to participate the survey. The MPP identified the eligible collaborating institutions
           based on the amount of residents in the catchment area, population stability, economic
           condition and geographic location.

        2. PHC providers: The investigators intended to invite all the healthcare providers who
           work in the participating PHC institutions to participate the survey. In this survey,
           healthcare workers refer to physicians, nurses, public health workers and village
           doctors based on their professional education background. The village doctors are those
           who work in the village clinics with a certificate of village doctor.

        3. Patients: The investigators intended to interview patients, who lived in the catchment
           areas of the participating PHC institutions, to study the satisfaction on the PHC
           services and health insurance, health outcomes and out-of-pocket payment for the
           services.
    
  