
    
      Only a few studies focus on clinical diseases like neuropathic pain or neurogenic pain.
      Little is known about the differences between normal and pathogenic pain processing. It is an
      opportunity to apply EEG, ERPs in the clinical fields. In many clinical conditions, brain
      lesions provide a chance to study the possible roles of one neural structure in pain
      integration and processing. In addition the applications of EEG/ERPs on clinical conditions
      may be help in the understanding about mechanism and genesis of pain in pathogenic
      conditions, the diagnosis of pathogenic pain, and the therapeutic aspects of these abnormal
      pain senses.

      One limit in the study of human pain is the inappropriate stimulation method. Evoked
      potentials by contact heat have previously been difficult to elicit due to slow temperature
      rise times associated with thermal stimulators. However recently, the CHEPS (Contact
      Heat-Evoked Potential Stimulator) is developed, which uses a newly developed heat-foil
      technology and can create a rapid heating rate (up to 70°C/sec). The baseline and peak
      temperature and the rising time can be precisely controlled. It provides a non-invasive
      technique in the investigation of human pain activation related to thermal and nociceptive
      pathways involved in pain processing. Unlike the heat stimulation delivered by laser, CHEPS
      can deliver noxious thermal stimuli repeatedly to a large area of skin to evoke a pain
      response of A-Delta and C fibers. In addition the rate of stimulation can be rapid to lead to
      the effect of temporal summation. When used with an EEG recording system, a patient's
      responses to pain perception and evoked potentials (EPs) can be recorded, which provide
      objective information about integrity of the nociceptive afferents of peripheral nerve
      system, spinal cord, as well as the brain response of different structures. The CHEPS provide
      the investigators a practical and convenient tool in clinical application to study pain. The
      investigators will use the CHEPS as stimulation for studying the heat evoked potentials and
      analyze the difference between the normal subjects and patients with peripheral nerve
      diseases. These might help to clarify the mechanism of neuropathic pain.
    
  