
    
      Lipid per oxidation final products and free oxygen radicals are thought as initiator role for
      developing of cancer in the body. Level of paraoxonase in the patients with cancer varies. In
      this research, the investigators investigated the contribution of level of serum and
      bronchoalveolar lavage paraoxonase in the differentiation of benign and malignant lung
      disease patients. This research includes the patients that are diagnosis of lung cancer
      (research group) and benign pulmonary disease (control group) participated by accepted
      fiberoptic bronchoscopy (FOB).

      Paraoxonase and Cancer Relations Oxidative stress is one of the important etiologic factor in
      carcinogenesis. Serum PON1 activity was found to be significantly lower in patients with lung
      cancer than healthy people by Elkiran and her friends et al. Also, gastroesophageal cancer,
      meningioma, high-grade glioma and ovarian epithelial was found to be significantly lower in
      tumour patients according to control groups in plasma. The relationship between serum PON1
      level and the occurrence of cancer is still unknown. PON1 polymorphism has been reported to
      be related with an increased risk of occurrence of cancer in relation to environmental
      chemicals.

      Reactive oxygen radicals can usually lead to tissue damage by attacking all cell components.
      Increased free oxygen radicals and oxidative stress which is formed in the body are one of
      the important risk factor in increasing various types of cancer. Lipid peroxidation's final
      products and scavenger system components are thought to have for a starter role in
      oncogenesis. Carcinogenic radicals that are liposoluble are formed as a result of lipid
      peroxidation and PON1 binds with radicals that are liposoluble. PON1 are thought to be
      capable to metabolize these radicals that are liposoluble. PON1 activity and oxidative stress
      has been suggested to be inversely related in serum and macrophages. Loss of paraoxonase
      protective effect may play a role in increasing the sensitivity to genomic damage which
      inflammatory oxidants and diets carcinogens caused .

      Purpose of this research is to compare serum and bronchoalveolar lavage liqs PON contrasts
      between patients with lung cancer and the control group and to determine if the enzyme is
      lower in plasma and bronchoalveolar lavage liqs in case of malignant.
    
  