
    
      DESIGN

      - Study design: Randomized controlled clinical trial with two parallel arms and 6 months
      follow-up.

      AIMS

        -  Primary aim: To evaluate the effect of a rheological, nutritional and oral hygiene
           intervention (OMI) on the incidence of respiratory infections including lower
           respiratory tract infections -LRTI-, pneumonia and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
           (COPD) infectious exacerbations in older patients with OD at 6 months follow-up.

        -  Secondary aims: to evaluate the effect at 1, 3 and 6 months of this intervention on:

             1. Mortality.

             2. General hospital readmission and hospital readmission due to respiratory
                infections.

             3. Nutritional status according to the MNA, anthropometrical measures and biochemical
                markers.

             4. Hydration status according to bioimpedance.

             5. Quality of life according to the EQ-5D.

             6. Functional status according to Barthel index.

             7. Oral hygiene status according to the simplified oral hygiene index (OHI-S).

      Other aims:

      - To evaluate the effect at 1, 3 and 6 months of this intervention on:

        1. Swallowing function according to the V-VST.

        2. Rate of institutionalization.

        3. Compliance with the treatments (thickeners, ONS, diets and oral health).

        4. Palatability and acceptability of diets.

        5. To evaluate the relationship between severity of dysphagia (V-VST / FOIS), nutritional
           status, oral hygiene and the incidence of respiratory infections (LRTI, pneumonia and/or
           COPD exacerbations).

           STUDY POPULATION

           - Study subjects: 500 older patients with OD admitted to Hospital de Mataró for acute
           conditions (internal medicine, cardiology, pneumology, neurology, geriatric wards, etc).
           Number of subjects necessary: 500 (G1: 250; G2: 250): Accepting an α risk of 0.05 and a
           β risk of 0.2 in a bilateral contrast, 244 subjects in each group are required to detect
           as statistically significant difference in the percentage of patients with LRTI at six
           months that for the control group is expected to be 20 % and for the intervention group
           of 10% (reduction by half).A tracking loss rate of 20% has been assumed and the required
           number of subjects (244) in each group already includes the dropout rate. Investigators
           will intend to recruit a total sample of 500* individuals, 250 in each intervention
           branch.

           SAFETY - Safety and tolerance parameters: Incidence, frequency, seriousness, severity
           and relatedness of adverse events or serious adverse events.

           STUDY GROUPS AND INTERVENTION

           - Study groups: there will be 2 groups of patients: G1 - study intervention, 250
           patients; G2 - control intervention, 250 patients.

           - Study interventions:there will be 2 interventions: G1) study intervention: multimodal
           intervention based on optimal fluid viscosity adaptation (with Nutilis Clear®), optimal
           nutritional support with a triple adaptation of food (texture, (Nutilis Clear®)) caloric
           and protein content, organoleptic) + ONS depending on nutritional status and evaluation
           and optimal treatment of oral hygiene (tooth brushing + antiseptic mouthwash +
           professional dental cleaning); G2) control intervention: standard clinical practice
           (fluid adaptation with Nutilis Powder® and simple texture adaptation (for solids
           (Nutilis Powder®)).

           STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

           - Statistical analysis: the primary outcome will be the occurrence of the respiratory
           infections during the follow-up period (number of events/100 patients-year) and will be
           mainly analyzed with the Poisson regression.

           Qualitative data will be presented as relative and absolute frequencies and analyzed by
           the Fisher's exact test or the Chi-square test. Volume and viscosity levels (V-VST) will
           be compared between them by applying the McNemar's test. Continuous data will be
           presented as mean±standard deviation (SD) and compared with the T-test (intergroup
           comparisons) or Paired T-test (intragroup comparisons). For those variables that will
           not follow a normal distribution, the nonparametric Mann-Whitney U-test (intergroup
           comparisons), the Wilcoxon-paired test (intragroup comparisons) or the Kruskal-Wallis'
           test for multiple comparisons with Dunn's multiple comparison test will be used.
           Survival curves will be used to evaluate 6-month mortality after discharge. The primary
           analysis will be performed on the ITT population. Note: primary analysis is on number of
           events at 6 months follow-up, to simplify sample size considerations are based on
           percentage of patients with LRTI at 6 months.
    
  