
    
      Influenza leads to significant morbidity and mortality, particularly in patients with
      cardiovascular disease. Influenza-related death is more common in patients with
      cardiovascular disease than any other chronic health condition. Influenza infection has been
      temporally associated with acute cardiovascular events, such as acute coronary syndrome and
      acute heart failure. Due to the increased risk for influenza-related complications, annual
      influenza immunization is recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
      (CDC) the American Heart Association, and the American College of Cardiology, and widespread
      influenza vaccination has been associated with reduced cardiac-related hospital admissions,
      acute exacerbations of heart failure, and winter mortality. Moreover, a meta-analysis has
      shown that annual vaccination reduces the risk for major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE)
      by 36%, with a more prominent effect in those with recent acute myocardial infarction (AMI).

      Several lines of evidence suggest that a strategy of utilizing high-dose influenza vaccine in
      at risk cardiovascular patients would reduce morbidity and mortality. Immune responses to
      influenza vaccine, normally subject to variability by age and concomitant medical conditions,
      are substantially reduced in patients with heart failure evidenced by lower vaccine-induced
      antibody titers compared to healthy controls. In a randomized trial, antibody responses in
      patients with heart failure were augmented by using a higher dose of influenza vaccine. In a
      meta-analysis, higher dose influenza vaccination was associated with a 27% reduced risk for
      MACE compared to standard dose vaccine. A randomized study of high dose versus standard dose
      influenza vaccine in medically-stable patients over age 65 showed that participants receiving
      high dose vaccine had a 24% reduced risk of laboratory-confirmed influenza associated with
      protocol-defined influenza-like-illness, and had a low risk for adverse events. High dose
      influenza vaccine is FDA approved for use in medically stable adults over the age of 65, but
      has not been studied for patients under the age of 65 or in those with unstable, high risk
      medical conditions. The CDC does not preferentially recommend one influenza vaccine over
      another, and the optimal vaccine formulation that offers the most clinical protection in
      these high risk patients is unknown.

      The high morbidity and health care costs among patients with high risk cardiovascular disease
      along with the reduced immune responses to standard dose influenza vaccines in patients with
      heart failure provides a compelling rationale to investigate alternative influenza
      vaccination strategies in this group. INVESTED is an outcomes study in patients with recent
      acute myocardial infarction (AMI) or heart failure (HF) to test whether a four-fold higher
      dose of trivalent influenza vaccine will reduce morbidity and mortality compared to standard
      dose quadrivalent vaccine. INVESTED will test the hypothesize that high dose vaccine will
      reduce the composite of all cause death or cardiopulmonary hospitalizations in this
      population, with the following specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1. To test the hypothesis that high dose trivalent influenza vaccine will reduce
      the composite of death or cardiopulmonary events compared with standard dose quadrivalent
      influenza vaccine in high-risk cardiovascular patients. Patients with recent AMI or HF
      hospitalization will be randomized to high dose versus standard dose vaccine for up to three
      influenza seasons. The primary endpoint will be time to first occurrence of death or
      cardiopulmonary hospitalization within each influenza season. Hospitalizations will be
      ascertained utilizing multiple approaches (phone, patient report, and electronic health
      records). Key secondary outcome measures will include total (first and recurrent)
      cardiopulmonary hospitalizations or death, time to first occurrence of cardiovascular death
      or cardiopulmonary hospitalization, time to occurrence of all-cause death or cardiopulmonary
      hospitalization across all enrolled influenza seasons, time to occurrence of all-cause death,
      and time to first occurrence of cardiopulmonary hospitalizations.

      Specific Aim 2. To test the hypothesis that antibody titers to influenza vaccine antigens are
      associated with cardiopulmonary outcomes. In a subset of participants, antibody titers by
      hemagglutination inhibition assays to influenza vaccine antigens at baseline and at 4 weeks
      following randomization will be determined, corresponding to achievement of maximal antibody
      titer levels after vaccination. The association between geometric mean titers
      post-vaccination and the occurrence of death or cardiopulmonary hospitalization (primary
      outcome measure of Specific Aim 1) will be assessed.

      Other key correlative study (immune) outcome measures will include:

      Change in antibody titers at 4 weeks post-vaccination from baseline to influenza vaccine
      antigens Seroconversion (demonstration of 4-fold rise in antibody concentrations from
      baseline) and seroprotection (demonstration of antibody titer level of 1:40) to A/H1N1,
      A/H3N2, and B-type vaccine antigens

      The results of this trial have the potential to inform health care policy regarding optimal
      influenza vaccination for individuals with high risk cardiovascular disease, which may in
      turn reduce morbidity from this annual threat to health stability in patients with
      cardiovascular conditions.
    
  