
    
      SARS-CoV-2 is a novel coronavirus that is responsible for the current pandemic. Its clinical
      presentation varies from asymptomatic infection to severe respiratory failure requiring
      intensive care stay. Loss of respiratory function had been observed in survivors of other
      coronaviruses in earlier studies. The degree of respiratory function loss and if any
      intervention may reduce or prevent it remains an issue to be clarified.

      The study's goal is to investigate the effects of pulmonary rehabilitation via a supporting
      device on COVID-19 patients during a follow-up period of one month. The primary method of
      investigation of pulmonary functions is comparing peak expiratory flow (PEF) at the time of
      diagnosis and after treatment.

      The study hypothesizes that patients who had successfully used a respiratory exerciser or a
      similar aid device will have better PEF results at the end of the first-month evaluation.

      The effect of an incentive spirometer and/or a respiratory exerciser on the pulmonary
      function results is the main element under investigation in this study. The hospital provides
      these devices, and in cases, patients demand another device, the patients and their relatives
      are asked to purchase such equipment.

      Pulmonary function tests (PFT) are considered a part of routine evaluation for the COVID-19
      patients a month after the treatment. Patients are considered suitable for PFT evaluation if
      the COVID-19 infectious process is deemed treated, and other contraindications for PFT are
      not present, such as recent surgery or pneumothorax.

      Patients admitted to the pulmonary medicine ward for COVID-19 infection are generally those
      who already have respiratory comorbidity, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
      asthma, concurrent pneumonia, and respiratory failure. Due to these reasons, PFT is not
      considered an acceptable evaluation method during the acute phase and is not requested. PEF
      testing, on the other hand, remains a simple yet effective alternative compared to PFT due to
      being more portable, the presence of disposable parts, and overall cost. It is the initial
      choice of evaluation for patients after a clinical response is seen to treatment and testing
      is deemed safe.

      The respiratory exercise is considered a part of COVID-19 care, primarily due to patients'
      comorbidities, as mentioned above. This approach is limited in terms of healthcare personnel
      for on-point pulmonary rehabilitation due to both the disease's infectious nature and limited
      resources. Respiratory exercise devices are accepted as a reasonable alternative that can be
      quantitively monitored and provided on a daily basis.

      This prospective study plans to evaluate the impact of respiratory exercise provided by
      incentive spirometers and respiratory exercisers. The evaluation will be performed by
      comparing the initial PEF result after the end of COVID-19 treatment and subsequent ward
      discharge; to the PEF result of the PFT evaluation at the end of the first month.
    
  