
    
      Patients will be selected from 4 participating clinics from Czech and Slovak republic. Trial
      will compare evolution of patient's health state, changes of low back pain and other
      neurological conditions during time period (6 and 12 month) after miniivasive interventional
      pain release procedure - disc FX.

      Back pain due to Lumbar Disc Disease in our population is a very common problem. The
      treatment options range from physiotherapy to fusion surgery. When all conservative treatment
      is failed than in some cases with suitable conditions of intervertebral disc is possible to
      avoid classical disc surgery with minimally invasive surgery techniques. A number of
      minimally invasive procedures have also been developed in the recent past for its management.
      One of them is Disc FX procedure. Disc FX is an innovative system allowing for a safe and
      effective approach to a damaged disc without injury to the surrounding structures. This
      method provides an option for those people who have not benefited from conservative
      treatment, and are not yet ready for major surgery. It is a minimal-access procedure
      performed on an out-patient basis. Its big advantage is the fact that the patient may go home
      the same day. The procedure consists of three phases: during the first phase, the disc is
      punctured with a special needle that functions as a working channel. This needle is used to
      remove part of the degenerate inner tissue. Then, using a radio-frequency probe, the disc is
      sealed to minimize the risk of repeated herniation. In the final step, the pathological
      nerves in the back part of the disc are destroyed with the use of radio-frequency.

      Trial will compare evolution of patient's health state, changes of low back pain and other
      neurological conditions during time period (6 and 12 month) after miniivasive interventional
      pain release procedure - disc FX.
    
  