
    
      Currently 205 million patients in the world suffer with Type 2 diabetes and severe and
      complex obesity. The obesity is defined as a body mass index above 30 kg/m2 with life or limb
      threatening co-morbidities.

      The bariatric surgery increase in worldwide, but their effects on the microvascular
      complications of T2DM have never been the focus of a randomised controlled clinical trial.

      To address this research question a three arms on randomised controlled clinical trial
      comparing gastric bypass surgery, sleeve gastrectomy and modern best medical care is required
      to investigate differences in long term glycaemia and microvascular complications of T2DM.

      This is a prospective intervention study on patients with T2DM and obesity undergoing gastric
      bypass surgery, sleeve gastrectomy or non surgical best medical care. Patients will have T2DM
      for more than 2 years and have or be at high risk of developing kidney damage. Patients will
      be recruited from specialist medical and surgical clinics.

      We expect to screen approximately 300 patients to allow 75 to be randomized. Twenty five
      subjects with kidney damage or high risk of kidney damage secondary to T2DM will undergo
      gastric bypass surgery. Another 25 sleeve gastrectomy and the final 25 will be treated using
      the American Diabetes Association protocol. Patients with HbA1c ≥9.0% will undergo
      individualised optimisation of glycaemia as this should improve surgical outcomes. Particular
      attention will be given to the avoidance of hypoglycaemia. Patients' other risk factors
      (including hypertension and dyslipidaemia) will be optimised based on the International
      Diabetes Federation guidelines.

      The clinical endpoints that will be assessed are: renal function, peripheral and autonomic
      nervous system function, the retina, of direct healthcare cost, glycaemic control, blood
      pressure, lipids, quality of life, postprandial responses, treatment complications.
    
  