
    
      Methods：

      This study is an open- label controlled randomized cluster trial and will invite eligible
      physicians and their patients to attend the study. These physicians work in health community
      center at Shanghai Jiading district and their patients are from the district community. Each
      physician should care and monitor at least 20 of his or her patients. This serves as a
      cluster randomized unit. The study size consists of 40 or more units within the Jiading
      District of Shanghai. Samples will taken from these patients according to the preset schedule
      and will measure patients' level of HbA1c accordingly. The physicians will recruit their
      patients who meet the criterion of the Jiading Study Standard. All of these patients have
      established their own health record by physicians in the community health center. To the
      enrolled patients, the study will obtain the information such as demographic characteristics,
      diagnosis and treatment, complications , various of biochemical index, skill and capacity of
      disease self-management, etc. Biomarkers and genetic risk factors will be evaluated in the
      study subjects. The study also will give several training courses to the enrolled physicians
      and the patients, all of them need to meet the study criteria and will sign the inform
      consent to participate in the study.

      The study will use the method of randomized complete block design to classify the enrolled
      units into 4 groups. Group 1- Physicians only; Group 2 - Patients only; Group 3 - Both
      Physicians and Patients, Group 4 - control. Groups 1-3 will receive incentives if they can
      obtain or/and maintain the ideal level of Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) during the 3-years study
      period. We aim to achieve a target of HbA1c < 7% or to reduce 0.5% HbA1c level annually
      during 3 years study period. The incentive is in the form of cash or same value awards. The
      amount of the incentives will increase annually depending upon the change of HbA1c. The award
      is served as an motivation factor and token for rewarding the desire for self-discipline and
      disease management to enhance self-efficacy. The control group will not receive any
      incentives but will be provided diabetes education booklet and group education courses for DM
      control as usual.

      The study will use the existing tele-medicine system to monitor patients' blood pressure and
      blood glucose remotely. The system of the telemedicine will also provide a series of diabetes
      education and training courses to support the physicians and the patients about the diabetes
      treatment, care and the self-management on the diseases. The study will document the changes
      on the patients' blood pressure, biochemical index, medication, quality of life,
      self-management skill of diabetes, life behavior, complications and costs.

      Endpoint of the study:

      The study will be ended in 36 months, endpoint measurement indicators are listed below:

        1. Withdraw rate: Patient who drop out from the study;

        2. Diabetic complication rate: Patient with new complications, such as macro- or
           micro-vascular complications;

        3. Admission rate due to diabetic related illness： Patient's diabetic condition worsen,
           needs to be hospitalized or surgery;

        4. Frequency of hypoglycemia incidences：Patient who has frequently severe hypoglycemia or
           other complications that can not continue the study;

        5. Mortality rate among enrolled patients Death.
    
  