
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Failure of older adults to take medications properly is estimated to be a factor in more than
      a quarter of emergency room visits and 10 percent of nursing home admissions, with a total
      cost of over $25 billion annually. It has been estimated that 10 percent of adverse drug
      events may be attributed to communication failure between the provider and patient. Lack of
      adherence to prescription medication protocols and adverse self-medication practices can
      result in drug interactions that can be fatal. In a health environment that promotes
      polypharmacy for older adults, a group that is less well able to see, hear, and understand
      medical information than the general population, a need exists to educate both older adults
      and their providers about the dangers of adverse drug interactions arising from
      self-medication.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The goal is to reduce adverse self-medication practices in older adults with hypertension. A
      computer program developed for older adults (Personal Education Program or PEP) will be
      modified as the next generation PEP, (PEP-NG), to include an interface to allow clients to
      enter self-medication behavior data independently on a wireless, touch screen tablet
      computer. Data entered on the PEP-NG will be analyzed via a secure server (ProHealth) and
      program content tailored to the specific adverse self-medication behaviors will be delivered.
      Summaries of the reported behaviors with corrective strategies will be printed for both
      patient and provider so the advanced practice registered nurse (APRN) has a good idea of the
      client's self-medication practices before beginning the face-to-face interview. Thus, the
      PEP-NG will make optimal use of the client's waiting time and the APRN's clinical time.

      Specific aims are at three levels. 1) To design an interface for the PEP-NG with: a)
      desirable characteristics for both older adults and primary care providers; and b) minimal
      user burden. 2) To show that APRNs will increase: a) knowledge concerning potential drug
      interactions arising from older adults' self-medication practices; b) self-efficacy for
      teaching older adults about potential drug interactions; c) self-efficacy for communicating
      with older adults about self-medication; and to d) demonstrate satisfaction using the PEP-NG
      with clients. 3) To show that older adults using the PEP-NG will: a) increase knowledge
      concerning potential drug interactions arising from self-medication practices; b) increase
      self-efficacy as to how to avoid potential drug interactions arising from self-medication
      practice; c) reduce self-reported adverse behaviors associated with potential drug
      interactions; 4) improve prescription medication adherence; d) achieve target blood pressure
      readings; and demonstrate e) satisfaction with the PEP-NG and f) the APRN provider
      relationship. User-sensitive inclusive design methods will be used to develop and test the
      patient data interface. After beta-testing the PEP-NG in the primary care laboratory, the
      PEP-NG will be piloted by 10 APRNs affiliated with ProHealth primary care practices. Repeated
      Measures Analysis of Variance (RM ANOVA) with one within subjects factor (TIME) will be
      performed on APRNs' outcome measures at time 0, immediate post-instruction, and 3 and 6
      months later. APRNs will each recruit 24 clients (240 total) meeting study criteria. The
      PEP-NG software will randomly assign each APRN's clients to either control (data collection
      only) and experimental (data collection plus educational intervention with targeted
      messages). Client outcome will be assessed at 0, 4, 8, 12, and 52 weeks and analyzed as a
      mixed ANOVA with NURSE and GROUP as between-subjects factors and TIME as a repeated-measures
      factor. Healthcare utilization will be compared between the 2 groups after 52 weeks and a
      cost-benefit analysis conducted.
    
  