
    
      Steroid injection, acupuncture and platelet-rich plasma injection are often used
      interventions for the treatments of sciatica. The investigators will investigate the efficacy
      and safety of steroid injection, acupuncture and platelet-rich plasma injection for sciatica
      in this single center, parallel, randomized-controlled clinical trial.

      Participants will be randomized into 3 groups (steroid injection, acupuncture and
      platelet-rich plasma injection) by central allocation. Randomized participants will complete
      a questionnaire that solicited information regarding age, sex, marital status, occupation,
      education, and medical history. The blinding credibility of the treatments will be evaluated
      at the end of the treatment.

      Participants in steroid injection group will receive Triamcinolone 1pc plus lidocaine 1% 1cc
      injection at neuritis nerve roots. Participants in platelet-rich plasma injection group will
      receive 15cc blood draw first to concentrate into platelet-rich plasma and then inject at
      neuritis nerve roots. Participants in acupuncture group received standardized acupuncture
      treatment. hat treatment was accomplished by selecting a group of acupuncture points that
      predefined. Acupuncture points will be bladder meridian pattern acupuncture points including
      Shenshu (BL23), Qihaishu (BL24), Dachangshu (BL25), and Guanyuanshu(BL26). The needles will
      be inserted perpendicular to a depth of 5 to 35 mm depending on the acupuncture point, which
      was followed by manual stimulation by bidirectional rotation to induce Deqi sensation. Deqi
      was defined as a dull, localized, and aching sensation, which signaled the attainment of qi.

      Outcome Measures Primary Outcome Measure The primary outcome measure is visual analogue scale
      for sciatica. To understand the impact of sciatica on the participants' life, visual analogue
      scale for bothersomeness is chosen instead of pain intensity. The participants will be asked
      to mark, on a 10 cm visual analogue scale (0, absence of bothersomeness; 10, the worst
      bothersomeness imaginable), the average degree of bothersomeness due to sciatica experienced
      within the most recent 1 week from the day of the assessment. This measurement has
      substantial validity. Bothersomeness of sciatica will be measured at baseline, 1-, 2-, 4-,
      8-, 12-, 16-, and 24-week.

      Secondary Outcome Measures Numeric Rating Scale for pain intensity is a simple method
      evaluating the subjective intensity of pain. Pain intensity will be measured in the same way
      as visual analogue scale for bothersomeness. Validity of its reliability has been
      demonstrated. The Chinese version Oswestry Disability Index is used to measure back
      pain-related dysfunction. Health-related quality of life will be measured using the
      well-validated EuroQol 5 dimensions (EQ-5D). A higher score is indicative of a better general
      health status. Participants satisfaction will be evaluated with 5 point scale (1 is worst,
      and 5 is best)

      We will perform the Shapiro-Wilk normality test to determine whether or not the sample values
      followed a normal distribution and finally assumed normality according to the test result.
      For the description of baseline characteristics, mean with standard deviation (SD) for
      continuous data and frequency with percentage for dichotomous data will be described. Also,
      for the homogeneity test of baseline characteristics between 3 groups, 2-sample t tests for
      continuous data and chi-square test for dichotomous data will be performed. A mixed-model
      approach of repeated-measures 2-factor analysis will be used to analyze the difference and
      mean change in baseline, 1-, 2-, 4-, 8-, 12-, 16-, and 24-week visual analogue scale score,
      Oswestry Disability Index, EQ-5D, patient satisfaction difference and mean change between
      groups, interaction between groups, and periods.
    
  