
    
      This Phase II study is designed to evaluate the antitumor efficacy of crenolanib (CP-868,596)
      in patients with recurrent high grade glioma and in patients with low grade glioma.
      Concurrently, the pharmacokinetics, tumor penetration and ability of crenolanib (CP-868,596)
      to inhibit PDGFR signaling will be evaluated when given as neo-adjuvant therapy to patients
      with radiographic evidence of malignant glioma prior to initial surgery.

      The study will enroll 3 different cohorts of patients in parallel. Cohort A will enroll
      patients scheduled to undergo craniotomy and resection of newly diagnosed gliomas (both low
      and high grade). Patients in cohort A will be treated with crenolanib (CP-868,596) (300mg
      once daily, on an empty stomach) in the neo-adjuvant setting for a minimum of 3 days prior to
      surgical resection of their tumor mass. Twelve patients will be accrued on this neo-adjuvant
      cohort that will allow us to assess the ability of crenolanib (CP-868,596) to penetrate the
      tumor, not only in grade 3 and 4 gliomas (anaplastic astrocytomas and glioblastomas) that
      have a leaky BBB, but also in grade 2 gliomas (low grade gliomas) that tend to have a more
      intact blood-brain barrier (BBB).

      Pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic and biological assessments will be conducted with tissue
      samples (plasma and brain tissue) obtained from these patients, when feasible.

      Cohorts B and C will enroll patients with recurrent high grade gliomas or biopsy proven low
      grade glioma, respectively, who have residual measurable disease. Patients in cohorts B and C
      will be treated with crenolanib (CP-868,596) (300mg once daily on an empty stomach)
      continuously until they fulfill one of the criteria for study discontinuation. Magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) will be done to assess the tumor response as well as progression free
      survival (PFS). The primary endpoint for both cohorts B and C will be overall response rate
      according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST), as assessed by
      standard imaging modalities. In addition, 6-month Progression-free survival (cohort B) and
      1-year PFS will also be assessed.
    
  