
    
      Detailed Description Among 2.500 IBD patients the investigators will consecutively from the
      Gastroenterology out-patient clinic at North Zealand University Hospital recruit in total 120
      in the study.

      At the out-patient consultation IBD patients will be informed about the project and the IBD
      eHealth nurse ensures that no exclusion criteria met by the patient.

      Inclusion criteria: IBD patients in remission, SCCAI ≤ 2 (Simple Clinical Colitis Activity
      Index )) or HBI < 5 (Harvey & Bradshaw Activity Index ) or in mild to moderate disease
      activity ( SCCAI 3-4, HBI < 16) IBD patients who can read, speak and understand Danish IBD
      patients that can take advantage of the Internet and wireless network 18years or older.

      Exclusion criteria: IBD patients with severe disease activity HB > 16 SCCAI ≥ 5 ) IBD
      patients with social, medical or psychological issues of a more complex character IBD
      patients with particularly complex issues such as drug and alcohol problems, severe mental /
      psychiatric disorders and / or serious social impact.

      IBD patients who cannot attend due language barrier or cognitive disorder. Age less 18. When
      the patient has agreed to participate in the study, randomized to either OD or SI OD 3.
      Months (SI group):

      Patients log in at www.noh.constant-care.dk at least once every 3rd months throughout the
      project period of 12 months. When the patient log in to the telemedicine platform following
      scoring must be filled out:

        1. - Disease activity, respectively SCCAI or HBI.

        2. - Quality of life assessment, in s - IBDQ every 3rd months.

        3. - FACIT (Fatigue score)

        4. - MARS ( Medical Adherence Rating Scale)

             -  FC, fecal calprotectin mg / kg feces) with SMART phone, rapid home test. If the
                patients prefer to send the feces test, it will be tested in the Gastro unit lab.
                at the hospital with SMART phone.

      The results of the scoring systems will appear to the health professionals and patients in a
      traffic light turning into red, yellow and green.

      If the patient experiences a recurrence of the disease, it moves from green to either yellow
      or red area in the traffic graph, and patient will further be instructed to contact Gastro
      medical clinic project nurse for an early consultation and decision on further treatment
      initiative. This will also be indicated at the patient's website. If alarm symptoms occurs
      patients are instructed to contact the project nurse. Thus patients are treated in accordance
      to national and international guideline. By screening of the inflammation burden the decision
      is moving forward.

      On Demand Group:

      Patients log in on demand,detects disease activity, quality of life and FC at the start, and
      subsequently when needed and at the end of the study (12 months).

      At relapse disease activity score and FC is settled and repeated no later than 7 days here
      after at remission a new DA and FC test should be performed to verify the remission.

      Statistical considerations:

      Randomization Suitable (N = 120) will be randomized to one of the test groups by sealed
      envelope principle.

      Material size calculation:

      A relapse last in median 18 days in patients with inflammatory bowel disease, but the
      variance is large (10-50 days). During one year of a prevalent IBD patient group 50 % of a
      patient population will experience a relapse. To assess whether fewer patients experience
      true "red" indicated by relapse via (TIBS) Feces Calprotectin (FC ) and disease activity in
      group 1 vs. Group 2 respectively, the sample size has been depicted from TIBS and a
      statistically significance ( α ) of 0.05 , and test force of ( β ) of 0.8 .

      This means that there must be included 53 individuals in each group, which means that there
      must be included a total of 106. Thus the investigators have chosen to include 120 patients,
      60 in each group in order to correct for a possible of small drop out in each group.
    
  