
    
      Chronic pain conditions are among the most common reasons adults seek medical care. Given the
      abuse potential for opioid analgesics, a substantial number of individuals with chronic pain
      have turned to alternatives such as medical marijuana. There is increasing evidence that
      medical marijuana has potential benefits for pain related conditions, but it also carries
      unwanted side effects such as impaired cognition and motor skills that may linger long after
      use, social stigma, and a moderate potential for abuse. Much of the marijuana/pain research
      is predicated on the assumption that its potential analgesic effects are due to its primary
      psychoactive ingredient - delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). However, marijuana also
      contains dozens of phytochemicals, including cannabinoids and terpenes. Accordingly, there is
      interest in characterizing potential pain-relieving effects of these non-intoxicating
      constituents of marijuana. Thus far, it is unclear which components may be most relevant for
      influencing pain, or the mechanisms by which they exert their effects. Betacaryophyllene
      (BCP) may be a possible candidate because it is isolatable, has shown evidence as a potential
      analgesic in preclinical research, is known to be safe for human administration, and there is
      a strong premise for believing it interacts with the neurobiological systems in the brain
      that process pain.

      This project was conceptualized to advance our mechanistic understanding of the analgesic
      potential of BCP in humans. The study will be a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind
      study of the pharmacokinetic mechanisms of BCP, including dosing and duration of action, and
      its potential analgesic effect on thermal pain induction following single-oral dosage. Ten
      healthy participants will be screened and on each of four subsequent visits will be dosed
      with either 5 mg, 30 mg, 150 mg of BCP or placebo. Participants' sensitivity to thermal pain
      induction will be measured before and after administration of the drug using a self survey of
      pain level. Successful completion of the project may elucidate the potential analgesic
      effects of ingesting beta-caryophyllene in humans, which can lead to new forms of treatment
      for pain.
    
  