
    
      In 2016 in France, 5891 organs have been transplanted. All the transplant's sources are
      developed (brain death, Maastricht III, living organ donor).

      However, the French Transplant's plan 2017-2021 require always more transplant, the aim is to
      reach 7800 transplants in 4 years.

      To increase the number of transplants, one of the strategies is to actively identify the
      donors in brain death state and the donors with wider criteria. It's mainly serious
      brain-injured patients.

      The procedure of early announcement of organ donation consists in beginning or pursues
      intensive care on serious brain-injured patient, for whom a decision of abstention of
      therapeutic active was decided. The only purpose of the medical care is to notice the brain
      death state that lead to donation.

      In 2010, an expert group of the "Société de reanimation de langue Française" established
      guidelines to manage organ's donation in serious brain-injured patient after a stroke. The
      interest, to admit these serious brain-injured patients in intensive care unit, is to
      increase the number of donors in state of brain death and so the number of transplants.

      However the guidelines remain little practised and little known in France. The number of bed
      in intensive care unit is limited and requires a selection of the potential organ donors. To
      hospitalised serious brain-injured patients in intensive care unit, there are no validated
      selection criteria that make difficult the implication of the transplant coordination in this
      anticipated announcement's approach.

      In Toulon hospital, a standardize selection procedure was initiated and applied
      systematically by the transplant coordinator for each serious brain-injured patients. The
      selected patients will evolve in brain death state in 48 hours and could be organ donors.

      The aim of this study is to validate a paramedical procedure to increase the number of organ
      donors.
    
  