
    
      Adrenal incidentalomas, adrenal tumours detected without symptoms and signs of hormonal
      hypersecretion or malignancy, are common. Depending on modality (MRI, CT. Ultrasonography)
      adrenal tumours occur in approximately 1-5% of the population. In about 10% of patients, the
      tumours are bilateral. At autopsy studies adrenal tumours occur in 1% of patients under the
      age of 30, but in approximately 7% of patients older than 70 years. Investigation of the
      adrenal tumours focus on to exclude malignancy (which is uncommon), and an increased
      secretion of hormones (adrenaline, aldosterone, cortisol), so-called functional tumours.
      However, most often adrenal incidentalomas are non-functional. The most common functional
      disorder is increased secretion of cortisol, and then usually without clinical stigmata,
      known as subclinical Cushing's syndrome (or mild hypercortisolism). Clinical stigmata,
      Cushing's syndrome, is empirically associated with elevated levels of urinary cortisol.

      Subclinical Cushing's syndrome occurs in 10-25% of patients with adrenal incidentalomas. The
      incidence has been estimated at 0.8 / 1,000 inhabitants, making it a common disease.

      Diagnosis is based to detect an autonomous release of cortisol from the adrenal gland (a
      disorder of the so-called hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis).

      Fundamental to the diagnosis is that the secretion of cortisol is not inhibited <50 nmol / L
      at 8.00, after an overnight test with 1 mg of oral dexamethasone.

      In addition, at least one of the following criteria for disturbance of the
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis is suggested to be present:

        -  attenuated or abolished circadian rhythm of cortisol

        -  ACTH in the low normal range or supressed

        -  DHEAS low or supressed (age dependent)

      Numerous studies have shown that high blood pressure, diabetes, impaired glucose tolerance,
      and unfavourable lipid profile, is common in patients with subclinical Cushing's syndrome,
      and basically do not differ from patients with overt Cushing's syndrome. At follow-up of
      patients with adrenal incidentalomas, some patients exhibit intermittent mild hypersecretion
      of cortisol, others develop overt Cushing's syndrome (unusual) and still some patients with
      initially normal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, develop a subclinical Cushing's
      syndrome.

      The aim of this study is to investigate if adrenalectomy for subclinical Cushing's syndrome
      (mild hypercortisolism without clinical signs), result in an improvement in cardiovascular
      risk factors, cardiac function, and arteriosclerosis compared to follow-up
    
  