
    
      Since the outcome of patients with esophageal cancer treated with neoadjuvant chemoradiation
      and surgery is still poor, strategies to improve survival should be explored. The benefit of
      adjuvant chemotherapy after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery is unknown.
      Preferably, such adjuvant chemotherapy regimen should consist of a non-cross resistant,
      well-tolerated schedule. For this purpose, the combination of S-1, an oral fluoropyrimidine,
      with oxaliplatin, may be of benefit, as each of these compounds have shown efficacy in
      gastroesophageal cancer. Also, importantly, the combination of S-1 with oxaliplatin (SOX) in
      advanced gastric cancer was well-tolerated. Nevertheless, it should be acknowledged that
      after major surgery for esophageal cancer, adjuvant treatment with combination chemotherapy
      may be hard to accomplish as was shown in the MAGIC trial for gastric cancer where less than
      half of all patients completed adjuvant therapy.

      Therefore the investigators want to assess the feasibility of an adjuvant treatment scheme
      with S-1 and Oxaliplatin. When the proposed treatment scheme is feasible the potential
      benefit on survival will be evaluated in further studies. Feasibility is defined ≥50% of
      patients completing the pre-planned number of cycles

      Study Objectives Primary Objective To assess the feasibility of administering adjuvant SOX in
      patients with esophageal cancer after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy with paclitaxel and
      carboplatin and esophagectomy

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Percentage of patients completing 6 cycles of S-1 (with or without oxaliplatin).

        2. Dose modifications (ie, delays, dose reductions, or interruptions) for S-1.

        3. Dose modifications (ie, delays, dose reductions, or interruptions) for oxaliplatin.

        4. Dose intensity of S-1.

        5. Dose intensity of oxaliplatin.

        6. Toxicity.

        7. Disease free survival.

      Exploratory Objectives

        1. Assessment of pharmacokinetics of S1 as predictive factors for efficacy and toxicity.

        2. Potential biomarker development based on assessment of archived tumor tissue and blood
           samples and the proposed mechanism of action of study drugs.
    
  