
    
      Background:

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is treated with a continuous positive airway pressure, so
      called CPAP, during sleep. CPAP startup and follow-up is performed at four sleep clinics in
      the West Swedish Region (SU / S, SÄS, SkaS, NÄL). Patient volumes are high, waiting times are
      long and long-term follow-up is inconsistent. A new technology that enables telemetric
      monitoring of CPAP therapy based on transfer of therapy data to a data cloud has been
      introduced. Healthcare personnel can identify patients with therapy problems.

      Data from minor studies suggest several benefits of this telemedicine solution (increased
      therapeutic capacity, lower patient and community costs and a time benefit for the sleep
      medicine unit). Today, the sleep Clinical in the region use different procedures for
      monitoring CPAP treatment.

      Scientific question:

      Is telemedicine monitoring of CPAP treatment an adequate solution for follow up in all
      patients ? Is the additional cost of a telemedicine solution balanced by a better outcome
      after therapy?

      Hypothesis:

      Intensive telemedicine monitoring, especially at the start of CPAP therapy, leads to improved
      CPAP care at the participating sleep units.

      Method:

      The study randomizes 560 patients (moderate to severe sleep apnea) to different CPAP
      treatment follow up procedures: A) the current routine of the sleep clinic or B) the new
      telemedicine solution (1: 1 randomization). The main outcome parameter of the study is the
      mean CPAP use after 3 months of treatment. Secondary outcome parameters include the reduction
      of sleep apnea intensity, daytime sleepiness, and patient-related outcome measures (PROM).

      Aim:

      The aim of the study is to map the pros and cons of a telemedicine solution in CPAP therapy
      regarding treatment outcomes, patient quality of life and resource utilization at the sleep
      center.
    
  