
    
      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), or motor neuron disease (MND), is a rapidly progressive,
      fatal neurodegenerative condition characterized by loss of upper and lower motor neurons in
      the brain and spinal cord. The terms ALS and MND are often used inter-changeably to cover the
      different clinical syndromes, which include upper and lower motor neuron disorder,
      progressive bulbar palsy, and pseudo-polyneuritic form.

      Degeneration of lower motor neurons (LMN) in the anterior horns of spinal cord and brainstem
      leads to progressive muscular atrophy and eventually to death within a few years due to
      respiratory insufficiency. During the course of the disease, the involvement of tongue and
      pharynx muscles causes swallowing impairment with marked drooling, need of parenteral or
      enteral feeding, and finally gastrostomy. Denervation of laryngeal muscles causes loss of
      speech. Cramps and fasciculation typically occur from the early phases of the disease.
      Degeneration of upper motor neurons (UMN) in the brain cortex causes pyramidal tract
      dysfunctions including clonus, Babinski sign, hypertonia, and loss of dexterity that further
      limit patients' daily activities.

      The incidence of ALS varies from 0.2 to 2.5 cases per 100,000 per year, although estimates
      vary between countries, likely reflecting a combination of availability of medical services,
      diagnostic accuracy, and demo-graphic characteristics of the area. Increasing life expectancy
      and improvements in standards of treatment and care will also result in an increased
      incidence of ALS. Globally, the overall rate is approximately 2 per 100,000. Its prevalence
      is approximately of 7 per 100,000. In Italy, the reported incidence of ALS is 2.2
      cases/100,000/year.

      There is currently no cure for ALS. Despite initial positive results in preclinical and early
      clinical studies, large-scale clinical trials with all agents except riluzole failed to
      demonstrate a clinically meaningful therapeutic effect in patients with ALS. Riluzole at the
      dose of 100 mg/day showed a significant difference on survival (6.4%; gain of 3 months) and
      slowed deterioration in muscle strength.

      Primary involvement of apoptotic mechanisms has important implications in selecting drug
      candidates for therapy in ALS. Recent preclinical studies have demonstrated that TUCA is
      endowed with antioxidant, antiapoptotic and neuroprotective activities. In particular, TUDCA
      can cross the blood-brain-barrier and has been shown to exert a significant therapeutic
      effect in a model of HD mice.

      Tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA) is a hydrophilic bile acid that is normally produced
      endogenously in humans at very low levels. TUDCA is synthesized in the liver by conjugation
      of taurine to ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), which is commonly used as a bile acid replacement
      therapy for the treatment of certain cholestatic syndromes.

      The main pharmacological activity of TUDCA consists in its ability in increasing the
      cholesterol solubilising activity of bile, thus transforming "lithogenic" bile in
      "non-lithogenic" or "litholytic" bile.

      TUDCA inhibits mitochondrial-associated apoptosis via many pathways: 1) it inhibits the
      mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) and cytochrome C release, 2) it inhibits
      mitochondrial membrane depolarization, and 3) it antagonizes Bax translocation from the
      mitochondria and caspase activation in hepatocytes and brain. TUDCA may also ease oxidative
      stress.Study relevant TUDCA pharmacology consists in its antioxidant, antiapoptotic and
      neuroprotective activities evidenced in preclinical studies.

      Recent reports have shown that hydrophilic bile acids, such as UDCA and TUDCA, can prevent
      hepatic cytotoxicity through several mechanisms. For example, TUDCA prevents the production
      of reactive oxygen species and thus acts as an antioxidant. Additionally, TUDCA mitigates
      mitochondrial insufficiency and toxicity, and prevents apoptosis, in part, by inhibiting Bax
      translocation from cytosol to the mitochondria. In hepatocytes, this inhibition results in
      reduced mitochondrial membrane perturbation, release of cytochrome c, and activation of
      downstream caspases. TUDCA reduced cytotoxicity in neurons through similar mechanisms, as
      well as mitochondrial pathways that are independent of the permeability transition. TUDCA
      prevented striatal degeneration and ameliorated locomotor and cognitive deficits in the in
      vivo 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) rat model of HD. Intracellular inclusions were
      significantly reduced, and the TUDCA-treated mice showed improved locomotor and sensorimotor
      abilities.

      In addition, the antiapoptotic and cytoprotective effects of TUDCA have been tested in models
      of acute stroke. The possibility that TUDCA exerts an antiapoptotic action by ameliorating
      mitochondrial function raises the issue whether other neurological disorders, including
      Friedreich's ataxia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's
      disease, can benefit by the administration of TUDCA. This drug is a candidate neuroprotective
      agent for a variety of chronic neurodegenerative conditions.
    
  