
    
      1. Background and Rationale

           Cardiovascular disease (CVD) (i.e., coronary artery disease, stroke, and peripheral
           arterial disease) is one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in Canada,
           particularly amongst women. Women with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP)
           represent one of the highest-risk populations for premature CVD and CVD mortality. The
           2011 American Heart Association (AHA) Guidelines on the prevention of CVD in women now
           include HDP as an independent CVD risk factor in the evaluation of CVD risk. To achieve
           "ideal cardiovascular health" targets, healthy lifestyle modifications are suggested as
           first-line therapy, with pharmacotherapy as second line. The immediate postpartum period
           may be an early window of opportunity for early upstream CVD prevention, capitalizing on
           a woman's increased motivation to improve her health. Despite these recommendations and
           opportunity for early CVD prevention, there is little published data, and, in
           particular, there are no randomized controlled trials (RCT) assessing the short-term or
           long-term effectiveness of lifestyle interventions in women with HDP.

           To address this important clinical problem and knowledge gap, the interdisciplinary
           IMPROVE team adapted the evidence-based University of Ottawa Heart Institute
           CardioPrevent® Lifestyle program to proactively address the unique barriers to, and
           facilitators of behaviour change in early postpartum women with HDP. Prior to
           undertaking a widespread evaluation of CardioPrevent® in a CVD prevention study for
           women with HDP, a pre-assessment of the feasibility of this postpartum lifestyle program
           using this research approach through a pilot study is essential. In addition, this pilot
           study will provide important information on CardioPrevent®'s effectiveness on modifying
           clinically-important cardiovascular-related clinical outcomes and novel, non-invasive
           measures of microvascular function in early postpartum women with HDP to inform the
           design of a larger CVD prevention study. This pilot RCT will be the first to assess the
           feasibility and effects of a one-year postpartum-specific CVD prevention lifestyle
           program in women with a HDP.

        2. Research Questions & Objectives

           The primary objectives of this pilot study are to assess the feasibility of the
           implementation of a postpartum CVD prevention lifestyle program in women with a HDP as
           well as the transferability and fidelity of the Ottawa-based CardioPrevent® program to a
           centre in Calgary (following a "Train the Trainer" model). Secondary objectives include:
           an initial evaluation of the effectiveness of this intervention on clinical outcomes and
           measures of microvascular function between study arms at one year.

        3. Methods

      Study Design: A 2-year, single centre, single-blind, pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT).

      Study Population (Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria): Women with a HDP (i.e., preeclampsia,
      eclampsia or gestational hypertension) delivering at the Foothills Medical Centre will be
      invited to participate. Women with pre-existing chronic hypertension, diabetes (type 1 or
      type 2), kidney disease or cardiovascular disease (coronary artery, cerebrovascular and
      peripheral arterial) will be excluded.

      Intervention: CardioPrevent® Program - a one year, evidence-based cardiovascular prevention
      program that consists of 25 contacts (either in person or by phone) with a trained behaviour
      change counsellor to facilitate desired lifestyle behaviours within the participants' own
      social context.

      Control: Standard clinical postpartum care. All Participants: Participants in both arms will
      receive educational material about the risk of CVD and CVD prevention for women with HDP from
      the Preeclampsia Foundation.

      Sample size: A total of 84 women will be recruited (42 in each arm). Recruitment & Retention:
      There are over 7000 deliveries per year at the FMC. Using a conservative estimate of 7%
      prevalence of HDP (as it is a tertiary care referral centre), approximately 245 women (10 per
      week) will have HDP over our 6-month recruitment period. The investigators anticipate
      recruiting 2-3 eligible women per week to reach the target sample size in 6 months. To
      minimize loss to follow-up, they plan to use participant incentives such as covering the
      costs of parking and childcare.
    
  