
    
      Rationale: About 25% of hospitalized elderly patients are at risk of undernutrition at
      admission. Many hospitals provide an energy and protein enriched diet, extra snacks, and oral
      nutritional supplements if needed. Still, a considerable part of these patients are unable to
      meet protein requirements and are still at risk of undernutrition at hospital discharge. This
      may impair recovery of illness, partly due to loss of muscle mass and physical performance.
      To improve protein intake, Cater with Care products have been developed: a selection of foods
      and drinks that are consumed often by elderly persons, but now enriched with protein up to 10
      grams per portion. We hypothesize that these products help to reach protein requirements in
      elderly patients during and after hospital stay and thereby improve their health outcomes.

      Objective: To study the effectiveness of supplementing a standard hospital and 12-week home
      menu with protein-enriched Cater with Care products in reaching a protein intake of 1,2-1,5
      g/kg/day and in improving functional status after hospital stay in elderly patients.

      Study design: Randomised Controlled Trial (RCT) with 2 intervention groups and two phases: a
      hospital phase including all admitted patients and a home phase with a selection of patients.

      Study population: Patients of 65 years or over who are admitted to the departments of
      Geriatrics, Pulmonary Disease, or Internal Medicine of Hospital Gelderse Vallei.

      Intervention: The control group receives the standard hospital menu for elderly at risk of
      undernutrition (energy and protein rich) and a variety of foods and drinks to be used as part
      of their home diet for 12 weeks after hospitalization. Foods and drinks for home use are
      non-enriched variants of Cater with Care products (e.g. normal fruit juice).

      The intervention group receives Cater with Care protein-enriched foods and drinks during
      hospital stay (in addition to the standard hospital menu) and at home as part of their home
      diet for 12 weeks.
    
  