
    
      In a first part of the study, 16 healthy male subjects will be included in each dose group
      and will receive test and reference product according to the cross-over design. After the end
      of the second period of each dose group (completion of both cross-over periods for each dose
      group) the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic primary parameters will be calculated. The
      blinding will be temporarily broken by one statistician for the ad interim analysis of
      primary parameters that will be performed after conclusion of the treatment of 16 subjects
      for each dose group (results are not disclosed) with the aim to re-calculate the sample size
      and to conclude the study with the necessary and sufficient number of subjects for each dose
      regimen.

      The study design was chosen according to the internationally recognised guideline for
      pharmacokinetics studies and in accordance with the EMEA guidance on similar medicinal
      products containing recombinant granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), which is
      annexed to the guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing
      biotechnology-derived proteins as active substance: non-clinical and clinical issues. A
      clinical development plan including the study outline was also submitted to EMEA, which
      examined the documentation and gave advice about the present study design .

      A multiple-dose design was chosen instead of a single-dose design, since G-CSF
      pharmacokinetics is non linear due to 2 reasons: non-proportional increase with dose and time
      dependent non-linearity. However, pharmacodynamic equivalence and pharmacokinetic
      bioequivalence will be both tested after the 1st and the last dose of the multiple dose
      treatment.

      Since the effects of r-h-met-G-CSF can be directly measured as pharmacodynamic responses,
      i.e. the increase in the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) and the development of peripheral
      blood cells (CD34+ cells), both parameters will be evaluated for the equivalence testing.

      Dose levels of 2.5 and 5 μg/kg/day were chosen for the pharmacodynamic equivalence, since
      literature data show a clear dose-response relationship in terms of the pharmacodynamic
      parameters over this range. The 10 μg/kg/day dose was chosen to make the investigated range
      relevant with respect to the clinical indications and the usual praxis for Neupogen®.
      Moreover, the subcutaneous administration was chosen, since this administration route is the
      most commonly used in the clinical setting.
    
  