
    
      The bacterial infection control in the wound healing is a very important aspect to
      considerer. Local antiseptic administration after the surgical procedures has been used to
      control the bacterial contamination.

      Chlorhexidine (CHX), widely used as antiseptic, especially as post-surgical indication, has a
      toxic effect both in vivo and in vitro and their influence on wound healing has been studied
      for a long time. One of the first animal studies, in 1980, concluded that intensive rinsing
      with high concentrations of chlorhexidine after oral surgical operations, could result in
      delay and disturbance of wound healing. Another more recent animal study concluded that CHX
      induces apoptosis or necrosis in the fibroblasts.

      Mariotti and Rumpf, in 2016, carried out a studied incubating human gingival fibroblasts in
      CHX. The results have been suggested that chlorhexidine could induce a dose dependent
      reduction in cellular proliferation and that concentrations of chlorhexidine that have little
      effect on cellular proliferation can significantly reduce both collagen and non-collagen
      protein production of human gingival fibroblasts in vitro. Hence, the introduction of
      commercially available concentrations (0.12%) or diluted commercial concentrations (as low as
      0.00009%) of chlorhexidine to surgical sites for short periods of time prior to wound closure
      can conceivably have serious toxic effects on gingival fibroblasts and may negatively affect
      wound healing.

      All the previous mentioned studies permit understand that the CHX is not harmless to the oral
      tissues. However, its effect is not entirely clear and should be evaluated in depth taking
      into account that it is one of the most indicated antiseptics after surgery. Currently, there
      are no studies that evaluate if the post-surgical use of CHX affect the gene expression in
      the early wound healing.
    
  