
    
      Objective: This study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of magnesium lactate oral
      administration in reducing the gestational diabetes incidence.

      Design: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.

      Study population: Pregnant women aged 19 to 35 years, in the twelfth week of pregnancy, whit
      hypomagnesemia and without the concomitant disease.

      Study groups: an intervention group and a control group.

      Sample size: It was calculated using a statistical power of 80%, an alpha value of 0.05; 15%
      of the difference in the mean of gestational diabetes incidence control group and
      intervention groups was considered. The estimated sample size was 110 subjects for each
      group.

      Process: All eligible participants according to inclusion and exclusion criteria, will be
      randomized to one of the study groups.

      The intervention group will receive magnesium lactate, 2 tablets orally every 12 hours
      (equivalent to 360 mg of elemental magnesium) for 3 months plus baseline dietary magnesium
      requirement; the control group will receive 2 tablets orally every 12 hours of on inert
      placebo for three months plus baseline dietary magnesium requirement.

      The blood concentrations of glucose, triglycerides, magnesium, creatinine, transaminases, and
      thyroid hormones will be measured, as well as the anthropometric measurements, at baseline
      and end conditions. Also, an oral glucose tolerance curve will be realized at the 20th
      gestation week.

      Statistical analysis: Numerical values will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation;
      categorical variables will be expressed as proportions. Differences between the groups were
      estimated by unpaired Student t-test for numerical variables (Mann-Whitney U test for skewed
      data) or Chi-square and Fisher´s exact test for categorical variables. Intragroup differences
      were estimated by paired Student t-test.
    
  