
    
      Risk-stratified therapy based on cytogenetic and molecular characteristic for acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML) is well accepted and benefits patients' survival. However, neither every
      patient with low risk factors obtains better survival, nor all high risk patients experience
      worse outcome. Lots of data have shown the important role of early treatment response
      presenting as minimal residual disease (MRD) in prognostic prediction. In this study, we
      perform risk stratification based on not only cytogenetic and molecular characteristic, but
      also MRD levels after three courses of chemo therapy. We stratified all patients into
      different risk groups according to the NCCN guild based on cytogenetic and molecular. Then we
      treat all patients with anthracycline combined with cytarabine regimens for two courses
      (First cycle: IDA 12mg/m2 or DNR 60mg/m2, d1-3, Ara-C 100mg/m2 d1-7; Second cycle: IDA
      10mg/m2 or DNR 45mg/m2, d1-3, Ara-C 2g/m2 q12h, d1-3) . The patients without obtaining
      complete remission (CR) will go on one cycle of salvage therapy and then be bridged to
      allogeneic (allo-) hemopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Those acquiring CR will be
      given one course of high dose cytarabine (HDAC) as consolidation treatment and then be
      detested MRD with flow cytometry after that. The patients with MRD positive would be moved to
      a higher risk class.The stratified therapy should be considered according to the new risk
      stratification.The patients with MRD negative in low risk group are given HDAC (Ara-C 2g/m2
      q12h, d1-3) for 3 cycles. If MRD is continuously negative in this cohort, chemotherapy will
      be stopped and MRD will be continuously monitored to the third year after the diagnosis. The
      patients with MRD negative in medium risk group are suggested to receive allo-HSCT if a
      HLA-matched sibling donor is available, or autologous (auto-) HSCT after receiving HDAC
      regimen for one more cycle if no HLA-matched sibling donors are available. The patients with
      MRD positive in low or medium-risk group or the cases in high-risk group are going to be
      bridged into allo-HSCT if a donor is available including haploid donors. The aim of this
      study is to evaluate whether the new stratification system benefits AML patients with better
      OS and DFS.
    
  