
    
      This study will consist of three study visits. At the screening visit, individuals will be
      asked to undergo a physical and neurological examination, a blood draw of 4 teaspoons, and a
      urine pregnancy test if of childbearing potential.

      The participants that clear study screening will be randomized to one of seven groups. The
      groups consist of: sham insonification at the hilum (connected probe or disconnected probe);
      half-powered insonification at the hilum; full-powered insonification at the hilum; sham
      insonification at the lower, middle, and upper spleen; half-powered insonification at the
      lower, middle, and upper spleen; and full-powered insonification at the lower, middle, and
      upper spleen.

      At the baseline visit, individuals will be asked to undergo a physical and neurological
      examination and a blood draw of 7 teaspoons before receiving ultrasound as per their assigned
      group. These individuals will then be asked to undergo a blood draw of 5 teaspoons at 1-hour
      and 2-hours after the ultrasound.

      Individuals will be asked to return 24 hours later for the follow-up visit, which will
      include a physical and neurological examination and a blood draw of 9 teaspoons.

      Upon completion of the study, participants will receive compensation for their time and
      travel expenses for the baseline and follow-up visits.

      The blood samples collected before insonification, one hour after insonification, two hours
      after insonification, and twenty-four hours after insonification will be assessed for changes
      in biomarkers (substances in the body that indicate the status of a biological process or
      condition). These biomarkers include cytokines (proteins involved in the immune response),
      norepinephrine (chemical in the body that transmits signals), glucose (sugar in the blood),
      and blood cells that are involved in breathing, clotting, and the immune response.

      The study will be considered complete after completion of enrollment (10 participants in each
      group, for a study total of 70 participants), completion of study procedures by all
      participants, and the completion of analysis of identifiable study data.
    
  