
    
      Depression remains among the nation's top 10 chronic illnesses, costing over $80 billion
      annually. Depression has been called the "Common Cold" of mental illness, but one with
      serious risk of morbidity and mortality. There are now many evidence-based practices for the
      treatment of depression, but unfortunately these practices remain largely unavailable to
      clients receiving services in community mental health centers. Measurement Based Care (MBC)
      is a relatively simple evidence-based intervention framework. MBC, by definition, is the
      practice of using symptom measurement to inform mental health care. Physicians who routinely
      measure the patient's blood pressure when the treatment target is high blood pressure
      demonstrate the medical corollary of MBC. When MBC is used in the treatment of depressed
      adults, it has been shown to improve outcomes by identifying clients who are not making
      progress and reducing the likelihood that clients will deteriorate in treatment. However,
      despite the demonstrated effectiveness of MBC, the majority of community mental health
      counselors (i.e., clinicians) do not regularly assess target problem symptoms to guide their
      work over the course of treatment. To our knowledge, no studies to date have focused on the
      process of implementing MBC in community mental health settings. The long-term goal of this
      research project is to provide generalizable and practical recommendations about
      implementation approaches that promote MBC use and fidelity in community mental health
      centers. Specifically, this study will test a standardized versus a tailored approach to
      implementing MBC in one of the nation's largest not-for-profit providers of behavioral health
      services. Although touted as superior, tailored implementations have rarely been compared to
      standardized approaches. Moreover, recent research has demonstrated an apparent need to adapt
      evidence-based practices to fit the specific context in which they are being implemented,
      particularly if they are to be sustained. This proposal reflects a movement in the field of
      implementation science in which planned adaptations are being tested and compared to
      standardized versions. The proposed research is a three-phase, mixed methods
      (quantitative/qualitative) study to investigate the effect of these two different approaches
      to MBC implementation on both clinician-level (e.g., MBC fidelity) and client-level
      (depression symptom change) outcomes. We will focus on contextual factors (e.g., attitudes,
      resources, process, etc.) that may influence the implementation process with the goal of
      identifying a generalizable and practical way of bringing MBC to community mental health
      centers treating depressed adults.
    
  