
    
      For many decades, axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) has been considered standard of care
      in breast cancer (BC) patients. The procedure aimed at assessing the pN status to guide
      adjuvant therapy decisions as well as ensuring adequate locoregional control. However, ALND
      is associated with high morbidity and may therefore lead to reduced quality of life in BC
      patients.

      In women undergoing primary surgery, ALND as a staging tool has been replaced by the less
      invasive sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) without compromising the disease-free or overall
      survival (DFS, OS). Since then, the therapeutic benefit of ALND in patients with clinically
      occult metastasis in the sentinel lymph node (SLN) has been challenged as well. According to
      the current national and international guidelines (e.g. ESMO, NCCN, German S3 guideline and
      AGO recommendations) completion ALND can be safely omitted in selected patients with 1-2
      positive sentinel lymph nodes.

      The feasibility and safety of the SLNB after neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) has been
      controversially discussed, particularly regarding women who initially presented with positive
      lymph nodes (cN+) and converted to ycN0 following NACT. In these patients, two large
      prospective multicenter trials reported a false-negative rate (FNR) of 12 and 14%,
      respectively, thus exceeding the generally accepted (albeit arbitrarily chosen) cutoff of
      10%. The clinical relevance of an FNR > 10% and its impact on oncological endpoints (DFS, OS)
      remains unclear. For this reason, numerous national guidelines still recommend ALND in these
      patients.

      Possible ways to further reduce the FNR in cN+ patients have been extensively discussed in
      the recent years. In 2016, a novel surgical approach (TAD = targeted axillary dissection) has
      been reported that consists of inserting a marking (e.g. a clip or a radioactive tracer) into
      the metastatic lymph node before NACT. In patients in whom the marked lymph node (target
      lymph node = TLN) and the sentinel node had been successfully removed, the FNR was as low as
      1.4%. These retrospectively analyzed data from a prospective register support the hypothesis
      that TAD can improve the relatively low success rates of SLNB and reduce the long-term
      morbidity of patients undergoing axillary surgery in the neoadjuvant setting.

      Several issues regarding currently used axillary staging techniques remain yet to be
      clarified. Based on the unclear evidence, the guideline recommendations for the cN+ → ycN0
      patients differ strongly. The current ESMO guidelines state that (1) SLNB may be carried out
      in selected cases, and, if negative, further axillary surgery may be avoided and (2) the FNR
      of SLNB alone can be improved by marking the biopsied positive node(s) to verify the removal.
      In Germany, the S3 guideline (last version: 2020) recommends ALND in patients with initial
      nodal involvement. In contrast, the German Working Group Gynecological Oncology (AGO) changed
      their recommendations in 2019 and endorsed TAD as a technique of choice for this patient
      subgroup. In several European countries (Sweden, Norway, Finland) ALND is still considered
      standard of care for these patients. In others, such as Italy, most patients receive SLNB
      alone without marking and removing the target lymph node. In the current NCCN guidelines the
      TAD is considered an optional technique. A prospective analysis comparing different
      techniques regarding feasibility, safety, morbidity and surgical effort is urgently needed.
      Due to high complexity and discordant recommendations, a randomized trial comparing different
      techniques is hardly feasible and therefore would not clarify currently open issues within a
      reasonable timeframe.

      Based on the lack of sufficient evidence and discrepancies between different national and
      institutional standards, the EUBREAST study group (www.eubreast.com) decided to initiate a
      prospective cohort study as an international project that aims at comparatively evaluating
      data on axillary staging after NACT.
    
  