
    
      Based on principles of NOTES (natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery), a
      mini-invasive therapeutic procedure such as per-oral endoscopic myotomy (POEM) or gastric
      per-oral endoscopic pyloromyotomy (G-POEM) have been assessed as new modalities for treatment
      of oesophageal achalasia or refractory gastroparesis. G-POEM is a new and promising method,
      which is still under investigation as its safety and efficacy has not been established yet.
      There are several questions, which need to be answered before G-POEM is considered as a
      standard clinical procedure. These questions concern, among others, efficacy, safety,
      technical performance etc. Mucosal incision should be endoscopically closed to prevent
      leakage into the abdominal cavity. Obtaining adequate mucosal closure is one of the most
      important steps of the procedure and is essential in avoiding major morbidity. The ideal
      closure technique in patients undergoing G-POEM needs to be established. Several techniques
      may be used for endoscopic mucosal closure: endoscopic clips, OTSC clips, endo-loop based
      methods (KING closure) or endoscopic suture. At present, simple closure with endoscopic clips
      has been the most frequently described method for mucosal closure in patients undergoing
      G-POEM. However, as gastric mucosa is thicker compared to the esophagus, where clips are used
      for POEM without any major problems, several authors have described problems during gastric
      incision closure - it takes a rather longer time, some clips cannot be placed and in some
      patients, other closure method had to be used. Thus, endoscopic clips may not be an ideal
      closure method in the stomach. A platform that replicates a principle of surgical suturing is
      endoscopic suturing system.

      The aim of this prospective, open-label study is to compare efficacy and safety of two
      methods for incision closure in patients who undergo G-POEM: endoscopic clips vs. endoscopic
      suturing system (OverStitch).

      Investigators plan to randomize 30-40 patients (15-20 in both arms, ratio 1:1).

      The assigned closure method will be decided by an endoscopist prior to starting closure.
    
  