
    
      The participants will enter the lab three times. On their first session, the level of
      severity of hallux valgus of the participant will be identified. The participant will sit in
      a chair, with their bare feet resting on the ground. A picture of their foot will be taken in
      the transverse plane. Another picture will then be taken of the foot when the individual is
      in a standing position. The participant will not experience any pain or discomfort during
      this test as only 2 pictures will be taken of the foot.

      The participant will then have range of motion testing performed on their first
      metatarsophalangeal joint. This will be performed by the researcher passively dorsiflexing
      the first metatarsophalangeal joint and measuring the angle created with a goniometer.

      The participant will also have an orthotic foot casting performed by a pedorthist. This foot
      casting will be performed to create a mould of the foot that will be used by a pedorthist to
      construct the orthotic.

      After the participant put on the standard footwear (no orthotic) they will be set up with
      optotrak markers with three on the first ray, three on the midfoot, three on the heel, and
      three on the medial distal tibia. Then the participant will walk across a 10m walkway with a
      force plate embedded half way along the walkway at a constant velocity for a total of 15
      trials. The participant will rate their pain on the visual analogue scale (VAS) immediately
      following the completion of the 15 walking trials.

      On the second session, the participant will once again be set up with optotrak marker and
      will perform 15 walking trials with the standard footwear (no orthotics) and rate their pain
      level on the VAS. The custom orthotic will be placed in the standard footwear. Then the
      participant will perform 15 walking trials and rate their pain on the VAS. The participant
      will then be instructed to wear the orthotic for seven hours a day, seven days a week for two
      weeks. During this two week period, the principal investigator will call the participant
      once, after about 1 week, to ask about how the orthotic wear is going. In specific, how often
      they have been wearing it and for how long.

      Two weeks later, the participant will return for their final testing session. This session
      will consist of a repetition of the 15 walking trials and vas ratings with both the standard
      footwear (no orthotic) and the standard footwear with the custom orthotic. The participant
      will then be debriefed and offered the opportunity to opt to have a summary of the results
      when the study is completed sent to them. They will be allowed to keep the custom orthotic.
    
  