
    
      Strategies reducing salivary viral load could contribute to reduce the risk of transmission
      of SARS-CoV-2. Thus, the use of mouthwashes with antiseptics that have virucidal activity can
      be a simple and low-cost preventive strategy that could easily be applied in the general
      population. To evaluate the effect of several antiseptics to neutralize or reduce the
      SARS-CoV-2 viral load in vivo in saliva samples, a multicentre, randomized, blind,
      five-parallel-group, placebo-controlled trial has been designed.

      The study will be performed in Madrid, Valencia and Murcia regions in Spain, in five
      different hospitals: Fundación Jiménez Díaz University Hospital (Madrid, Spain), Villalba
      University General Hospital (Madrid, Spain), Infanta Elena University Hospital (Madrid,
      Spain), Virgen de la Arixaca University Hospital (Murcia, Spain) and Clínico de Valencia
      University Hospital (Valencia, Spain).

      Every patient included is previously diagnosed and hospitalized because of SARS-COV-2
      infection, being admitted mainly for respiratory pathology. All of them will be adults (age
      >18 years) and provide their voluntary written or oral consent to participation according to
      the hospital's ethics committee recommendations.

      After approval of consent, the hospital staff responsible for the interventions will
      consecutively assign each participant a code following the order from a previously randomly
      generated table. The code will consist of a patient number and a letter corresponding to one
      of the five study groups (A, B, C, D and E), that will be known to the clinical personnel but
      unknown to the laboratory personnel who will process samples and extract RNA, as well as to
      those that will analyse the data. In this way, participants will be randomly assigned to one
      of the five treatment groups and the blind will be achieved by using identical tubes with the
      same volume for both mouthwashes and placebo.

      Every included patient is asked not to eat, drink anything but water, chew gum, smoke, brush
      their teeth, or use any mouthwash for one hour prior to sample collection. In addition, they
      are not allowed to drink for half an hour after the mouthwash and eat for the entire test.

      Five mouthwashes are randomized: 2% povidone-iodine (group A), 1% hydrogen peroxide (group
      B), 0.12% chlorhexidine (group C), 0.07% cetylpyridinium chloride (group D) and distilled
      water (group E), as the control group. Group C (Clorhexidina dental PHB©) and D (Vitis Xtra
      Forte©) rinses are ready to use in their commercial formulas. In the case of the mouthwashes
      A and B, the concentrations have to be adjusted to those previously indicated by diluting
      commercial formulas with distilled water minutes before rinsing (3 mL of povidone-iodine 10%
      for oral use with 12 mL of distilled water, in group A; and 5 mL of hydrogen peroxide 3%-
      Oximen© with 10 mL of distilled water, in group B). All mouthwashes and their respective
      dilutions are commercial products classified as safe.

      A total of 4 non stimulated saliva samples will be collected for each patient: one basal and
      three after the mouthwash, at 30 minutes, at 60 minutes and at 120 minutes, respectively. The
      patients will be asked to provide each unstimulated saliva sample into a sterile 10 cm
      diameter plastic container (at least 0.5 mL of sample) by drooling, avoiding spilling
      secretions of bronchial origin. Immediately after each sampling, 0.5 mL of saliva will be
      transferred to a sterile Eppendorf tube with 1.5 mL of virus inactivating buffer labeled with
      the patient code and sample time and kept at 4 °C. The four Eppendorf tubes per patient will
      be introduced in an airtight bag, containing protecting absorbent material in case of
      undesired opening or breaking. The secondary containers will be introduced in a rigid box
      according to UN3733 standards and sent to laboratory by courier service for analysis.

      An aliquot of 1 ml of each saliva sample diluted in the virus inactivating buffer in
      proportion 1:3, will be used for RNA extraction using a standard TRIzol-based method.
      Briefly, 3 ml of TRIzol and 600 ul of chloroform will be added, vortexed vigorously for 15
      seconds and incubated on ice for 10 minutes. Then, samples will be centrifuged at 12,000 g
      for 15 min at 4 °C and the aqueous phase transferred to two clean microtubes with 750 ul of
      isopropanol. Tubes will be mixed by inversion and incubated during 15 minutes before
      centrifugation at 12,000 g for 10 minutes at 4 °C. Supernatant will be discarded by
      decantation and pellets washed with 1 ml 80% cold ethanol, vortexed to mix thoroughly and
      centrifugated at 7,500 g for 5 minutes at 4 °C. Supernatants will be carefully aspirated and
      discarded, and pellets dried at room temperature for 10 minutes before being resuspended in
      15 ul of RNAse -free water and pooled in a single tube.

      One step rRT-PCR will be performed using SuperScript™ III One-Step RT-PCR System with
      Platinum™ Taq DNA Polymerase (Invitrogen-12574026) according to manufacturer's instructions.
      For the amplification of the SARSCoV-2 E (betacoronavirus screening assay) gene, PCR will be
      performed following the Charité-Berlin protocol in a LightCycler 480 2.0 (Roche) platform. In
      the same run, samples will be amplified with housekeeping human gene RNP (Ribonuclease P)
      primers to assess specimen quality. All samples will be run in two replicates, together with
      a previously known positive and negative controls. Virus copies will be quantified using a
      10-fold dilution standard curve of RNA transcripts previously generated (EDX SARS-CoV-2
      Standard, EXACT DIAGNOSTICS EDX). Virus copies were normalized by ml of saliva.

      Regarding the analyses to be performed, the main objective of the study is to determine the
      effect of the different mouthwashes on the SARS-Cov2 viral load in saliva tested in vivo.
      Thus, the primary outcome will be the change in salivary viral load between baseline and the
      three post-mouthwash timepoints in each treatment. In addition, the correlations between the
      basal viral load prior to rinsing with the different clinical data collected, such as age,
      sex, days since the appearance of symptoms and days since the patients' virus positivity
      determined by PCR of nasopharyngeal samples will also be studied. Finally, the possible
      associations between categorical clinical variables and the frequency of patients who improve
      in viral load at different times for the different treatments will be evaluated.

      Considering that each volunteer act as their own control, when comparing the viral load
      values in saliva at every time with respect to the levels prior to rinsing with the
      mouthwash, a sample size of 15 patients per branch was considered sufficient to identify
      significant viral load differences of more than 20% between timepoints, assuming a 10% loss
      of patients due to abandonment or low viral load and adopting an alpha of 0.05 and a power of
      0.8. As 5 branches were programmed in the trial (povidone-iodine, hydrogen peroxide,
      chlorhexidine, cetylpyridinium chloride and the control), 75 patients were the minimum number
      of total individuals to be recruited, who will be distributed among the different hospitals.

      A Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be used to test average differences, both for the paired
      case, (when comparing observations in different timepoints for the same individuals), and for
      the un-paired case (when comparing different treatments based on relative changes of viral
      load). In addition, some tests for association between paired samples using Spearman's
      correlation coefficients will be performed to assess the relationship between viral load and
      other clinical continuous variables. Finally, in order to evaluate associations between
      clinical categorical variables and the frequency of responders/non-responders to the
      treatments, the investigators will carry out chi-squared contingency table tests. The
      investigators define as responder an individual exhibiting an improvement equal to or greater
      than 90% of basal viral load. All computations and tests will be performed using R
      environment for statistical computing version 3.6.3 and its 'stats' package [R Core Team
      2020].
    
  