
    
      Blood samples and urine cultures will be obtained from asymptomatic renal transplant clinic
      patients. If the urine culture is positive (> or = 105 cfu/ml), we will determine the host
      and bacterial virulence factors associated with asymptomatic bacteriuria (ASB) and compare
      these results to transplant patients that develop a symptomatic UTI. The patient's clinical
      information, laboratory data and the bacterial isolate responsible for the UTI will be
      collected at the time of their clinic visit and subsequently analyzed.

      After the first visit (Day 0 after signing consent) blood and urine will be collected,
      subjects will be put into either ASB Positive or ASB Negative groups based upon the results
      of their urine culture. From that point, those who test into the ASB Negative group will have
      an additional urine culture, either by returning to the clinic or by sending a urine culture
      mailer kit, and if cultures remain negative, they will be discharged from the study after
      reviewing medications, adverse events and completing a urinary tract infection risk
      questionnaire.

      For those who test into the ASB Positive group, those subjects will be monitored by the
      subject returning to the clinic on Day 10-14, at 1 month, 2 month, 3 month and 6 months for
      blood and urine collection, review of medications and adverse events, and completing a
      urinary tract infection risk questionnaire. Should the subject have symptoms of a UTI, the
      subject will be treated with the appropriate antibiotic for which the bacterial isolated from
      their urine culture is sensitive. Patients will return to the clinic 10-14 days later for a
      repeat urine culture, complete a urinary tract infection risk questionnaire, and have a
      repeat urine culture to confirm they are urinary tract infection free. At this point, the
      subject will be discharged from the study after reviewing medications and adverse events.

      It is predicted that 75% of patients will test into the ASB Negative Group and do not require
      antibiotic therapy. We predict that 25% of patients will test into the ASB Positive Group,
      but that less than 5% of these patients will ultimately develop a symptomatic UTI and require
      antibiotic treatment.
    
  