
    
      This is a single center open-label pilot study to be performed at the University of Utah
      Hospital. Patients that are referred for first time ablation of paroxysmal or persistent
      atrial fibrillation (AF) will be considered to be enrolled in the study. An electrocardiogram
      (ECG) will be performed at the time of the first clinic visit with the documentation of the
      rhythm. All patients will be started on an oral anticoagulation (either a novel
      anticoagulation agent or warfarin with a targeted international normalized ratio (INR) of
      2-3). All patients will have a basic metabolic panel, complete blood count, prothrombin
      time/INR, thyroid-stimulating hormone, and a chest x-ray at the time of the first clinic
      visit. Women of childbearing potential will have a β-human chorionic gonadotropin test to
      rule out pregnancy. Within a month prior to the planned ablation, all patients will undergo a
      DE-MRI to assess pulmonary vein anatomy, fibrosis burden and distribution, and left
      ventricular function.

      All patients will undergo a transesophageal echocardiogram immediately prior to the ablation
      procedure to rule out thrombus within the left atrial appendage. If thrombus is detected, the
      procedure will be postponed. AF ablation procedure will consist of pulmonary vein isolation
      using the Medtronic Arctic Front Advance Cryoballoon Catheter. Following PVI, additional
      lesions will be placed targeting areas of fibrosis by further manipulation of the catheter
      from its position within pulmonary vein.

      Following ablation, all patients will be observed for 24 hours to assess immediate post
      procedural complications. All patients will be continued on anticoagulation for at least two
      months. Patients may be continued on oral anticoagulation beyond two months post-ablation if
      they are determined to have a high stroke risk profile.

      A DE-MRI will be performed on all patients within 24 hours of ablation to assess esophageal
      thermal injury. Patients with severe esophageal enhancement will have a repeat DE-MRI within
      24 hours. Patients with moderate enhancement will have a repeat DE-MRI within 1 week. All
      patients with persistent esophageal enhancement on repeat DE-MRI will be referred for
      esophagogastroduodenoscopy. All patients will be placed on a proton pump inhibitor for 1
      month.

      All patients will be discharged with a 60-day event monitor. Continuation of antiarrhythmic
      medications will be at the discretion of the performing physician. Following the procedure, a
      90-day blanking period will start. Following the blanking period, patients will be monitored
      for one year for recurrence of AF. Recurrence of AF is defined as a detectable episode of AF,
      atrial flutter, or atrial tachycardia lasting at least 30 seconds. AF recurrence will be
      assessed by 30-day event monitors at 3, 6, and 12-months following the blanking period. A
      chest x-ray will be performed in all patients at the time of their first follow up visit.

      All patients will undergo a DE-MRI at 3 months at the time which ablation scar size and
      burden, progression of left atrial fibrosis as well as presence of pulmonary vein stenosis
      will be assessed.
    
  