
    
      Nesiritide is the recombinant form of human B-type natriuretic peptide (hBNP). The drug is
      indicated for the IV treatment of patients with acutely decompensated congestive heart
      failure who have shortness of breath at rest or with minimal activity. hBNP has been found to
      have favorable effects on the hemodynamic profile of patientswith heart failure, producing a
      dose-dependent fall in systemic vascular resistance (SVR) and a mild reduction in arterial
      pressure. Furosemide (Lasix) is frequently administered to patients with acutely
      decompensated heart failure to relieve pulmonary vascular congestion and promote diuresis.
      The efficacy of furosemide is based on its ability to markedly enhance sodium excretion and
      decrease intravascular volume despite the presence of decreased renal perfusion pressure.
      However, furosemide is associated with a variety of deleterious effects and, by itself, may
      not consistently cause diuresis or natriuresis. The administration of intravenous (IV)
      furosemide causes a slight increase in mean arterial pressure and systemic vascular
      resistance and a decrease in cardiac output before the onset of diuresis in patients with
      heart failure. This results in alterations in renal blood flow and a decrease in glomerular
      filtration rate (GFR). These effects are related to the activation of the renin
      angiotensin-aldosterone (RAA) systemIn addition, the plasma norepinephrine level increases
      acutely after administration of IV furosemide. Chronic use of furosemide further aggravates
      the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and RAA activation due to relative reductions in
      intravascular volume. In previous studies of patients with congestive heart failure (CHF),
      nesiritide increased natriuresis and diuresis while maintaining or increasing GFR.
      Additionally, hBNP has produced neuroendocrinologic alterations including decreased
      aldosterone levels and a mild decrease in peripheral renin activity. Therefore, nesiritide
      may inhibit the anti-natriuretic effect of angiotensin II and aldosterone on proximal and
      distal tubules of the kidney. Given the contrasting properties of furosemide and nesiritide
      on neuroendocrine activation in the setting of heart failure, the combination of these agents
      may be synergistic. Nesiritide may reduce the mild acute vasoconstrictor and
      neuroendocrinologic properties of furosemide while augmenting its diuretic and natriuretic
      effects. This trial is a randomized, open-label, three-way crossover design study. The
      patient population will consist of patients with symptomatic CHF (New York Heart Association
      [NYHA] Class II or III). All patients are to receive all 3 of the following treatments,
      administered in randomized order. TREATMENT A: Furosemide administered as a 40 mg IV bolus
      over 2 minutes. TREATMENT B: Nesiritide administered as a 2 mcg/kg IV bolus, followed by an
      infusion of 0.01 mcg/kg/min for 6 hours. TREATMENT C: Treatment B for at least 15 minutes,
      then administration of treatment A. Each of the treatments will be administered according to
      1 of the 6 sequences to which patients are randomized. Each treatment will be followed by a
      1-day equilibrium period. Efficacy will be assessed by the evaluation of urinary excretion
      rate of sodium, urinary flow rate, urinary excretion of potassium, calcium and magnesium,
      urinary excretion of cGMP and furosemide, change from baseline in plasma aldosterone, change
      in BNP levels and iohexol clearance (Glomerular Filtration Rate). Safety will be assessed
      through out the study by way of physical examinations and evaluation of daily blood
      chemistries, adverse events (AEs), and serious adverse events (SAEs). TREATMENT A: Furosemide
      administered as a 40 mg intravenous (IV) bolus over 2 minutesTREATMENT B: Nesiritide
      administered as a 2 mcg/kg IV bolus, followed by an infusion of 0.01 mcg/kg/min for 6
      hoursTREATMENT C: Treatment B for at least 15 minutes, then administration of treatment A
    
  