
    
      Evidence has been limited on the effect of hot showers on postpartum fatigue, mood, and
      comfort in women giving vaginal birth. This study aimed to determine such effects in a
      randomized controlled trial conducted in a hospital in Turkey. Participants were recruited
      from a hospital located in the Nigde province in the Central Anatolia region in Turkey. The
      data of the research were collected between 9 April 2018 and 13 February 2019.

      Puerperal women who had given birth in vaginal way and who were in the maternity ward of the
      hospital and who were between 6 and 12 hours postpartum were included in the study. The
      computer-generated randomization list was prepared by an independent biostatistician using
      the PASS program (PASS 11.0.4, NCSS, LL. Kaysville, Utah, and USA). Women who met the
      inclusion criteria were randomized into intervention group (IG) and the control group (CG)
      based on age and parity status (through one-to-one matching) by computer. A total of 128
      volunteers, 64 in each group, were included in the study in order to be able to determine an
      effect size of 0.5 between the two groups, with an error risk of α = 0.05 and 80% power ratio
      to represent the medium effect size using Cohen's (1988) effect size. However, it was
      predicted that there might be withdrawals during the study, and 136 women, 68 in each group,
      were included in the study.

      Puerperium Introduction Form (PIF), Puerperium Follow-Up Form (PFF), Visual Similarity Scale
      for Fatigue (VSSF), Visual Analogue Scale for Fatigue and Disomfort (VAS-F and VAS-D),
      Postpartum Comfort Questionnaire (PPCQ) and Brief Mood Insight Scale (BMIS) were used to
      collect data.

      At the first interview, 6 and 12 hours postpartum, PIF, VAS for fatigue and discomfort, and
      VSSF were filled in for the puerperal women in the Intervention Group (IG) and Control Group
      (CG). In the CG, women were provided routine care practices in the postnatal care unit of the
      hospital. In the IG, in addition to the routine care practices of the clinic, a hot shower at
      a standing position was provided. The temperature of the water was adjusted according to the
      preferences of the women to between 37 and 41 °C with a digital shower thermometer, and the
      women were allowed to shower for 10-20 minutes in a standing position. After the shower
      procedures, the information on and individual views of the puerperal women were recorded in
      the PFF. One hour after the completion of the hot shower procedure, the VAS for fatigue and
      discomfort, the VSSF, the PPCQ, and BMIS were filled in for the final test.

      Data analyses were conducted using IBM SPSS 25.0 software. Chi-square and t statistical tests
      were used to to determine whether the socio-demographic and obstetric characteristics. For
      numerical variable comparisons between groups were evaluated using two independent samples
      t-test for variables that provide normal distribution assumption, and the Mann-Whitney U test
      for variables that do not provide a normal distribution assumption. For numerical variables,
      the comparisons of the groups over time were made with Repeated Measures ANOVA. The
      Bonferroni test was used as a multiple comparison test. In cases where p <.05, the difference
      between groups was considered statistically significant.
    
  