
    
      -  HESTIA5 will evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of ticagrelor versus placebo
           in children with SICKLE CELL DISEASE during treatment for at least 12 months and up to a
           maximum of 24 months.

        -  The target population are children (males and females) aged 6 months to <18 years and
           body weight ≥6 kg diagnosed with homozygous sickle cell or sickle beta-zero-thalassaemia
           confirmed by high-performance liquid chromatography or hemoglobin electrophoresis. The
           aim is to randomise 20 patients in the age group 6 to <24 months. At least 50 patients
           should be randomised in each of the age groups: ≥2 to <12 years and ≥12 to <18 years.

        -  Prior to randomisation in this study, patients aged 6 to <24 months will undergo a
           14-day Run in period in which they will receive open-label ticagrelor twice a day for 14
           days according to weight. Run-in period includes 4 visits, called R1, R2, R3 and R4. The
           run-In period is to ensure that the treatment is well-tolerated, and that the exposure
           is in line with model-based predictions following repeated twice a day dosing with
           ticagrelor in this age group. At the end of the Run-in period (Visit R4), the patient
           will take his/her final dose of open-label IP and await the independent Data Monitoring
           Committee chairman's evaluation of tolerability, safety and exposure before being
           eligible to enter the Screening period for randomisation. Patients who complete the
           Run-in period according to the protocol must also meet all the inclusion/exclusion
           criteria detailed in Protocol, to proceed to randomisation.

        -  To be eligible for the study, patients must have experienced at least 2 VASO-OCCLUSIVE
           CRISES (defined as painful crisis and/or ACUTE CHEST SYNDROME) events in the past 12
           months prior to Visit 1, (patients aged 2 to <18 years) and prior to visit R1 (patients
           aged 6 to <24 months) indicating that the severity of the patient's disease justifies
           preventive chronic long-term treatment. Even if painful VASO-OCCLUSIVE CRISES are
           uncommon in infants and become more frequent in older children, data show that symptoms
           like dactylitis precede more severe events and confirm that children who have early
           dactylitis are more likely to have severe events later in life.

        -  Study participants should receive standard of care for SICKLE CELL DISEASE, adjusted to
           the individual patient at the discretion of the investigator, including routine health
           care screening examinations and immunizations to local guidelines and health care
           programmes. Study drug will be given on the background of standard treatments for SICKLE
           CELL DISEASE. Study participants are not withheld from any other treatments that may be
           used in SICKLE CELL DISEASE (eg., hydroxyurea) during the trial, which is important
           considering the use of a placebo control group. However, restrictions apply to some
           medications and interventions that may be necessary for the patient's health and
           well-being during the study.

        -  Patients are to be followed until a common study end date (CSED) is reached defined as
           12 months after the last patient is randomized. Treatment duration is at least 12 months
           for study participants, and patients will continue on treatment until 12 months after
           last randomized patient or up to a maximum of 24 months. The expected average follow-up
           is 18 months, assuming a uniformly distributed enrolment period of 12 months.
           Considering inclusion of patients with at least 2 VASO-OCCLUSIVE CRISES in the past
           year, this treatment duration is considered long enough to evaluate effects on
           VASO-OCCLUSIVE CRISES events as well as to capture safety and tolerability data
           supporting a potential future long term use of ticagrelor.

        -  Due to ticagrelor mechanism of action and the potential to reduce symptoms caused by
           ischemia during a vaso-occlusion, a composite endpoint with painful crises and/or ACUTE
           CHEST SYNDROME has been selected for the primary endpoint. Painful crisis is the most
           common reason for emergency department visits for patients with SICKLE CELL DISEASE with
           a significant impact on young patients' lives, affecting them physically and
           emotionally. Secondary endpoints are included to broaden the understanding of effects in
           patients with SICKLE CELL DISEASE and to also assess potential benefits on symptomatic
           disease burden and health-related quality of life (HRQL).

        -  Patients will be treated with 5, 10, 15, 30 and 45 mg twice a day or matching placebo,
           depending on body weight.
    
  