
    
      The major obstacle of the long- termed success of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is
      the restenosis. Restenosis results from complex pathopysiological response of the vascular
      tissue to the balloon injury. In the pre-stent era, 80% of it was attributed to vascular
      recoil. However, by way of the mechanical support of metallic stent, recoil is no more the
      major reason of restenosis. About 80 % of In-stent restenosis resulted from intimal
      hyperplasia.

      The mechanism of the Intra-stent restenosis included 4 stages. First stage comprised the
      first 3 days after balloon injury, when the inflammatory reaction is most severe throughout
      the course. At that time, anti-inflammatory drug as steroid would be helpful to prevent the
      course of restenosis. Until the end of the third week, smooth muscle cells migrate and then
      proliferate in the second and the third stage, and the key effort to prevent restenosis right
      now is inhibition of cell cycle. Intravascular radiotherapy (so called Brachytherapy) and
      stent-based drug elution target upon them. Among them, rapamycin and paclitaxel proved to be
      effective both in animal and human experience. The last stage is re-epithelization, estrogen
      could promote the process and was considered to be effective in this stage.

      Stent-based elution of corticosteroid, despite of its feasibility and safety, was not as
      effective as other anti-proliferation agent ( eg. Rapamycin etc). The major reason might be
      the patient group with coronary artery disease is a heterogenous one.

      We believe if we applied corticosteroid over the patient with elevated inflammatory
      parameters, i.e. acute coronary syndrome (ACS) the effect of anti-restenosis would be
      obvious.

      In this study, by a special-designed, phosphorylcholine-coated stent, dexamethasone could be
      readily absorbed and then gradually released locally even 4 weeks after deployment.

      We expected a reduction of In-stent restenosis in ACS patient by the method with no or few
      systemic adverse effect of steroid; and angiographic follow-up as well as intra-vascular
      ultrasound assessment would be performed according to pur protocol.
    
  