
    
      Experimental approach:

      8 participants will be included in this study. Each participant will consume the supplement
      only once in a randomized fashion during three separate visits and there will be
      approximately 1 week between each visit.

      Standardized meal:

      Participants will be provided a standardized diet one day prior to experimentation. When
      performing research involving human metabolism it is important that the participants be
      tested in a weight-stable state. Therefore, the investigators will estimate the participants
      resting energy expenditure using a widely reference prediction formula, known as the
      Harris-Benedict equation. This formula takes into account gender, body mass, height, age, and
      self-reported activity level. Once resting energy expenditure is calculated the investigators
      will provide each participant with a pre-packaged standardized diet for the day prior to the
      experiment that is designed to ensure a sufficient energy balance.

      Dual Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry (DXA) Scans:

      DXA scans will be used to determine the participants body composition. The DXA procedures use
      a small amount of radiation to determine how much fat, bone, and lean mass the participants
      have in their body. The procedure takes approximately seven minutes and involves the
      participants lying still on an open bed while the sensor passes over the participants body.

      Arterialized blood sampling:

      All blood sampling will be achieved through an intravenous indwelling cannula. This method
      provides the least trauma to the participant when repeated blood sampling is required and is
      convenient for the investigators. In theory, repeated needle sticks may stress the
      participant thereby increasing sympathetic nervous system activity, thus causing changes in
      metabolism. Additionally, another potential drawback from venous blood sampling is the
      influence by regional tissue specific metabolism, thereby making it difficult to interpret
      whole-body metabolism on the basis of metabolites measured in venous blood. Therefore,
      arterial blood sampling is deemed the ideal method for metabolic studies. Arterial
      cannulation, however, may be unethical for research purposes due to increased risk of
      complications, such as damage to the arterial wall, thrombosis, and clot formation, all of
      which may cause death. Arterializing the blood being sampled can be achieved through heating
      either the superficial antecubital vein or dorsal hand vein with a heating blanket or
      specialized heat box. By doing so, blood flow increases as a result of vasodilatation of
      vessels in the arms skeletal musculature, as well as arteriovenous anastomoses in skin. Due
      to the increased blood flow and negligible muscle mass at the hand and elbow, results in
      venous blood being similar in composition to an arterial sample. This method is a widely used
      surrogate for safe direct arterial blood sampling. Once arterialized blood samples are
      obtained they will be preserved and used in analyses. The investigators will utilize heating
      blankets (Theratherm Large Digital Moist Heat Pad [14" x 27"]) to arterialize the blood
      samples and an infrared thermometer (Nubee, NUB8380) to determine the skin temperature
      (45-68∘C) prior to drawing the participant's blood.

      Per-protocol conditions will include:

      Consumption of a standardized meal the evening prior to each trial and consistent
      exercise/activity 2d before each trial There will be ~1wk between trials (washout periods)
      Blood samples will be analyzed for plasma amino acids, glucose, and insulin.

      Experimental Interventions (randomized order):

        1. Participants will consume a Low Protein Containing Breakfast (10% of the Acceptable
           Macronutrient Distribution Range according to the Food and Nutrition Board of the
           Institute of Medicine) and 2 hours later the participants will consume 17g of a leucine
           enriched whey protein- hydrolyzed whey protein-micellar casein blend (50:43:7
           whey:hydrolyzed-whey:casein) containing 600 IU Vitamin D and 3.5g leucine

        2. Participants will consume a High Protein Containing Breakfast (25% of the Acceptable
           Macronutrient Distribution Range according to the Food and Nutrition Board of the
           Institute of Medicine)

        3. Participants will consume a Low Protein Containing Breakfast (10% of the Acceptable
           Macronutrient Distribution Range according to the Food and Nutrition Board of the
           Institute of Medicine)

      Proteins were provided by Covance Laboratories, Inc. owned by Eurofins.

      The whey protein and micellar casein are milk proteins derived from cow's milk. The
      participants will consume the 17g of protein contained in a semi-solid bar equal to ∼40g,
      which is the size of a typical sports recovery bar.

      Sample size and data analyses:

      The sample size was determined by a statistical power analysis (G*Power 3.1 software, version
      3.1.9, 2014) that revealed a large effect size. This study was powered on the basis of
      previous studies. Thus, a total of 8 (n = 8/group) participants will be used in analyses. See
      Below:

      Analysis: A priori: Compute required sample size ANOVA: Repeated measures, within-between
      interaction Input Effect size f = 0.5 α err prob = 0.05 Power (1-β err prob) = 0.95 Number of
      groups = 3 Number of measurements = 14 Corr. Among rep. measures = 0.5 Nonsphericity
      correction ε = 1 Output Noncentrality parameter ƛ = 63 Critical F = 1.6380186 Numerator df =
      26 Denominator df = 78 Total sample = 9 Actual power = 0.997
    
  