
    
      Excess consumption of red and processed meat is a growing problem, especially in the United
      States where meat is consumed more than three times the global average. Epidemiological
      evidence for the association between excess meat intake and negative health outcomes (such as
      cancer, cardiovascular disease, and type 2 diabetes) as well as negative environmental
      impacts (such as pollution, overuse of resources, and carbon emissions) indicates that
      reducing meat consumption should be particularly pertinent to researchers and other public
      health professionals.

      The potential of using widespread communication campaigns, such as Meatless Monday, to reduce
      meat consumption by educating individuals on the associated health and environmental risks
      appears to be promising. However, the current literature is missing information regarding
      what types of messages are most effective (e.g. negative environmental messages vs. negative
      health messages). To address this knowledge gap, our study will collect quantitative data in
      measurable outcomes to understand effectiveness and comprehension of environmental messages
      and health messages to reduce meat consumption.

      Setting: This is an online study using Qualtrics, so this research does not involve talking
      to human participants.

      Recruitment: Participants will be recruited through Prime Panels, a survey research firm
      through which participants voluntarily sign up to participate in research studies.

      Informed Consent: Participants will read a written consent document that includes information
      about the study's purpose, expectations, and possible risks and benefits. Participants will
      acknowledge that they have read and agreed to the terms by clicking forward.

      Randomization: Participants will be randomly assigned to one of three groups: 1) control
      (about checking their credit score), 2) environment-focused Meatless Monday messages, or 3)
      health-focused Meatless Monday messages.

      Assessment: Using an online platform (Qualtrics), participants will answer a screening
      question about red meat consumption. If they are eligible (consumption of red meat 1 time per
      week or more), they will proceed to the main study after reading and agreeing to the written
      consent form. Participants will then answer two questions about their belief in climate
      change. Participants will then view four messages in their ascribed conditions. After viewing
      all 4 messages, participants will answer a series of questions about the messages they
      viewed. Then, participants will answer a series of demographic questions. Participants will
      also answer questions about grocery shopping preferences.

      Detailed description of the trial arms: This study is a three-armed between subjects' design.
      Participants will be randomized to view a set of four messages either about the environmental
      harms of meat production (intervention), the health harms of meat consumption (intervention),
      or about checking their credit score (control). The environmental and health harms messages
      were obtained from existing publicly available messages from the Meatless Monday campaign.
    
  