
    
      T1DM is an autoimmune disease that can emerge suddenly, causing dependence on insulin for
      life. This means that the immune system (the part of your body that helps fight infections)
      mistakenly attacks the cells in the pancreas that produce insulin (beta cells). As beta cells
      are destroyed, one's ability to produce insulin is decreased. Insulin helps keep blood
      glucose (sugar) levels normal.

      For a period right after diagnosis, the pancreas is still able to make small amounts of
      insulin. Individuals with diabetes who have the ability to produce some of their own insulin
      may be able to achieve better blood sugar control than people who produce no insulin at all.
      Based on previous research, doctors think that giving medicines to affect the immune system
      soon after diagnosis may stop, delay, or decrease the destruction of beta cells, resulting in
      better glucose control. This can help prevent secondary complications of diabetes down the
      road.

      Research has improved the outlook for T1DM over the last decade. Doctors are investigating,
      for example, how to save insulin-producing cells and extend the honeymoon period as long as
      possible.

      Despite progress towards understanding the science behind T1DM, there remains a significant
      need to investigate alternative approaches to this disease in order to bring about long-term
      remission. For this reason, scientists are working hard to develop new treatments that can be
      given soon after diagnosis to preserve the remaining beta cells.

      Currently there is no cure for T1DM; however, with new investigational medications and
      innovative clinical research studies, such as T1DAL, a new approach towards managing T1DM may
      be on the horizon.

      Enrollees will receive weekly intramuscular injections of alefacept or placebo for two 12
      week periods, with a 12-week pause between treatment intervals. This schedule or drug dosing
      may be altered due to the needs of the subject or at the discretion of the physician
      investigator.
    
  