
    
      This is a randomized, blinded study. Following REB approval, eligible patients electing to
      undergo TKA will be identified by either the PI or co-investigators, and approached in an
      orthopaedic outpatient clinic to discuss enrolment into the study. Patients will be enrolled
      if they meet the prerequisite inclusion criteria and have signed an informed consent.
      Patients will then be randomized to undergo a TKA using PSI, or a conventional TKA. The
      randomization sequence will be computer generated using blocks of five. Preoperative
      Assessment At baseline, patients will complete a Knee Society Score (KSS), Short-Form 12
      (SF-12) Questionnaire, and Western and McMaster University Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC)
      questionnaire, and the European Quality of Life Scale Index (EQ-5D). The EQ-5D is a
      validated, reliable, and feasible outcome measure that provides a utility index. This utility
      index allows quality adjusted life years to be calculated following an intervention. The
      questionnaire is a 5-item standardized generic measure of health related quality of life that
      includes domains of mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain and discomfort, and anxiety
      and depression. Each item is scored using a 3-point response scale and each combination of
      response choices describes a health state (resulting in 243 possible health states). Each
      health state can then be converted to a utility value ranging from 0 (worst) to 1.0 (best)
      using existing preference valuation data[22]. It has been valuated in both Canadian and
      American populations for use in assessing health-related quality of life [23, 24]. We will
      then calculate each patient's quality-adjusted life year (QALY). QALYs incorporate both
      length of life and quality of life into a single measure and are calculated by multiplying
      the utility value by the length of time spent in that health state. Additionally, a clinical
      assessment will be completed, including knee range of motion, ligamentous assessment, and
      evaluating for soft tissue contractures. Finally, patients will have 3-foot coronal and
      sagittal standing radiographs of their lower extremities at our institution. The standing
      mechanical axis of the involved limb will then be calculated. Skyline views will also be
      performed as part of the radiographic analysis. In order for appropriate preoperative
      planning, patients randomized to PSI will undergo a computed tomography (CT) scan of the
      surgical limb using the TruMatch TM scanning protocol. Following modifications made by the
      treating surgeon, the personalized patient instruments will be manufactured in standard
      fashion. Intraoperative Assessment On the day of surgery, patients will receive either a
      spinal or general anesthetic based on recommendations from an anesthetist, or personal
      preference. A non-sterile tourniquet will be applied to the operative limb. A mid-line skin
      incision followed by a medial parapatellar arthrotomy will be used for exposure. The femoral
      and tibial cuts will be made using conventional instrumentation in the control group, or the
      TruMatch TM Personalized Solutions Instruments in the treatment group. Soft tissue balancing,
      including releases and removal of osteophytes, will be performed at the discretion of the
      surgeon. The Attune TM components will be implanted using cement fixation. At the time of
      cementing the implants, patients will receive a parenteral weight-based dose of tranexamic
      acid (20 mg /kg), provided that there are no contra-indications. Prior to closure, patients
      will receive an intra-articular injection of an anesthetic cocktail. The parapatellar
      arthrotomy and subcutaneous tissue and skin will be closed in standard fashion.
      Post-operatively, patients will receive deep-vein thrombosis prophylaxis for 14-days
      post-operatively. They will also receive 24 hours of post-operative parenteral antibiotics.
      They will be assessed by physiotherapy, with weight-bearing and range of motion exercises
      beginning on post-operative day 0. Patients will be discharged from hospital once they have
      reached appropriate rehabilitative milestones outlined by our institution. Postoperative
      Assessment Patients will have routine follow-up with their surgeon at 2-, 6-, and 12-weeks,
      followed by 1-year and every other year thereafter. Three-foot coronal and full-length
      sagittal standing radiographs, as well as skyline views of the involved knee, will be taken
      at the 1-year postoperative visit. We will calculate the mechanical axis of the operative
      limb based on this postoperative radiographic assessment. The patients will complete the KSS,
      SF-12, WOMAC, and EQ-5D questionnaires at their 6-week, 12-week, and 1-year visits. These
      outcome questionnaires will be collected prospectively at 5-years and 10-years
      post-operatively through our institution's database. Assessors of both clinical outcomes and
      mechanical axis will be blinded to surgical intervention (conventional instrumentation versus
      PSI TKA). Patients will also receive a health care resource use diary to complete between
      follow-up intervals in order to collect outpatient direct and indirect costs associated with
      TKA. Costs Our institution's costs-accounting department will provide information regarding
      operating room costs, implant costs, and costs associated with routine care such as nursing,
      medications, and investigations. Physician-related costs will be acquired through Ontario
      Health Insurance Plan billing protocols. The outpatient cost analysis diary will capture
      direct, non-medical costs associated with TKA (see Appendix C). The data will be reported in
      Canadian dollars for the fiscal year in which the in-hospital cost data was derived. A sample
      database we are currently employing in an unrelated study can be provided if required.
      Cost-Utility Analysis Incremental Cost-Utility Ratio (ICUR) The ICUR represents the ratio of
      incremental cost to incremental utility. The incremental cost represents the additional cost
      of the PSI group compared to the conventional group. The costs will include all direct
      (operating room, hospital stay, rehabilitation, medications, investigations) and indirect
      costs (informal care, time lost to productivity). Similarly, the incremental utility is the
      mean difference in QALY between groups. Net Benefit Regression We will use the net benefit
      regression (NBR) framework to estimate the incremental net benefit (INB) of PSI [25]. An
      intervention is considered to be cost-effective if the INB is greater than zero. The net
      benefit regression method also provides a means to adjust for any potentially confounding
      factors and therefore allows greater statistical efficiency and provides a more precise
      estimate of the INB. We will include the following covariates in our regression models:
      baseline utility score, severity of osteoarthritis, age and number of comorbidities. To
      characterize the statistical uncertainty around our estimate of INB we will calculate 95%
      confidence intervals, and a cost-effectiveness acceptability curve (CEAC). Modeling To
      determine the cost-effectiveness of a new intervention, an economic decision model is
      appropriate when there are multiple existing sources of evidence to answer a question (e.g.
      randomized trials, cohort studies, registries, etc.) or to forecast the costs and/or outcomes
      beyond the follow-up period of the clinical trial. Given that PSI is a relatively new
      technology, there is no long-term data available to accurately determine the survival of the
      implant or the rate of revision. To accurately answer this question, we will prospectively
      follow the cohort long-term to determine survival rates of the implant.
    
  