
    
      The proposed cognitive-behavioral intervention protocol to modify the risk of exposure and
      acquisition of HCMV in pregnant women will include a two components. The first component of
      the trial will consist of a pilot study in which 100 women enrolled in the parent study will
      be asked to participate in this substudy. We will target women with young children in the
      household and households with more than 5 inhabitants as these two characteristics have been
      shown to be associated with virus excretion in pregnant women in this population, and by
      inference, exposure and acquisition of HCMV during pregnancy in this maternal population.
      Women will be counseled at enrollment utilizing both a brief counseling session that will
      provide basic information about HCMV and congenital HCMV (cCMV) infections, and an
      individualized behavioral skills session. A take home packet describing the; (i) cCMV
      infections, (ii) routes of virus acquisition/spread and measures to limit virus spread, and
      (iii) guidance in behavior modifications to reduce risk of exposures and infection with HCMV
      will be provided. Enrollees will be seen during their following prenatal visits and asked to
      complete a questionnaire that will include a self-assessment of adherence to recommended risk
      reduction behaviors, understanding of routes of HCMV transmission, and importantly, the
      burden of introducing recommended risk reduction practices into their daily routines. In
      addition, we will poll these women on the most effective components of the
      cognitive-behavioral intervention pilot. Data derived from these questionnaires will
      represent the outcome of this pilot study and will permit us to modify the strategy that will
      be deployed in the larger intervention trial.

      The second component will consist of a larger trial of cognitive-behavioral intervention
      trial to limit HCMV exposure and acquisition in pregnant women in this maternal population.
      Women \ will complete a standard questionnaire that will provide demographics such as
      description of housing, number of people in household, number and ages of children.
      Information will also be gathered on number and age of sexual partners, previous STIs, and if
      partner currently resides in household. Standard of care counseling will include discussion
      of sources of infections and routes of acquisition. After enrollment, women will be
      randomized to standard of care of counseling or the HCMV exposure risk reduction intervention
      strategy by assignment of every other enrollee to the intervention cohort. Women enrolled in
      the exposure risk reduction intervention will receive standard of care and receive an
      individualized behavioral skills session from a trained nurse or health educator (see
      following section). As part of enrollment in this study, all women will provide permission to
      screen their newborn infants or any specimens from miscarriages or fetal loss for HCMV
      infection. Samples of prenatal blood specimens collected as part of routine care will be
      stored for future use and enrollment saliva swab, vaginal swab, and urine will be obtained
      and stored for studies of viral load and baseline viral genomic diversity. The behavioral
      intervention group will also watch a short video detailing basic information about HCMV, the
      natural history of HCMV infections (sources and routes of transmission), and consequences of
      maternal infection during pregnancy to the outcomes of pregnancy. Within this video will be
      explicit and specific descriptions of exposures, such as kissing young children on the mouth,
      handling objects that have been or could have been in the mouths of young children, and the
      importance of hygiene after exposure to urine during diaper changing. After viewing the
      video, a nurse (or health educator) specifically trained to reinforce the information in the
      video will provide a brief behavioral skills session, and distribute a take home packet
      containing an information pamphlet. Study participants will receive weekly brief text
      messages for the initial 12 weeks to deliver reminders of recommended behaviors to limit
      risks of exposures. To power this study for a 50% difference in the outcome of pregnancy
      (delivery of a infant with cCMV infection) in a population with the incidence of cCMV of
      0.6%, we have estimated that 4300 women will be required. Between the two hospitals and
      clinics that serve the population in this study, approximately 4700 deliveries take place per
      year. Our plan is to enroll patients over 2 years, thus we believe that we can enroll 5,000
      women in this study.
    
  