
    
      Migraine-like PTH is an ideal patient population to test the effects of the H3-L6
      intervention for several reasons. First, although PTH is considered a secondary headache
      syndrome, the fact that migraine-like PTH has a phenotype indistinguishable from primary
      migraine disorders and shares common pain-related comorbidities (e.g. anxiety, depression)
      suggests that shared biochemical mechanisms may underlie both conditions. Second, many PTH
      patients experience poor or incomplete therapeutic responses to available treatments, often
      while suffering from drug-related adverse effects. The prospect of improved headache outcomes
      with concurrent reduction in medication use (as seen in the Chronic Daily Headache Trial) may
      be particularly beneficial in PTH, since certain headache medications (e.g. opiates, muscle
      relaxants, sleep aids) have cognitive side effects, which may worsen residual cognitive
      impairment from Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI).

      While PTH is an important cause of disability after TBI, problems with memory, executive
      function, depression, anxiety, irritability, fatigue, post-traumatic stress, and other
      neurobehavioral disorders are also common after TBI and contribute to disability. The H3-L6
      (High Omega-3 Low Omega-6) intervention increased circulating concentrations of several key
      bioactive mediators which could hypothetically also have favorable effects on these
      TBI-associated non-headache impairments associated with TBI combat injuries. Omega-3 fatty
      acids have been widely studied in pre-clinical models and human TBI and demonstrate promising
      evidence of both neuroprotective and neurorestorative efficacy.

      Potential mechanisms include antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and pro-neurogenic effects. In
      our pilot study, the H3-L6 intervention significantly increased circulating levels of
      docosahexaenoic acid-eicosapentaenoic acid (DHA-EPA) , a potent stimulator of neurite growth
      and synaptogenesis in hippocampus and other central nervous system (CNS) tissues.
      Corresponding increases in the synaptamide biosynthesis in central nervous system tissues
      could hypothetically assist cognitive and functional neurorecovery associated with traumatic
      brain injury. Further, the reduction of proinflammatory metabolites of omega-6 fatty acids
      may provide additional benefits beyond what can be achieved through omega-3 supplementation
      alone.

      Study Type: Interventional, Phase 2, double blind Study Design: Allocation: Randomized,
      parallel group Masking: Double Blind (Participant, Investigator, Outcomes Assessor) Primary
      Purpose: Treatment

      Primary Outcome Measures:

      Hypothesis and Objective: The investigators will obtain support for the following hypotheses
      through three specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1: To compare the efficacy of the H3-L6 Diet to the Control Diet, in reducing
      headache pain and improving headache-related quality of life.

      Hypothesis 1: Compared to the Control Diet, the H3-L6 Diet will produce significant
      improvement in:

      (1a) the Headache Impact Test-a headache-specific quality of life measure-Primary Clinical
      Outcome);

      (1b) mean total Headache Hours per day; and

      (1c) mean Severe Headache Hours per day.

      Secondary Outcomes Measures:

      Specific Aim 2: To evaluate whether the H3-L6 Diet can increase circulating anti-nociceptive
      omega-3 metabolites, and reduce pro-nociceptive omega-6 metabolites, in patients with
      Posttraumatic Headaches.

      Hypothesis 2: Compared to the Control Diet, the H3-L6 Diet will produce significant increases
      in anti-nociceptive omega-3 metabolites including 17-hydroxy DHA (Primary Biochemical Aim),
      and reductions in pro-nociceptive omega-6 metabolites.

      Other Outcomes Measures Specific Aim 3: To explore the potential of the H3-L6 intervention
      for improving non-headache TBI outcomes.

      Hypothesis 3: Compared to the Control Diet, the H3-L6 Diet will produce significant
      improvement in:

      (3a) non-headache pain; (3b) depression/anxiety; (3c) symptoms of post-traumatic stress
      disorder; (3d) cognitive function; (3e) sleep quality; and (3f) will significantly reduce the
      use of acute pain medications. Enrollment: Up to 300 total participants enrolled among the 3
      military sites for 120 12-week diet completers
    
  