
    
      Study subjects:

      We conducted a prospective comparative study to investigate 50 patients receiving an ERAS
      pathway incorporated with pre-operative physical therapy and education for MIS-THA and 25
      patients receiving conventional MIS-THA. We included the patients with advanced osteonecrosis
      of femoral head or hip osteoarthritis receiving unilateral primary MIS-THA performed by the
      same surgeon at the same hospital. We excluded patients with renal or hepatic function
      impairment which precluded multimodal pain control. However, we did not preselect patients
      with younger age or better activity level. This study was approved by the Institutional
      Review Board at National Taiwan University Hospital. Written informed consent was obtained
      from all patients.

      ERAS for MIS-THA versus conventional MIS-THA:

      In this study, ERAS for MIS-THA was defined as the ERAS pathway incorporated with
      pre-operative short-term physical therapy and education for MIS-THA. On the other hand,
      conventional MIS-THA in this study was defined as the conventional pathway without
      pre-operative physical therapy and education for MIS-THA. Both of ERAS for MIS-THA and
      conventional MIS-THA comprised the same MIS-THA techniques, multimodal pain control,
      standardized volume management and PONV prophylaxis, deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis and
      post-operative rehabilitation program.

      Pre-operative physical therapy and education:

      Pre-operatively in the outpatient clinics, we informed patients that the discharge days
      depended on the rehabilitation progress by oral and written information. We also gave
      patients the detailed information about rehabilitation program and discharge criteria. We
      consulted physical therapy specialists for one session of physical therapy intervention
      before operation. The standardized pre-operative physical therapy programs included three
      parts. First, posterior dislocation precautions were well explained to the patients,
      including no hip flexion greater than 90 degrees, no hip adduction or hip internal rotation
      beyond neutral, and no combination of the above motions. Then, therapeutic exercise programs
      given in acute post-operative inpatient phase were demonstrated and practiced, including
      ankle pumps, quadriceps sets, gluteal sets, bed-supported knee bends, active hip abduction,
      and straight leg raising. The patients were instructed to do these exercises by themselves at
      home until the day of operation. Last, the patients received activity and functional
      training, including bed mobility, transfer skills, gait training with appropriate assistive
      device and weight bearing to tolerance, stair training, and modified activities of daily
      living following precautions.

      MIS-THA techniques:

      We utilized posterolateral mini-incision techniques with posterior capsulotendinous repair to
      the posterolateral aspect of greater trochanter bone for every patient receiving MIS-THA. The
      incision size was routinely 5-8 cm with hip in flexion position based on body build. We did
      not use surgical drains.

      Multimodal pain control:

      For post-operative analgesia, we used multimodal pain control protocols including pre-emptive
      oral analgesics (acetaminophen, celecoxib, tramadol, gabapentin), intra-operative
      periarticular injection with cocktail mix of analgesics and antibiotics (levobupivacaine,
      ketorolac, epinephrine, cefazolin), post-operative oral analgesics (acetaminophen, celecoxib,
      tramadol, gabapentin), and intramuscular ketorolac as needed to control pain without reliance
      on morphine. Levobupivacaine used in our periarticular injection is a safer analgesic
      compared with bupivacaine in terms of cardiovascular adverse effects. We did not routinely
      use patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) pumps containing morphine unless there was a request
      from the patient.

      Standardized volume management and PONV prophylaxis:

      For standardized volume management, we used tetrastarch colloid solutions and restrictive
      strategy of allogenic blood transfusion (hemoglobin < 9 g/dl with altered vital signs or
      hemoglobin < 7 g/dl without altered vital signs). For PONV prophylaxis and treatment, we used
      esomeprazole, metoclopramide, ondansetron, and normovolemic fluid control with tetrastarch
      colloid solutions.

      Deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis:

      For deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis, we used anti-embolism stockings and daily enoxaparin
      (40mg) starting from 12 hours after operation for 2 days then oral aspirin for 6 weeks. We
      used a short-duration anti-thrombotic agent combined with aspirin and early mobilization
      because the risk of deep vein thrombosis after THA with short-duration pharmacological
      prophylaxis and early mobilization was quite low. Besides, Asians have a 70% lower prevalence
      of venous thromboembolism compared to Caucasians.

      Post-operative rehabilitation program:

      Post-operative rehabilitation program was the same as pre-operative physical therapy and was
      conducted with close observation of patient's pain tolerance and general conditioning. All
      patients were discharged direct to their residences without any home-care rehabilitation
      service.

      Discharge criteria:

      For ERAS for MIS-THA patients and conventional MIS-THA patients, we used uniform discharge
      criteria including being self-dependent, being able to walk with crutches or walkers,
      sufficient pain control with oral analgesics, no infection signs, well knowledge of position
      restriction, and being able to perform home exercise.

      Outcome measures:

      A database was established for prospective collection of patient demographic, pre- and
      post-operative data for statistical analysis. The evaluator was blinded to the grouping of
      patients in data collection. Primary immediate outcomes were post-operative length of
      hospital stay and the rate of same-day independent mobilization (ambulation without
      assistance from another person within 24 hours after operation). Other immediate outcomes
      included post-operative visual analog scale (VAS) pain scores, analgesics usage, the rate of
      blood transfusion and PONV. Short-term outcomes were post-operative 1-year Harris hip score,
      Oxford hip score, and EQ-5D index of self-reported health-related quality of life. We also
      recorded adverse events as well as hospital cost and profit.

      Statistical analysis:

      A priori sample size determination was based on post-operative length of hospital stay, which
      was the primary outcome measure. The sample size was calculated to detect a mean difference
      of 3 days in post-operative length of stay between ERAS for MIS-THA patients and conventional
      MIS-THA patients assuming a standard deviation of 3.5 days. We assumed a two-sided type I
      error of 0.05 and a power of 80%. This resulted in a required sample size of 22 in each
      group. In this study, we included 50 patients in ERAS group and 25 patients in conventional
      group, respectively. The case number in this study was sufficient for a priori sample size
      calculation.

      Data are presented as mean ± standard deviation and ratio. Student t-test, Mann-Whitney U
      test, Chi-square test and Fisher exact test were used to compare continuous or categorical
      variables between different groups of subjects. Multivariable regression analysis by best
      subset regression was used to identify significant variables affecting post-operative length
      of hospital stay. Longitudinal analysis by Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) using
      robust standard errors was used to compare repeated measurements such as post-operative VAS
      pain scores. STATA 11 statistical software (StataCorp LP, College Station, TX, USA) was used
      for statistical analysis. A two-tailed p value of < 0.05 was considered statistically
      significant.
    
  