
    
      160 patients will be enrolled and randomized with a treatment arm allocation ratio of 1:1 in
      the Phase 2 study. At enrollment, patients will be assessed with medical history,
      physical/neurological examinations, standard laboratory evaluations (CBC with differential
      and comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP)), baseline brain MRI with and without gadolinium,
      cognitive testing and patient-reported outcome questionnaires of HRQoL. On the first day of
      BMX-001 (loading dose), patients will be evaluated with medical history, patient
      physical/neurological examinations, and standard laboratory evaluations (CBC with
      differential and CMP), and ECG. Patients in Arm A will be administered BMX-001 subcutaneously
      first as a loading dose before the start of chemoradiation and then at maintenance dose (50%
      of the loading dose) twice a week for 8 weeks. Because oxidative stress continues to occur
      for up to several weeks following RT, the proposed protocol includes administering BMX-001
      both before the start of RT and continuing for 2 weeks after the completion of RT and TMZ.
      TMZ will be dosed at 75 mg/m2 orally daily for 42 days and RT will be delivered in daily
      fractions of 1.8-2 Gy given 5 days a week for 6 weeks for a total of 59.4-60 Gy. During
      standard RT and TMZ, CBC with differential and CMP will be obtained weekly. Two weeks after
      the completion of standard RT and TMZ and every 8 weeks during adjuvant TMZ, patients will be
      evaluated with the following: medical history, physical/neurological examinations, Brain MRI
      with and without gadolinium, cognitive testing and patient-reported outcome questionnaires of
      HRQoL. Two weeks after the completion of chemoradiation, patients will transition to adjuvant
      chemotherapy with TMZ dosed at 150-200 mg/m2 orally for 5 days of a 28-day cycle for a total
      of 12 cycles. In light of the findings that BMX-001 can spare radiation-induced hair loss in
      a mouse model [41], we will evaluate and describe hair loss as an exploratory outcome in HGG
      patients by evaluating hair at baseline and then every 8 weeks. Patients will be discontinued
      from the study if they experience progression of disease, death or withdraw informed consent.
    
  