
    
      Patient participation in clinical trials is crucial to ultimately shaping change in care
      delivery and development of new treatments that improve quality of life and meaningful
      patient outcomes. While they hold much value, the time and resources patients must allot to
      participation in protocol requirements of some clinical trials can be a barrier to trial
      enrollment. With the advent of Distance Health, and Virtual Visits in particular, accompanied
      by an increase in patient utilization of home computers and smart phones, patients are
      swarming to different communication platforms with their care providers. We hypothesize that
      distance health technology with virtual visits hold the key to improving access for patients
      who wish to partake in clinical trials, clearing barriers to enrollment.

      If the virtual administration of clinical trial assessments is non-inferior to the tests
      regularly administered during in-clinic research related visits, this approach should be
      adopted by industry-sponsored and investigator initiated research studies in heart failure
      cohorts. If patients have the technological means and willingness to participate in the
      study, the ability to perform these tests in the comfort of their own home will likely make
      clinical trial enrollment more attractive and feasible for the patient. Furthermore,
      increasing clinical trial enrollment by diminishing access barriers will improve patient care
      by including a more diverse patient population in study enrollment and decrease study follow
      up attrition rates.

      At the baseline visit prior to consent, potential subjects will be shown the distance of
      30-50 feet while in the clinic setting, in order to determine if walking distance is feasible
      in the home environment. Once consented patients will complete an in-clinic baseline visit
      consisting of Medical Hx review, New York Hospital Association (NYHA) assessment,
      Questionnaires (EQ-5D-5L, KCCQ, Frailty Index for Elders & Mini Cog) and Functional
      Assessments (Timed Up & Go and 6MWT). Patients will also receive virtual visit training.
      Efforts will be made to enroll subjects from all the various NYHA class distinctions
      (II,III,IV). A baseline virtual visit will be completed in the clinic setting to ensure
      patient can perform the functional portion of the virtual visit in the home.

      All follow-up visits will occur via virtual distance health visits. These f/u visits will
      occur 2 times after the initial baseline visit (Day 7and Day 14 [+/- 3 days for all f/u time
      points]. It is felt that 2 f/u visits completed in the home will reflect adequate data
      regarding feasibility for performing the procedures in the home environment while also
      reflecting the real time changing functional fluctuations of the patient with chronic HF. At
      the initiation of each distance health f/u visit the patient's current state of health will
      be assessed as well as NYHA. Questions will be asked of the patient to assess any changes in
      medical condition since the previous visit. Visit procedures will be rescheduled if the
      patient indicates that they are not feeling up to completing the study procedures on the
      scheduled day. Patient Questionnaires(EQ-5D-5L, KCCQ & Frailty Index) and Functional
      Assessments(Timed Up & Go and 6MWT) will be completed.

      In order to complete the study procedures in the home during the distance health visits,
      patients will be provided with 2 cones and a measuring tape for marking the distances for the
      functional assessment tests.

      If at anytime, the subject indicates distress or injury (ex: falling) while performing study
      procedures, the research staff will call 911 on the patient's behalf.
    
  