
    
      In Latin American countries certain procedures commonly used in obstetrical care (e.g.
      episiotomy) have been shown to be ineffective or harmful. This study hypothesizes that
      obstetrical procedures can be changed and new guidelines implemented via peer opinion leader
      training. It tests an intervention designed to motivate and facilitate health care
      professionals' development through the implementation and maintenance of simple
      evidence-based guidelines to increase the use of evidence-based practices by birth attendants
      at the hospital level in Argentina and Uruguay. The primary outcomes are the use of
      episiotomies and of oxytocin during the third stage of labor; secondary outcomes include
      perineal sutures; postpartum hemorrhages; birth attendants' readiness to change status. The
      sample size was based upon a 10% frequency of oxytocin use and 20% use of episiotomies in the
      control group. The study hypothesizes a 40% absolute increase in oxytocin use in the
      intervention group; a 20% absolute reduction in use of episiotomies in the intervention
      group, calculated at a 0.05 significance level with 80% power.

      Following baseline data collections in 24 hospitals, 19 hospitals met inclusion criteria in
      three urban districts of Argentina and Uruguay and were randomly assigned to an intervention
      or control group. Baseline data collection has been completed with a total of 6597 single
      vaginal spontaneous births. The 19 hospitals met inclusion criteria with a rate of active
      management of third stage of labor under 25% and an episiotomy rate in spontaneous vaginal
      deliveries above 20%. Opinion leaders in the intervention hospitals have been identified and
      trained to develop evidence-based guidelines that will be diffused by a multifaceted approach
      including seminars, academic detailing, reminders, and feedback on utilization rates. The
      hospitals in the nonintervention group will continue with their standard in-service training
      activities.
    
  