
    
      Background

      There are patient and surgical procedure-related risk factors that increase the risk of
      postoperative incisional hernia. Patient-related risk factors: male gender, previous
      laparotomy, over 50 years of age, malignant disease, COPD, hypoalbuminemia, sepsis, obesity
      (BMI> 30 kg / m2), anemia, DM, used to steroid, smoking, chemoterapi, cardiovascular disease,
      RT to the abdominal wall and to be postoperative abdominal wall defects. In studies conducted
      in many centers around the world, it has been shown that the use of prophylactic mesh reduces
      the incidence of incisional hernia, especially in high-risk patients. When the literature was
      reviewed, reviews and meta-analyzes about the use of prophylactic mesh showed a significant
      decrease in incisional hernia incidence. However, routine practice has not yet been
      recommended, as long-term follow-up results and secondary results (complications, cost
      analysis, quality of life) are not clearly explained. However, it has been reported that
      higher quality studies are needed.

      This abdominal closure technique is not used routinely in our country. This study will be one
      of the first studies in Turkey for patient selection in prophylactic mesh use, techniques to
      be applied and early / late results.

      The aim of the study is to compare the classical abdominal closure technique with use of mesh
      in order to minimize the incisional hernia and associated complications after midline
      laparotomy.

      Method

      Patients aged 18 years and over who were scheduled to undergo emergency abdominal surgery
      with midline laparotomy will be randomly assigned (1: 1) to primary abdominal closure or mesh
      group via a computer-generated randomization sequence.

      Detailed information was given to all patients before they were included in the study, and
      their informed consent forms were recorded.

      The method in the primary suture group: The linea alba will be closed to a ratio of 5mm /
      5mm. Only the fascia will be sutured ; fat or muscle tissue will be avoided. Subcutaneous
      tissue will be closed with polyglactin 3/0 suture. The skin will be closed with a stapler.

      Method in the mesh group: After the fascia was closed with the same method, 5 cm of
      subcutaneous tissue will be dissected around the incision. The mesh will be placed in the
      supra-aponeurotic area (onlay) to a distance of laterally and cranial-caudally 5 cm from the
      fascia margins. The mesh used will be partially absorbable, light and large porous. After
      this procedure, the borders of the mesh will be fixed circumferentially on the abdominal wall
      using polypropylene suture to prevent the intestines from herniating on the mesh. Two
      subcutaneous drainage catheters will be placed in all patients with mesh.

      Antithrombotic prophylaxis with low molecular weight heparin, antibiotic prophylaxis with
      cefazolin and metronidazole will be applied to all patients according to the hospital
      protocol.

      Power analysis; To provide sufficient statistical power, sample size calculation was made.
      Incisional hernia rates were estimated between 5% and 25% between the two groups. It was
      calculated that 49 patients per group with 80% test power in the 95% confidence interval
      would be needed. In the follow-up period, it was planned to include 52 patients in each
      group, with the prediction that 5% of the patients would be excluded from the study.

      Data Entry and Statistical Analysis; Kolmogorov-Smirnov and Shapiro-Wilk normality tests will
      be carried out before starting the statistical analysis. If normality cannot be achieved even
      in one of the groups, non-parametric test methods will be selected. Next, the Mann-Whitney U
      test will be used to compare the variables obtained by the measurement between the two
      groups.

      Chi-square and Fisher Final tests will be used to analyze the relationships or differences
      between groups in terms of categorical variables.

      Univariate logistic regression analysis will be performed to determine the factors thought to
      cause an incisional hernia. Then, multivariate logistic regression analysis will be done for
      variables with
    
  