
    
      This pilot project is structured as a pre-post analysis of an implementation strategy to
      address missed opportunities for vaccination (MOV) among hospitalized children in India and
      Nigeria. India and Nigeria have similar rates of missed opportunities for vaccinations, and
      similar discrepancies with monitoring vaccination records when a child is in the hospital.
      The research team intends to collect the same pre-data in both India and Nigeria, implement
      the same intervention in both countries, and collect the same post-data in both study sites.

      The pre-intervention, intervention, and post-intervention, are all described below.

      Pre-Intervention period: The first three months of the project constitute the
      pre-intervention period, and they will consist of a situational analysis which will assess
      the burden of MOV as well as the barriers and facilitators for reducing MOV. Eligible
      participants will be enrolled after providing informed consent. Procedures would include
      verifying vaccination cards and medical records at admission and at discharge, conducting
      in-depth interviews with parents or caregivers during the hospital course, and administering
      structured questionnaires to hospital healthcare personnel crucial to hospitalized child care
      and provision of vaccinations.

      Intervention: This will begin with a co-creation workshop where the results of the
      pre-intervention period will be discussed, and the MOV intervention will be implemented. In
      summary, the intervention will include four components which are: (1) Disseminate
      (vaccination awareness among healthcare providers and child caregivers); (2) Document
      (vaccination status); (3) Deploy (vaccines); and (4) Discharge (provide advice/referrals for
      catch-up and routine vaccinations).

      Using a human-centered design approach, the research team will design an intervention,
      endorsed by local healthcare providers and stakeholders, which will be implemented primarily
      by the existing hospital healthcare staff. Research staff will play a role in data collection
      for monitoring purposes, but will not play a role in implementing the intervention.

      Post-Intervention period: Ongoing data collection after the MOV intervention is initiated and
      continued, will constitute the 'post-intervention' period. During this period, data
      collectors will collect the same data that is being collected in the pre-intervention. The
      research team intends to compare the results of our pre and post intervention data, to
      determine if this intervention has reduced the amount of children who are missed for
      vaccinations.
    
  