
    
      Purpose:

      To determine an optimal dose of dexmedetomidine for its anesthetic sparing effect, without
      extending post-operative stay.

      Hypothesis:

      The investigators hypothesize that dexmedetomidine will cause a clinically significant
      reduction of 30% in the amount of propofol and remifentanil required to maintain adequate
      depth of anesthesia, as monitored through the Bispectral Index.

      Justification:

      The dose-sparing effect of dexmedetomidine on TIVA requirements and the dose-response
      relationship between dexmedetomidine and TIVA dosing regimens has not been explored in young
      children. This study will have many relevant applications to many areas of pediatric
      anesthesia practice, such as craniofacial and neurosurgery, sedation techniques in diagnostic
      and interventional radiology, out of OR sedation, and in all young children in whom
      minimizing anesthesia exposure is increasingly sought given possible concerns over the long
      term neurocognitive effects of surgery and anesthesia in early life.

      Objectives:

      To investigate the dose-sparing effect on a propofol/remifentanil infusion of bolus doses of
      dexmedetomidine and to characterize the dose-response relationship between dexmedetomidine
      doses and TIVA dose reduction.

      Research Design:

      The investigators propose a randomized, 4-group comparative study to characterize the effects
      of different bolus doses of dexmedetomidine on the infusion requirements of propofol and
      remifentanil. The study-specific interventions will include a bolus of dexmedetomidine (or
      placebo) at induction of anesthesia, and maintenance of anesthesia, titrated to a Bispectral
      index of 50-60, with propofol and remifentanil infusions.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Standard statistical analysis will be undertaken using R Foundation for Statistical
      Computing, Vienna, Austria). Summary data will be tabulated and presented as median (IQR).
      Mean infusion rates of propofol and remifentanil will be compared between groups using
      Wilcoxon signed-rank test, with 95% confidence intervals obtained by the Hodges-Lehmann
      estimator. Dose (in mcg/kg) of additional opioids given in PACU will be tabulated and
      compared using Fisher's exact test. Bonferroni corrections will be applied as appropriate
      whenever multiple comparisons are performed.
    
  