
    
      With nearly one million cases of dementia in France in 2010, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and
      related syndromes are a major public health issue. The lake of drug for treatment or
      preventing AD, health related quality of life (HRQoL) became an essential criterion of
      evaluation to assess the treatment strategies of patients. Generic HRQoL tools are generally
      less sensitive for a given disease. That is why other specific tools for AD have been
      developed. None of them was validated in French. The aim of this study was therefore, after a
      review of the literature, to achieve a cross-cultural adaptation and psychometric validation
      of the "Quality of Life in Alzheimer's Disease" (QoL-AD) and "Dementia Quality of Life"
      (DQoL). These two questionnaires were selected because they were the most popular in English-
      language literature for this disease.This study concerned a total of 155 patient-caregiver
      pairs recruited from six French hospitals and a Francophone Swiss center.

      Patients had a confirmed diagnosis of AD (mild stage to moderate: Mini Mental State
      Examination ≥ 10). QoL-AD and DQoL were administered by an interviewer. The caregiver sheet
      of QoL-AD was self-administered. Cross-cultural adaptation and psychometric validation have
      been carried out for these two questionnaires. First step: the linguistic adaptation will be
      performed according to the latest available methodology: that of the " Institute for Work and
      Health ", as recommended 6 phases. Second step: the psychometric validation will be done
      after a multicentric study, cross repeated at weekly intervals for the validation phase ,
      with two longitudinal points for the assessment phase of sensitivity to change. Analysis of
      the results will help define the applicability criteria and psychometric acceptability to
      know the validity of the adapted instrument that is to say, its content validity , validity
      of perceived, validity of structure, validity of agreement , its discriminative ability ,
      reliability explored by internal consistency and stability over time. Longitudinal follow-up
      of patients is expected to also assess the sensitivity to change .
    
  