
    
      This is an exploratory randomized trial on 45 subacute stroke subjects with gait impairment
      following a single anterior circulation subcortical stroke 3-6 months prior to recruitment,
      with comfortable walking speed of 0.2 to 0.4 m/s (which generally describes those who require
      1 person assistance to supervision for ambulation - Functional Ambulatory Category (FAC) 3
      (Kollen, et al. 2006). Exclusion criteria include a history of seizures, uncontrolled medical
      condition or psychiatric history, neglect, aphasia, or any cognitive or behavioural
      impairment causing inability to comply with instructions, cranial surgeries, pacemakers and
      other implants which preclude the use of NIBS. Subjects on psychoactive medications (eg.
      antiepileptics, antipsychotic and antidepressant medications) will be excluded from the
      study. The diagnosis for subjects' eligibility to join the study will be determined by
      subjects' self-report (to obtain medical history), medical records (to verify subjects'
      self-report) as well as assessment by the research staff in the screening session (including
      FMA and 10 meter walk test, ). Subjects should have completed inpatient rehabilitation and
      should not be undergoing any other interventions targeting lower limb recovery during the
      study. Subjects are allowed to continue with outpatient rehabilitation (generally not more
      than twice a week) and home exercise program after the active intervention phase of the
      study.

      45 subjects with stroke will be recruited and randomized into 3 groups by a randomization
      stratification approach with a computer-generated random sequence. Group 1 to receive
      facilitatory 2 mA anodal tDCS for 20min to the affected M1 motor cortical representation of
      the tibialis anterior muscle (TA) together with conventional post-stroke functional mobility
      training; Group 2 to receive 2000 pulses of 10 Hz facilitatory rTMS to the affected motor
      cortex with conventional therapy; Group 3 to receive sham stimulation with conventional
      therapy. All groups will receive 2 weeks (10 days) of tDCS, rTMS or sham stimulation combined
      with daily standardized post-stroke conventional training in functional mobility.

      tDCS A research staff supervised by a physician will apply the tDCS to the subject. Direct
      current will be transferred by a saline-soaked pair of surface sponge electrode (35cm2) and
      delivered by a battery-operated, constant current stimulator with a maximum output of 10mA,
      through a non-metallic conductor rubber electrode. Stimulation will be conducted at the
      intensity of 2 mA and last for 20 minutes. The anode will be placed over the affected primary
      motor cortex (M1) of cortical representation of the tibialis anterior muscle (TA), while the
      cathode will be used as reference electrode and placed over the forehead of the unaffected
      side.

      Sham stimulation The same stimulation parameters as tDCS treatment will be employed for the
      sham stimulation. However, the current will be applied for 30 seconds only, to give subjects
      the sensation of the stimulation. This method of sham stimulation has also been validated
      (Gandiga et al., 2006). Current intensity will be increased and decreased gradually to
      decrease perception rTMS A research staff supervised by a physician will apply the
      intervention of rTMS to the subject. For all TMS procedures, patients will be seated
      comfortably and instructed to remain as still as they can. The height of the chair will be
      adjusted so that both the knees and ankles are flexed at 90 degree and the two feet rest on
      the floor. A tight swim cap will be worn by the subject. The vertex will be marked on the
      cap. Points that are 1 cm lateral and/or 1cm posterior/anterior are marked on the cap.

      Subjects will receive 10 Hz rTMS using Magstim Rapid2, with the double cone coil placed over
      the "hot spot" of the affected M1. The stimulation intensity will set as 90% of RMT (or 80%
      AMT, if RMT is not available), and a total of 2000 pulses will be delivered for one treatment
      session.

      Outcome measures will be obtained before, after the 2-week intervention and 4 weeks
      post-intervention, and will include 1) clinical measures (FAC, gait analysis, 10 meter walk
      test, 6 minute walk test, timed up and go), 2) cortical excitability measures using TMS
      (changes in resting motor threshold (RMT), or active motor threshold (AMT) of the affected
      and unaffected TA and short-interval cortical inhibition/facilitation (SICI/SICF), measured
      according to the technique of Rossini et al. (1994)), 3) MRI measures including diffusion
      tensor tractography (DTT), resting state protocols and GABA scan. 4) Genotyping and blood
      level of BDNF. 5) Psychological and cognitive assessment including Beck Depression Inventory
      (BDI), Fatigue Severity Scale, forward and backward digit span.

      Clinical measures (10 meter walk test, 6 minute walk test, timed up-and-go test, gait
      analysis) A research staff supervised by a physical therapist will perform the functional
      assessment to the subject at the National University Hospital. The functional assessment
      consists of a 10 meter walk test, 6 minute walk test and a timed up-and-go test performed in
      a randomized order. The tester will not provide any assistance as the patient makes their way
      around the track, however, the tester will shadow the patient so as to attend to any problems
      should there be a need to.

      The 10 meter walk test will be performed in a quiet indoor track of 14 meters long. Subject
      should walk at his comfortable pace as usual. The test will be repeated 3 times and the
      average of the duration to finish the 10 meter walk and total steps will be recorded.

      The 6-minute walking test will be performed in an indoor track marked at 5-metre intervals.
      Subject should walk at his comfortable pace as usual. The distance over 6 minutes will be
      measured.

      The timed up-and-go test will involve the subject getting off a standard armchair from a
      seated position, walking 3 meters from the chair, turning back and walking to the chair and
      seating back down. Subject should walk at his comfortable pace as usual. The test will be
      repeated 3 times and the duration the subject takes to perform the whole task will be
      recorded and averaged.

      10 meter walk test, 6 minute walk test, timed up-and-go test altogether will take around 30
      minutes, including set-up time.

      Gait analysis will be performed using the Tekscan walkway system. Subjects will be required
      to walk on a mat at their comfort speed and the process might be video-recorded for future
      analyzing the quality of subjects' movement (face will not be captured and consent will be
      obtained in advance). Gait parameters including step and stride parameters, symmetry scores,
      velocity, and cadence temporal will be collected and recorded while the subject is walk along
      the walkway. The whole procedure will last up to 30 minutes.

      TMS A research staff supervised by a physician will apply the TMS measurement of the cortical
      excitability and intracortical inhibition/facilitation to the subject. For all TMS
      procedures, patients will be seated comfortably and instructed to remain as still as they
      can. The height of the chair will be adjusted so that both the knees and ankles are flexed at
      90 degree and the two feet rest on the floor. A tight swim cap will be worn by the subject.
      The vertex will be marked on the cap. Points that are 1 cm lateral and/or 1cm
      posterior/anterior are marked on the cap.

      Single pulse TMS-Resting motor threshold (RMT) measurement Singe pulse TMS was delivered
      using Magstim Bistim² stimulator via a double cone coil. The double cone coil was oriented to
      induce a posterior-anterior current flow in cortex. The coil was placed on the cap with the
      intersection of the two embedded coils located over the marked point. The coil position was
      maintained manually by an assistant. Surface electromyography (EMG) electrodes are attached
      to the TA for EMG recording. The "hot spot" of the motor evoked potential (MEP) from TA is
      identified first from one of the marked points for both left and right side. This spot was
      marked on the elastic cap and used for all recordings on that side. The lowest intensity
      needed to elicit a MEP response of at least 50µV amplitude and that has been elicited in 50%
      of 8 successive trials will be recorded as RMT.

      Single pulse TMS-Active motor threshold (AMT) The measurement of AMT is similar with RMT
      measurement. Except that subject's feet were constrained by flexible weights placed over the
      dorsum of each foot to ensure isometric activation. The subject was given real time feedback
      of EMG on an oscilloscope to match a target contraction corresponding to 20% maximal
      voluntary isometric contractions (MVIC) for TA. The lowest intensity needed to elicit a MEP
      response of at least 100µV amplitude at the "hot spot" and that has been elicited in 50% of 8
      successive trials will be recorded as AMT.

      Paired-pulse TMS- intracortical inhibition/facilitation measurement A first subthreshold
      conditioning stimulus (80% of RMT) will be applied, followed by a second suprathreshold
      stimulus (120% of RMT) with a variable interstimulus interval (ISI). The following ISIs - 2,
      3, 4, 6, 9, 10, 12, 15 ms will be used. The percentage of change for each ISI before and
      after TMS will be calculated from the MEPs and will therefore provide a measure of change in
      intracortical facilitation and inhibition. Both single- and paired-pulse paradigms will be
      performed on the affected and unaffected hemisphere.

      MRI scan (resting MRI, DTI scan [diffusion tensor Imaging], GABA scan) MRI scan will be
      performed at CIRC, NUS by the staff of CIRC. Prior to the scan, all subjects will be briefed
      of the test procedure and safety aspects. All participants will be scanned on a 3-T GE
      scanner using a standard radiofrequency head coil. Head motion was minimized by foam padding
      and forehead-restraining straps.

      Psychological and cognitive assessment A research staff will conduct Beck Depression
      Inventory (BDI), Fatigue Severity Scale, forward and backward digit span. Digit Span is
      neuropsychological test widely used to assess executive abilities following stroke and is
      sensitive to brain damage (Tamez et al., 2011). The Beck's Depression Inventory will be used
      to screen for major depression. As tDCS has been investigated for use in the treatment of
      depression and cognitive impairment, we added the digit span to control for confounding
      effect of cognitive improvement in this study.For subjects who screen positive for major
      depression or suicidal ideation, the investigator performing the screening will inform a
      physician investigator who will assess and make the necessary referral for psychiatric
      assessment and management.

      Blood BDNF level measurement and Genotyping of BDNF Blood will be taken by a trained research
      staff/research nurse and analyzed at Neuroscience Laboratory, located at the Translational
      Medicine Centre, Yong Loo Lin School using in-house and commercial assays. 10-20 ml of blood
      will be taken each time via venipuncture for three times, at before intervention, after and 4
      weeks after intervention, respectively, that is, at the same time point of other outcome
      measurement. In total, 30-60 ml of blood will be collected for each subject for the whole
      research study. 10ml of blood will be taken from 5 healthy subjects as controls which is
      needed by the BDNF analysis protocol. To minimize the laboratory error during the test
      procedure, each blood sample will be processed first to extract plasma and plasma will be
      stored at -80°C at Tissue Repository, NUH, until all blood samples are collected. All plasma
      samples will be analysed together after the last collection of blood from the last subject.
      Any blood specimens obtained during the study will be stored and analyzed only for the
      purposes of this study for a period not exceeding 5 years and will be destroyed after
      completion of the study.
    
  