
    
      Oral epithelial dysplasia (OED) is a disease associated with an increased risk of oral cancer
      between 6% and 36% compared to disease-free individuals. In the United Kingdom, oral cancer
      is among the 15 most common cancers, with approximately 6,000 new cases per year and these
      numbers are expected to rise in the few coming years.

      Research showed the importance of patient education and the provision of information in
      shared-decision making and management of chronic and cancer-linked disease such as perhaps
      OED. However, patients may not be satisfied with the information provided by healthcare
      professionals, despite the extensive nature of the information provided. Having unmet
      informational needs may associate with higher anxiety levels which in turn could affect the
      patient's well-being and cooperation with the treatment provided.

      Avoiding these undesirable health outcomes requires the delivery of tailored and
      patient-centred care that provides information based on what patients truly need and prefer.
      One increasingly common method to do so is to obtain this information by informational needs
      questionnaires. These questionnaires have been developed for other medical conditions
      including chronic diseases and some cancers, but none of these is known to be appropriate to
      use for OED specifically. Hence, a specific tool to determine the informational needs and
      preferences of patients with OED may help to achieve these objectives effectively. The data
      collected by this tool may help to acknowledge the impact of the illness on physical and
      psychological well-being. Furthermore, this data could be used to produce a source of OED
      information (such as a patient information leaflet) that reflects the IN of this patient
      population.

      In the preliminary work for this study, the Oral Epithelial Dysplasia Informational Needs
      Questionnaire (ODIN-Q) was developed by adopting existing valid and reliable instruments that
      explore the information need of patients with potentially malignant disease elsewhere in the
      body, using experts input. The questions were then formulated and tested for content validity
      by clinicians (n=12) and patients (n=5), with unclear, irrelevant, redundant, and
      unacceptable items omitted. The final 35-item ODIN-Q includes two scales: (1) amount of
      information already received (too much, enough, not enough and none) and (2) degree of
      importance of the information (very, yes, not very, not at all).

      Thus, the objectives of this study are to (1) test the newly developed ODIN-Q in a cohort of
      patients with OED; (2) to investigate the correlations between patients' informational needs
      and both of psychological variables (e.g. anxiety and depression) and quality of life; and
      (3) to develop and a Patient Information Leaflet (PIL) for OED based on patients' needs and
      preferences.
    
  