
    
      Design:

      The trial was designed as a cross-over clustered randomized control trial (each group was a
      cluster), so that each group acted as their own control for their knowledge's retention and
      perception.

      Setting and consent: College of Dentistry, Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz University/Alkharj/
      Saudi Arabia. Written consents were obtained from students before commencing the trail.

      Participants : The cohort of the trial included the whole fourth-year undergraduate class (34
      undergraduate dental students) in order to eliminate selection bias. Participants in this
      study had no prior orthodontic teaching, hence, no bias associated with increased knowledge
      in any orthodontic field was anticipated.

      Randomization: Students were allocated to one of two even groups (G1 or G2) using computer
      generated randomization. each group (G1 and G2) consisted of 17 male students with a mean age
      of (23.27 years ± 0.86).

      Intervention :

      Lectures : Simultaneously, G1 and G2 attended two lectures (L1&L2): L1 was titled "Management
      of Class III malocclusion", L2 was titled "Management of open bite and cross-bite". Both
      lectures were presented at the main campus of Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz College of
      Dentistry and they were conducted in an identical manner in all aspects including:

        -  Presentation in PowerPoint (Microsoft Corp, Redmond, WA)

        -  Both lectures were delivered by the same registered specialist orthodontist (FA),

        -  Learning outcomes of the delivered lectures (T1 and T2) were based on teaching outcomes
           specified by the National Commission for Academic Accreditation and Assessment in Saudi
           Arabia, and

        -  Both lectures delivered over the same period of time. Prior to lectures, students were
           instructed to register with the audience response system (ARS) and download its
           application (Poll Everywhere, San Francisco, California, USA,
           https://www.polleverywhere.com). Additional smart phones were available to students who
           do not have smart phones at the time of the lecture. Students were unaware of their
           allocation until the beginning of the first lecture.

      In the lecture hall, G1 was separated from G2, and both groups completed an assessment of
      written multiple-choice questions (MCQs) scored out of 20, before the lecture. During L1,
      phone based (ARS) questions (PB-ARS) secretly displayed on the smart phones of the students
      in G1, and they were allowed to read the question and answer it, while those in parallel arm
      of the trial (G2) were blinded to those questions and answers. At the end of L1, both groups
      completed the same written MCQs assessment . A similar protocol was undertaken during L2 a
      week later, except that the groups were crossed-over, hence, the group which has had ARS
      integrated lecture in the previous week, has received in a non-ARS integrated lecture, and
      vice versa.

      Formative exam:

      MCQs formative tests consisted of 20 questions related to the taught topics during L1 and L2
      was undertaken. In order to reduce the carry over effect, the PB-ARS questions during the
      lectures were not similar to the MCQs sheet. The used MCQs were piloted between authors to
      ensure its content validity and reliability. Contents validity was tested using test matrix
      and expert judgment. The test reliability was estimated using inter-rater reliability, a
      correlation of more than 0.7 was considered acceptable.

      Summative exam:

      Both groups attended their final written summative exams. L1 was undertaken 11 weeks prior to
      final exam while L2 was undertaken 10 weeks before the exam. The final exam was in MCQs
      format and included questions from all subjects taught in the second semester of the year
      including five questions relevant to the subjects taught in L1 and L2. The exam questions
      were identical for all students and were delivered at the same time under controlled
      conditions. Students who failed to attend the final summative exam were excluded to reduce
      the effect of time factor as confounding factors. The final exam scores of all student to
      questions related to TL1 and TL2 were anonymously collated using an excel sheet by
      independent tutor to reduce reporting bias. The maximum achievable score for the five
      questions relevant to the subjects taught in L1 and L2 was 5.

      Students' perception:

      At the end of L1, both groups were asked to fill a questionnaire regarding their experience
      with the lecture and intervention group participants were asked specific questions about
      their experience with PA-ARS . The used questionnaire was modified version from a previously
      used questionnaire to assess students experience with ARS in a recent trial . Students'
      responses were saved in an excel sheet after each lecture (L1, L2).

      Analysis of the results:

      Students' scores were saved in an excel sheet after each test. A specialized statistical
      analysis software was used (IBM SPSS statistics 22, version 22) The statistician was blinded
      to the allocation group. Scores were analyzed and compared to assess knowledge retention
      using cross-over analysis with Mann-Whitney U test for pre and post lecture quiz and t-test
      for summative test.
    
  