
    
      53 patients ages 18 and over , presenting with wounds with exposed critical structures (bone
      and/or tendon) will be enrolled in the study and randomized into one of two groups. 21
      patients will be in the standard treatment group (Flap based reconstruction) and 32 patients
      will be in the dHACM (EpiFix) + skin grafting treatment group (Experimental). Exclusion
      criteria includes exposed implanted hardware (surgical plates), anticipated need for future
      surgical procedures through the same wound, wounds resulting from surgical removal of
      malignancy, and patients who are not free flap candidates.

      Data will be collected upon enrollment including:

      Background and demographic information Wound size and severity Pain level Medication use
      Photographs of wound

      Flap Reconstruction group (Standard of Care):

      Patients in this group will have any dead, damaged or infected tissue removed from the wound
      and a negative pressure wound dressing will be applied until the wound is clean and adequate
      for flap reconstruction. Following flap reconstruction, patients typically require a 36-48
      hour intensive care unit admission for flap monitoring and 5 days to bed rest to allow for
      proper healing. If the flap is successful, a dangle protocol will occur until patient
      increases the dependent position. Once the dangle protocol is completed, patients may require
      inpatient physical/occupational therapy prior to discharge from the hospital. If patient is
      not healing the physician may discuss other treatment options including crossing over to the
      EpiFix arm or amputation.

      EpiFix and Skin Graft group:

      Patients in this group will have any dead, damaged or infected tissue removed from wound.
      Once it is free from infection, a thin tissue (EpiFix) will be applied directly to the open
      wound. This will be covered by sterile wound dressing. After approximately 5-7 days the wound
      will be assessed for suitability of split thickness skin grafting. If adequately healed, skin
      grafting will be performed. After 5 days, the graft will be evaluated and if successful, the
      patient will be discharged home or to a rehab facility. If the wounds are not adequate for
      skin grafting, additional damaged tissue will removed and EpiFix will be placed until the
      wound is suitable for grafting. If you do not heal sufficiently the physician will discuss
      other treatment options including cross over to the standard of care Free Flap or amputation.

      Study staff will evaluate the wound twice a week for the first 2 weeks, then once a week
      until 6 weeks. At this point, the patient will be followed every 4 weeks up to 22 weeks.
      Visits to the clinic will include wound measurements, photos, pain scale and evaluation of
      any infection.
    
  