
    
      The p53 is a vital human tumor suppressor gene. Loss of p53 suppressor function is present in
      the majority of human cancers. The p53 protein has a diverse range of functions including
      regulation of cell cycle checkpoints, cell death (apoptosis), senescence, DNA repair,
      maintenance of genomic integrity, and control of angiogenesis. Abnormalities of the p53 gene
      may impact the efficacy of standard anticancer treatments such as radiation and chemotherapy.
      P53 mutation and pathway dysfunction are associated with poor clinical outcomes and the
      presence of the p53 mutation correlates with resistance to chemotherapy and radiation. The
      development of somatic gene therapy has created the potential to restore wild type function
      of p53. SGT-53 is a complex of cationic liposome encapsulating a normal human wild type p53
      DNA sequence in a plasmid backbone. This complex has been shown to efficiently and
      specifically deliver the p53 cDNA to the tumor cells and to cross the blood-brain barrier.
      Introduction of the p53 cDNA sequence is expected to restore wtp53 function in the apoptotic
      pathway. P53 restoration has been shown most effective in enhancing cytotoxicity in
      combination with an agent which results in DNA damage or initiates apoptosis. The primary
      mechanism of resistance to current standard chemotherapeutic agent Temozolomide (TMZ) is
      overexpression of O6-methylguanine-DNA-methyl transferase (MGMT), which repairs the
      TMZ-induced DNA lesion by removing the o6-guanine adducts. Thus, a means to down modulate
      MGMT activity would enhance the therapeutic effect of TMZ. A number of reports have indicated
      that increasing wtp53 expression can down-regulate expression of DNA repair genes such as
      MGMT and increases the sensitivity of tumor cells to alkylating agents. This is a Phase II
      clinical trial of the tumor-targeted SGT-53 nanocomplex in combination with chemotherapeutic
      agent, temozolomide which is the standard of care for Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) brain
      tumors. We propose to test the combination of SGT-53 and standard temozolomide to determine
      efficacy and safety in patients with confirmed glioblastoma who have proven tumor recurrence
      or progression.
    
  