
    
      Intervention: Immediately after giving informed consent for the parent study and before
      randomization, research subjects will be asked for consent to participate in EQUIC-DP.

      The parent-study staff will provide the research subject with privacy and place a call to the
      coordinating center. Staff (at the EQUIC coordinating center), who will be administering the
      Brief Informed Consent Evaluation Protocol (BICEP) to the research subject, will introduce
      themselves. Then, the subject will be interviewed using a BICEP structured assessment
      questionnaire of approximately 12-20 open ended questions, aimed at determining the success
      and validity of the informed consent process of the parent study. The results of the
      interviews will be used to fine-tune and adjust both the process of assessing informed
      consent in this manner as well as the questionnaire itself.

      Primary Hypothesis: Enhancing the Quality of Informed Consent Development Phase (EQUIC-DP) is
      a pilot and instrument-development study that will be used as the base for a VA Cooperative
      Studies Program-wide initiative on informed consent, called EQUIC (Enhancing the Quality of
      Informed Consent). EQUIC-DP has as its primary aim the field testing and iterative
      improvement of a method for measuring the success of an informed consent encounter with a
      patient-subject.

      Primary Outcomes: The quality of the informed consent process, as measured by the BICEP
      (Brief Informed Consent Evaluation Protocol). The BICEP also offers a method to certify
      informed consent in routine use.

      Study Abstract: Practitioners of clinical trials have a responsibility to ensure that
      patients participation in research is informed and voluntary. This implies that we should
      continuously strive to improve the effectiveness of methods for informing prospective
      research volunteers about experimental studies, thereby enhancing the likelihood that their
      interests are respected. Innovations in informed consent should be tested in realistic
      contexts (i.e., in clinical trials) and when appropriate with randomization at the first
      opportunity. In this proposed project we take efforts to improve the quality of informed
      consent, based on experimentation with informed consent in ongoing clinical trials in the VA
      Cooperative Studies Program. The CSP is uniquely situated to serve as a testing ground for
      informed consent, not only because of concerns for enhancing consent for human
      experimentation, but also because of the centralized coordination of wide variety of clinical
      studies representing an extraordinary range of patient capacities and vulnerabilities.
      Moreover, such an effort is a special responsibility of the VA given the profound trust
      placed in the research enterprise by veterans.
    
  