
    
      Laryngeal cancer is the second most common head and neck cancer. Each year about 700 people
      are diagnosed with larynxcarcinoma in the Netherlands (Van Dijk et.al. 2013).

      For patients with laryngeal cancer, various treatment options are available, including
      surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and endoscopic (laser) treatment. Each option has its own
      benefits and side effects. The optimal treatment for patients having stage 3 or 4 laryngeal
      cancer is not unambiguously proven. Different treatment options cause different side effects
      that may impact the patients' health-related quality of life. The treatment of choice depends
      on preferences and personal values. In these preference-sensitive choices it is important to
      involve the patient in the decision-making process. In this process both the practitioner and
      the patient exchange information and collaborate in the decision, the physician knows more
      technical information about the disease, the treatment options and the side effects, the
      patient knows how the treatment options correspond with his lifestyle, values and preferences
      (Frosch DL and Kaplan RM, 1999; O'Connor AM, et.al. 2003; O'Connor AM, et.al., 2004).

      Patient Decision Aids (PDAs) are tools that can help patients to get involved in decision
      making by clarifying treatment options, outcomes, and personal values. In the development
      process of a decision aid it is mandatory to follow a systematic and iterative approach to:
      (a) understand patient's decisional needs; (b) create prototypical tools; (c) evaluate these
      prototypes with patients and clinicians, and (d) use these results to improve the tool.

      Considering the International Patient Decision Aid Standards (http://ipdas.ohri.ca/), we
      designed an initial prototype, called Treatmentchoice (http://www.treatmentchoice.info).
      These standards recommend assessing patients and doctors views in decisional needs, use this
      information to develop an alpha version of the PDA and validate it again with patients and
      doctors to create a beta version.

      The aim of this project is user-testing the initial prototype of the Treatmentchoice. This
      will allow us to follow a systematically development process and to gain knowledge on the
      validity of our approach. The project covers 4 chronological activities:

      ACTIVITY 1: ASSES DECISIONAL NEEDS: Elicit patients and clinicians views on patient's
      information, expectations, and needs on decision support. Conclusions and recommendations for
      improvement of Treatmentchoice will be derived and the current prototype will be improved
      creating an alpha prototype.

      ACTIVITY 2: ALPHA-TESTING: Testing patients' and clinicians comprehensibility, acceptability
      and usability on the alpha-version. A mixed method will be used; structured interviews
      combined with think aloud (Ahmed, 2009) and questionnaires (Unified Theory of Acceptance and
      Use of Technology (UTAUT) - Venkatesh et al.2012) with both patients and clinicians (head and
      neck surgeon,medical oncologists an radiation oncologists). Conclusions and recommendations
      will be documented. Considering this assessment, the prototype will be improved. Alpha
      testing will be repeated with this improved prototype using an iterative process, until the
      tool is comprehensible, acceptable and usable for both patients and physicians. A second
      assessment will be performed with a beta prototype.

      ACTIVITY 3: BETA-TESTING: Establish the impact of Treatmentchoice on knowledge, decisional
      conflict and the shared decision making process, as well as the extent clinicians involve
      patients in decision making. The study composes the evaluation of the impact of the
      Treatmentchoice. A variety of questionnaires will be used to assess different outcome
      measures:

        -  Age and educational level, home situation with regard to internet connection.

        -  Knowledge test will be assessed using 20 statements, which can be rated as "true", "not
           true" or "do not know" (Savelberg, 2015).

        -  Decisional conflict will be assessed using the Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS). This
           16-item scale has five subscales: feeling informed, decisional uncertainty, clear
           values, support, and quality of decisions. Each of these items is scored on a five-point
           Likert scale from 1 (strongly agree) to 5 (strongly disagree) (DCS, O'Connor AM, 2010).

        -  Patient's desire to participate in medical decisions will be assessed using a 5-item
           Control Preference Scale (Degner 1997).

        -  The Shared Decision Making (SDM) process will be assessed by the perceptions of
           patients, using the SDM-Q9 instrument for patients. The instrument provides 9
           statements, which can be rated on a six-point scale from 0 (completely disagree) to 5
           (completely agree). (SDM-Q9, Rodenburg, 2015 Dutch version).

        -  The process of SDM will also be assessed by the perceptions of the physician (the
           oncologist or the radiotherapist if the decision is made together with the
           radiotherapist), using the SDM-Q9 instrument for professionals. The instrument provides
           9 statements, also rated on a six-point scale (SDM-Q9,Rodenburg,2015/Dutch version).

      The patients will be asked to fill in the questionnaires at two time points, directly after
      the decision making process and 3 months after the decision making process. Their physician
      will be asked to fill in the questionnaire at 1 time point, directly after the decision
      making process.

      ACTIVITY 4: IMPLEMENTATION: Develop an implementation and dissemination plan for shared
      decision making in prostate cancer. Questionnaires and qualitative interviews will be
      performed to evaluate barriers and facilitators for implementation in clinical practice, to
      develop strategies for the implementation of the decision aid and facilitate optimal shared
      decision making, tailored to the barriers and needs of the end-users. Based on the results,
      an implementation plan will be written
    
  