
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is a common disease, which occurs in 4% middle-aged
      men and 2% middle-aged women. The characteristic of OSA is recurrent collapse of upper airway
      during sleep, which results in intermittent hypoxia and sympathetic activation.
      Cardiovascular complications associated with OSA include artherosclerosis, hypertension,
      coronary artery disease and congestive heart failure. Several inflammatory mediators
      including C-reactive protein (CRP), oxidative stress, adhesion molecules, vascular
      endothelial growth factor and proinflammatory cytokines, were found to be elevated in OSA,
      which attribute the developments of cardiovascular diseases in OSA. Our data showed serum
      levels of TNF were higher in OSA patients than in control subjects. And serum levels of TNF
      were inversely correlated with the lowest pulse oxygen saturation. After one-month CPAP
      treatment, serum of TNF could significantly go down. This finding suggested TNF was a good
      biomarker in studying OSA associated cardiovascular complications.

      The presentations of sympathetic hyperactivity in OSA include hypercatecholaminemia and
      elevated sympathetic tone of peripheral nerve. Hypercatecholaminemia is known for attributing
      to the development of cardiovascular diseases. Our data showed plasma levels of both
      epinephrine and norepinephrine were higher in OSA patients than in control subjects. And the
      elevated catecholamine could go down after one-month CPAP treatment. Meanwhile, our data also
      showed the plasma levels of catecholamine were highly correlated with serum levels of TNF.

      In vivo studies showed both epinephrine and norepinephrine could potentiate LPS-induced
      expression of TNF through 2 adrenergic receptors. However, the effect of catecholamine on
      TNF production in human monocytes in the hypoxic microenvironment has never been studied.
      Our preliminary data showed epinephrine had no effect on TNF expression in human monocyte
      cell line U937 under normoxic condition but could attenuate the TNF expression under hypoxic
      condition. Therefore, we hypothesize that catecholamines can modulate intermittent hypoxia
      induced TNF and further affect the developments of cardiovascular complications in OSA. In
      this project, we'll use peripheral blood monocytes from healthy subjects and OSA patients as
      the target cells, which were serially treated with catecholamine  or b antagonists in both
      normoxic and hypoxic microenvironments, to achieve the following 3 objectives:

        1. . To examine the effect of catecholamines on the modulation of intermittent hypoxia
           induced TNF- in human monocytes from both healthy subjects and OSA patients

        2. . To map the signaling pathway of catecholamines regulating the intermittent hypoxia
           induced TNF- expression.

        3. . To explore the potential therapeutic effects of  or  agonists/antagonists on
           intermittent hypoxia induced TNF- expression
    
  