
    
      The study will be performed as a randomized 12 weeks controlled, cross-over trial, which will
      address the effects on T2D of an isoenergetic low carbohydrate diet (carbohydrate 30 E%,
      protein 30 E%, fat 40 E%) compared to an isoenergetic control diet (carbohydrate 50 E%,
      protein 17 E%, fat 33 E%) currently recommended to individuals with T2D. The study is
      extended with 24 weeks on an isoenergetic low carbohydrate diet to examine the prolonged
      effect of the experimental diet on T2D and its pathophysiology. To test the hypothesis that
      the isoenergetic control diet is detrimental to glucose metabolism after only a short
      transition to this diet, the participants are reinforced to eat that diet during 6 weeks
      after the 24 weeks on low carbohydrate/high protein diet.

      The study includes n=30 subjects with T2D. All study participants will be provided all meals
      for both the low carbohydrate diet and the control diet for free in the first part of the
      study, i.e. week 0 to 12, and these food items will be prepared and distributed from the
      research kitchen of the Department of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports, Faculty of Science,
      University of Copenhagen, Denmark to optimize compliance and adherence to the prescriped
      diet. During the isoenergetic diet study weight stability is reinforced to facilitate
      interpretation of the diet effect. All diets will be isoenergetic in accordance with the
      participant's estimated daily total energy expenditure (TEE). A dual energy X-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA) scan will be undertaken to determine body composition for each
      participant in order to estimate daily resting energy expenditure (REE). To estimate TEE,
      physical activity level expressed as PAL = TEE / REE, will be estimated. If a participant
      develops weight loss or weight gain at three consecutive measurements and/or lose or gain >
      1kg of weight compared to baseline, the amount of energy in the diet wil be adjusted
      accordingly to enforce weight stability throughout the full duration of the study.

      Measurements includes glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and fasting glucose, insulin, C-peptide and
      non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) every 2 weeks during the first 12 weeks of the study and
      every 4 weeks from week 12.

      At baseline, week 6, 12, 36 and 42, respectively larger measurement programs will be
      undertaken including insulin modified frequently sampled intravenous glucose tests (IM-FSIGT)
      and meal tests by use of Minimal Modelling, magnetic resonance imaging (MRi) for fat content
      in liver, abdomen and muscle, adipose tissue biopsies, continous glucose monitoring for
      48-hours including diurnal blood pressure and Holter recording.

      A standard meal will be provided for dinner a day prior to the measurement programs at week
      0, 36 and 42. At weeks 6 and 12 the participants will intake their assigned meals.
      Participants will be informed to refrain from any strenuous physical activity and alcohol
      intake two days prior to and during the measurement program days.
    
  