
    
      Brain tumors, both primary and metastatic present a therapeutic challenge. Radiation therapy
      plays a major role in management of both entities. Nonetheless, local control remains
      sub-optimal in a large proportion of patients. Over the previous decade there has been a
      great deal of progress regarding 1) precision in the localization and targeting of brain
      lesions with radiation, 2) increased use of single/hypofractionation schedules and 3)
      combining fractionated conformal radiation with targeted agents. This trial utilizes a novel
      approach - the combination of an HDAC inhibitor (Panobinostat) with stereotactic
      radiosurgery. The combination blends the advantages of extreme high precision radiation with
      a potent targeted agent - promising enhanced efficacy with minimal toxicity. The
      investigators will examine the combination in three settings, in all of which current
      standard of care is sub-optimal:

        1. Recurrent glioma

        2. High grade meningioma

        3. Large brain metastases from solid malignancies

      Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors, including Panobinostat, radiosensitize tumor cells
      both in vitro and in vivo. HDAC inhibitors modify the expression of approximately 8% of the
      transcriptome83. In particular, they have been shown to down regulate expression of the DNA
      repair enzyme rad51, possibly explaining their radiosensitization properties. It is thought
      that Panobinostat radiosensitizes through an epigenetic mechanism. Since the target of HDAC
      inhibitors includes many proteins beyond histones, many prefer the name "deacetylase
      inhibitors", (DAC).

      There are several lines of evidence suggesting HDAC inhibitors cross the BBB. The
      anticonvulsant valproic acid, a member of the short chain fatty acid class of HDAC
      inhibitors, has a well-recognized capacity to cross the BBB. HDAC inhibitors are also being
      studied in Huntington's disease. Panobinostat is able to cross the blood-brain-barrier and
      influence gene expression in rodents.

      When combining radiation therapy with systemic agents it is generally considered important
      that there is a high concentration of drug present at, or just before, the time of
      irradiation. The goal is to use panobinostat as a radiosensitizer, not a single systemic
      agent. The investigators will administer oral panobinostat 3 times weekly for 2 weeks. This
      is an open label phase I clinical trial with two arms, representing single and fractionated
      radiation therapy (Figure 4.1). Within each arm the radiation dose is pre-determined and not
      escalated. Panobinostat will be administered orally 3 times a week for 2 weeks. Panobinostat
      will be dose-escalated independently in each arm. There is no intra-patient dose escalation.

      Recurrent gliomas (Arm A) will be treated according to the Jefferson protocol for
      re-irradiation, 10 fractions each of 3.5Gy delivered over 2 weeks. Panobinostat will be
      administered orally three times a week for 2 weeks, starting on the day of 1st fraction of
      radiation. High-grade meningiomas (Arm A) will be treated with 6 weeks/30 fractions of
      fractionated radiation therapy, to a total dose of between 54 Gy and 60 Gy in fractions of
      either 1.8Gy or 2Gy. Panobinostat will be administered orally three times a week for 2 weeks,
      starting on the day of 1st fraction of radiation.

      Large brain metastases (Arm B) will be treated with a single fraction of radiosurgery.
      Panobinostat will be administered orally three times a week for 2 weeks, starting on the day
      of radiation. The radiosurgery may be delivered by either LINAC, gamma-knife, cyber-knife or
      tomotherapy technology.

      Radiation treatment: definition of target volumes:

      Recurrent gliomas (Arm A) If progression is diagnosed with the development of new enhancing
      tumor: The gross tumor volume (GTV) will be defined by the new contrast-enhanced T1
      abnormality on the post-operative MRI scan. This will generally include the surgical cavity
      margins from the most recent surgical procedure. If progression is diagnosed with the
      development of new non-enhancing tumor: volumes will be defined through careful comparison of
      new and previous MRI scans in consultation with a neuro-radiologist. This will generally
      include the surgical cavity margins from the most recent surgical procedure.

      The GTV will then be expanded by an additional margin of 5.0 mm to create the PTV. This 5mm
      margin may be reduced, or eliminated around natural barriers to tumor growth such as the
      skull, ventricles, falx, etc, and also to allow sparing of the optic nerve/chiasm or other
      critical structure at the discretion of the treating physician. The minimum dose to the PTV
      will be 95% of the prescription dose (35Gy). The maximum dose to the PTV will be 110%. Any
      beam arrangement and set of energies that accomplishes these criteria is allowed.

      High-grade meningiomas (Arm A) Target volumes will be based upon postoperative-enhanced MRI
      (unless only biopsy was performed). Preoperative imaging may be used for correlation and
      improved identification. The gross tumor volume (GTV) will be defined by the tumor bed on the
      postoperative- enhanced MRI and is to include any residual nodular enhancement. Cerebral
      edema is not to be specifically included within the GTV. The "dural tail" may or may-not be
      included depending on physician preference. The clinical target volume (CTV) will be the GTV
      plus a margin of between 1.0 cm and 2.0cm according to physician preference. The CTV margin
      may be reduced to 0.5 cm around natural barriers to tumor growth such as the skull. The
      planning target volume (PTV) is an additional margin of 3.0 to 5.0 mm, depending upon
      localization method and reproducibility. PTV margins account for variations in set-up and
      reproducibility. The CTV/PTV margins way be modified to allow sparing of the optic
      nerve/chiasm or other critical structure at the discretion of the treating physician.

      The minimum dose to the PTV will be 95% of the prescription dose (35Gy). The maximum dose to
      the PTV will be 110%. Any beam arrangement and set of energies that accomplishes these
      criteria is allowed.

      Large brain metastases (Arm B) Single fraction radiosurgery doses will be in accordance with
      prescriptions from RTOG radiosurgery trial 90-058. Metastases larger than 2 cm but equal to
      or smaller than 3 cm will be treated with 18•0 Gy; and metastases larger than 3 cm and less
      than or equal to 4 cm will be treated to a prescription dose of 15.0 Gy. Radiation therapy
      should be planed in accordance with standard radio-surgical principals, i.e. prescribed to
      the 50% isodose line for gamma-knife and 90% isosurface for LINAC based systems.

      6.3 Technical aspects of radiation therapy Fractionated treatment will be highly conformal
      external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) delivered with either gamma-knife, tomotherapy,
      cyberknife or megavoltage LINAC radiation therapy machines of energy ≥ 6 MV. Any standard
      technique of dose planning including conformal dynamic arcs, 3D-CRT or IMRT may be used.

      For single fraction treatments cyber-knife, LINAC, tomotherapy or gamma-knife based
      radiosurgery may be used.

      Normal tissue constraints Arm A, Recurrent glioma The brain stem: no more than 1cm3 should
      receive more than 30Gy; optic chiasm and optic nerves should not receive more than 25Gy,
      unless included in the target volume.

      Arm A, High-grade meningioma Lenses 7Gy, Retinae 50Gy, Optic Nerves 55Gy, Optic Chiasm 56Gy,
      Brainstem 60Gy Arm B, Single fraction Brain stem no more than 1cm3 should receive more than
      10Gy; optic chiasm and optic nerves no more than 8 Gy;

      In the event that an organ at risk (OAR) is in immediate proximity to a PTV such that dose to
      the OAR cannot be constrained within protocol limits, the final decision is left to the
      treating physician to weigh up potential treatment toxicity versus under-coverage of target
      volume.

      Panobinostat for oral administration will be provided by Novartis. Medication labels will
      comply with US legal requirements and be printed in English. They will supply no information
      about the patient. The storage conditions for study drug will be described on the medication
      label, and the investigator's brochure, edition #5 19-Jun-2009.

      Panobinostat should be administrated after at least 2-hour fast, and subjects will continue
      the fast for 2 more hours. If the patient misses one or more doses of panobinostat and it is
      before the next dose of panobinostat is due, the patient should take the make up dose at the
      earliest time, then resume the protocol schedule. If patient misses one or more doses of
      panobinostat, and the patient is due for the next dose of panobinostat, the patient should
      resume the protocol schedule without making up for the missing dose/doses. If the patient
      misses one or more panobinostat doses and it is past the scheduled last dosing time of the
      panobinostat, the patient should stop panobinostat without making up for the missing
      dose/doses.
    
  