
    
      This is a multi-institutional Pilot clinical trial of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      (HSCT) for (i) patients with recurrent chemo-responsive malignant (high-grade)
      neuro-epithelial and other solid tumors which are recurrent following HSCT or (ii) for said
      patients without autologous hematopoietic progenitor cell availability. The stem cells will
      be derived from a 1) matched related donor or 2) matched unrelated donor (MUD).

      This is a pilot study of a novel HSCT protocol for patients with high-grade and/or recurrent
      neuro-epithelial and other solid tumors. To determine the feasibility of allogeneic HSCT
      following thiotepa-based marrow ablative chemotherapy (MAC) for children with high-grade
      and/or recurrent neuro-epithelial and other solid tumors. The primary end-point for this
      study is to determine progression-free survival (PFS) at six months post-HSCT. Secondary
      end-points include: (a) overall survival (OS) at one year (b) transplant related mortality
      (TRM) at Day +100 (c) engraftment (d) regimen related toxicity: the frequency and severity of
      acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), sinusoidal obstructive syndrome and
      infections will be assessed (e) time to immune reconstitution following HSCT. Exploratory
      Aims include: 1) To assess the feasibility of the Taqman® Low Density Arrays (TLDA) assay as
      a technology for MRD detection among a subset of patients with high-grade and/or recurrent
      neuro-epithelial and other solid tumors. Minimal residual disease (MRD) (when applicable) in
      bone marrow pre- and post-HSCT, will be assessed using TLDA. Currently, for solid
      malignancies there is no routinely established method to detect minimal residual disease, the
      first indicator of therapy failure and/or recurrence of disease. 2) In an effort to minimize
      morbidity related to graft-versus-host disease, alemtuzumab forms an important component of
      the proposed MAC regimen for recipients of unrelated or related mismatched allogeneic grafts.
      As an exploratory aim, an alemtuzumab assay will be performed at specified intervals to
      explore time to drug clearance. This may provide important information regarding
      lymphodepletion for future trials regarding immunotherapy administered during recovery from
      HSCT therapy.

      The main advantages of the proposed approach will: 1) Overcome the challenges in bone
      morrow/peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) collection in patients heavily pre-treated and/or
      bone/bone marrow infiltration with tumor. 2) Eliminate the risk of graft contamination with
      tumor cells, and 3) Graft-versus-tumor effect (GVT) to eliminate residual disease after
      conditioning chemotherapy. The use of allografting with the proposed regimen combines the
      benefits of high dose chemotherapy and an immune approach to disease therapy.
    
  