
    
      Background: Although HIV care and treatment programs are being scaled up in sub-Saharan
      Africa, more than 50% of the patients in need of ART are not receiving it and there is still
      significant mortality from AIDS. One of the major challenges is high rates of late ART
      initiation (i.e., in the advanced stages of HIV disease) which results in high rates of
      mortality soon after initiation of ART. The individual-level factors that contribute to late
      ART initiation are still unclear. Objective: As the 3rd part of a 3-phase NIH-sponsored
      project, this study aims to identify individual-level enablers and barriers to timely
      enrollment into HIV care and ART initiation.

      Methods: We will be recruiting all patients newly initiating ART at the study sites for
      descriptive analysis (approximately 1,200). As a sub-analysis, we will be utilizing a
      case-control approach to examine potential individual risk factors (e.g. knowledge and
      behaviors around HIV care and treatment, experience of stigma, and other perceived barriers
      and enablers to earlier HIV diagnosis, enrollment into care, and ART initiation) among 360
      patients who initiated ART late (CD4 count <150 cells/µL compared to 360 patients who
      initiated earlier (CD4≥200) at 6 HIV care and treatment clinics in Ethiopia. For both the
      descriptive study and case-control study, data will be collected using 2 methods:

        1. Face-to-face interviews with participants using structured questionnaires

        2. Abstraction of clinical data from the electronic patient-level database to capture
           patient information at baseline, 6 and 12 months after enrollment in the study

      Expected use of results: Identifying individual-level enablers and barriers of timely ART
      initiation will facilitate implementation of interventions, programs and policies to mitigate
      the problem of late ART initiation.
    
  