
    
      Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) is a severe psychiatric disorder that affects more than 6
      million people in our country and has a life prevalence of 8.9% for men and 16. 5% for women
      (Haro et al, 2007). Besides, in recent decades, its incidence is increasing (Kessler et al,
      2004). MDD has high recurrence rates and 25% of the cases develop chronification. Moreover it
      can occur at any age leading to severe disability. The majority of studies published in this
      field demonstrated the efficacy of antidepressant treatment in a short or medium-term basis,
      but there is a lack of long-term clinical trials regarding antidepressant efficacy and
      published ones present methodological problems. At present, a line of fundamental research in
      therapeutics includes pragmatic studies because they can answer crucial and specific
      questions in clinical practice. Therefore, the aim of this project is to conduct a pragmatic,
      parallel, randomized trial with 2 treatment arms to answer a key question of great interest
      to psychiatrists: Is it more effective to extend the use of ECT as maintenance therapy
      (together with drug therapy) rather than just using drug therapy in patients that previously
      required an acute ECT course for a depressive episode? This study is a controlled randomized
      clinical trial that starts after the remission of the acute depressive episode. Once patients
      have clinically remitted they will be randomized in two groups:

        1. C-ECT together with pharmacotherapy (same treatment used in the acute episode).

        2. Maintenance pharmacotherapy treatment (same treatment used in the acute episode).

      Consolidation treatment with ECT will be considered finished after 9 months of being started,
      at which time patients will stay only on the pharmacological treatment they already had. The
      study will be completed within 15 months of patient inclusion (six months after the end of
      C-ECT). Patient assessment and follow-up will be conducted by participant researchers. Blind
      rater will conduct clinical and adverse effects ratings. A neuropsychologist will conduct
      neuropsychological assessments.
    
  