
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the percentage of successful remnant ablation at 6-8 months after administration
           of high- vs low-dose iodine I 131 with vs without recombinant thyroid-stimulating
           hormone in patients who have undergone total thyroidectomy for differentiated thyroid
           cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Compare quality of life in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare locoregional recurrence in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare distant metastases, survival, and incidence of second primary malignancies in
           patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, factorial, randomized study. Patients are stratified
      according to treatment center and disease stage (I vs II vs III vs IVA). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

      Patients receive thyroid hormone replacement therapy (THRT)* with thyroxine (T4)** or
      liothyronine sodium (T3). Patients randomized to arm III or IV discontinue THRT 4 weeks (for
      patients receiving T4) or 2 weeks (for patients receiving T3) prior to remnant ablation.

      NOTE: *Some treatment centers may chose to avoid starting THRT in patients randomized to arm
      III or IV.

      NOTE: **Patients receiving T4 may be switched to T3 for 2 more weeks before discontinuing
      THRT.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive recombinant thyroid-stimulating hormone (rTSH) intramuscularly
           on days 1 and 2 and undergo remnant ablation with low-dose iodine I 131 on day 3.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive rTSH as in arm I and undergo remnant ablation with high-dose
           iodine I 131 on day 3.

        -  Arm III: Patients undergo remnant ablation with low-dose iodine I 131 as in arm I.

        -  Arm IV: Patients undergo remnant ablation with high-dose iodine I 131 as in arm II.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, day 3 before remnant ablation, and at 3 months.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 3 months, between 6-8 months, and
      then annually thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 468 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  