
    
      Cervical cytology: This will be done prior to MRI at an out-patient visit or at the scan
      visit in all study subjects with cancer. IN those patients with a normal cervix at
      colposcopy, the sample will be taken as part of the colposcopy examination. The procedure
      will be identical to that used for cervical smear testing and involves the insertion of a
      speculum and taking a swab from the cervix and/ or vaginal vault for tumour marker assessment
      on lab-on-a-chip. Additionally, the sample will be examined conventionally to assess
      cytology.

      MRI scan: For patients with primary disease, this will be done using an endovaginal
      technique. A ring design endovaginal coil will be inserted endovaginally around the cervix.
      It acts as a dedicated receiver, and the substantially improved signal enables high-spatial
      resolution images to be obtained (voxel size < 0.5 mm3). In patients being followed up after
      definitive surgery, in whom recurrence is suspected, MRI will be done using a standard phased
      array technique if the cervix is absent. In both instances, the MRI sequences will be
      standard and involve the use of T2-W and diffusion weighted sequences in 3 orthogonal planes.
      Contrast agents will not be administered. Intramuscular antiperistaltic agents (20 mg
      hyoscine butylbromide) are used routinely for pelvic imaging.

      Histological analysis: Biopsies will be obtained from all patients with primary disease. This
      will be either a cone or LLETZ biopsy. In some cases with clearly visualized tumour due for
      radical hysterectomy, a punch biopsy may suffice for diagnosis.

      In patients with suspected recurrence, a biopsy will be obtained if feasible and a visible
      mass is evident on imaging. In cases without a visible mass, or if biopsy is not feasible,
      vault cytology will be use as the gold standard. In the absence of adequate histology or
      cytology for validating the presence or absence of tumour, the patient will be withdrawn from
      the study.

      Data Recording: Patient data will be recorded on case report forms. Patient data from case
      report forms will be recorded on a password protected study database. The MRI images will be
      placed onto the hospital picture archiving and communications system (PACS) and clinical
      reports will be available immediately to the referring clinicians.

      Good Clinical Practice: The trial will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, standard
      operating procedures, policies, local R&D management guidance, Good Clinical Practice
      including the Research Governance Framework 2005 including the current Human Tissue Act,
      Human Tissue (Quality and Safety for Human Application) Regulations, the Medical Devices
      Regulations and Ionising Radiation (Medical Exposures) Regulations.
    
  