
    
      Liver transplantation is a successful therapy on the patients with end-stage liver disease,
      however is limited by the shortage of donor organs. Donor criteria were expanded in the past
      decades, however the extended criteria donor (ECD) livers may induce a higher risk of
      complications. Static cold storage (SCS) is the standard procedure for ex vivo liver
      preservation for about 4 decades, but has the limitation on preserving ECD livers and
      especially the inconvenience to evaluate liver quality prior to transplantation. Hypothermic
      (4-8 Celsius degree) machine perfusion (HMP) and Normothermic (35-37 Celsius degree) machine
      perfusion (NMP) have been shown to be beneficial to preserve extended criteria donor (ECD)
      livers respectively. NMP also had the convenience on liver quality assessment. The
      investigators had an institutional-developed device for liver NMP used on 25 patients with
      the FDA's IDE approval. In the present study the investigators are proposing to expand the
      use of the device on sequential HMP (1-4 hours) and NMP (1-14 hours) on 15 ECD human livers.
      This will be a single center prospective pilot study. The liver metabolism and hydrodynamics
      during perfusion will be recorded. The transplant procedure and post-transplant care will
      follow the clinical standard of care. The follow-up period is 12 months after
      transplantation. The primary end point will be the rate of patient survival and primary non
      function (PNF) within 30 days after transplantation, while the secondary end points will be:
      Early Allograft Dysfunction (EAD), 6 months patient and graft survival, peak liver function
      tests in the first 7 days after transplantation, surgical outcomes (operative time,
      transfusion requirement etc.), rate of post-transplant kidney failure, assessment of
      histological ischemia reperfusion (liver and bile duct), rate of vascular complications, rate
      of biliary complications, hospital and ICU length of stay, rejection rate, infection rate,
      the ability to predict function based on "on-pump" viability markers, and the incidence of
      adverse effect (AE).
    
  