
    
      Vertebral osseus metastasis, can cause neoplastic spinal cord compression and neurological
      deficit. The treatment strategy depend on the pathological type, performance status, and life
      expectancy. The goal of treatment is to avoid neurological deterioration, to keep functional
      life, and to control bone pain. Treatment strategy involve multidisciplinary approaches
      between spinal surgeon, medical and radiation oncologist, and radiologist. When presence of
      acute neurological deterioration or intractable pain due to neoplastic compression or
      vertebral instability, surgical approach is often warranted. In term of surgical approach,
      simple decompression and fixation is often applied, but the long-term control rate is
      suboptimal. Aggressive spinal surgery, including extensive debulking surgery or
      spondylectomy, has relative longstanding effect to maintain neurological and oncological
      outcome.

      Despite relative good outcome of aggressive spinal surgery, it is a relative massive
      procedure in which life-threatening blood loss commonly occur. To achieve better surgical
      outcome and decrease complication, preoperative embolization is suggested to control blood
      loss . The procedure is performed by an interventional radiologist to deliver embolic agent
      into vascular pedicles of target vertebra, in hope to achieve optimal devascularization of
      the tumour. The concept is simple and the similar procedure has been performed thousands of
      times in the world. However, its efficacy and utilization are not yet proven by clinical
      trials. When and how to perform this procedure largely depends on experience of operating
      interventional radiologist.

      CT is an important imaging tool for spinal disease. Because of its rapid acquisition,
      adequate resolution, and easy reformatting, it is optimal for intolerable patients.
      Nevertheless, osseous structure is extremely radiopaque, evaluation of tumoral enhancement in
      vertebrae is not easy. Nevertheless, the enhancement of osseous tumour can be evaluated with
      advanced subtraction reformatting technique. The technique is similar to digital subtraction
      angiography (DSA) of catheter angiography, and we call it CT-DSA image. As compared with
      traditional catheter-based DSA, CT-DSA has following additional advantages: 1)
      non-invasiveness; 2) non-selective enhancement of the target; 3) allowing multiplanar
      reformatting and additional post-processing and quantification. The tool is very versatile to
      investigate the vascularity of the vertebral neoplasm. In our earlier result, we found the
      CT-DSA has good correlation with DSA in vascularity assessment, suggestive of its utilization
      in pre-operative and pre-embolization evaluation of spinal tumour. It can be used in
      semi-quntitative and quantitative fashion.

      Traditionally, the efficacy of embolization is determined by surgical outcome, usually with
      gold standard of blood loss. However, blood loss is determined by many different factors,
      including tumor volume, surgical technique, and other anatomical factors. Using CT-DSA,
      evaluation of the embolization effect directly is possible. As the study can be repeated
      after embolization, the interval change can be observed with objective measurement.

      In summary, using CT-DSA, it is possible to evaluate the vascularity of the osseous tumour
      and efficacy of devascularization after embolization before surgery. We can therefore design
      study to test efficacy of different intervention strategy, and find out the more beneficial
      indication, which can incorporate into clinical workflow and help patients.

      Purpose

        1. The establish subjective risk classification of debulking surgery in term of tumour
           vascularity

        2. To subjectively evaluate efficacy of preoperative embolization

        3. To design appropriate clinical workflow in management of patient with vertebral
           malignancy

      Importance Vertebrae is 3rd most common site of metastatic malignancy, and is usually warrant
      aggressive spinal surgery. Since preoperative embolization is commonly done in this patient,
      it needs subjective tool to assess its efficacy and clear indication. By using CT-DSA, there
      is potential to provide tailored strategy of patient management before surgery.
    
  