
    
      Right-sided double lumen tube (Mallinckrodt - Endobronchial tube) is introduced into the
      glottis via direct laryngoscopy. After the endotracheal lumen tube has passed the vocal
      cords, the stylet is removed, and the tube is rotated 90° toward the right and advanced
      slightly until resistance is encountered. Auscultation is then performed to check the proper
      side the endobronchial tube was inserted to.

      Then, the anatomy of the carina and the origins of the right and left upper bronchus are
      identified with the video-bronchoscopy.

      After a mild plication of the distal extremity of an adult central venous catheter wire guide
      (0.53mm diameter, 45cm length, one straight soft tip on one end and one "J" tip on other),
      the J-shaped extremity of this guide is introduced through the endobronchial lumen under
      direct video-bronchoscope. The wire guide is then slowly removed in order that proper
      alignment between the wire extremity and the right upper lobe occurs. The wire is removed
      again until its J-shaped extremity appears through the right-upper lobe ventilation orifice.
      In order to align the orifice of the tube with the upper lobe bronchus, a rotational movement
      of the double-lumen tube may be necessary. When the location of the orifice of the right
      upper lobe is identified, the guide is moved forward through the orifice into the upper lobe
      bronchus.

      Once satisfactory initial placement is achieved, the bronchial cuff is left inflated, the
      wire guide of the central venous catheter is kept in place in the upper lobe bronchus, and
      the patient is turned to the right lateral decubitus position. The proper positioning of the
      tube is once again checked by another video-bronchoscopy.

      To confirm the exact placement of the tube, a fiberoptic bronchoscopy is performed through
      the endobronchial lumen to find the right upper lobe ventilation orifice and confirm
      alignment. Then, it is placed distally to the endobronchial lumen to confirm a clear view
      showing the bronchus intermedius.

      After passing the fiberoptic bronchoscope through the tracheal lumen, the blue bronchial cuff
      is visualized at the origin of the right main stem bronchus below the level of the carina.
    
  