
    
      Preventing alcohol, tobacco, and other drug use; delinquency; violence; and health-risking
      sexual behavior among adolescents is a national priority. While advances in prevention
      science over the past two decades have produced a growing list of tested and effective
      programs and policies for preventing these behaviors, widespread dissemination and
      high-quality implementation of these effective programs and policies in communities has not
      been achieved. The development and testing of approaches for translating prevention research
      findings into effective community prevention service systems with long-term impact is
      important to achieving reductions in the prevalence of adolescent health and behavior
      problems that are sustained into adulthood.

      The Community Youth Development Study (CYDS) is a community-randomized trial of the effects
      of Communities That Care (CTC) on community prevention systems and adolescent risk,
      protection, and behavioral health outcomes. The current continuation study is evaluating the
      long-term effects of CTC on a panel of 4,407 young adults at ages 21 and 23 who have been
      surveyed regularly since the trial started when they were in grade 5.

      CTC is a prevention planning and capacity building system for improving behavioral health
      problems among youth community-wide. CTC guides communities to implement with fidelity and
      monitor the results of effective prevention programs that address community-specific elevated
      risk factors and depressed protective factors and reduce problem behavior. The CTC system is
      hypothesized first to produce improvements in key characteristics of community prevention
      service systems, which, in turn, reduce community levels of risk, increase protective
      factors, and lower rates of youth problem behaviors.

      The CYDS communities were matched in pairs within state, on population size, racial and
      ethnic diversity, economic indicators, and crime rates. One community from each matched pair
      was assigned randomly by a coin toss to either the intervention or control condition.
      Starting in 2003, intervention communities received training, technical assistance, and
      materials and funding needed to install the CTC prevention system in years 2-5 (2004-2008),
      hire a community coordinator, and implement 2-5 tested preventive interventions. Selected
      interventions addressed local prevention priorities established by communities after
      reviewing local epidemiological data on youth risk factors, protective factors and problem
      behaviors. Control communities received no training or technical assistance from the study.
      Technical assistance and study-provided funding to intervention communities ended after 5
      years.

      The initial CYDS trial (2003-2008) evaluated the efficacy of CTC in reducing levels of risk,
      increasing levels of protection, and reducing levels of drug use and other problem behaviors
      in adolescents from Grades 5 through 9. It also tested the effects of CTC on prevention
      service system transformation (e.g., increases in a science-based approach to prevention,
      collaboration among prevention service organizations, support for prevention, community norms
      against drug use and delinquency, and use of the Social Development Strategy to guide
      interactions with youth) as reported by key community leaders and members of CTC coalitions.

      The first continuation study (2009-2013) assessed the effects of installation and
      implementation of CTC when panel youth were in Grades 10 through Age 19. During this period,
      panel youth passed through high school, the developmental period of greatest risk for
      delinquent and violent behavior, and a period of greatly increasing substance use and
      problems related to substance use. The study evaluated the long-term effects of CTC on
      adolescent and young adult risk and problem behaviors, including primary outcomes of
      substance use and abuse, delinquency, crime, and violence. It also evaluated the
      sustainability of the CTC prevention system without the study-provided funding and support
      that were offered during the implementation of CTC in the 12 intervention communities during
      the initial efficacy trial.

      The second continuation study (2013-2017) investigated the long-term effects of CTC on young
      adult substance use and misuse, crime, violence, and incarceration 11 and 13 years following
      CTC's initial installation. It also evaluated possible effects on a number of secondary
      outcomes salient in young adulthood, including HIV/AIDS sexual risk behavior, depression and
      suicidality, anxiety and other mental health disorders, and educational attainment. Panel
      youth were surveyed twice during the study, at ages 21 and 23.

      The third continuation study (2018-2023) further investigates the long-term effects of CTC on
      the study's primary outcomes of substance use and misuse, crime, violence, and incarceration
      16 and 18 years after CTC was installed in intervention communities. As in the prior
      continuation, it will also evaluate possible long-term effects on salient secondary outcomes,
      including HIV/AIDS sexual risk behavior, depression and suicidality, anxiety and other mental
      health disorders, and educational attainment. Another major aim of this study is to examine
      the normative and legal environment around marijuana use in the U.S., which is becoming more
      permissive, raising concern that it will increase youth and young adult marijuana and other
      drug use and associated negative consequences including addiction. Understanding how
      marijuana use norms and behaviors in multiple social contexts (e.g., peer, family, and
      community) interact with the legal marijuana context and impact drug use behavior from age 11
      to 28 will assist in the identification of malleable targets for interventions and public
      health approaches to prevent the possible negative outcomes of increasing permissiveness
      towards marijuana use. Panel participants will be surveyed twice, at ages 26 and 28.
    
  