
    
      The abuse of high doses of alcohol is associated with cognitive impairment that in extreme
      cases can result in dementia. However, the mechanisms underlying the neurotoxic effects of
      alcohol to the human brain are poorly understood. Here we test the hypothesis that
      alcohol-induced neuroinflammation contributes to its neurotoxic effects in humans

      Objectives: The primary objectives in Phase I are to assess if there is inflammation in the
      brain of alcoholics and if present to determine if it recovers after 3 weeks of abstinence as
      compared between groups (alcoholic vs. healthy volunteers) in Phase II. Phase II objectives
      are to assess between group differences in inflammation in the brain of AUD subjects who
      either abstain from alcohol for at least 3 weeks or relapse (continue to drink alcohol) for
      at least 3 weeks. Secondary outcomes are to evaluate the functional consequences of
      inflammation as assessed by: regional brain glucose metabolism, functional brain activation
      to cognitive tasks, structural brain imaging, resting functional connectivity and
      neuropsychological tests.

      Study population: Participants diagnosed with alcohol use disorder (AD) as per DSM IV or DSM
      5 AD and healthy controls. Males and females ages 30-75 will be included

      Design: This study has two phases (phase I and II). The two phases can be done as inpatient
      (AD subjects) or as outpatient (AD and healthy controls) over a 2-3 day period. In phase I
      participants will undergo two positron emission tomography (PET) scans, one with [11C]PBR28
      (marker of neuroinflammation) and one with 18FDG (marker of brain glucose metabolism) and
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans to assess brain structure, functional reactivity and
      functional connectivity. In parallel we will perform neuropsychological tests (NP). Phase II
      will include the same procedures as Phase I but it will be done at least 3 weeks later over a
      2-3 day period only in AUD participants who successfully completed phase I who either
      abstained from alcohol or relapsed/continued to drink alcohol after Phase I.

      Relapsers would be eligible for Phase II if they continued to drink for at least 3 weeks

      prior scheduled imaging studies. We will complete Phase II studies on up to 24 additional AUD
      subjects (n=12 abstainers and n=12 relapsers) to assess whether [11C]PBR28 uptake recovers
      after abstinence. Since there are not much differences between test/retest studies in healthy
      volunteers in the literature [1], there is no need to complete Phase II studies in controls.

      Outcome parameters: Main outcome measure is to assess if there is neuroinflammation with
      alcoholism and if it recovers with detoxification. Secondary outcome measures are: to assess
      if neuroinflammation is associated with markers of brain function, which include (1) regional
      brain glucose metabolism; (2) MRI based voxel-based morphometry (VBM) to assess cortical
      atrophy; (3) blood-oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) activation to a cognitive task, (4)
      brain functional connectivity, (5) myo-inositol (mI) concentration, and (6) NP testing to
      assess cognitive performance, and to evaluate if neuroinflammation predicts relapse in AD
      over a 3 month follow-up period.
    
  