
    
      Currently, treatment pathways for Ogilvie's Syndrome suggest observation and attempted
      correction of the potential precipitating factors for 24 to 72 hours following radiologic
      assessment if the cecum is less than 12cm and abdominal imaging does not demonstrate signs of
      impending perforation. Should symptoms fail to resolve beyond 72 hours, and the cecum remain
      under 12cm without worsening clinical status, pharmacologic intervention with neostigmine is
      indicated. Symptoms resolve in 60% to 90% of patients following administration of single dose
      of neostigmine, however continued monitoring is required as up to 40% of these patients can
      experience recurrent colonic dilation. Additionally, neostigmine can be associated with
      serious adverse events such as bradycardia and bronchospasm. Altogether, there may be
      potential for further optimization of the pharmacologic management of Ogilvie's Syndrome.

      Given the predominant theory that Ogilvie's Syndrome is caused by sympathetic overdrive, the
      splanchnic sympathetic blockade provided by epidural anesthesia could be of theoretical
      benefit. In 1988, a small, prospective cohort study evaluated the use of epidural anesthesia
      in eight patients with Ogilvie's Syndrome. Symptoms were controlled and cecal dilation
      resolved without recurrence in 62.5% of these patients, and the authors concluded that with
      further study, the use of epidural anesthesia could be a reasonable alternative to
      neostigmine. Yet, no subsequent studies were performed.

      This proposed single-arm, single-center prospective cohort pilot study will examine the
      feasibility, safety, and efficacy of epidural anesthesia in patients with Ogilvie's Syndrome
      refractory to conservative management. Adult patients with a documented diagnosis of
      Ogilvie's Syndrome admitted as an inpatient to St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton (SJHH) who
      failed conservative management will be included. Following assessment of eligibility and the
      informed consent process, patients will be evaluated by the acute pain service
      anesthesiologist. A low-dose bupivacaine (0.25%) infusion will commence following insertion
      of an epidural catheter at the T11-12 interspace, with a loading dose of 5-10mL followed by a
      3mL per hour infusion. Monitoring for resolution of disease will take place iteratively by
      the general surgery team, and failed symptom resolution will mandate further treatment in the
      form of colonoscopic decompression or surgical intervention. Patients will be followed
      throughout their index hospital and stay and up to 30 days following discharge from hospital.
      Feasibility will be assessed through recruitment rate and rate of successful epidural
      placement. The rate of epidural anesthesia-related morbidity within 30 days of treatment will
      serve as the primary safety measure. The primary efficacy measure is clinical and radiologic
      resolution without recurrence.
    
  