
    
      The primary objective of the Enhanced SCOPE program is to teach oncologists to recognize the
      role of emotion in discussions with cancer patients, to increase their self-efficacy for
      addressing affective concerns, and to provide them with the skills for doing so. Oncologists
      are most likely to achieve competency in these areas when, in addition to didactic training,
      they can also observe their own conversation and receive feedback on their interactions. The
      Enhanced SCOPE program itself is an online web application that can be viewed from any
      computer with internet connectivity. The investigators will be conducting a randomized
      controlled trial to test the impact on patient satisfaction and medical visit quality of a
      communication skills teaching intervention for oncologists that is integrated into the
      American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) Maintenance Of Certification (MOC) process.
      Oncologists who choose to enroll in this pilot Practice Improvement Module (PIM) will
      complete a baseline questionnaire, send out satisfaction surveys to a sample of their
      patients, and then audio record (using a smartphone application) eight clinic visits with
      eight different patients. Oncologists who are assigned to the control arm will receive the
      results of the patient surveys and be asked to conduct a quality improvement activity that
      responds to the feedback (the current "standard" communication PIM). Oncologists assigned to
      the intervention arm will receive the survey feedback as well as the enhanced SCOPE program
      that provides feedback on their audio-recorded encounters via a web based interactive
      program. The feedback will come from two sources: 1) Professional research assistant coders
      who will identify objective learning opportunities based on specific coding criteria (e.g.,
      empathic opportunities, use of open-ended questions) and 2) Trained patient reviewers who
      will listen to the recordings and offer their own, subjective feedback at key moments in the
      encounters. These patient reviewers will be drawn from our stakeholder partners and are
      active patient advocates. They will be treated as members of the research team, paid for the
      reviews, and are not patients of the study physicians. One month after reviewing their
      feedback, oncologists in both arms will audio record another eight encounters and send out
      satisfaction surveys to a new sample of patients.
    
  