
    
      Background: Although medical interventions play an important role in preserving lives and
      maternal comfort they have become increasingly routine in normal childbirth. This may
      increase the risk of associated complications and a less satisfactory birth experience.
      Antenatal hypnosis is associated with a reduced need for pharmacological interventions during
      childbirth. This trial seeks to determine the efficacy or otherwise of antenatal group
      hypnosis preparation for childbirth in late pregnancy.

      Methods / Design: A single centre, randomised controlled trial using a 3 arm parallel group
      design in the largest tertiary maternity unit in South Australia. Group 1 participants
      receive antenatal hypnosis training in preparation for childbirth administered by a qualified
      hypnotherapist with the use of an audio compact disc on hypnosis for re-enforcement; Group 2
      consists of antenatal hypnosis training in preparation for childbirth using an audio compact
      disc on hypnosis administered by a nurse with no training in hypnotherapy; Group 3
      participants continue with their usual preparation for childbirth with no additional
      intervention. Women > 34 < 39 weeks gestation, with a singleton, viable fetus, vertex
      presentation, who are not in active labour or planning a vaginal birth are eligible to
      participate. Allocation concealment is achieved using telephone randomisation. Participants
      assigned to hypnosis groups are trained as near as possible to 37 weeks gestation. Group
      allocations are concealed from treating obstetricians, anaesthetists, midwives and those
      personnel collecting and analysing data. Our sample size of 135 women / group gives the study
      80% power to detect a clinically relevant fall of 20% in the number of women requiring
      pharmacological analgesia - the primary endpoint. We estimate that approximately 5-10% of
      women will deliver prior to receiving their allocated intervention. We plan to recruit 150
      women / group and perform interim analyses when 150 and 300 participants have been recruited.
      All participants will be analysed according to the "Intention to treat" principle with
      comprehensive pre-planned cost- benefit and subgroup analyses.

      Discussion: If effective, hypnosis would be a simple, inexpensive way to improve the
      childbirth experience, reduce complications associated with pharmacological interventions,
      yield cost savings in maternity care, and provide evidence to guide clinical practice.
    
  