
    
      The quality of written information given to people participating in clinical trials is
      essential as by law all volunteers have to be informed of a certain number of key elements.
      Those elements that are necessary to understanding and making a decision as to whether to
      participate in the trial are presented to the volunteer in the information and consent
      document (ICD).

      Many terms used in the ICD are of necessity medical terms and sometimes difficult to
      understand for the person who may participate in the study.

      Several factors are involved when a reader receives a text, and one of the difficulties of
      intelligibility can be the lexico-syntactic readability.

      The lexico-syntactic readability is the only element of intelligibility that can be readily
      quantified, using the Flesch-Kincaid index. It is also an element that can be very easily
      modified without changing the sense of the information.

      In the QuIP-3 study, which we performed in 2003, it appeared that the lexico-syntactic
      readability of ICF is very low, lower than that of texts used in university level classics
      examinations. Furthermore, there is no correlation between the density of information and
      readability (QuIP-5 study).

      It seems to be necessary to assess the understanding of those participating in clinical
      trials in terms of logical and cognitive intelligibility (representativeness and
      interpretability of the information and consent forms). Indeed, a text may be unreadable
      according to the Flesch score, in lexico-syntactic terms, but perfectly understood and
      interpreted.

      As no questionnaire had been validated in French, we validated the " Questionnaire
      d'Evaluation de la Compréhension de l'Information Ecrite par les Malades or QECIEM "
      (Questionnaire measuring patient comprehension of written information) (QuIP-4). This
      questionnaire can be used to measure both objective and subjective general understanding by a
      patient to be included in a therapeutic study, irrespective of the pathology.
    
  