
    
      Background During cataract surgery, an intraocular lens is implanted in the bag. A monofocal
      lens allows spherical correction only. 15% to 29% of patients with cataracts have more than
      1.50 diopters of astigmatism according to current estimations.1 Astigmatic correction can be
      performed during cataract surgery: the main clear corneal incision can be done at the steep
      axis, limbal relaxing incisions (LRI) or by opposite clear corneal incision (OCCI) can be
      performed. These techniques are not fully predictable and stable over time.2 Optimal corneal
      astigmatic correction can be done by implantation of a toric intra-ocular lens(IOL), with
      predictable and stable results over time. The toric IOL must be positioned in the correct
      axis. Rotation of the lens will reduce the astigmatic correction. Approximately one degree of
      off-axis rotation results in a loss of up to 3.3% of the cylinder power. 3 It is crucial for
      the intraocular lens to keep its correct axis for optimal astigmatic correction.

      A number of toric intraocular lens are approved for implantation such as - Acrysof toric
      (Alcon), Tecnis toric IOL (Abbott medical), STAAR toric IOL (STAAR surgical company). This
      study will examine T-flex (Rayner) IOL. The rotational and refractive stability of this IOL
      has been tested on a relatively small number of patients. 4, 5

      Objective Examination of Rayner T-flex Toric IOLs (573T and 623T; Rayner Intraocular Lenses
      Ltd,East Sussex, United Kingdom) for spherical and astigmatic correction, and rotational
      stability.

      Methods Prospective study on 50 eyes. Patients will be recruited during examination in
      pre-operative clinic. This examinations include visual acuity, slit-lamp biomicroscopy,
      applanation tonometry, fundus examination after instillation of tropicamide 0.5% and
      phenylephrine 10%, IOL calculation with IOLMaster(Zeiss), which also measures corneal
      astigmatism. After acquiring informed consent, further examinations will be done including
      corneal topography with Galilei Dual Scheimpflug Analyzer ( Zeimer Ophthalmology), and Tomey
      keratometer, auto-refractometry and subjective refraction.

      Since corneal astigmatism is often binocular, patients with second eye corneal astigmatism,
      will be offered a toric IOL, even if unsuitable for inclusion in this study. All operations
      will be done by a senior surgeon, experienced in toric IOL implantations. Rayner T-flex Toric
      IOLs (573T / 623T; Rayner Intraocular Lenses Ltd,East Sussex, United Kingdom) will be
      implanted. IOL calculation will be done using Ranyer's online calculator
      (WWW.TORICIOL.RAYNER.COM).

      Post-operative examination will include IOL axis measurements, IOL photography and refraction
      after a week, month and three months.
    
  