
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare disease-free survival rates in patients with high-risk localized
           adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated with androgen suppression therapy and
           radiotherapy with vs without docetaxel.

      Secondary

        -  To compare overall survival.

        -  To compare time to biochemical disease progression.

        -  To compare time to local disease progression.

        -  To compare time to distant disease progression.

        -  To compare time to next anticancer therapy.

        -  To compare progression-free survival.

        -  To compare degree of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) suppression prior to radiotherapy.

        -  To compare quality of life (QOL) using EORTC QLQ C30 and EORTC QLQ PR25 questionnaires
           and a trial-specific checklist.

        -  To compare the nature, severity, and frequency of adverse events.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to Gleason score (≤ 7
      vs ≥ 8), baseline prostate-specific antigen (PSA) (> 20 ng/mL vs ≤ 20 ng/mL), and
      participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive androgen suppression therapy comprising oral flutamide three
           times daily or oral bicalutamide once daily for 4 weeks AND leuprolide subcutaneously
           (SC) or intramuscularly every 1-6 months, buserelin SC every 2 or 3 months, or goserelin
           SC every 1 or 3 months for 3 years. Patients also receive docetaxel IV over 60 minutes
           on day 1. Treatment with docetaxel repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses. Beginning
           at least 4 weeks after completion of chemotherapy, patients undergo pelvic radiotherapy
           once daily 5 days a week for up to 8 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive androgen suppression therapy and undergo pelvic radiotherapy as
           in arm I.

      Patients complete quality of life questionnaires at baseline, periodically during treatment,
      and then every 6 months for 5 years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 3 and 6 months, every 6 months
      for 5 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  