
    
      Nutritional therapy in patients with heart failure (HF) has been focused on fluid and sodium
      restriction to decrease volume overload. This has proved to decrease extracellular water
      levels, which manifests as a reduction in edema. Also, in patients with HF and preserved
      ejection fraction, reduction of sodium in addition to the Dietary Approaches to Stop
      Hypertension (DASH) diet has been associated with improved left ventricular diastolic
      function and arterial elasticity, reduced blood pressure, and modestly lower mortality in HF
      women.

      Some studies focused on reducing cardiovascular risk suggest that saturated fatty acids
      should be replaced by some other macronutrient. Clinical trials which evaluated the
      replacement of saturated fatty acids with monounsaturated or polyunsaturated fatty acids have
      found an improvement in blood lipid concentrations and reduced cardiovascular risk in
      different populations. In the case of omega (n)-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA),
      antiarrhythmic, antithrombotic, anti-atherogenic, and anti-inflammatory effects , improvement
      of endothelial function, lower blood pressure and plasma triglycerides, and reduced mortality
      and admission to the hospital for cardiovascular reasons have been documented in patients
      with chronic heart failure. In addition, the Mediterranean diet, which is high in
      monounsaturated fatty acids, was associated with cardiovascular risk reduction in other
      populations.

      In HF PUFA was associated with better systolic and diastolic function, but with no effect on
      mortality. On the other hand, the replacement of saturated fatty acids by carbohydrates must
      be considered responsible for the possible increase in total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol
      (LDL-c), plasma triglycerides and decreased HDL cholesterol. Furthermore, the metabolism of
      carbohydrates induces higher oxygen consumption (VO2), higher carbon dioxide (VCO2)
      production and increased minute ventilation (VE). In other populations, it has been
      associated with lower respiratory efficiency and decreased exercise tolerance.

      HF should be considered a complex condition in which the heart fails to deliver enough
      oxygen-rich blood to meet the body's needs, and these patients characteristically have
      skeletal muscle dysfunction and compromised pulmonary function and ventilatory response, with
      peak oxygen consumption reduced and deterioration of their clinical state.

      Nonetheless, nutritional therapy of HF patients has not been focused on optimizing mechanical
      ventilation with improved consumption of oxygen. Moreover, studies that examine nutritional
      therapy in HF have not evaluated the ventilatory response. Therefore, we propose to evaluate
      the effects of a high fat and low carbohydrate diet on clinical status of chronic stable HF
      patients.
    
  