
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To show that the proportion of lung cancer diagnosed at stage I or II is significantly
           greater in the surveillance arm than in the control arm.

      Secondary

        -  Establish whether sputum cytology and/or cytometry can be employed to stratify patients
           with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) according to their risk of developing
           incidence lung cancer.

        -  Identify patients with pre-invasive lesions in their airways and examine the risk of
           developing lung cancer in patients harboring these lesions.

        -  Provide an opportunity to archive blood samples from patients under surveillance to
           enable the identification of markers of disease progression.

        -  Examine the compliance of regular screening among patients in this high-risk group.

        -  Determine the proportion of patients in which it is not possible to provide a sputum
           screening result.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to recruiting site, age, gender, smoking history (current vs ex-smoker) and
      severity of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (mild vs moderate). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Control arm: Patients are managed according to the usual practice of their hospital or
           general practice for their COPD treatment. They undergo no particular investigations
           except those that may arise due to a change in their clinical condition. Those patients
           who are not diagnosed with lung cancer during the course of the study are offered a
           chest x-ray after 5 years of follow-up.

        -  Surveillance arm: Patients undergo surveillance for 5 years. A sputum sample is
           collected for cytology and cytometry. If the sputum sample is normal the patient is
           asked to provide a sputum sample annually. If the sputum sample is abnormal the patient
           undergoes an annual spiral CT scan followed by autofluorescence bronchoscopy. At
           bronchoscopy, the following samples are taken: bronchial washings, bronchial brushings,
           and bronchial biopsies. Bronchoscopy is repeated every 4-12 months depending upon the
           histology results. If an invasive lesion is found, the patient is referred for treatment
           via the normal hospital systems. Any remaining sputum sample is stored frozen as part of
           the tissue bank associated with this trial.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.
    
  