
    
      The study plan is divided into two sections: in-clinic studies and large-scale outreach
      screening.

      (A). Clinical Studies The clinical study is intended to obtain data characterizing eNO
      concentrations within individual groups of subjects listed in the inclusion criteria. The
      type of this study is "non-invasive", and the study design is "diagnosis/ treatment
      monitoring, and efficacy". The study will seek to recruit subjects who fall into one of the
      categories listed in the inclusion criteria below. The number of subjects (n) to be recruited
      for each category is given and is estimated based on the past number of subjects mainly at
      the Ekips Technologies, The Oklahoma Allergy & Asthma Clinic, and the Norman Lung Center
      sites.

      Inclusion Criteria (Total Number of Subjects, n = 700)

      Both genders are eligible for this study:

        1. Healthy subjects (n=120)

        2. Asthma (Total n=450) [diagnosed according to NHLBI/ NAEPP Guidelines (1998)]

             1. Non-treated or B2-agonist treated asthmatics (n=150),

             2. Glucocorticoid treated asthmatics, (n=150),

             3. Leukotriene Antagonist treated asthmatics, (n=75),

             4. Glucocorticoid and Leukotriene Antagonists treated asthmatics, (n= 75).

        3. Acute respiratory illnesses (n=65

           a) Sinusitis (Acute and Chronic), b) Influenza, c) Common cold, d)Pneumonia, e)Related
           symptoms, but no diagnosis.

        4. Allergies (n=65) a) Atopic dermatitis, b) Allergic rhinitis, c) Seasonal allergies.

      Healthy Subjects Recruiting

      Healthy subjects will be recruited from visitors and patients at the study sites. Visitors
      may include relatives or friends accompanying patients. Healthy employees at the study sites
      may be asked to participate in the study. Patients, visitors, and employees will be told that
      do not have to participate if they do not want to.

      Exclusion Criteria

      Subjects younger than 4 and older than 65 will be excluded from the study. Pregnant women
      will also be excluded from the study.

      Duration of Participation

      For each visit, the participant in the study will be asked to donate up to 3 breath samples
      for the first visit. The total time required for breath donations and measurements will be
      about 5 minutes. An additional five minutes of a subject's time are needed to complete a
      short interview if the information needed is not already available.

      Asthmatic or suspected asthmatic patients, both treated and non-treated will be asked to
      donate breath during additional visits if convenient. Follow-up measurements may be performed
      during regularly scheduled office visits.
    
  