
    
      De Quervain's tenosynovitis (stenosing tenosynovitis of the first dorsal extensor
      compartment) is characterized by pain on the radial (thumb) side of the wrist and impairment
      of thumb and wrist function. Histological evaluation is consistent with a chronic rather than
      an acute tenosynovitis consistent with the often prolonged course of this disease.

      Nonoperative treatments include modification of activities, splint immobilization, icing and
      anti-inflammatory medication, and corticosteroid injections. Long opponens splinting (or
      short arm thumb spica splinting; a splint that immobilizes the wrist and the thumb) is
      standard and well accepted. There is no consensus on the best protocol for use of the splint.
      Some authors advocate full time splinting for 4 - 6 weeks, with the rationale that tendonitis
      will resolve with strict rest. Other authors, perhaps aware of histological evidence that De
      quervain's is a chronic rather than acute inflammatory condition, feel that the splint serves
      merely to relieve symptoms and is best used as best suits each individual patient. To our
      knowledge, there are not data available regarding these disparate views.

      The ultimate prognosis for recovery in the condition seems satisfying, regardless of the
      treatment, and spontaneous recovery is the rule. Psychological and personality factors, such
      as pain anxiety, catastrophizing, and depression are strongly related to upper extremity
      specific health status and may also influence recovery.

      The primary goal of this study is to determine which protocol of splinting leads to better
      outcome in non-surgical treatment of DeQuervain's tenosynovitis. As a secondary goal and to
      generate hypotheses for later studies we would like to evaluate the influence of psychosocial
      factors on both objective (grip strength) and subjective (DASH questionnaire) measures of
      outcome.
    
  