
    
      The use of ctDNA levels and resolution in relation to treatment response has been studied in
      various types of cancer, notably melanoma, colorectal and pancreatic cancers. In pancreatic
      cancer, it was particularly noted to be useful for the prediction of recurrence and survival
      patterns. In NSCLC, there is a growing need to identify patients who are more likely to
      respond to immunotherapies given the rates of recurrence, and ctDNA was described to be a
      useful tool in the prediction of pathological response in this population. In fact, ctDNA was
      shown to correlate with disease resolution in NSCLC and higher levels of ctDNA in
      non-responding patients.

      The central research question of this trial is focused on the ability to predict the
      occurrence of a pCR based on resolution of ctDNA detectability in early stage NSCLC. The
      biomarker collection plan will provide tumor and plasma samples from which whole exome
      sequencing will be performed to monitor disease response. The endpoint is focused on the
      elimination of ctDNA (both replicates = 0%) at the completion of systemic therapy, prior to
      surgical resection. All patients will be re-tested for ctDNA levels 30 days post-surgery to
      determine if those patients who did not experience ctDNA resolution after systemic therapy
      will experience resolution with the addition of surgery.

      With the ctDNA treatment response arc, the investigators will be able to address the primary
      objective of the study: to establish ctDNA levels in early stage NSCLC as a reliable measure
      of local disease burden in the context of systemic therapy, with the lower end of the
      detection limit correlating to the extent of pathological response. The investigators
      hypothesize that in a cohort of patients with stage IA3, IB and IIA NSCLC, pre-operative
      pembrolizumab with or without histology-specific chemotherapy will cause resolution of ctDNA
      detectability that correlates with a pathological complete response (pCR) to therapy.
    
  