
    
      The objective of the proposed evaluation is to delineate those factors and sub-groups that
      account for the observed impact of HMRE services on the quality of relationships.
      Specifically, we are interested in investigating the following factors:

        1. Commitment: Are couples that are more committed to each other (measured in terms of
           marital status, duration of relationship, or relationship commitment scale scores) more
           motivated to attend a greater number of HMRE workshops? Do they actually learn more
           relationship skills, and report improvements in their relationship quality?

        2. Hopefulness: How does hopefulness about the relationship impact outcomes?

        3. Dosage: Is attendance at a greater number of workshops related to improvements in
           relationship satisfaction and relationship quality?

        4. Couple characteristics: How are various demographic factors related to observed
           outcomes?

        5. Skill acquisition: How much did couples actually learn during the course of the
           relationship workshop?

      In order to explore these research questions, we will be conducting an evaluation that
      utilizes pre-and post-survey data and qualitative interview information from participants.
      This will be a descriptive study and not a random assignment design. Data collection will
      begin when couples who expressed interest in the program attend a preliminary interview with
      one of Montefiore's clinical staff on site. The program and study will be explained to the
      couple and they will be asked to consent to participate. Once consent is gathered, on-site
      staff will administer measures required by our funders through an online system called nForm,
      or Information, Family Outcomes, Reporting, and Management. This online system was developed
      by Mathematica Policy Research, an agency contracted by the Department of Health and Human
      Services to conduct a Cross-Site evaluation of all grantees who received funding to provide
      relationship education services. Preliminary demographic information will be collected
      through surveys completed by participants online through secure web browsing at a Montefiore
      facility.
    
  