
    
      Background Lateral epicondylitis, commonly known as "tennis elbow" is a common cause of elbow
      pain, occurring in 1-3% of adults each year. It is a common pathology encountered in primary
      care, as well as specialty clinics. The typical patient is in his or her 4th-5th decade.
      Males and females are affected equally and the dominant arm is more commonly involved.
      Patients participating in sports or work related activities involving repetitive forearm
      rotation with the elbow extended are at high risk for developing symptoms. Symptom onset is
      insidious and related to repetitive microtrauma, similar to other chronic overuse
      tendinopathies. Patients classically present with tenderness over the lateral aspect of the
      elbow, just distal and anterior o the lateral epicondyle, at the origins of the extensor
      carpi radialis brevis (ECRB) and the extensor digitorum communis (EDC) muscles. Pain is
      worsened with resisted wrist and finger extension. 1,2 Much of the information the
      investigators have regarding the lateral epicondylitis is from the work of Nirschl and
      colleagues. The etiology of lateral epicondylitis is believed to result from small tears of
      the ECRB origin from repetitive microtrauma. Gross examination reveals grayish, immature scar
      tissue that appears shiny, edematous and friable. Histologic analysis reveals what has been
      termed "angiofibroblastic hyperplasia" of the ECRB tendon origin. There are no inflammatory
      cells noted on histology, putting into question the classification of lateral epicondylitis
      as an inflammatory condition.3-6 Baker et al have noted consistent capsular changes seen on
      arthroscopy and developed a classification system, hinting that another source of pain may be
      inside the joint.7,8 Early authors described a mass of grayish tissue under the ECRB origin,
      intimate with the joint capsule. It may be that this tissue causes capsular inflammation,
      leading to elbow pain.9 Although lateral epicondylitis is common, little consensus exists on
      the best way to treat it. Historic teaching is that 80% of patients will get better with
      non-operative treatments, ranging from relative rest, NSAIDs, bracing and injections. There
      will be approximately 4-11% of patients, however, that will require operative treatment
      before symptom resolution.1 Current mainstays of treatment are non-operative. Many patients
      do get better with rest and activity avoidance. Counterforce braces do not lead to quicker
      recovery, however, they do allow for more forceful activity during that recovery period.10
      NSAIDs have not shown added benefit long term either.1,2 There has been significant interest
      in the efficacy of injections in treatment of both acute and chronic lateral epicondylitis.
      Steroid injections have been used as standard treatment for decades. Anecdotally, patients do
      well with injections. Recent large, prospective, randomized studies have shown minor
      improvements in the short term, but no long term benefits when compared to saline
      injection.11-15 Protocols for these studies varied greatly, both in steroid utilized and
      injection technique. Common injection techniques included injecting at the point of maximal
      tenderness versus at the ECRB origin. Additionally, some authors injected a single time,
      whereas others used a peppering technique, with one skin entry point and multiple entry
      points in the muscle. Consistently, however, no intra-articular injections were reported. The
      investigator suspect that elbow joint inflammation may be an underappreciated source of pain
      in lateral epicondylitis. Our hypothesis is that patients receiving intra-articular
      injections will have greater improvement compared to patients receiving either no injection
      or an intra-tendinous injection.

      Statement of Objectives

        1. To directly compare outcomes of patients with lateral epicondylitis who receive one of
           three treatment options: 1. physical therapy and rest 2. physical therapy and
           intra-tendinous corticosteroid injection or 3. physical therapy and intra-articular
           corticosteroid injection.

        2. To blind both patient and assessing physician/nurse research coordinator to the
           treatment that was received for the duration of the study, in order to reduce the effect
           of any potential bias.

        3. To collect outcome data, both subjectively from the patient using proven outcome
           measures, and objectively from regularly spaced follow up visits with blinded assessors.

        4. To collect and comment on data from the three treatment groups regarding outcomes
           related to pain scores, functional outcomes and recurrence of symptoms.

      Materials & Methods This will be a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial comparing
      patients who receive physical therapy and rest, physical therapy and intra-tendinous
      corticosteroid injection or physical therapy and intra-articular corticosteroid injection for
      the treatment of lateral epicondylitis. To our knowledge there are no level I or II studies
      evaluating intra-articular elbow injections in the literature. All patients will be treated
      at one hospital system at one of 2 locations Truman Medical Center-Hospital Hill (TMC-HH) or
      Truman Medical Center- Lakewood (TMC-LW), by the principal investigator Our goal is to enroll
      patients who are seeking care from either a primary care sports medicine physician or
      orthopaedic surgeon for their persistent and limiting elbow pain. Potential subjects who meet
      inclusion criteria will be approached about participating in the study. Enrollment will
      continue until sufficient numbers have been reached to determine a significant difference.
      Based on our power analysis a total of 82 patients will be enrolled in the study.

      Lateral epicondylitis is a clinical diagnosis.1,2 In our patients, diagnosis will be made
      based on a thorough history and physical examination. Patients with lateral epicondylitis are
      typically present in the 4th or 5th decade of life with vague, lateral elbow pain. The pain
      is of insidious onset without a singular inciting event. Symptoms are typically in the
      dominant arm and occur in patients that perform activities involving repeated wrist extension
      against resistance. Patients typically do not have mechanical symptoms as is seen with loose
      bodies or osteochondral lesions. Neurologic deficits or alterations are not seen with this
      condition. Systemic inflammatory diagnoses, such as rheumatoid arthritis or systemic lupus
      erythematosus can have widespread vague joint pains that can confound the diagnosis of
      lateral elbow pain. Patients with these conditions will be excluded.

      On physical examination, patients will have tenderness about the lateral elbow, typically at
      the origin of the ECRB tendon just distal to the lateral epicondyle. This pain will be
      exacerbated by resisted extension of the wrist, and/or resisted extension of the long finger.
      In rare cases elbow ROM will be limited. Standard elbow radiographs will be obtained to rule
      out fracture, arthritis, intra-articular loose body, deformity, osteonecrosis, osteochondral
      lesion, neoplasm and subtle instability. Posterolateral rotatory instability (PLRI) of the
      elbow is another source of lateral elbow pain, and posterolateral drawer testing will be
      performed on all patients to rule out this condition. Although cubital tunnel syndrome
      typically causes medial elbow pain, it can present with non-focal, vague pain. A combination
      of a thorough neurologic exam of the distal extremity along with compression of the cubital
      tunnel and presence or absence of a Tinel's sign at the elbow will be used to diagnosis the
      presence of this condition. Patients who have concern for shoulder or wrist pathology or
      cervical spine pathology will be excluded from the study.
    
  