
    
      A sizeable portion of admissions to hospital and even nursing homes can be avoided if
      individuals with medication management problems were provided assistive devices to assist
      with their medications. The MD.2 medication dispenser and monitoring system was developed by
      Interactive Medical Developments LC and may offer increased support to the elderly with fewer
      human resources and a substantially reduced cost to the public health system. A rigorous
      evaluation of this technology has not been conducted. The objective of this Phase III
      clinical trial (Phase II of this STTR Fast Track Application) is to quantify the benefits of
      using the MD.2 on health outcomes. The specific aims are to: (1) Quantify healthcare
      utilization including hospitalizations and emergency room visits for MD.2 clients compared to
      control clients, (2) Determine the length of time in case management for MD.2 clients
      compared to control clients, (3) Measure changes in caregiver burden between those with the
      MD.2 and those with usual medication routines and (4) Determine if cognitive and functional
      characteristics influence compliance rates among the MD.2 clients and control clients. This
      study will be conducted in all counties in four of the Area Agencies on Aging in Iowa (who
      participated in the Phase I study), with the Veteran's Administration(VA)in Iowa, and with
      Area Agencies on Aging in Illinois. One hundred and fifty clients will be randomized to
      receive the MD.2 and 150 clients will be randomized to the control group. Primary caregivers
      for these 300 subjects will also be recruited. Nurses employed by Interactive Medical
      Developments LC will collect all data. From homecare charts/claims, age, sex, residence,
      living status, social support, activities of daily living, instrumental activities of daily
      living, cognition, medical conditions and medication lists will be obtained. Enrolled
      subjects will also complete an interviewer-administered survey of the Geriatric Depression
      Scale, SF-12 Health Status Inventory, self-reported medication compliance and recent
      hospitalizations and emergency room visits. Caregivers will complete the Caregiver Burden
      Interview. Poisson regression and Cox proportional hazards models will be the primary
      statistical approaches.
    
  