
    
      Polymerization of deoxy-sickle-hemoglobin (deoxy-HbS), the root cause of sickle cell disease
      (SCD) is influenced by a few factors, a key factor is 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG)
      concentration in the red blood cells. 2,3-DPG is an allosteric effector on hemoglobin oxygen
      binding with a greater binding affinity to deoxygenated hemoglobin than to oxygenated
      hemoglobin, thus favoring polymerization of deoxy-HbS. In addition, increased 2,3-DPG
      concentration decreases intracellular pH in red blood cells which further promotes HbS
      polymerization.

      2,3-DPG is an intermediate substrate in the glycolytic pathway, the only source of ATP
      production in red blood cells. Pyruvate kinase (PK) is a key enzyme in the final step of
      glycolysis; PK converts phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) to pyruvate, creating 50% of the total red
      cell adenosine triphosphate (ATP) that is essential for maintaining integrity of the red cell
      membrane. Indeed, PK deficiency (PKD) caused by mutations in the PKLR gene that encodes red
      cell PK, leads to chronic hemolytic anemia. Reduced PK activity leads to accumulation of the
      upstream enzyme substrates, including 2,3-DPG. While increased 2,3-DPG concentration and
      reduction of hemoglobin oxygen affinity is beneficial in anemia caused by PKD, increased
      2,3-DPG levels combined with decreased intracellular red cell pH can be detrimental in the
      presence of HbS, as it favors deoxy-HbS polymerisation, and thereby intravascular sickling.
      Indeed, the combination of PK deficiency and sickle cell trait causing an acute sickling
      syndrome has been previously reported in two cases.

      PKLR mutations, however, are rare but intraerythrocytic PK enzyme levels form a spectrum
      which suggest that PKLR is likely to be a quantitative trait gene. A genetic diversity in
      PKLR with a range of SNPs, including several loss-of-function variants have been described in
      malaria-endemic populations, some of which have been associated with a significant reduction
      in attacks with Plasmodium falciparum malaria. These observations suggest that similar to
      HbS, malaria has led to positive selection of PKLR variants in the same geographic regions.

      This study seeks to determine the PKLR genetic diversity in our sickle cell cohort, and
      whether PKLR variants modify PK levels, and activities of 2,3-DPG and ATP, key players in the
      sickle pathology. If so, PKLR could be another genetic determinant of SCD severity and
      phenotype; and increasing PK-R activity, which leads to a decrease in intracellular 2,3-DPG
      concentration, presents an attractive therapeutic target for SCD.

      Several approaches have been considered for targeting the polymerization of deoxy-HbS, the
      root cause of SCD. In addition to agents inducing fetal hemoglobin, other agents that target
      HbS polymerization through increasing affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen (eg. GBT440), are in
      clinical trials (NCT03036813; NCT02850406). The results of this study could form the basis
      for a clinical trial of AG348, an allosteric activator of PK that is already in clinical
      Phase 2/3 studies for PK deficiency (NCT02476916), for treating acute sickle cell pain
    
  