
    
      BACKGROUND: Despite evidences indicate the benefit of motor interventions based on video
      games in people with Parkinson's Disease (PD), practice guidelines for the therapeutic use in
      physiotherapy were still not established. Although visual and auditory stimuli provided by
      video games are pointed as one of the main advantages for their therapeutic use, the effects
      of kinesthetic stimuli offered through physical therapist manual intervention during this
      type of training in people with PD have not been investigated yet. The answer to this
      question is relevant to guide the physical therapist (PT) conduct during this kind of
      intervention.

      PURPOSE: To compare the effects of motor training using video games with and without
      kinesthetic stimuli offered by physical therapist manual guidance during intervention on the
      functionality of people with PD.

      METHODS: A blind randomized clinical trial in people with idiopathic PD, staging of 1 to 3
      according to disability scale of Hoehn and Yahr, will be performed. Participants will be
      randomized into two groups: the Movement Guidance Group (MVG) and NO-MVG Group. Both groups
      will receive 8 individual sessions, twice a week, for 4 weeks. Each session consist of 10
      minutes of warm-up and 40 minutes of XBOX Kinect training for balance and gait. In the MVG
      Group, the PT will provide kinesthetic stimuli by assisting manually the participant
      movements. In the NO-MVG Group, the involvement of the PT will be restricted to ensure
      participant safety. The two groups will be evaluated before (BT) and after (AT) training and
      after 60 days (follow-up). A blind physiotherapist will conduct the assessments. Measurements
      are categorized according to the International Functioning Classification (ICF), those
      associated with the activity level were established as primary measures: Balance Evaluation
      Systems Test (BESTest); International Falls Effectiveness Scale (FES-I); 30-second Gait Test;
      Six Minute Walk Distance (6MWD); Five Times Sit to Stand Test (FTSTS) and Unified Parkinson's
      Disease Rate Scale (UPDRS) session II. Secondary measures were the evaluation of function
      using UPDRS session III; Rapid Turns Test (RTT); Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA);
      Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS-15), and participation using the Parkinson's Disease Quality
      of Life Questionnaire (PDQ-39).

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: An ANOVA to repeated measures will be use, having as factors: group
      (MVG Group and NO-MVG Group) and evaluations (BT, AT and FU). Followed by post hoc Tukey Test
      to the significance factors. A significance of 5% will be considered.
    
  