
    
      The most recent systematic literature reviews and meta-analyses have indicated significant
      and nutritionally-relevant composition differences between organic and conventional foods
      (crops, meat and dairy products). Specifically, these systematic reviews reported that:

      organic crops have 17% higher antioxidant activity and between 18% and 69% higher
      concentrations of a range of individual antioxidants; increased intakes of polyphenolics and
      antioxidants has been linked to a reduced risk of certain chronic diseases such as
      cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases and certain cancers.

      conventional crops have 48% higher levels of the toxic metal cadmium, and are 4-times more
      likely to contain detectable pesticide residues; there are general recommendations to
      minimise the intake of pesticides and cadmium to avoid potential negative health impacts.

      conventional crops also have 15%, 10%, 30%, and 87% higher concentrations of protein,
      nitrogen, nitrate, nitrite, respectively; increased intakes of these compounds have been
      linked to both positive and negative health impacts.

      organic meat, milk and dairy products have approximately 50% higher concentrations of
      nutritionally-desirable omega-3 fatty acids; intakes of very long chain omega-3 fatty acids
      in Western diets and there are EFSA recommendation to at least double their intake.

      organic milk has 70% lower concentrations of iodine and slightly lower concentrations of
      Selenium, which is nutritionally undesirables especially in the UK where (a) the Se content
      of cereals has decreased (due to reduced import of cereals grown on Se-rich soil (b) Iodine
      fortified table salt is not widely available and used and the iodine supply relies more on
      mineral fortification of animal, and especially dairy feeds.

      Results from a small number of human cohort studies are also available and indicate that
      there are positive associations between organic food consumption and reduced risk/incidence
      of certain acute diseases (e.g. pre-eclampsia, hypospadias) and obesity/overweight .

      Results from animal dietary intervention studies suggest that (i) switching to organic food
      consumption results in significant changes in hormonal balances and an increase in immune
      system responsiveness and (ii) differences in pesticide residue, cadmium, protein and
      antioxidant concentrations between organic and conventional foods are major drivers for
      hormonal balances and immune system parameters in animals.

      However, there is virtually no published data from (i) long-term cohort studies focusing on
      chronic diseases (e.g. cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer and neurodegenerative
      conditions) and (ii) controlled human dietary intervention studies comparing effects of
      organic and conventional diets. It is therefore currently not possible to assess whether and
      estimate to what extent organic food consumption may affect human health.

      The overall aim of the study is to get a quantitative understanding of (a) the uptake (and
      therefore potential to affect health) of food composition components (pesticide residues,
      toxic metals such as cadmium, antioxidants) that differ between organic and conventional
      foods and (b) the effect of organic vs conventional food consumption on selected
      physiological parameters in plasma linked to health.

      This information will be essential to (a) carry out accurate statistical power analyses
      (based on uptake [=estimated from blood and urine concentrations] rather than food
      composition data) and (b) optimise designs for longer-term dietary intervention studies,
      designed to identify impacts of organic food consumption on health related physiological
      markers in humans and mechanisms for potential health impacts.

      The main objectives of the proposed study are to:

        1. Carry out a human dietary intervention study comparing the effects of switching to
           Mediterranean diets based on organic and conventional foods on concentrations of
           pesticides, toxic metals, mineral nutrients (e.g. Fe, Cu, Se, I) and antioxidants, and
           antioxidant activity and selected health-related markers in urine and blood.

        2. Quantify concentrations of pesticide residue, mineral, toxic metal and antioxidants in
           both organic and conventional food samples consumed during the intervention period

        3. Carry out both univariate and redundancy analyses to both quantify effects of different
           diets on urine and blood composition and to identify the most important food composition
           drivers for differences in urine/blood composition and health markers.
    
  