
    
      Nasal obstruction is one of the most common complaints that the otorhinolaryngologist faces
      in the daily practice. Deviated nasal septum (DNS) is a very frequently encountered and
      common cause. It not only causes breathing difficulties but also results in improper aeration
      of paranasal sinuses predisiposing to sinusitis and also results in drying of mucosa leading
      to crusting and epistaxis 1,2. DNS can also be accompanied with hypertrophic nasal turbinates
      causing sleep disturbances and snoring3.

      Septoplasty is an accepted and common surgical intervention to improve the nasal airway4 and
      sleep disturbances3.

      Traditional septoplasty procedure involves sum mucosal resection of the anterior septum. The
      results for long-term symptom relief after traditional septoplasty are contradictory in
      reviewed publications 5.

      In the last two decades the endoscopic Sino nasal surgery has been widely used including
      endoscopic approach for septoplasty. Endoscopic septoplasty as a minimally invasive technique
      where the dissection of the nasal septal flap can be limited minimizing trauma. The excellent
      visualization is presumed to decrease morbidity and post-operative swelling in isolated
      septal deviation by limiting the excision to the area of deviation 2. Furthermore, diagnosing
      and treating abnormalities of the lateral wall of the nose at the same sitting is only
      feasible in the endoscopic approach.

      At the time of this study, there are no studies comparing the changes of quality of life in
      patients undergoing traditional septoplasty Vs endoscopic septoplasty.

      The investigators aimed to assess whether endoscopic septoplasty is effective at improving
      patients QOL and reducing postoperative signs and complications.

      Aims

      Primary:

      1) To assess the differences in overall QOL between endoscopic and traditional septoplasty
      after adjusting for pertinent confounding variables.

      Secondary:

        1. To evaluate the post-operative complication rate in patients undergoing endoscopic
           septoplasty compared to traditional.

        2. To evaluate the differences in the operation time between the two different approaches.
    
  