
    
      Background and Rationale: NMDA antagonist drugs have increasingly been demonstrated to reduce
      symptoms of depression and suicidal ideation. Specifically, NRX-100 (ketamine HCl, 0.5 mg/kg
      IV over 40 minutes) has been shown to induce acute reductions in suicidality and depression
      in patients with bipolar depression, relative to control. Numerous reports have documented a
      50% reduction in the MADRS depression scale and a 75% reduction in suicidality following a
      single infusion of ketamine in patients with suicidal ideation and depression. While the
      repeat use of ketamine is not supported and may be contraindicated by the literature,
      D-cycloserine (DCS), when combined with SSRI antidepressants in patients with treatment
      resistant depression, and when combined with atypical antipsychotics, in particular
      lurasidone (NRX-101), has shown separation from control and ability to maintain remission
      from suicidality and depression over 6 weeks with oral use.

      Primary Objective:

      • To test the hypothesis that a single infusion of NRX-100 is superior to placebo infusion in
      the rapid stabilization of patients with severe Bipolar Depression and Acute Suicidal
      Ideation and Behavior (ASIB).

      Secondary Objectives:

      • Key secondary: To test the hypothesis that there is a more favorable reduction in the mean
      change from baseline on the Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) between NRX-100
      and saline groups on day 1 and day 2.

      Methodology: A multi-center, randomized, double-blind, trial involving a single IV infusion
      to achieve response by 24 hours. The randomization will be 3:1 favoring NRX-100 (ketamine)
      infusion (n=105) vs. Saline infusion (n=35). Subjects who respond successfully to treatment
      will be offered enrollment in a six week followup study of NRX-101 (an oral fixed dose
      combination of d-cycloserine and lurasidone) vs. standard of care in order to ascertain
      maintenance of the ketamine effect.
    
  