
    
      This study will evaluate Xpert Mycobacterium Tuberculosis/Rifampicin (MTB/RIF) as the
      first-line Tuberculosis (TB) diagnostic test in Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)-infected
      adults and pediatric patients in peri-urban settings and determine its impact on accurate
      case detection and treatment initiation in these settings. In addition, the Determine
      TB-Lipoarabinomannan (LAM) Ag速 will be used to model added diagnostic value when used alone
      or in combination with Xpert MTB/RIF, within the TB diagnostic algorithm for HIV infected
      patients in Zambia.

      A quasi-experimental "before-after" study design will be used at two similar peri-urban
      district hospitals. Each site will initially implement the Standard of Care (SOC) phase, in
      which a prospective cohort of HIV-infected adult and pediatric TB suspects will be screened
      for TB according to the current standard of care in Zambian HIV care clinics. This will be
      followed by a 4-week "intervention wash-out" period to allow completion of the diagnostic
      work-up of all patients recruited during the last month of the SOC phase.

      The second phase (Xpert MTB/RIF phase) will start immediately following the "intervention
      wash-out" period. In this phase, a second cohort of HIV-infected adult and pediatric TB
      suspects will be screened for TB using the Xpert MTB/RIF algorithm. Each phase will last
      approximately 6 months, or until the target sample size for adults is reached. Mycobacterial
      culture will be performed during the study to confirm TB diagnosis and determine whether
      appropriate treatment was given. "Appropriate treatment" means the patient was initiated on
      ATT within 4 weeks of screening initiation for culture-positive patients or a correct
      diagnosis of not having TB in culture-negative patients. Culture results will be released
      from the CIDRZ Lab for patient care as soon as results are available.

      During both study phases participants will be asked to submit a urine sample for testing with
      the Determine TB-LAM Ag速 assay. Urine specimens will be collected at the study site and all
      procedures will be carried out at the CIDRZ Central Laboratory in Lusaka using standard
      laboratory protocols and quality assurance procedures. Since Determine TB-LAM Ag速 has not yet
      been endorsed by the World Health Organization (WHO) nor approved by the Zambian Ministry of
      Health for TB diagnosis, results from the Determine TB-LAM Ag速 assay will not be used for
      patient care.
    
  