
    
      The transition to parenthood is extremely difficult for both mothers and fathers, yet
      education and support during this major life transition emphasize getting through labor and
      birth, rather than preparing couples for the many changes accompanying parenthood. The
      classes of the Becoming Parents Program provide information and skills for taking care of the
      couple relationship, taking care of self, interacting with the baby, and the many ways
      becoming parents changes peoples' lives.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of the Becoming Parents Program classes
      on individual well being (measured by symptoms of depression and stress, perceived health,
      risk behaviors, health practices, health resource utilization), couple well-being (measured
      by marital satisfaction and stability), and the parent-infant relationship (measured by
      observation of the mother feeding the baby and the father teaching the baby) over the first
      three years of parenthood. Information is gathered by paper-and-pencil questionnaires during
      pregnancy, and at six months, one year, two years, and three years post-birth and by
      observation of parent-infant interaction at three months post-birth and videotaping and
      coding of couple interaction at six months post-birth.

      Hypotheses are that couples who receive the Becoming Parents Program classes as compared to
      the couples who do not will:

        1. have higher levels of marital satisfaction

        2. have lower levels of depression

        3. have less symptoms of stress

        4. have higher levels of marital stability

        5. communicate more effectively about a problem issue

        6. have higher levels of health and well-being

        7. score higher on observational evaluations of parent-infant interaction

        8. report they are more satisfied with parenting, their partner's involvement in parenting
           their child, and with who does what in their family
    
  