
    
      Malaria and HIV have significant interactions at various levels. The geographical and
      epidemiological overlap increases risk for co-infection and co-treatment. The immune
      suppression due to HIV increases malaria incidence, severity and risk for poor treatment
      outcomes including mortality and adverse pregnancy outcomes such as anemia and low birth
      weight. Malaria infection increases HIV viral replication. Both malaria and HIV are treated
      with combination therapy to enhance treatment outcomes and reduce risk for development of
      resistance, consequently creating potential for drug-drug interactions (DDIs) when the two
      diseases are treated concomitantly. Previous studies demonstrated significant reduction in
      systemic exposure to Artemether, its metabolite dihydroartemisinin, and the long acting
      partner drug lumefantrine when the ACT artemether-lumefantrine was co-administered with
      efavirenz-based ART to HIV-malaria co-infected individuals.

      Exposure to sub therapeutic antimalarial drug concentrations poses a risk for poor malaria
      treatment outcomes such as prolonged morbidity, anemia, death and poor birth outcomes for
      pregnant women plus increased economic costs and risk for drug resistance. There are
      currently limited drug options available for both malaria and HIV treatment especially in
      sub-Saharan Africa, thus the need to protect drug effectiveness. There are very scanty data
      on effects of drug interactions on malaria clinical outcomes, and such studies would be
      unethical currently. Despite these gaps, co-administration of antimalarial and antiretroviral
      drugs occurs with no guidance on therapeutic interventions to overcome these deleterious
      effects. Data are therefore urgently needed to optimize treatment of malaria for HIV-malaria
      co-infected individuals.

      General Objective: To utilize innovative interventions to overcome drug interactions between
      artemether-lumefantrine and efavirenz to guide malaria treatment for individuals co-infected
      with HIV and malaria.

      Specific objectives:

      Objectives

        1. To determine the safety and Pharmacokinetics of the double dose artemether-lumefantrine
           when administered to healthy volunteers (malaria negative and HIV negative individuals).

        2. To determine the safety and Pharmacokinetics of the 5-day course of
           artemether-lumefantrine when administered to healthy volunteers (malaria negative and
           HIV negative individuals).

        3. To determine the safety, pharmacokinetics and malaria treatment outcome of a standard
           dose of artemether-lumefantrine compared to double of the standard dose for weight and a
           5-day course of artemether-lumefantrine for treatment of uncomplicated malaria among
           HIV-Malaria co-infected individuals receiving efavirenz (400mg) based ART.

        4. To determine the safety and Pharmacokinetics of artemether-lumefantrine when
           administered with Dolutegravir based ART among HIV-malaria co-infected individuals.
    
  