
    
      Study Population and Sample The universe of the study consists of all women who have been
      diagnosed with pregnancy who admitted to the pregnant outpatient clinics of hospitals and who
      meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Pregnant women were selected by simple random
      sampling method and included in the study.

      n=(Nt^2 pq)/(d^2 (N-1)+t^2 pq) According to his formula, n = 29.828625 was found at the
      significance level of α = 0.05 at 0.05 margin of error.

      n = Number of women to be included in the sampling N = the number of participants that make
      up the universe of the research (3000) p = Frequency of occurrence (0.02) q = frequency of
      occurrence of the event (1-p) t = t table value at the error level detected at a certain
      degree of freedom (1.96) d = the desired deviation value (0.05) according to the frequency of
      occurrence of the event When the urinary system infection is seen as 2% in pregnant women
      (Ayhan et al.2008) and the number of live births of the hospital in one year is taken as 3000
      reference (Hospital archive) α = 0.05 at the significance level of 0.05 The number of
      pregnant women to be sampled in the margin of error is 30 people. It is planned to work with
      a total of 60 participants, 30 for the experimental group and 30 for the control group.

      Randomization was applied to determine the experimental and control groups. Data Collection
      Tools Before determining the data collection tools, the literature about the research subject
      was searched. Tools were determined in accordance with the information obtained from the
      literature. At the same time, a Self-Care Behaviors Development Program was created, and it
      was decided to implement the program with the pregnant women in the experimental group by
      face-to-face meeting and then by phone call. Two forms and an inventory were used to collect
      data in the study. Data collection tools used in research;

        -  Pregnant Information Form

        -  Pregnant Evaluation Form

        -  Genital Hygiene Behaviors Inventory

        -  Pregnancy Education Brochure Data Collection The pregnant women who accepted to
           participate in the study were informed about the purpose and importance of the research,
           data collection tools and methods, and the flow of the study. While a brochure was given
           to the pregnant women in the control group (after the end of the study) in the
           randomization table, the pregnant women in the experimental group were informed that
           they were included in a training and counseling program and that they would be
           interviewed again by phone. Each pregnant participating in the study was also informed
           that she could quit the study at any time.

      The data collection of the research took place in 4 stages. Preparation phase Before starting
      the study, the written permissions of the study (the permission of the ethics committee, the
      permission of the institution where the study will be conducted and the use of the Genital
      Hygiene Behavior Inventory used in the study were obtained.

      First stage Determination of groups and randomization: It was planned to have an experimental
      and a control group according to the type of study. Determination of the patients included in
      the experimental and control groups was made using the randomization program.

      Obtaining Informed Volunteer Consent: After obtaining the necessary permissions for the
      study, the researcher gave written and verbal expressions about the study in a language they
      understand to the pregnant women who met the inclusion criteria of the study. After the
      written consent form was signed by the pregnant women who accepted to participate in the
      study, the study was carried out by the researcher using a face-to-face interview technique.

      Second stage After all the necessary permissions and preparations for the study were made,
      the data collection tools of the study (Pregnant Information Form, Genital Hygiene Behavior
      Inventory) were filled in in accordance with the information obtained from the patients.

      After the information obtained, the "Self-Care Behaviors Development Program for Urinary
      Tract Infections" prepared for the pregnant women in the experimental group was applied.

      Pregnancy Follow-up Form and Genital Hygiene Behavior Inventory were applied to the pregnant
      women in the experimental group 2 weeks after the end of the program, in order to evaluate
      the effectiveness of the training by the researcher using the telephone interview technique.

      Third stage All information obtained by the researcher and from the patient records were
      recorded in the Pregnant Information Form, Pregnancy Evaluation Form and Genital Hygiene
      Behavior Inventory. The recorded data were transferred to the computer environment by the
      researcher, and the data were evaluated and statistically analyzed.

      Data Evaluation The evaluation and statistical analysis of the data were performed in
      computer environment using the Statistical Pocket Program Statistical Package for the Social
      Sciences (statistics program for social sciences = SPSS 22.0). In the first stage,
      percentages and averages were calculated in the calculation of the distribution of the data
      of the study. In the second stage, when the numerical data met the normal distribution
      criteria, statistical analysis was performed using an independent sample t test, considering
      the distribution of normality. Numerical data that did not show normal distribution were
      evaluated using the Mann Whitney U test. Variables specified in frequency will be analyzed by
      Chi-square test. P <0.05 was considered statistically significant.
    
  