
    
      Varenicline (Champix®) and bupropion (Zyban®, patent time expired) are approved and marketed
      in Europe and US for smoking cessation in nicotine use disorder, and for treatment of major
      depression (bupropion). There is clinical evidence of an additive effect of the drug
      combination of varenicline and bupropion on smoking cessation. Varenicline has been shown in
      two RCTs to reduce also alcohol intake in subjects with AUD. It is hypothesized that
      bupropion will enhance the effect of varenicline and that the combined effect size will be
      greater than that of approved therapies for AUD. As efficacy endpoint, the trial uses the
      alcohol specific biomarker for alcohol intake, phosphatidylethanol in blood (B-PEth). Outcome
      will also be measured by self-reported alcohol consumption, the standard effect measure in
      AUD trials.This will be the first trial using the biomarker B-PEth as primary outcome
      variable. The use of a specific objective marker is expected to increase chances for
      detecting treatment effects.

      Development phase: II Number of randomized subjects: 380 subjects with AUD. 95 subjects per
      treatment arm will be randomized into the study.

      Number of sites: Approximately 5 study sites in Sweden

      Investigational medicinal products, dosages and administration:

      There will be two separate study kits for IMP 1 and IMP 2

      Investigational medicinal product 1 (IMP1): Varenicline 1 mg x 2 p.o. daily. The
      pharmaceutical formulation will be encapsulated tablets for oral use. Varenicline will be
      escalated from 0.5 to 2 mg daily during the first week.

      Investigational medicinal product 2 (IMP 2): Bupropion SR 150 mg x 2 p.o. daily. The
      pharmaceutical formulation will be encapsulated sustained release (SR) tablets for oral use.
      Bupropion will be escalated from 150 to 300 mg daily during the first week.

      IMP 1 and IMP 2 are distributed at 7 occasions: Day 0, Day 7, Day 21, Day 35, Day 49, Day 63
      and Day 77. The doses and route of administration for varenicline and bupropion are those
      approved and recommended as oral formulations for smoking cessation.

      The trial comprises 9 study visits over 91 days: Screening visit,Day 0, Day 7, Day 21, Day
      35, Day 49, Day 63, Day 77 and Day 91. Randomization is carried out according to block
      randomization and eligible subjects are randomized to one of the below described intervention
      arms.

      The study will be performed in accordance with the study protocol, with the latest version of
      the Declaration of Helsinki, in accordance with GCP principles (ICH-GCP E6-R2), and
      applicable regulatory requirements in Sweden . The study is approved by competent authority
      (the Swedish Medical Product Agency) and the Etics committee. The trial is monitored by an
      independent monitor according to GCP principles.
    
  