
    
      Patient characteristics, including age, height, weight, sex, and ASA status, and details of
      the surgery, including procedure and postoperative diagnosis will be recorded. The
      investigator will record the time of anesthesia induction and emergence. At 10-minute
      intervals during surgery, the investigator will record inspired volatile anesthetic
      concentration, mean-arterial pressure, type of thermal management device(s), and urine output
      over the previous 10-minute interval.

      After induction of general anesthesia (without restriction as to type), the anesthesiologist
      will insert a temperature sensor into the distal esophagus. The distance will be determined
      by maximal heart sounds (if a stethoscope is used), or the probe will be inserted
      0.48.(sitting height) - 4.4 cm. If an esophageal probe cannot be used, a thermometer can be
      inserted to between 10 and 20 cm into the nasopharynx. The surgical team will position a
      Foley catheter with temperature sensor into the urinary bladder. Ambient temperature will be
      recorded from an electronic probe situated at the height of the patients, well away from any
      heat-producing equipment.

      Axillary temperature will be recorded by iThermonitor, a Raiing Medical wireless module,
      paired to an iPhone. An adhesive patch provided by Raiing will be used to securely position
      the Railing probe in a shaved axilla before the anesthesia induction. Patients will be asked
      to adduct the ipsilateral arm for up to 5 minutes after the probe is inserted, or until the
      temperature displayed on the paired iPhone is stable. Thereafter, patients will be free to
      move their arms.Monitored arm position during surgery will be recorded (arm tightly tucked,
      arm loose at side, arm abducted).

      Temperatures will be recorded at 10-minute intervals during surgery and during the initial
      postoperative hour. Just before anesthetic emergence, the esophageal or nasopharyngeal
      thermometer will be removed, but the Foley catheter retained. The axillary device will then
      be removed after an hour of recovery, and the study concluded. The Foley catheter can be
      removed or retained per clinical need.
    
  