
    
      Both anorexia nervosa and binge eating disorder are associated with a variety of physical and
      mental health conditions, including anxiety and depression, as well as lower health-related
      quality of life. Remission rates for eating disorders vary widely from 27 to 85% and existing
      treatments are relatively ineffective. It is widely accepted that deficits with emotion
      processing are central to the developmental and maintenance of eating disorder symptoms.

      3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is a monoamine releaser and re-uptake inhibitor with
      indirect effects of neurohormone release. MDMA produces anxiolytic and prosocial effects
      while slowing identification of negative emotions, increasing acceptance of self and others,
      and increasing ability to address emotionally upsetting topics. Thus, MDMA has theoretical
      promise as a treatment for emotional processing, including dysregulation and poor
      self-esteem, among people with eating disorders and may create a desirable psychological
      state to enhance the therapeutic process.

      This Phase 2, open-label, multi-site study will explore the safety and feasibility
      MDMA-assisted psychotherapy and adjunctive caregiver involvement in the treatment of 18
      participants with eating disorders. The study will enroll 12 participants with anorexia
      nervosa restricting-type (AN-R) and six participants with binge eating disorder (BED). A
      supportive caregiver, such as a parent or partner, for each participant will also be
      recruited to participate in the study and receive non-drug psychotherapy support.

      The study will consist of two Preparatory Sessions for each participant with an eating
      disorder and one Preparatory Session for each caregiver participant. During the treatment
      period, participants with eating disorders will undergo three Experimental Sessions of
      MDMA-assisted psychotherapy, lasting approximately eight hours each. The first Experimental
      Session will be followed by Individual Integrative Sessions for the participant with an
      eating disorder and caregiver participant separately as well as a combined Dyadic Integrative
      Session with both the participant with an eating disorder and their caregiver together. After
      the second and third Experimental Session, just the participant with an eating disorder will
      have an Individual Integrative Session before the combined Dyadic Integrative Session with
      their caregiver.

      The first Experimental Session will involve a dose of 80 mg of MDMA, followed by a
      supplemental half-dose of 40 mg 1.5 to 2 hours later, unless contraindicated. The second and
      third Experimental Sessions will involve a flexible dose of 80 or 120 mg of MDMA, followed by
      a supplement half-dose of 40 or 60 mg, respectively, unless contraindicated. The primary
      outcome measure is the change in Eating Disorder Examination (EDE) results at Baseline to
      Visit 16 (Study Termination).
    
  