
    
      The study is a prospective and longitudinal Randomised Control Trial (RCT) study with an
      Action Research (AR) participatory design approach, including mixed-method data collection,
      i.e., standardised instruments, interviews (face-to-face and telephone), diaries,
      observation, and time measurements. The timeline for the study is scheduled between autumn
      2020 to spring 2022. The study will consist of two arms: A) an intervention group (n=80), who
      will receive standard care and information and the digital information tool; and B) a control
      group (n=80) who will receive standard care and information (verbal and written). Recruitment
      and randomisation will be completed at two hospitals in the South western part of Sweden.

      As a pre-phase, a pilot study was performed for the development and testing of the digital
      information tool (Digi-Do), approved by the Regional Ethics Committee (Dnr 917-17) with 30
      patients in total (15 women with breast cancer and 15 men with prostate cancer). According to
      the study's co-design, iterative methodology [26-27 in manuscript], changes have since been
      made to the digital information tool and a second version has now been developed for the full
      RCT. The present study has been approved by the Swedish Ethical Review Authority (Dnr
      2020-00170). An ongoing systematic literature review will also guide the present study, and
      the project is registered in PROSPERO (PROSPERO;168073).

      The digital information tool applied in this project is divided into two separate but
      coherent applications (apps) for mobile devices: one (VR-app) with a guided tour of the
      RT-department with a voice-over to describe 360 images to create a sense of actually having
      visited the department prior to start of RT, and one (information app) containing information
      obtained through the pre-treatment phase. If a VR-effect is not desirable, the patient can
      complete the simulated study-visit on their mobile phone or tablet as well as present the
      images in the browser of an integrated media player. Three areas of information are available
      in the information app: 1) Q&As from the existing written information, presented both in
      writing and a recorded voice; 2) practical information, such as maps, public transportation
      options with relevant links to public transport, telephone numbers, and information about
      possibilities for staying at the patient hotel; and 3) three short animated films about
      cancer and physical activity during RT.
    
  