
    
      This study included 240 term pregnant women in labor admitted to the labor ward, They were
      divided into Two groups :

      Group (A):

      The experimental group, 10 units of oxytocin will be injected into the umbilical vein at the
      most proximal site to the placenta after clamping and cutting of the umbilical cord.

      Group (B):

      The control group, 1 mL normal saline will be injected into the umbilical vein at the most
      proximal site to the placenta after clamping and cutting of the umbilical cord.

      complete blood count of both groups before and 12 h after delivery.

        -  The third stage of labor will be actively managed in the two groups by infusion of 20 IU
           oxytocin in 1 L Ringer's lactate solution at a rate of 100 mL/min, immediately after
           delivery of the fetus ( Nankali et al., 2013)..

        -  In the control group ( B ) , 1 mL normal saline will be injected into the umbilical vein
           at the most proximal site to the placenta after clamping and cutting of the umbilical
           cord.

        -  In the experimental group ( A ) , instead of normal saline, 10 IU (1mL) oxytocin will be
           injected at the same site. We will wait 30 min for the symptoms of placenta delivery
           (i.e., the uterus became firmer and more globular and was displaced upward, a gush of
           blood occurred, and the umbilical cord was elongated).

        -  Spontaneous delivery of the placenta will be achieved by touching the fundus and
           applying pressure on the symphysis pubis by a finger and slight traction of the
           umbilical cord.

        -  For each participant, the duration of the third stage of labor (the time period between
           the delivery of the fetus and the delivery of the placenta) will be recorded.

        -  The two groups will be compared in the following terms:

             1. The duration of the third stage of labor by stopwatch.

             2. Hemoglobin (Hb) difference before and 12 h after delivery.

             3. The need for manual delivery of the placenta. Manual removal of the placenta will
                be commonly carried out under general sedation in the operating room, if the
                placenta will not be delivered 30 min after fetal delivery.

             4. Estimate blood loss by Allowable Blood Loss (ABL) (Miller 2000)
    
  