
    
      Digital therapy is a new field that has emerged as the evidence-based treatments from the
      field of behavioural medicine that are delivered online. It is considered as a scalable
      method to reach a large number of at-risk population, convenient and accessible. Furthermore,
      it frees participants from the requirement of travelling to a specific location and more
      flexible with the time to participate. The aim of this study therefore to determine the
      feasibility and efficacy of a lifestyle intervention for type 2 diabetes prevention in adults
      at risk of developing diabetes, an assessor-blinded, parallel-group, randomised controlled
      trial using the MyDiPP (Malaysia Diabetes Prevention Programme) app. Eligible participants
      were stratified (age, BMI) and then randomised in a 1:1 ratio to either the 12-month MyDiPP
      intervention or receive standard health education from primary care providers in the clinic.
      The study will be conducted in two phases. The first phase will involve preparation of
      intervention modules, development of intervention mobile app, training and recruitment of
      participants. The second phase of the study will involve implementation of the intervention,
      data collection, follow up and data analyses. The study will be conducted in individuals aged
      18- to 65-years old, living, working or studying in Kuala Terengganu who is at risk
      developing diabetes but currently does not have diabetes recruited through online
      advertisement. The target population is adult residents that lived, worked or studied in
      Kuala Terengganu who is identified as being at high risk of type 2 diabetes. One hundred
      participants will be recruited for this study. They will be identified by a two-stage
      screening process. In the first stage, patients at high risk of type 2 diabetes will be
      identified via the CDC Diabetes Risk Test that will be distributed via Google Form. The
      researcher will invite those who scored ≥5 for second stage screening test via the HbA1c
      test. In the second stage, patients attending a screening for eligibility who have a current
      HbA1c in the range 38-44 mmol/mol or 5.6-6.2% will be invited to volunteer.
    
  