
    
      Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) has been shown to reduce craving in
      cocaine addicts. However, the efficacy of rTMS in treating cocaine addiction has not been
      evaluated in double-blind, sham-controlled studies and also, we lack a full characterization
      of rTMS effects on other important aspects, including effects on mood, cognition and changes
      in brain function. The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of repetitive
      Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) at 15 Hz frequency on the left dorsolateral
      prefrontal cortex in cocaine dependent patients and to examine possible changes in mood,
      cognition, and brain activity and functional connectivity associated with this intervention.
      For this purpose, the investigators will recruit cocaine dependent patients. After screening
      and informed consent, participants will undergo active or sham rTMS for two consecutive weeks
      (twice a day) during the continued treatment phase, and a maintenance intervention (twice a
      week for 3 months), during the rTMs follow-up phase. Following this phase, participants will
      be followed for further 3 months, during which no rTMS will be delivered but clinical and
      imaging data will be collected. The investigators will also measure clinical, cognitive and
      brain structural and functional connectivity to assess changes related to the intervention in
      the short and long term (measurements at: baseline, 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months).

      Procedure: The project consists of: Screening Visit (baseline), Part 1 (continued treatment
      phase), Part 2 (3 months- rTMS follow-up), Part 3 (3 months follow-up without rTMS). First,
      there will be a screening visit, where a clinical interview will be conducted and
      questionnaires and tests will be administered to identify study participants who meet the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. Baseline clinical, cognitive and neuroimaging data will be
      acquired. The neuroimaging data will be exploratory, to be associated with the outcome
      measures. In Part 1, all participants will be randomly assigned to one of the two treatment
      arms with rTMS (15Hz, 15Hz-Sham). Participants will receive 2 sessions of rTMS (active or
      sham), twice per day for 10 consecutive days, for a total of 20 rTMS sessions. Following
      this, the investigators will evaluate the acute effect of treatment on cocaine craving and
      consumption, mood and cognition. Also, they will collect exploratory neuroimaging data
      (functional MRI and resting state functional connectivity). In Part 2 of the study, all
      participants will continue the assigned treatment arm with rTMS (15Hz, 15Hz-Sham) for three
      months. Participants will receive 2 sessions of rTMS (active or sham) once per week; clinical
      and cognitive data will be acquired once per month. The investigators will evaluate the
      effect of treatment on cocaine craving and consumption, mood and cognition. Also, they will
      collect exploratory neuroimaging data (functional MRI and resting state functional
      connectivity). In Part 3 of the study, participants will not receive any rTMS session.
      Clinical and cognitive data will be acquired once per month for three months. The
      investigators will evaluate the long-term effect of treatment on cocaine craving and
      consumption, mood and cognition.
    
  