
    
      Pain Management Programmes help people to manage their pain and improve quality of life, and
      this research will look into the processes by which this happens. This study will look at two
      psychological concepts: 'self-compassion' (kindness to self) and 'psychological flexibility'
      (willingness to tolerate difficult experiences in order to meet meaningful goals). These
      concepts help in understanding how people think about themselves in the context of pain.

      Principle Research Question: Do self-compassion and psychological flexibility mediate change
      (anxiety/depression/well-being) in a Compassion-Focused Therapy group for adults with chronic
      pain?

      Primary Outcome Measure: Strength of mediation effects

      Sample Size:

      [Reference 1] propose guidelines for recommended sample sizes in order to detect mediation
      effects with .8 power. These guidelines are informed by existing literature in the field.
      There is less robust research on self-compassion and chronic pain, therefore, this
      calculation is based on research in psychological flexibility and chronic pain.

      [Reference 2] conducted correlational analyses on the processes of psychological flexibility
      following a group intervention based on ACT. These processes included acceptance of pain,
      mindfulness, psychological acceptance and values-based action (r values between 0.33 and
      0.55). These positive correlations indicate that the group intervention was related to higher
      levels of psychological flexibility.

      [Reference 3]'s review identified several studies that reported correlational effect sizes
      between acceptance, and depression/anxiety/daily functioning related to chronic pain (r =
      -0.58/-0.66/0.47 respectively). These negative correlations illustrate that higher levels of
      psychological flexibility were related to better outcomes.

      Based on these correlational effect sizes, guidelines in [Reference 1] suggest that a sample
      size of 53-71 is required.

      Analysis:

      The analysis will focus on the proposed mediating factors (self-compassion and psychological
      flexibility) and how they explain the outcome of the CFT-incorporated group intervention. In
      order to study the processes of change, this study will measure change in mediators and
      outcomes over the course of the group.

      In a mediation model, the effect of the independent variable (IV; CFT group) on a dependent
      variable (DV; outcome/change in symptoms) is conveyed through a third mediating variable. In
      order to be a mediator, a variable must change during the intervention, be associated with
      the intervention, and have an impact on the outcome.

      In this study, it is hypothesised that self-compassion and/or psychological flexibility are
      the mediating variables that explain the influence of the group intervention on eventual
      outcome, i.e. the overall change in symptoms at the end of the group. Linear regression and
      nonparametric bias-corrected bootstrap, which corrects for skew in the data, will be applied
      to the data using SPSS, using the PROCESS macro. An effect of mediation will be indicated if
      the confidence interval does not contain zero.

      Missing data will be handled using either the maximum likelihood or multiple imputation
      method, as recommended in literature.
    
  