
    
      We propose to clinically examine self-reported Parkinson s disease (PD) patients from the
      well established Shanghai Women s Health Study (SWHS) and thus initiate a long-term PD
      research in this unique Chinese women cohort. The SWHS cohort was established in late 1990s
      by Dr. Wei Zheng from Vanderbilt University in collaboration with investigators from the
      Shanghai Cancer Institute (SCI) and the National Cancer Institute (NCI) of the US. Their
      primary aim was to examine several unique dietary hypotheses on cancer among Chinese women.
      From 1996 to 2000, the SWHS successfully recruited 74,942 Chinese women, aged 40 to 70, from
      selected communities in a single district in Shanghai with an overall consent rate of 92%.
      All participants completed a comprehensive baseline survey, 88% donated urine, 76% donated
      blood, and an additional 12% donated buccal cells.1 Follow-up surveys have since been
      conducted biennially with consistent participation rates of 95% or higher. Through the 3rd
      follow-up, the cohort has documented 220 self-reported PD cases and we expect to identify
      another 80 self-reports during the ongoing 4th follow-up survey (2007-2010). We hereby
      propose to clinically examine self-reported PD patients to achieve the following two major
      aims.

      Aim #1: To initiate a long-term prospective study on PD in this unique Chinese women cohort

      Aim #2: To examine the following specific hypotheses among women

        1. <TAB>Higher plasma levels of pro-inflammatory biomarkers predict higher PD risk.

        2. <TAB>Higher plasma uric acid is associated with a lower PD risk

        3. <TAB>Environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) is associated with lower PD risk

             1. Self-reported ETS exposure is associated with a lower PD risk

             2. Higher urine level of cotinine is associated with a lower PD risk

      We hereby propose a prospective study on PD in a unique women-only cohort. The infrastructure
      and the many desirable characteristics of this cohort offer us a rare opportunity for PD
      research in women, particularly on biomarkers. We expect to establish it as a long-term and
      excellent resource for PD research in women in the future. In the short term, we plan to
      examine several promising PD hypotheses that have not been adequately evaluated among women.
      These findings will apply directly to Chinese women and may also have implications for women
      in the West. PD etiological research is under-represented in women. Therefore, research in
      the SPS may not only corroborate findings on women in the west, but also lead to the
      identification of novel risk factors that could be generalizable to Western women.
    
  