
    
      Chemotherapy drugs are used to treat cancer cells. However, they can also affect bone marrow
      and reduce the ability to make certain types of blood cells. Low white blood cell counts can
      leave patients vulnerable to infection. Low red blood cell counts can lead to anaemia and
      feelings of fatigue and weakness. Low platelet counts can lead to bruising and bleeding.
      Blood counts are therefore monitored. If they fall too low, the dose of chemotherapy may be
      reduced or the time between doses extended. This may affect survival as well as quality of
      life.

      Research studies in China and the West suggest that moxibustion applied by a practitioner can
      improve blood counts and immunity, and reduce side effects of chemotherapy. Moxibustion (also
      called moxa) is a form of traditional Chinese medicine that uses heat to stimulate
      acupuncture points. This heat comes from a smouldering herb called mugwort, that is rolled
      into a cigar shape to gently warm the point. Many patients regard this as a pleasant,
      relaxing experience.

      The researchers will teach patients to self-administer moxa to an acupuncture point just
      below the knee. This is a feasibility study to see if patients are willing and able to
      self-administer moxa daily throughout chemotherapy. Patients will keep a moxa diary to record
      their activity. The researchers will also use a questionnaire to assess whether patients see
      themselves as active managers of their health. This may help the researchers to screen
      suitable patients in future studies.

      The researchers will also monitor blood counts, any delays or dose reductions to the
      chemotherapy, and any chemotherapy side effects. Participants will complete quality of life
      questionnaires at intervals during and after their chemotherapy.

      If results are favourable, they will be used to design a randomised controlled trial
      comparing daily moxibustion with a "no treatment" control arm.
    
  