
    
      Active treatment will involve 3 acupuncture therapy sessions. The first encounter takes place
      in the holding area just prior to surgery. Subjects will have ear seeds (vacaria seeds
      prefixed to tape) placed on four ear points bilaterally: Shen men, Heart, Liver and Lumbar
      region point. These will remain on the ear for the duration of surgery and through discharge.
      If any one of the seeds falls off, it will be replaced at the next intervention session.

      The second active session will include acupuncture needling at body points: some mandated,
      and some selected from listed options representing flexibility to individualize a treatment.
      Subject is likely in a supine position or sitting.

      At third active intervention the subject will be positioned on body cushion in their hospital
      bed, prone. Light Gua sha will be applied at the paraspinal region above the surgical area,
      and across the gluteus medius area below same. If calves are tight or painful, light Gua sha
      may be applied. Mandated acupuncture points will be needled with selection of additional
      points based on pain and symptom presentation.

      The control arm includes three encounters of 'indirect acupuncture therapy' timed identically
      to the active arm. In the first instead of ear seeds, blank pieces of tape will be applied to
      the subjects ears bilaterally in the holding area just prior to surgery.

      The second encounter the subject will have their ear tape renewed if necessary; and 'vacaria
      seeded tape' will be fixed to the 'four-gates': Large Intestine 4 on the hand and Liver 3 on
      the foot and left in place for 20-25 minutes and then removed.

      The final session will be a repeat of the second session.

      Subjects will be told that the study is comparing kinds of acupuncture treatment: direct and
      indirect.

      The third arm will be usual care alone. All subjects will receive usual care in this study.
    
  