
    
      Malnutrition remains highly prevalent in both acute and chronic diseases, leading to longer
      hospital length of stay, greater risk of hospital readmission, and overall increase in
      morbidity and mortality. Over the last few decades, studies have continued to reveal
      significant clinical benefit from nutrition support, including reduction in complications and
      length of stay, maintenance of gastrointestinal integrity, and overall improvement in
      clinical outcomes and mortality. Despite high prevalence of Home Enteral Nutrition(HEN),
      patients continue to struggle with intolerance of tube feeds leading to chronic underfeeding
      and weight loss. Current guidelines recommend using standard polymeric formula or
      high-protein standard formula in the hospitalized patient requiring EN and also recommend
      against routine use of formulas designed to be immune-modulatory, elemental/semi-elemental,
      disease-specific (diabetes), and organ-specific (hepatic, renal, pulmonary).

      Blenderized Tube Feeding(BTF) offers a number of advantages to standard polymeric formula
      including being able to modify the macro-nutrient and fiber content based on patient
      preference. BTF use has also been increasing significantly in the past few years.

      The gut microbiome, or gut host environment, consists of approximately 10 thousand cells and
      has been the subject of much interest as it relates to gastrointestinal homeostasis. Our aim
      therefore is to (1) characterize the structure and dynamics of complex microbial communities
      using 16S rRNA- encoding gene sequences; (2) determine how they change with EN and; (3) how
      they may be correlated with tolerance of EN.

      A total of fifty subjects who are willing to participate in current trial and who meet
      eligibility will be recruited from the Mayo Clinic HEN program. Suitable subjects will be
      identified when they present at the initial HEN visit prior to undergoing enteral tube
      placement.

      Written informed consent will be obtained from all individuals who participate in the study.
      The principal investigator or member of study team meet with each participant, review the
      consent form in detail and confirm the subject's understanding of the study. The study team
      will answer all questions posed by the participants and when convinced that the subject
      verbally demonstrates understanding of the protocol, they will obtain a signed consent. Only
      designated staff members are authorized to obtain informed consent.

      At the pre-enteral tube visit, subjects will complete a gastrointestinal quality of life
      (QoL) questionnaire which will form the baseline assessment for symptoms and functional
      status. Body composition will be measured using Bio-impedance analysis (BIA; InBody™). A
      stool specimen will be obtained for analysis of the gut microbiome at baseline. Baseline
      clinical data such as current medical problems will be recorded.
    
  