
    
      Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is a chronic disease caused by insufficient production of insulin
      hormone in the pancreas gland or inefficient use of the insulin produced. Diabetic neuropathy
      that occurs in 60-70% of patients with DM is reported to be the most important factor
      increasing the risk of diabetic foot. Determining risk factors in diabetic foot and
      attempting to eliminate or mitigate these factors have been found to be a simple, inexpensive
      and evidence-based tool that can be used at home by patients. This study will contribute to
      the current literature on the effectiveness of thermal assessment in preventing diabetic foot
      ulcers. The study was planned as a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial to
      determine the effect of thermal assessment on preventing diabetic foot ulcers in patients
      with Type II Diabetes Mellitus (DM). For the sample of the study, compared to those with
      thermal evaluation, the study reported that the probability of developing diabetic feet was
      10.3 times higher than those without thermal evaluation program, 48 patients (thermal
      evaluation group: 24 people; control group: 24 people) were included in the study. It was
      decided that 30 patients were lost during data collection and 35 patients were included in
      each study group and the study was completed with a total of 70 patients. The patients
      included in the study will be assigned to the experimental group (thermal evaluation group)
      and control group by block randomization method according to the randomization list in a
      ratio of 1: 1. In the study, block randomization was performed by a statistician based on the
      current disease year (diabetes year) and the degree of diabetic foot risk.

      For the implementation of the study, permission was obtained from the ethics committee of
      Necmettin Erbakan University Meram Medical Faculty, Non-Drug and Medical Device Research
      Ethics Committee, and work permit was obtained from Necmettin Erbakan University Meram
      Medical Faculty Hospital Chief Physician. Patients included in the study sample will be
      informed before the study that the purpose of the study and participation in the study is in
      line with the principle of volunteering, and "Informing and Consent of Volunteers Consent
      Form" will be signed.

      Data collection tools;

        -  Personal Information Form,

        -  Chart to Record Diabetic Foot Risk Assessment Findings

        -  Structured Daily Foot Care Form,

        -  Evaluation Charts to be Given to Patients During Discharge

      Independent variables

        -  Identifying features of patients

        -  Features of patients associated with Diabetes Mellitus and its treatment

        -  Diabetic foot risk assessment results

        -  Foot care initiatives

      Dependent Variables

      - Development of diabetic foot ulcer

      Evaluation of the Data

      In the evaluation of the descriptive data obtained from the research, number, percentage,
      average and standard deviation will be used; The conformity of the data to normal
      distribution will be determined by Kolmogorov-Smirnov test and normal distribution curve,
      Skewness and Kurtosis test, and when the data show normal distribution, parametric tests will
      be used, and nonparametric tests will be used in the analysis of data that do not conform to
      the normal distribution. Significance will be evaluated within the confidence interval of
      95%, p <0.05 will be taken.

      İmplementation of the research

      After vascular evaluation, neuropathy evaluation, and physical evaluation of the foot,
      individuals with a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes aged 18 and over will be formed the sample
      group. Once the sample group is determined, participants will be randomly assigned to the
      experimental and control groups.

      Participants in the experimental group will be given foot care in the clinic and will be
      taught to the patient and / or their relatives. The foot care video will be uploaded to the
      patient and / or relative's phone. Thermal evaluation will be done. The application of the
      thermal evaluation, the foot areas to be applied and how to record the results of the
      application will be taught to the patient and / or their relatives. In addition, the thermal
      evaluation video will be uploaded to the phone of the patient and / or their relative. While
      the participants in the experimental group were discharged; Blood glucose monitoring chart,
      Checklist to record foot care interventions, Thermal evaluation registration form, Daily step
      number registration form will be provided and participants will be invited to check every 2
      months.

      Participants in the control group will be given foot care in the clinic and will be taught to
      the patient and / or their relatives. The foot care video will be uploaded to the patient and
      / or relative's phone.While the participants in the control group were discharged; Blood
      glucose monitoring chart, Checklist to record foot care interventions will be provided and
      participants will be invited to check every 2 months.
    
  