
    
      Background In Denmark 200 children under the age of 18 are diagnosed annually with cancer and
      the prevalence of patients undergoing anticancer therapy is 300. The expected five-year
      survival rate is 80%, but since the treatment is intensive with a high risk of
      life-threatening infections, these patients are frequently isolated at home or in hospital
      during their 1-2 years of therapy, which means reduced contact with their normal school
      environment, leisure activities and friends. Long-term survivors of childhood cancer
      frequently have compromised age-appropriate social relationships and psychosocial
      development, difficulties with resuming physical activities, and poor self-esteem leading to
      reduced quality of life. Intervention studies designed to improve physical and social
      function during treatment of children with cancer are lacking.

      Aim To develop an interactive rehabilitation programme that a) preserve the educational,
      physical and psychosocial life of the patients or even obtains "growth with cancer", b)
      maintains the child's everyday life (e.g. normal social relationships), and c) improves
      long-term physical performance, social competences, higher grade educational enrollment, and
      later integration into the labour market.

      Theoretical basis This project is inspired by Erving Goffman's interactional theory on
      normality and related concepts of stigma and frame analysis as well as Thomas Scheff's theory
      on the concept of emotional and social bonds and the development of the sociology of
      emotions.

      Material and methods Intervention group: Children aged 6.0-18.0 years diagnosed with cancer
      2013-2015 at Rigshospitalet (covers eastern part of Denmark (approximately 50% of total
      population)).

      Control group:

      The primary control group is children with cancer treated at the university hospitals in
      Odense, Aarhus and Aalborg 2013-2015.

      In addition, outcome data for cases will be compared with three other (secondary) comparative
      groups: a) children with cancer treated at any Danish childhood oncology unit throughout
      Denmark in 2012 (historical controls); b) the sibling closest in age to the intervention
      group patients (family matched); and c) the intervention group patient's classmates.

      Physical performance end point The physical performance will be monitored by: Andersen
      interval test, Timed up and go test, Sit to stand test, flamingo balance test, strength of
      hand by squeeze dynamometer and VO2 peak sub-max test.

      Physical measures

      Dexa scan

      Questionnaires: PedsQL, Strength and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), Revised Child anxiety
      and Depression Scale, Resilience, Loneliness and Social Dissatisfaction Questionnaire og The
      Children´s Impact of Event Scale 13.

      Qualitative interviews: Qualitative interviews are performed with children with cancer, their
      parents, and the ambassadors. The focus will be on sociometric status, social independence
      and competences, self-esteem, fatigue, physical activity, educational outcome, and safety
      issues as well as an evaluation of the intervention program.

      Outcomes and statistical considerations Provided all children with cancer (6-18 years) are
      included in the intervention or control group this study will be national cohort study
      including approximately 120 intervention children and 120 control children during the three
      year intervention period.

      In relation to physical performance the power calculation is based on previous published
      small studies that found a baseline VO2peak of 24.3 (SD5.9) among children with ALL. If 120
      children are included in the intervention and in the control group, then it the study will
      have a power or more than 0.85 to detect a 10% improvement and a power of 0.95 to detect a
      15% improvement.
    
  