
    
      Background:

        -  Patients with metastatic or locally advanced cancer frequently require palliative
           radiotherapy to relieve symptoms; however, progression of disease is frequent in
           patients with extended survival

        -  Radiation results in tumor cell death which can result in increased dendritic cell
           activation and trafficking

        -  ECI301 is a derivative of Macrophage Inflammatory Protein-1?, a 70 amino acid chemokine
           that is a ligand for CCR1 and CCR5, the chemokine receptors of immature dendritic cells.

        -  ECI301 has been shown to enhance the effect of radiotherapy in animal models.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ECI301
           delivered in combination with 30 Gy of external beam radiation to patients with
           metastatic or locally advanced cancer.

        -  The secondary objectives are:

             -  To describe the safety and tolerability of ECI301 delivered in combination with 30
                Gy of external beam radiation to patients with metastatic or locally advanced
                cancer

             -  To evaluate the humoral and cellular immune responses by:

                  -  Measurement of circulating precursor dendritic cells before and after the
                     completion of ECI301

                  -  Measurement of circulating MIP-? before and after the completion of ECI301

                  -  Assessment of T-lymphocyte quantitative and qualitative changes by flow
                     cytometry and assays for IFN? production

             -  To define pharmacologic parameters following the intravenous dose of ECI301

             -  To determine if neutralizing anti-EC301 antibodies occur after treatment

             -  To describe the response at the radiated site and distant sites after radiation in
                combination with ECI301

      Eligibility:

        -  Age >18 years.

        -  ECOG performance status <2.

        -  Life expectancy of greater than 3 months

        -  Histologically confirmed metastatic or locally advanced cancer for which
           radiotherapeutic management would be appropriate

        -  No recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable angina

      Design:

        -  This is a Phase I trial to determine the maximum tolerated dose of ECI301 in combination
           with external beam radiation therapy in patients with locally advanced or metastatic
           solid tumors.

        -  Patients will be treated with radiation therapy in a standard manner with ECI301 given
           daily during radiation. The dose of ECI301 will be escalated over the course of the
           trial to determine the MTD of daily ECI301 in combination with radiotherapy.

        -  We anticipate that accrual to this trial of 30 patients will take approximately 2 years.
    
  