
    
      Dose rationale: Mometasone furoate 220mcg dry powder inhalation is a low-moderate ICS dose
      that can be given once daily. Higher doses can have systemic effects and systemic
      glucocorticoids can precipitate rebound SCD pain when discontinued.

      Adaptive, covariate-balanced randomization: While the sample size of the study will be fixed
      at 80 participants, instead of standard blocked or stratified randomization, the study team
      will use adaptive covariate-balanced randomization to minimize imbalance of important
      covariates. This will reduce the need to use multivariable techniques (which perform poorly
      in small samples) to adjust post hoc for differences between treatment groups. Covariates
      will include age, use of hydroxyurea, previous rate of Emergency Department (ED) utilization
      for SCD pain, and recruitment site.

      Follow up Schedule: There will be in-person visits every 8 weeks. In addition, a blinded
      research coordinator will contact participants by phone at 2-weeks and 4-weeks after
      enrollment and 4-weeks after each in-person follow up to encourage protocol adherence and
      collect data about adverse events and healthcare utilization.

      Post-protocol observation period: The study will be complete at 48 weeks. A final follow up
      visit will occur at 52 weeks (4-weeks after study protocol completed) to collect pain diary
      and adverse event data and to identify the proportion of the ICS group who want to continue
      ICS. In the event that individuals wish to continue ICS, the PI will contact the
      participant's treating physician to discuss.

      Data elements: A wide range of clinical and translational data will be collected during the
      study. Baseline data will include demographic and clinical variables regarding SCD severity,
      previous complications and respiratory surveys. Blood will be collected for standard-of-care
      labs and analysis of serum inflammatory cytokines. Pulmonary function testing including
      spirometry and Exhaled Nitric Oxide (eNO) will be performed. Health related quality of life
      will be collected via ASCQ-Me survey. Patients will also be followed with follow-up phone
      calls and prospective chart review for one year to identify hospital visits and other SCD
      complications.

      Procedures for collection of clinical and laboratory data: Data collection and management:
      Case report forms are provided as an appendix. Data will be entered into a REDCap database,
      which will be monitored by the Data Coordinating Team (DCT) (led by Co-I Gelijns) for
      completion and timeliness.
    
  