
    
      The aim of our study is to create new evidence about the effectiveness and safety of
      non-steroid anti-inflammatory supplementation (i.e. ibuprofen) combined with exercise to
      influence positively bone and muscle health in women aged 65 years and older. With aging,
      there is a significant decrease in bone mineral, muscle mass, and strength, which increases
      the risk of falls, injuries and fracture especially for women. Direct and indirect health
      costs associated with osteoporosis and sarcopenia (defined as "muscle wasting") are in the
      billions of dollars and escalating as the proportion of older adults in Canada grows.
      Low-grade inflammation is a main contributing factor to bone and muscle deterioration with
      aging but is mitigated by anti-inflammatory drug use. Recent evidence shows resistance
      exercise training combined with a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (ibuprofen) is
      effective for increasing bone mineral density in young women. No study has addressed directly
      the effects of ibuprofen use following resistance exercise on bone and muscle in older women,
      the population at greatest risk of developing osteoporosis. The primary purpose of this study
      is to investigate the safety and multiple effects of ibuprofen ingestion following supervised
      resistance exercise training on bone and muscle in older women (≥65y).

      PRIMARY HYPOTHESES: Ibuprofen combined with resistance training will maintain hip and lumbar
      spine areal bone mineral density in older women. Secondary hypotheses are that bone
      structural properties in the hip and wrist, and muscle mass and strength will be improved by
      supplementing ibuprofen after resistance training sessions.

      RESEARCH PLAN: The study will use a repeated measures, parallel group randomized design where
      100 women (≥65 y) will be randomized to one of 4 groups: 1) Exercise and ibuprofen (400 mg
      immediately after exercise); 2) Exercise and ibuprofen placebo; 3) Placebo exercise and
      ibuprofen, 4) Placebo exercise and ibuprofen placebo. Women will participate in the exercise
      sessions 3 days per week. The intervention will be 9 months in duration. Dual energy X-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA) will be used to assess hip and lumbar spine areal bone mineral density,
      as well as geometric changes in hip structure, and whole body lean tissue (i.e. muscle) mass.
      Peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) and high-resolution-pQCT will allow us to
      investigate detailed changes in bone microarchitecture at the wrist and muscle
      cross-sectional area in the forearm in response to the intervention. Safety will be addressed
      by closely monitoring adverse events.

      RELEVANCE: This pilot study potentially drives a novel post-market use of ibuprofen. In
      addition, it permits our developing research team a foray into preliminary data collection to
      inform a larger randomized controlled trial (RCT) application to CIHR.
    
  