
    
      Fibromyalgia is considered to be a chronic, widespread musculoskeletal pain syndrome. Its
      most common symptoms are fatigue, anxiety, depression, and lack of concentration. These
      symptoms may lead to a decrease in the amount of physical activity that a sufferer can
      accomplish. Neck and back pain will also increase as the sedentary behaviour becomes the norm
      (Talotta et al., 2017). The best overall way of managing fibromyalgia is still under
      discussion, but according to the literature, symptoms are best managed by physiotherapy
      (García, Nicolás, and Hernández, 2016). Different programs can also be tailored to individual
      fibromyalgia sufferers with the aim of reducing pain (e.g. heat agents, electrotherapy,
      postural exercises, aerobic exercise, aqua-therapy and manual treatment).

      However, according to Bronfort et al. (2010), there is insufficient evidence supporting the
      effectiveness of manual therapy as a treatment for fibromyalgia. According to Reis et al.
      (2014), a single thoracic mobilization session was able to improve short-term heart-rate
      variability, although the pain was not affected by the intervention.

      Paolucci et al. (2016) used a new rehabilitation tool to treat pain with an increased
      reliance on proprioception. Practically, the tool consisted of cones made from a latex
      material which were placed under the patient's back during treatment sessions. These cones
      were intended to improve tactile response and proprioception, the so-called perceptual
      surface. According to this study, the tool was able to decrease pain and help to improve
      function. However, it is important to understand the tool's effect on long-term
      rehabilitation and compare it with other treatment methods. The aim of our study is to
      determine and compare the effects of perceptive rehabilitation and mobilization techniques on
      disability and fibromyalgia symptoms.

      Our study will include 90 participants, with 30 participants in each group. The PR-group and
      the Mob-group will receive treatments twice per week for eight weeks, a total of 16 sessions;
      there will be no intervention in the C-group. Another physiotherapist will assess each group
      before and after all the sessions. The study will be single blind. Follow-up assessments will
      be three and six months after the last session.
    
  