
    
      This is operational research aimed at better defining the use of oral azithromycin as part of
      the SAFE strategy to eliminate blinding trachoma.

        1. Before the examinations, we will do a census and a sketch map of houses in each village.
           Particular emphasis will be placed on identifying all the children between 1 and 6 years
           of age. These children are the chief reservoir of infection, and would have been too
           young (or unborn) at the ACT study treatment, so it is of particular interest to
           determine their disease and infection status.

        2. Egyptian ophthalmologists will examine the eyelids, conjunctiva and cornea using
           magnifying loupes and a hand held light, with grading following the ACT protocol which
           contains categories referable to the W.H.O. detailed grading scheme. The clinical
           findings will be recorded on a standardized form.

        3. Egyptian health aides will photograph the inside of the right upper eyelid of all
           subjects. The photographs of the subjects at the initial visit and all subsequent
           examinations will be examined to confirm the consistency of clinical findings over the
           period of the study.

        4. To test for chlamydial infection, a single fiber-tipped swab will be stroked gently over
           the conjunctiva of the right eye by an Egyptian ophthalmologist. These swabs will be
           placed in special tubes and tested for Chlamydia trachomatis by a nucleic acid
           amplification assay. [APTIMA® Gen-Probe Inc. (San Diego, CA.)] The APTIMA® assay detects
           DNA via r-RNA by a process called transcription mediated amplification. Laboratory
           testing will be performed at the Chlamydia Research Laboratory at University of
           California, San Francisco.

        5. After the results are obtained from the nucleic acid amplification testing performed at
           the laboratory in San Francisco, treatment for trachoma will be done with a single-dose
           of oral azithromycin (20 mg/kg body weight in children, 1.0 gm adults). The azithromycin
           will be donated by Pfizer International. Young children will be weighed to determine the
           dose of azithromycin and the doses administered by a health aide under direct
           supervision of an Egyptian physician (Dr. Mahfouz). One set of subjects (1 or 2 villages
           depending upon population size, in order to generate meaningful numbers) will receive an
           initial treatment of 1.0 gm azithromycin; while the second set of subjects will receive
           an initial treatment of 1.0 gm azithromycin, followed by a second dose of 1.0 gm
           azithromycin at 30 days post treatment.

             1. If the prevalence of clinical trachoma is over 20% in children 10 and under,
                everyone in the village will be treated with oral azithromycin.

                After initial azithromycin treatment, follow-up examinations and specimen
                collection will be done 2, 12, and 24 months post-treatment for trachoma and
                chlamydial infection.

             2. If the prevalence is 10% to 20%, all children 10 and under, and the families of
                those children with active trachoma, will be treated.

                After initial azithromycin treatment, follow-up examinations and specimen
                collection will be done 2, 12, and 24 months post-treatment for trachoma and
                chlamydial infection.

             3. If the prevalence is less than 10%, only children with active disease and their
                families will receive treatment. There will be no follow-up examinations.

           Adults and older children will be told that azithromycin can cause nausea, vomiting, or
           loose stools or vomiting in some children and adults, and can occur in up to 5% (1
           person in 20) of those treated.

           It should be noted that in our previous ACT study, more than 8,000 people received
           azithromycin with no complaints beyond minor gastro-intestinal upset.

        6. All positive specimens will have the major outer membrane gene amplified and sequenced.
           The genovars will be mapped for location within villages and families and then their
           distribution will be followed over time, after treatment to provide a better
           understanding of the epidemiology of the infection. Results of the study will be used as
           data input for the generation of mathematical models to predict whether community-wide
           retreatment (or alternate strategies) will be needed, and the optimal timing for such
           retreatment.
    
  