
    
      The desire to have children can be influenced by a number of factors. Besides hormonal
      factors, age and body weight, or genetic disorders, smoking may play an important role. It
      was shown that cigarette smoking correlates with a significantly decreased implantation and
      life birth rate, and a significantly higher risk for miscarriage or preterm birth. Moreover,
      limitations of the oocyte quality, a decreased thickness of the Zona Pellucida, or spindle
      disorders were reported. Overall, smokers are much less likely to succeed in pregnancy as
      published by the American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ASRM) in 2012. Although general
      tobacco consumption in Germany is declining, about 30% of women of childbearing age (between
      18 and 45 years) smoke (German Federal Office of Statistics, 2013).

      Combustion of tobacco products (and additives like glycerin, menthol or sorbic acid) results
      in the formation of more than 4.000 toxic and/or carcinogenic substances. Two of these
      substances are nicotine and its main degradation product cotinine, another example is the
      carcinogenic substance Benzo(a)pyrene. The nicotine clearance in the human body is relatively
      fast - the half-life of nicotine is less than 2 hours in the human body. However, cotinine
      with a half-life of more than 16 hours is an appropriate biomarker to study the
      bio-accumulation of nicotine/cotinine. The effect of nicotine, cotinine or Benzo(a)pyrene on
      the reproductive system has already been investigated in various animal model systems and
      some clinical trials. For example, nicotine limits progesterone and estrogen biosynthesis,
      reduces peripheral blood flow, and reduces contractility of the fallopian tubes and uterus.
      Benzo(a)pyrene impairs cell proliferation as well as estrogen biosynthesis. It has also been
      implicated in DNA damaging mechanisms.

      Nevertheless, little is known about the bio-accumulation of these toxic substances in human
      tissue, especially in the reproductive system (e.g. ovarian tissue or the follicular fluid).
      Some published studies were additionally limited because of their limited sample size (n<50)
      or non-sensitive analyzing tools (e.g. enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) analysis).
      The aim of this study is therefore to analyze the bio-accumulation of nicotine, cotinine and
      Benzo(a)pyrene in the follicular fluid of women with the unfulfilled desire to have children
      undergoing an intracytoplasmic sperm injection treatment using an ultra-sensitive gas
      chromatography-mass spectroscopy in a control group (non-smoker) and a study group (smoker).
      For each group, a sample size of n=150 will be included. This makes it possible to perform a
      statistical analysis regarding the presence of smoking pollutants in the follicular fluid and
      the associated clinical parameters (e.g. clinical pregnancy outcome, oocyte count,
      fertilization rate) between the study and control group. In combination with a patient
      questionnaire, it will be possible to identify the risk of smoking, the bio-accumulation of
      toxic substances in the follicular fluid and the desire to have children.
    
  