
    
      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a disease caused by abnormal lipid accumulation
      in the liver without alcohol intake or other organic causes. NAFLD covers a range of liver
      diseases ranging from simple oil infiltration to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH),
      fibrosis and cirrhosis. The most important risk factor in the development of NAFLD is insulin
      resistance due to obesity. Insulin resistance increases hepatic steatosis and accumulation of
      hepatic fatty acids by increasing peripheral lipolysis and the entry of fatty acids into the
      liver. In parallel with the increased prevalence of childhood obesity, the occurrence of
      NAFLD is increasing among children. The risk that the NAFLD can turn into chronic liver
      disease increases the importance of the disease even more when children become adults
      Mediterranean Diet (MD) has gained popularity in scientific literature because it is one of
      the healthiest diets in the world.This diet is based on the high intake of extra virgin olive
      oil, vegetables, fruits, cereals, nuts and legumes; moderate intakes of fish and other meats,
      dairy products and red wine and low intakes of eggs and sweets. So, it provides a large
      amount of monounsaturated fatty acids, polyunsaturated fatty acids, vegetable proteins, fibre
      and antioxidants; and low amounts of sugar, cholesterol and saturated fats. MD is
      characterized as low-carbohydrate (40% of calories) and in contrast to low-fat diets, the MD
      includes fat as 40% of the diet. It offers a lot of choice in food selection, and well
      tolerated, and many people can adhere to it over the long term. There are a limited number of
      studies investigating the effectiveness of the MD in NAFLD treatment in different countries.
      However, there are no studies in the treatment of children with NAFLD in Turkey. The primary
      aims to this study is to evaluate the effects of a MD vs. low fat diet on changes in hepatic
      steatosis, aminotransferases, and anthropometric measurements among obese children with NAFLD
      in Turkey. The secondary aim to this study is to evaluate the effects of the both diets in
      insulin resistance.
    
  