
    
      Between January 31, 2020 and June 30, 2023, 300 patients with valvular heart disease waiting
      for cardiac valve replacement in Department of Cardiovascular Surgery were screened for
      obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) by full-night polysomnography. Of them, 40 OSA patients were
      enrolled and randomly received CPAP treatment and non-CPAP treatment (20:20).

      The CPAP treatment group received both baseline medicine and CPAP treatment. The full-night
      CPAP treatment was conducted from 21:00 pm to 6:00 am for 7 days preoperatively. The non-CPAP
      treatment group received baseline medicine treatment. LG and related parameters were
      collected at the first day of treatment in non-CPAP group and both first and last day of
      treatment in CPAP group.

      Sleep parameters including apnea-hypopnea index (AHI), mean and lowest SPO2, and clinical
      evaluations including New York Heart Association (NYHA) classes, electrocardiographic,
      echocardiographic, arterial blood gas analysis findings, baseline medication, and 6-minute
      walk test were recorded.

      Operation related parameters (duration of operation, duration of cardiopulmonary bypass and
      bleeding volume) were recorded. Postoperative adverse events such as duration of ICU stay,
      postoperative duration of mechanical ventilation, pacemaker use, complicated infection and
      reintubations were recorded.

      A full-night polysomnography as well as LG and related parameters were re-examined before
      discharge from hospital. The changes of AHIs, mean and lowest SPO2, LG and related parameters
      between pre- and post-operative polysomnography parameters were calculated.

      The correlation between changes of polysomnography and LG parameters pre- and post-CPAP in
      CPAP group were analyzed. The correlation between changes of polysomnography and LG
      parameters pre- and post-operative in both CPAP and non-CPAP group were analyzed. The
      differences of polysomnography and LG parameters, and post-operative adverse events between
      CPAP and non-CPAP treatment group were analyzed.
    
  