
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is usually a progressive disease associated with
      the increased chronic inflammatory response of the airways and lungs to the toxic effects of
      harmful gases and particles. It causes pathological changes such as increased secretion
      production in the airways, epithelial changes, inflammation, smooth muscle hypertrophy, and
      hyperplasia in the submucosal glands. Hyperinflammation in the lungs results in muscle
      atrophy, shortening of the respiratory muscles, and increased respiratory workload. On the
      other hand, the increase in pro-inflammatory plasma cytokine levels seen in the systemic
      circulation causes oxidative stress, leading to the development of musculoskeletal system
      disorders and a decrease in functional capacity. Pulmonary dysfunction and increased dyspnea
      lead to a decrease in physical condition, physical exercise tolerance, and activity, while
      the decrease in muscle mass results in atrophy in the peripheral extremities.

      Age and gender are cited as major risk factors for COPD. Therefore, lower extremity atrophy,
      which is seen in peripheral extremities and increases with aging, causes foot dysfunctions.
      Considering that the ability of elderly people to maintain their independence is related to a
      good level of consciousness and ongoing ambulation, and the frequency of foot problems seen
      in elderly people is approximately twice as high as the general population, foot problems
      seen in elderly individuals are very important for this group. In particular, the decrease in
      foot mobility and the fall of the medial longitudinal arch negatively affect the absorption
      of shocks during heel strike and foot flat and the momentum of the trunk forward. This
      situation may result in the expenditure of energy above normal and deterioration of balance
      while ensuring the proper transfer of body weight. All of these cause early fatigue and a
      decrease in the quality of life in the individual. In the literature, foot deformities in
      elderly healthy individuals and the parameters these deformities will affect people are
      stated. However, there is no study examining the effects of foot deformities on physical
      activity, fatigue, and quality of life in elderly COPD patients.
    
  