
    
      The recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma(HCC）is the main problem during the treatment.
      Although some methods such as interferon may be effective in preventing the recurrence, there
      is still no clear effective approach widely accepted for everyone.

      Sorafenib, a kind of tyrosine kinase inhibitor, which inhibiting proliferation and inducing
      apoptosis of tumor cell by inhibiting the raf/MEK/ERK pathway, and anti-angiogenesis by
      targeting Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor(VEGFR), has now become the standard
      treatment of advanced HCC patients. Although the STORM studies have shown that adjuvant
      sorafenib for such patients did not significantly affect recurrence-free survival, time to
      recurrence, or overall survival. The patients recruiting in the study were mostly early
      stage, for middle and late stage patients, whether sorafenib can reduce tumor recurrence
      after surgical resection and prolong survival remains to be further study.

      Aspirin is a kind of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. It is the first hint of aspirin's
      potential role in tumor prevention and treatment when Gasic found that tumor metastasis is
      reduced in thrombocytopenia mice, and then the research confirmed that aspirin treatment can
      significantly reduce the tumor metastasis. In recent years, a lot of epidemiological evidence
      and clinical trials found that aspirin played an important role in cancer prevention, at the
      same time, more experimental study has found that it can also play a role in tumor treatment.
      Our previous animal experiments found that a combination of sorafenib and aspirin can reverse
      the negative effect of sorafenib which promoted tumor metastasis, and obviously prolong
      survival of a tumor-burdened nude mice.

      So, the study is to observe the effect of sorafenib combined with aspirin in preventing the
      recurrence in high-risk patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.
    
  