
    
      Activated lipid engorged macrophages are the hallmark for Gaucher disease (GD). The evidence
      for this activation comes from the clinical finding of 1000-fold increase of serum
      chitotriosidase, a chitinase specifically secreted from activated macrophages. While these
      markers decrease with the initiation of therapy, they are not specific for organ involvement.
      The mechanisms of this macrophage activation is unclear, however, the presence of a
      non-specific inflammatory response (e.g. high sedimentation rate), poor wound healing and
      insulin resistance in Gaucher patients point to its clinical relevance. The finding of T, B
      and NK cell abnormalities in Gaucher patients also suggest either direct effects of GD lipid
      metabolites or indirect mechanisms via macrophages. Therefore, understanding the mechanisms
      of macrophage activation and the crosstalk with other immune cell types could provide
      mechanistic insights for pathogenesis of GD.

      The investigators hypothesize that in GD the mechanisms leading macrophage activation could
      be related either directly to the accumulation of the lipid metabolites or through the
      effects of other cells of the immune system. To determine the pathways leading to macrophage
      dysregulation in GD, the investigators will evaluate the functional response of monocytes
      isolated from GD patients and profile of T cell and NK cell subsets in peripheral blood of
      these patients. The investigators will then assess whether macrophage dysfunction in GD is
      caused by an primary alteration immune response (NK and T cells response) or secondary due to
      the direct effects of substrate accumulation performing immunological profiling of GD patient
      blood samples, and through functional assays. Identification of the immunological basis of GD
      pathogenesis could lead to the development of both biomarkers and novel approaches for
      therapeutic interventions to alleviate disease symptoms. In addition, our studies will reveal
      novel effects of the accumulation of the lipid substrate in GD in modulating macrophage and
      lymphocyte subsets.
    
  