
    
      The U.S. lifetime prevalence of major depressive disorder (MDD) is 17%. A number of
      treatments are available for depression including medications, psychotherapy and various
      somatic treatments. Unfortunately, up to two-thirds of patients remain symptomatic following
      first-line treatment and a third fail to achieve remission (defined as full resolution of
      depressive symptoms) after four established treatments; approximately 10%-20% of depressed
      patients may show virtually no improvement despite multiple, often aggressive treatments.
      Thus, a conservative estimate places the U.S. prevalence of treatment-resistant depression
      (TRD) at 1%-3%. TRD has a high risk of suicide, is a major cause of disability and is
      responsible for doubling of overall health care costs.

      For patients with TRD there are limited evidence-based treatment options. Transcranial
      magnetic stimulation (TMS) may have efficacy for patients that have failed no more than one
      antidepressant medication 10-12, but response and remission rates are relatively low (under
      30% and 20% respectively). Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) may have efficacy in patients that
      have failed 4-6 antidepressant treatments but long-term response and remission rates are
      again low (about 20% and 10% respectively). Electroconvulsive therapy(ECT) can be effective
      in TRD patients with remission rates of 50%-60%. However, more than 70% of TRD patients will
      relapse within 6 months following a successful acute treatment course. For patients that have
      failed ECT, there are no evidence-based treatment options. Therefore, there is great need for
      novel treatment approaches for TRD.

      Prior clinical trials have shown that SCC DBS has the potential to be a valuable treatment
      option for patients with TRD. Further developing this treatment will involve confirming its
      effectiveness and identifying ways to optimize its use. In this study the investigators
      intend to test the safety and efficacy of chronic SCC DBS as a treatment for TRD and compare
      the safety and efficacy of left-sided versus right-sided stimulation using a double-blind,
      randomized, cross-over design.
    
  