
    
      The proposed study is a randomized clinical trial in which the participants will be allocated
      into one of the two arms according to the proposed intervention: experimental group, in which
      the abutments will be permanently connected immediately at the implant placement procedure;
      and control group (active comparator) with conventional treatment, where the abutments will
      be disconnected and reconnected three times.

      Considering the inclusion and exclusion criteria related to oral and systemic health, a
      sample of participants will be selected among those partially edentulous patients who seek
      for dental implants treatment at the Fortaleza University School of Dentistry.

      The sample size has been calculated based on the standard deviation of 0.17 mm, significance
      level of 5% and 80% statistical test power. To detect a clinically significant difference of
      0.2 mm, each group should be composed of 11 participants. Therefore, considering a 10% margin
      for possible dropouts or missing data, the study will include 24 participants divided into
      two groups. Each participant will receive one or two implants according to his/her needs, so
      the study may include more than 24 implants.

      A single surgeon will perform the implant surgical procedure in order to reduce variations
      inherent to clinical experience. After local anesthesia and incision on the top of the
      alveolar ridge, the bone will be exposed by the mucoperiosteal flap elevation. The mucosal
      thickness will be measured at implant sites, before the lingual/palatal flap elevation, with
      a periodontal probe.

      The drilling sequence will be done according to manufacturer's recommendations, under saline
      solution irrigation, intermittent movements and speed up to 1200rpm.

      The implants should develop a final insertion torque of 32Ncm or above to enable abutment
      connection torque, indicated at the experimental arm. The implant primary stability will be
      also measured by resonance frequency analysis (Osstell; Osstell AB, Gothenburg, Sweden). A
      minimum 65 ISQ will be required to a single-stage surgery. Thus, those implants that do not
      contemplate these requirements will be excluded from the study and will receive a
      conventional treatment with two-stage surgery if necessary.

      Before finishing the surgical procedure, the volunteers will be randomly assigned to one of
      the two arms by opening sealed envelopes with a random sequence generated by Excel
      (Microsoft, Redmond, Washington, USA). Therefore, the surgeon will identify each volunteer's
      arm only after the end of drilling, insertion and stabilization of the implants.

      Each implant allocated at the control arm (active comparator) will receive conventional
      treatment with three abutment disconnections and reconnections. At the experimental arm, each
      implant will receive the prosthetic abutment in a definitive way immediately at the surgical
      procedure, avoiding any abutment disconnection.

      The surgeries of both arms will be finished with suture, drug prescription and postoperative
      recommendations. All implants will receive temporary crowns at three months and definitive
      prosthesis until six months after surgery.

      Intraoral radiographs will be done with paralleling technique immediately after surgery
      (baseline) and at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months later. The radiographs will have its dimensions
      corrected at the ImageJ software (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA)
      having implant known dimensions as reference.

      Each implant will have its radiographs evaluated by a previously calibrated examiner with a
      minimum of 0.8 intra-rater reliability for the intraclass correlation coefficient. The
      examiner will not know to which arm the X-rays belong.

      Primary and secondary outcomes data will be submitted to normality test and compared using
      statistical tests for paired and unpaired samples.
    
  