
    
      Within the 2007-2008 school year, Phillipsburg High School in Phillipsburg, New Jersey, and
      Southern Lehigh High School in Center Valley, Pennsylvania have agreed to take part in an
      educational program targeting high school students on the risks associated with distracted
      driving behaviors. The educational program will be approximately 60-minutes in length
      utilizing education material including but not limited to: a 5-10 minute DVD illustrating a
      teenager's real-life experience of the devastating effects of distracted driving, other
      videos placing the viewer in the driver's seat, power point presentations of state and
      national statistics related to seat belt usage, mortality, and substance use, overview of
      state laws, demonstrations relating to the physics of an accident, and interactive games
      simulating driving while distracted.

      As part of the educational program, teachers will be asked to distribute an anonymous survey
      and a state law quiz to the students. The teachers will be provided with scripted material to
      use for describing the purpose of the activity and for instructing the students how to fill
      out the survey and state law quiz. This data will be obtained at three different time
      intervals (pre education, post education, and delayed post education) and will assess driving
      and distracted driving behaviors such as seat belt use, cell phone use, audio habits, eating
      while driving, substance use, personal hygiene habits, frequency and number of passengers,
      and knowledge of state laws.

      During the educational program, students will be given an anonymous research phone number
      and/or email address for which they will be encouraged to leave any voicemails, text
      messages, and/or emails with experiences they feel are important to teenage driving.
      Qualitative data obtained from any anonymous communication will be received by a non-study
      team member, and will be sanitized of all caller numbers or identifiers.

      In addition to the educational program, study team members will anonymously observe student
      and adult drivers pulling into and out of school parking lots, or around school property, in
      order to qualify their driving behaviors. Observed behaviors of students and adults will be
      compared for any similarities. Observers will record seat belt use, number or passengers in
      cars and any other witnessed distracted driving behaviors. Observations will be anonymous and
      will not take place on school property. Student observations will take place pre, post, and
      delayed post the education session. Adult observations will occur one time, independent of
      student observations, as the adults will not be receiving the educational intervention
      provided by the study. Freedom and Liberty High Schools in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, will be
      utilized as the control group for this study. These schools will not receive the education,
      however, will be surveyed, quizzed and observed at the same time intervals as the study
      group.
    
  