
    
      This study is a single-blinded, placebo-controlled trial to determine the effects of DIM
      supplementation in patients with SLE. The DIM supplement to be used is BioResponse-DIM®
      (BR-DIM®), an absorption-enhanced formulation of proven bioavailability in animal testing and
      human trials. A total of 30 individuals will be enrolled into this 14-month study. Ten
      patients will be randomly assigned to the Low Dose Group [a daily dose of 225 mg of DIM from
      BR-DIM]. Ten patients will be randomly assigned to the High Dose Group [a daily dose of 375
      mg of DIM from BR-DIM]. Ten patients will be randomly assigned to a matching placebo group,
      where 5 of these patients will receive matched placebo capsules equaling use in the Low Dose
      active group, and 5 will receive matched placebo equaling use in the High Dose active group.
      Each active capsule will deliver 75 mg of DIM from BR-DIM. Dosing will span 52 weeks. BR-DIM
      or comparably packaged placebo will be administered orally with meals twice per day. Placebo
      subjects randomized to the Low Dose group will take 2 placebo capsules in the am and 1
      capsule in the pm and placebo subjects randomized to the high dose group will take 3 capsules
      in the am and 2 capsules in the pm. Low Dose active subjects will take 2 capsules in the am
      and 1 capsule in the pm. High Dose active subjects will take 3 capsules in the am and 2
      capsules in the pm. Study subjects will be randomly assigned to one of the four treatment
      groups. Randomization procedures will be overseen by the staff of the North Shore Long Island
      Jewish General Clinical Research Center. The randomization schedule will be set up by the
      Bio-Statistics unit. The Investigator will contact the Research Pharmacy at North Shore
      University Hospital who will contact the Bio-Statistics unit once the subject signs the
      Informed Consent Form in order to learn which treatment regimen the subject is assigned to.
      Patients and control subjects will be given the appropriate amount of study medication at
      each visit to take home with them. Study personnel will monitor compliance by asking the
      patient to return any unused study medication at each visit for drug accountability. In
      addition, medication logs will be kept by the study subject and will be presented to the
      study coordinator at each visit. The subject, but not study personnel, will be blinded to the
      study drug assignments.
    
  