
    
      The proposed randomized trial aims to investigate neural mechanisms of brain connectivity
      when comparing response to TCC to health and wellness education classes using fMRI biomarkers
      of emotional regulation and cognition. Control group will include health wellness education
      programs (HEW) that will help to control for the non-specific social support factors. Primary
      outcomes include measures of depressive symptom severity. Secondary outcomes include
      cognition, resilience, health functioning, quality of life. Maintenance of response and
      relapse of major depression will be determined during 6 month (and 12 month follow-up if MRI
      eligible). Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) correlates of emotional processing
      and connectivity in related functional networks. Neural correlates of working memory, and
      brain structure will be examined in ½ of the sample. The researchers will investigate whether
      variations in emotional regulation will moderate or predict emotional and functional
      improvement linked to TCC.

      The investigators will recruit 220 older adults with depressive symptoms who have been on a
      stable form of treatment for at least 4 months, who will be randomly assigned to 12 weeks of:
      1.Ta-Chi-Chih (TCC) class; or 2. Health/Wellness Education Program (HEW); all for 120 minutes
      per week. All subjects will receive comprehensive evaluations of mood, mental and physical
      health, and cognition at baseline, 12 weeks, and 6 months. Changes over time in measures of
      depressive symptoms, resilience, quality of life, and cognition will be assessed in random
      regression models. The investigators anticipate that greater clinical improvement in mood and
      cognition will in the TCC group compared to the HEW. The investigators also expect clinical
      improvement to correlate with the change in the activation in the right ventrolateral
      prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) and amygdala in an affect labeling task, and working memory-related
      activation of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), and change in functional connectivity
      in brain network activity. This is the first randomized trial of response to TCC that
      integrates the use of fMRI biomarkers of response to guide the development of treatment and
      preventive approaches in geriatric depression.
    
  