
    
      Background:

        -  We have engineered human PBLs to express an anti-MART-1 T-cell receptor that recognizes
           an human leukocyte antigens (HLA-A) 0201 restricted epitope derived from the tumor
           infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) clone DMF5.

        -  We constructed a single retroviral vector that contains both alpha and infinity chains
           and can mediate genetic transfer of this T cell receptor (TCR) with high efficiency
           without the need to perform any selection.

        -  In co-cultures with HLA-A 0201 positive melanoma, anti-MART-1 F5 TCR transduced T cells
           secreted significant amount of interferon (IFN)-(but no significant secretion was
           observed in control co-cultures with cell lines.

        -  The anti-MART-1 F5 TCR transduced peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) could efficiently
           kill HLA-A 0201 positive tumors. There was little or no recognition of normal
           fibroblasts cells.

        -  This TCR is over 10 times more reactive with melanoma cells than the MART-1 TCR that
           mediated tumor regression in two patients with metastatic melanoma.

        -  In this trial we would like to test our hypothesis that the addition of an anti-tumor
           ALVAC vaccine will result in clinical tumor regression and persistence of the
           transferred cells (as is the case in murine models).

      Objectives:

      Primary objectives:

      -Determine if the administration of anti-MART-1 F5 TCR -engineered peripheral blood
      lymphocytes, ALVAC anti-tumor immunization, and aldesleukin to patients following a
      nonmyeloablative but lymphoid depleting preparative regimen will result in clinical tumor
      regression in patients with metastatic melanoma.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Determine the in vivo survival of TCR gene-engineered cells.

        -  Determine the toxicity profile of this treatment regimen.

      Eligibility:

      Patients who are HLA-A 0201 positive and 18 years of age or older must have:

        -  metastatic melanoma;

        -  previously received and have been a non-responder to or recurred after aldesleukin;

        -  normal values for basic laboratory values.

      Patients may not have:

        -  concurrent major medical illnesses;

        -  any form of primary or secondary immunodeficiency;

        -  severe hypersensitivity to any of the agents used in this study;

        -  contraindications for high dose aldesleukin administration.

        -  Design:

        -  peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) obtained by leukapheresis (approximately 5
           times 10^9 cells) will be cultured in the presence of anti-CD3 (OKT3) and aldesleukin in
           order to stimulate T-cell growth.

        -  Transduction is initiated by exposure of approximately 10^8 to 5 X 10^8 cells to
           retroviral vector supernatant containing the anti-MART-1 F5 TCR genes. These transduced
           cells will be expanded and tested for their anti-tumor activity.

        -  Once engineered PBMC are demonstrated to be biologically active according to the
           strict-criteria outlined in the Certificate of Analysis, patients will receive a
           nonmyeloablative but lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen consisting of
           cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by intravenous infusion of ex vivo tumor
           reactive, TCR gene-transduced PBMC plus intravenous (IV) aldesleukin (720,000 IU/kg q8h
           for a maximum of 15 doses). Approximately 2 hours prior to cell infusion, patients will
           be immunized with ALVAC virus expressing the tumor antigen. ALVAC immunization will be
           repeated at 2 weeks.

        -  Patients will undergo complete evaluation of tumor with physical examination, computed
           tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen and pelvis and clinical laboratory evaluation four
           to six weeks after treatment and then monthly for approximately 3 to 4 months or until
           off study criteria are met.

        -  The study will be conducted using a phase II optimal design where initially 21 evaluable
           patients will be enrolled. If 0 or 1 of the 21 patients experiences a clinical response,
           then no further patients will be enrolled but if 2 or more of the first 21 evaluable
           patients enrolled have a clinical response, then accrual will continue until a total of
           41 evaluable patients have been enrolled.

        -  The objective will be to determine if the combination of high dose aldesleukin,
           lymphocyte depleting chemotherapy, ALVAC immunization and anti-MART-1 F5 TCR-gene
           engineered lymphocytes is able to be associated with a clinical response rate that can
           rule out 5 percent (p0=0.05) in favor of a modest 20 percent partial response (PR) plus
           complete response (CR) rate (p1=0.20).
    
  