
    
      Fifty volunteers with mild asthma will be recruited to undergo ozone challenge in the
      controlled exposure facility of the US EPA Human Studies Division (104 Mason Farm Road,
      Chapel Hill, NC) with 0.4ppm for 2 hours with moderate exercise alternating with rest.
      Endpoints will include genetic analysis for the GSTM1 genotype, sputum and spirometry changes
      pre and post exposure, and blood endpoints pre and post exposure.

      TRAINING DAY: (at least 3 days prior to the ozone challenge) Eligible subjects will report to
      the research lab for a 3 hour training session.

        -  All female volunteers will undergo a urine pregnancy test.

        -  After informed consent is obtained, Measurement of orally exhaled nitric oxide will be
           obtained

        -  Subjects will perform spirometry.

        -  Subjects will exercise on a treadmill to determine the workload for the actual exposure.

        -  Finally the subject will undergo sputum induction following pretreatment with albuterol.

      The sputum will be assessed for quality to determine continued eligibility. If a subject has
      provided an acceptable sputum sample within the prior 6 months this may be used as inclusion
      criteria rather than repeating the induction at this point. After subjects have demonstrated
      production of an adequate sputum sample, they will be scheduled for the ozone exposure visit.

      24 HOURS PRIOR to the exposure day (Day 1): Subjects will be asked to refrain from smoking as
      well as drinking alcohol for 24 hours prior to Day 1 until after completion of Day 3.

        -  Subjects will have vital signs and oxygen saturation checked, including the symptom
           questionnaire.

        -  They will also undergo a physical examination of the ears, nose, throat and chest (lung
           sounds).

        -  Female volunteers will undergo urine pregnancy testing.

        -  Measurement of orally exhaled nitric oxide will be obtained.

        -  Spirometry testing will be performed.

        -  Subjects will have a sputum induction preceded by administration of 2 puffs of
           albuterol.

      EXPOSURE DAY (at least 3 days after the training day):

        -  Subjects will be asked to arrive at the study site at approximately 8 AM and will
           undergo assessment of vital signs (temperature, pulse, respiratory rate, blood
           pressure), oxygen saturation, and symptom score assessment.

        -  A telemetry unit will be placed for cardiac monitoring during the exposure.

        -  Measurement of orally exhaled nitric oxide will be obtained prior to exposure and 4
           hours after the end of the exposure

        -  Spirometry testing to rule out acute illness prior to the exposure.

        -  They will also undergo a physical examination of the ears, nose, throat and chest.

        -  Exposure sessions: The 0.4 ppm ozone exposure will be conducted in an ozone exposure
           chamber. Each subject will be exposed to 0.4 ppm ozone for 2 hours. During exposures,
           subjects will perform four 15 minute bouts of moderate exercise (minute ventilation or
           VE = 30 40 L/min) on a treadmill, each separated by 15 minutes of seated rest. Minute
           ventilation is measured for 2 to 3 minutes after about 4 minutes of exercise during the
           first exercise period, and again at about 12 minutes of exercise. It is then measured at
           about 12 minutes into each exercise period. Two subjects may be exposed simultaneously,
           in which case the exercise/rest periods will be alternated.

        -  Immediately post exposure and 4 hours after completion of exposure, subjects will have
           an assessment of vital signs, oxygen saturation, symptom score assessment and undergo
           spirometry evaluation.

        -  Venipuncture: 20 ml of blood will be collected for a CBC/ differential, assessment of
           blood monocyte phagocytic function and cell surface markers just prior to the exposure
           and 4 hours after the end of exposure. A portion of the sample will be used for
           genotyping.

        -  Induced sputum will be collected 6 hours after initiation of exposure after subjects
           have been premedicated with albuterol. The subjects will be observed at the study site
           until sputum induction is complete. Subjects will not be discharged home following the
           post-exposure sputum induction until FEV1 is within 90% of baseline values and vital
           signs are normal. Subjects not meeting safety criteria at the end of the exposure day
           will be admitted to the GCRC for overnight observation.

           24 HOURS POST EXPOSURE (Day 3): The following morning, approximately 24 hours after
           exposure, the volunteer subject will be assessed directly at the study site. The subject
           will undergo spirometry, vital sign monitoring and symptom scoring.

      STUDY DISCONTINUATION VISIT (5-10 days after exposure): The volunteer subject will again be
      assessed directly at the study site. The subject will undergo spirometry, vital sign
      monitoring and symptom scoring.
    
  