
    
      This study is a single-center, prospective, randomized trial approved by the University at
      Buffalo Institutional Review Board. Medical students, residents and other interested
      individuals without prior microsurgery experience affiliated with the Jacobs School of
      Medicine and Biomedical Sciences were invited to participate. Each participant completed
      written informed consent.

      Participants first watched an instructional video made by the Principal Investigator on how
      to pass a 9-0 nylon suture needle, and how to perform a microsurgical tie for a linear
      incision in a silicon baking mat using the same materials as would be provided to them for
      the pre- and post-assessments (Video 1). After watching the video three consecutive times,
      participants were tasked to pass and tie a 9-0 nylon suture in the same manner as the video
      recording. Their attempt at performing the microsurgical task was video-recorded for a
      pre-assessment with a cellphone camera focusing on the microscope field ensuring a clear view
      of the surgical field and the participant's instrument manipulation. Each subject wore gloves
      during the assessment to ensure anonymity.

      After completion of the video-recorded pre-assessment, participants were randomized by flip
      of a coin to either the intervention group to build a micro-stellated icosahedron, or to the
      non-intervention control group with no assigned task. All subjects in both groups were
      required to return in two weeks for a second in-person meeting. At the second meeting, they
      were presented with the same instructional video as in the first meeting on how to pass a
      needle and perform a microsurgical tie. After watching the video three consecutive times,
      their attempt at completing a microsurgical tie was video-recorded for a post-assessment,
      using similar instruments and set-up as those used two weeks prior. Subjects in the
      intervention group were asked to return borrowed materials and their completed
      micro-stellated icosahedrons.

      After all subjects were recruited, and their corresponding microsurgical tasks were
      video-recorded for pre- and post-assessments, each of the videos was edited to mute all audio
      in order to ensure anonymity. Each of the videos was de-identified by naming it with a random
      number from 1 to 42 and saved in a file folder in random order. This file folder was sent
      separately to two ophthalmologists, masked to the identity of the subjects (intervention vs
      control) and time of recording (pre- or post-assessment).

      The raters used the Video-based Modified Objective Structure Assessment of Technical Skill
      (OSATS) Scoring Criteria, which scores four criteria with scores from 1 to 5: Economy of
      Movement, Confidence of Movement, Respect for Materials, and Precision of Operative
      Technique.4 The raters assigned separate scores for the participant's attempt at passing the
      needle through the incision, and for their attempt at tying a microsurgical tie. The attempt
      at passing the needle (Pass: Total) had a maximum possible score of 20, and the attempt at
      tying a microsurgical tie (Tie: Total) had a maximum possible score of 20, making 40 the
      maximum possible total score for each video (Total: Pass+Tie). The time each subject took to
      pass the needle, and the time each subject took to attempt tying a microsurgical tie was
      measured in number of seconds.
    
  