
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the ctDNA detection rate in cervix cancer patients undergoing surgery,
      radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and/or immunotherapy in the setting of primary, recurrent or
      metastatic disease.

      II. Association of ctDNA baseline levels and clearance kinetics with clinical and
      radiographic tumor response.

      III. To explore the association of detectable ctDNA at each time point with invasive
      recurrence-free survival and overall survival.

      IV. To explore the use of ctDNA for surveillance and detection of disease recurrence.

      V. To create a repository for future exploratory studies including analyzing changes in T
      cell and other immune cell subpopulations during and following therapy for cervix cancer.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 cohorts.

      COHORT 1: Patients undergo collection of blood samples at baseline prior to surgery, at 6
      weeks, 3, 6, and 12 months post-surgery, every 6 months during year 2, and at the time of
      recurrence (if applicable).

      COHORT 2: Patients undergo collection of blood samples at baseline prior to the first
      fraction of radiation, during week 4 of radiotherapy, at 6 weeks, 3, 6, and 12 months
      post-radiotherapy, every 6 months during year 2, and at the time of recurrence (if
      applicable).

      COHORT 3: Patients undergo collection of blood samples at baseline prior to the first
      fraction of radiation, during week 4 of radiotherapy, on the day of the final fraction of
      radiotherapy, at 3 months post-radiotherapy, every 3 months during years 1 and 2, and at the
      time of recurrence (if applicable).

      COHORT 4: Patients undergo collection of blood samples at baseline prior to initiation of
      chemotherapy or immunotherapy, at 4 weeks and 8 weeks after initiation of chemotherapy or
      immunotherapy, every 3 months during years 1 and 2, and at the time of recurrence (if
      applicable).
    
  