
    
      Infectious disease is the single biggest cause of death worldwide. New infectious agents,
      such as the SARS, MERS and SARS CoV-2, novel influenza viruses, viruses causing viral
      hemorrhagic fever (e.g. Ebola), and viruses that affect the central nervous system (CNS) such
      as TBEV & Nipah require investigation to understand pathogen biology and pathogenesis in the
      host. Even for known infections, resistance to antimicrobial therapies is widespread, and
      treatments to control potentially deleterious host responses are lacking.

      In order to develop a mechanistic understanding of disease processes, such that risk factors
      for severe illness can be identified and treatments can be developed, it is necessary to
      understand pathogen characteristics associated with virulence, the replication dynamics and
      in-host evolution of the pathogen, the dynamics of the host response, the pharmacology of
      antimicrobial or host-directed therapies, the transmission dynamics, and factors underlying
      individual susceptibility.

      The novel severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has led to almost
      500,000 cases of COVID-19 and over 22,000 deaths worldwide. There have been 24,738 cases and
      291 deaths in the United states and 190 cases in Maryland, USA as of March 21, 2020. The
      global is dire, with reports of severe overcrowding in hospitals, shortages of medical
      supplies, and insufficient medical personnel to address the surge in patients seeking care.
      The risk of this situation occurring in other countries is highlighted by the propensity for
      high infectiousness and asymptomatic spread. To protect patients and the community-at-large,
      research is urgently needed to guide quarantine and treatment strategies for COVID-19.

      Morbidity and mortality from COVID-19 is associated with the development of fulminant
      respiratory failure. Recent data suggests death rates as high as 38% among those requiring
      ICU care, many of whom developed Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). However, it is
      currently unknown which patients are at risk of severe disease. Diagnostic tools are urgently
      needed to detect immunologic and physiologic disease responses to identify infection in
      asymptomatic individuals and to identify infections on the trajectory to ARDS. Furthermore,
      the infectious reservoirs of SARS CoV-2 remain unclear although children may be important
      reservoirs given children's relatively mild disease course as well as prolonged viral
      shedding from both respiratory and stool specimens. This protocol aims to address these
      critical knowledge gaps and future questions relevant to COVID-19 clinical management.

      INPATIENT Enrolled inpatient individuals will have whole blood, 1 RNA tube, serum,
      nasopharyngeal (NP) or oropharyngeal (OP) swabs collected at enrollment. Subsequent blood
      (whole blood, serum, or plasma) collections solely for research among hospitalized patients
      will be a maximum of 10 mL per day. This will generally follow a schedule of day 0/1, 3, 7
      and weekly while hospitalized. Subsequent collections after hospital discharge occur at 1
      month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12 months.

      Clinical data from routine clinical care that will be recorded include but are not limited
      to:

        -  Symptoms

        -  Comprehensive medical history

        -  Medications

        -  Physical exam including vital signs and oxygen administration

        -  Clinical and microbiology labs performed during (Complete Blood Count (CBC),
           chemistries, lactate, blood culture results, HIV results)

        -  Images and/or imaging results from hospital record

      OUTPATIENT After enrollment, a shipping coordinator will contact the participant to confirm
      participant's willingness to participate and to verify the shipping address to which a study
      self-testing kit will be mailed. This kit will contain a thermometer, pulse oximeter, gloves,
      NP and OP swabs (for days 0, 3, 7, 14), 4 viral transport media into which the swabs will be
      put after testing, Tasso and/or dried blood spot testing kits, Oracol (oral fluid collection
      tube).

      Participants with confirmed or suspected COVID-19, 18 years of age and older will be followed
      with sample self-collection. Sample self-collection will occur on Day 0, which should occur
      within 24-48 hours of enrollment. Sample self-collection will also occur on days 3 , 7,
      14,(-1/+1) and 28 days (+32). Participants with persistent symptoms will have an additional
      collection date at 21 days (-2/+2) if feasible. Participants will be advised to do this by
      themselves and not ask others for assistance. A self-testing kit would include clear
      instructions for self-collection of samples. This may include respiratory, oral fluid, and
      dried blood spot/painless capillary blood collection depending on availability of resources.
      Depending on shipping resources, samples will be temporarily stored in the participant's
      personal freezer. Vital signs (e.g., heart rate, oxygen saturation, temperature) will be
      collected by participants with positive COVID-19 results using devices provided by the study
      when resources are available (e.g. portable pulse oximeter and/or thermometer).
      Questionnaires for demographic, medical history, socioeconomic, mental health, household
      contacts, and housing situation will be administered electronically or by study staff
      depending on the study participant's situation. A standard symptom questionnaire will be
      administered at every sampling time point either electronically or by study staff including
      day 28.
    
  