
    
      The patient selected for this study previously received a kidney transplant under protocol
      2016P002051. Unfortunately, she experienced primary graft nonfunction due to a renal vein
      thrombus and acute thrombotic microangiopathy and the transplanted HCV+ kidney was removed.
      She continued glecaprevir and pibrentasvir for the full course (8 weeks of treatment) and was
      cured of HCV. However, she continues on dialysis requiring ongoing, albeit low dose,
      immunosuppression after her failed transplant. This causes increased risk of infection and
      other dialysis-related morbidity. Futhermore, she is at risk of access loss due to multiple
      failed fistula attempts and prior dialysis catheter line thrombosis. Of note, she also failed
      a trial of peritoneal dialysis due to development of a large pleural effusion (a known
      treatment-limiting complication of peritoneal dialysis). Thus, this young patient, is at risk
      of losing dialysis access which could lead to death. The MGH transplant team has now decided
      that she could be retransplanted with alterations in peri-transplant anticoagulation and
      immunosuppression (eculizumab) that they are confident should decrease her risk of
      peri-transplant thrombosis and recurrent TMA. Thus, we desire to expedite her access to
      re-transplant. Through this protocol, this recipient will be given the opportunity to accept
      a kidney that is HCV antibody positive and nucleic acid test (NAT) negative or HCV NAT
      positive and will be treated with oral glecaprevir (300mg)/pibrentasvir (120mg) (G/P,
      MavyretTM) on day 3 (+/- 2 days) post-kidney transplant to prevent the transmission of HCV
      infection at the time of transplant. Our goal is to provide access to kidney transplantation
      as soon as possible, with a donor of any genotype of infection, with elimination of the
      potential HCV infection by therapy used on day 3 (+/- 2 days) in the case of HCV NAT+
      transplant and surveillance and reactive therapy in the case of HCV antibody positive NAT-
      transplant.
    
  