
    
      Despite laudable reductions in global childhood mortality rates, pneumonia remains the second
      most frequent killer of children less than five years old worldwide. Nearly one million
      children succumbed to pneumonia in 2013, with greater than half of these deaths in Africa. In
      Malawi, which has a high prevalence of malnutrition and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)
      infection, pneumonia is a major cause of pediatric mortality. In patients with World Health
      Organization (WHO)-defined severe pneumonia, malnutrition, HIV-infection, and hypoxemia are
      the primary drivers of poor outcomes. In a recent analysis of 2001-2012 child pneumonia
      outcomes in Malawi the overall case fatality rate decreased from 15% to 4% except in children
      with severe malnutrition. The pneumonia mortality rate in malnourished children remained
      elevated at 15% despite antibiotics and increased access to supportive interventions like
      low-flow supplemental oxygen. In Malawian children with HIV-infection, WHO very severe
      pneumonia and severe malnutrition were the strongest predictors of death. Severe hypoxemic
      pneumonia may be as common in children as HIV-affected or severely malnourished cases, and
      may also have higher mortality than non HIV-affected, non-severely malnourished cases without
      severe hypoxemia. Non-invasive ventilation, already routinely used in industrialised
      countries, may provide an advanced treatment solution for certain patient populations such as
      children with WHO severe pneumonia complicated by severe malnutrition and/or HIV-infection or
      -exposure or severe hypoxemia.

      Bubble continuous positive airway pressure (bCPAP) is non-invasive and is widely used for
      preterm neonatal respiratory failure in industrialised countries. Along with a flow
      generator, bCPAP uses a water column to deliver continuous positive pressure to a
      spontaneously breathing child. bCPAP is relatively inexpensive and requires little technical
      expertise compared with mechanical ventilation, but there is limited experience of bCPAP in
      resource-poor settings. Recently, small studies have explored its use in preterm neonates in
      Malawi. However, few studies have described its use in older infants and children, none of
      which included mortality as a primary endpoint and specially focused on the main drivers of
      poor pediatric pneumonia outcomes in southern Africa, HIV, malnutrition, and hypoxemia.

      The investigators data using bCPAP in Malawian children with severe pneumonia suggest
      feasibility for implementation. The investigators have previously reported that using a bCPAP
      system derived from locally available, relatively inexpensive supplies has shown promise in
      the management of hospitalized HIV-infected children with pneumonia in Malawi. The
      investigators observational case series further delineates the outcomes of 77 Malawian
      children hospitalized at a tertiary referral facility with severe pneumonia who were treated
      with bCPAP. Nearly half were infants either infected or exposed to HIV or were severely
      malnourished. Although the mortality of this series of patients was 50.0%, bCPAP was
      initiated in this cohort only when patients were found to be failing standard treatment. The
      investigators estimated that more than 75% of these children would have been eligible for
      mechanical ventilation. In this proposed study the investigators will be initiating bCPAP
      earlier in the hospitalization prior to treatment failure. Unlike previous studies conducted
      at referral hospitals, the investigators will perform this study at the district hospital
      level where 80% of hospitalized child pneumonia cases are cared for in Malawi.

      Although bCPAP is relatively inexpensive, scale-up in countries like Malawi with significant
      pneumonia burden and high HIV prevalence will require substantial resources to meet expected
      needs. In order to appropriately allocate precious resources and provide practical clinical
      guidance for healthcare providers who may use bCPAP, it is paramount to fully understand the
      utility of bCPAP treatment in this setting. To the investigators knowledge no bCPAP data
      using a control group with mortality as the primary outcome has been reporting in a similar
      generalized HIV epidemic African patient population 1-59 months of age. Data generated from
      this research will be additionally critical for formulating future studies that may include
      bCPAP refinements or exploration of other feasible modalities like high-flow nasal cannula or
      bi-level positive airway pressure. Therefore, the more rigorous methodology proposed here is
      warranted and supported by the Malawi Ministry of Health. If bCPAP proves an effective
      treatment modality for children hospitalized with WHO severe pneumonia, it is a simple
      technology that could be operationalized to help thousands of children with life-threatening
      pneumonia.

      The investigators propose to address this critical evidence gap by conducting a randomized
      controlled study determining bCPAP outcomes, compared to the currently recommended standard
      of care endorsed by the WHO and Malawi Ministry of Health, in hospitalized Malawian children
      with WHO-defined severe pneumonia complicated by malnutrition and/or HIV-infection or
      -exposure, or severe hypoxemia.

      RATIONALE

      Quality randomized studies comparing bCPAP versus a standard-of-care control group that
      includes low-flow oxygen therapy and using a primary endpoint of mortality are not available
      in low-resource settings including high prevalence HIV countries like Malawi for children
      1-59 months of age with severe pneumonia. Demonstrating a mortality benefit with bCPAP is
      needed to support further investment and scale up of bCPAP in the care of older Malawian
      children 1-59 months of age with World Health Organization (WHO) severe pneumonia complicated
      by HIV and/or malnutrition, or severe hypoxemia.

      STUDY HYPOTHESIS AND OBJECTIVES

      • Study Hypotheses

      The investigators hypothesize that bCPAP, compared to standard care, will reduce the
      mortality of Malawian children with WHO-defined severe pneumonia complicated by a severe
      co-morbidity (HIV-infection or HIV-exposure and/or severe malnutrition), or severe hypoxemia
      without a severe co-morbidity.

      • Study Objectives

      The broad objective of this study is to provide scientific evidence assessing the
      effectiveness of treatment with bCPAP for WHO severe childhood pneumonia for children 1-59
      months of age in Malawi, Africa.

        -  Primary Objective 1

           • Determine the pneumonia mortality rate for bCPAP treatment, compared to standard of
           care, for children with WHO severe pneumonia.

        -  Primary Objective 2

           • Determine the pneumonia mortality rate for bCPAP treatment, compared to standard of
           care, for children with WHO severe hypoxemic pneumonia without co-morbidity (i.e., no
           HIV infection, no HIV-exposure, no severe malnutrition).

        -  Primary Objective 3

           • Determine the pneumonia mortality rate for bCPAP treatment, compared to standard of
           care, for children with WHO severe pneumonia and co-morbidity (i.e., HIV-infection or
           HIV-exposure and/or severe malnutrition).

        -  Secondary Objectives

             -  Determine the pneumonia day 14 treatment failure rate for bCPAP treatment, compared
                to standard of care, for HIV-infected children with WHO severe pneumonia.

             -  Determine the pneumonia day 14 treatment failure rate for bCPAP treatment, compared
                to standard of care, for HIV-exposed, uninfected children with WHO severe
                pneumonia.

             -  Determine the pneumonia day 14 treatment failure rate for bCPAP treatment, compared
                to standard of care, for severely malnourished children with WHO severe pneumonia.

             -  Determine the pneumonia day 14 treatment failure rate for bCPAP treatment, compared
                to standard of care, for severely hypoxemic children with WHO severe pneumonia.

             -  Determine the proportion of children alive at day 30 phone follow up.

             -  To investigate whether there may be differential treatment responses in certain
                baseline characteristics including but not limited to children with severe anemia,
                in those who test positive for malaria, in those with wheeze at baseline, in those
                with altered mental status, in those with digital auscultation-defined lung
                disease, and whether there is a differential treatment response by age.

             -  To determine whether intervention arms have equivalent rates of adverse events as
                control arms.
    
  