
    
      The original CliniMACS® device (CD34 Reagent System) employs a reagent consisting of an
      antibody that specifically binds to blood cells that express the CD34+ surface marker
      (hematopoietic stem cells or blood stem cells). The CD34 antibody is conjugated to an
      iron-containing particle that is only nanometers in size and safe for infusion. The
      enrichment of CD34+ cells is accomplished by passing the antibody/magnetically-labeled cell
      suspension through a magnetic separation column, which is provided as part of a single-use
      disposable tubing set. Magnetically-labeled CD34+ target cells are retained within the
      separation column, while the unlabeled cells flow through. Recovery of CD34+ cells is
      achieved by removing the magnetic field and eluting the targeted CD34+ stem cells into a
      collection bag.

      On January 24, 2014, the FDA approved the CliniMACS CD34 Reagent System as a Humanitarian Use
      Device for the prevention of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in patients with acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML) in first complete remission undergoing allogeneic HCT from a matched related
      donor. Humanitarian Use Device (HUD) is a device that is intended to benefit patients by
      treating or diagnosing a disease or condition that affects or is manifested in fewer than
      4,000 individuals in the United States per year. The CliniMACS® CD34 Reagent System is now
      indicated for processing hematopoietic progenitor cells collected by apheresis (PBSC) from an
      allogeneic, Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-identical matched sibling donor (MSD) to obtain a
      CD34+ cell-enriched population for hematopoietic reconstitution following a myeloablative
      preparative regimen without the need for additional GVHD prophylaxis in patients with AML in
      first morphologic complete remission (CR1). The approval as an HUD, however, asserts that
      there was sufficient information for the FDA to determine that the device does not pose an
      unreasonable or significant risk of illness or injury. Furthermore, the clinical data
      supported the premise of a "probable benefit"; in that the risk to health outweighs the risk
      of injury or illness from its use, taking into account the probable risks and benefits of
      currently available devices or alternative forms of treatment.19 The CliniMACS CD34 Reagent
      System was shown to meet these requirements.

      Uses of the CliniMACS CD34 Reagent System beyond MSD PBSC HCT for AML in CR1 are currently
      not FDA approved and therefore considered research, even though CD34-selection is widely
      considered to be a standard-of-care option for haploidentical HCT. In Europe, the European
      Medicines Agency (EMA) has made the CliniMACs System components available as Conformité
      Européene (CE) marked medical devices, and "any clinical application of the target cells is
      exclusively within the responsibility of the user of a CliniMACS System."

      The CD34-selection system has been widely used in haploidentical HCTs, with the first patient
      treated at University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) in 2002. Since then, CD34-selection
      has facilitated over 70 HCTs at UCSF on 2 successive protocols (#01151 and #10082). However,
      the removal of almost all cells beyond those which are CD34+ leads to minimal passive
      transfer of immunity. It is therefore complicated by a slow recovery of immunity, with high
      rates of life-threatening viral infections, and an appreciable degree of transplant-related
      mortality (TRM).

      Beginning in 2014, a new approach to ex vivo processing of stem cells was developed with a
      goal of mainly replacing the older CD34-selection technology. This technique utilizes
      negative depletion of the cells thought to be most responsible for the development of aGVHD,
      the alpha-beta T-cell Receptor positive T-cells.

      All trials of alpha-beta T-cell depleted have included simultaneous depletion of CD19+ B
      cells from the donor graft. All references to "alpha-beta T-cell depletion" herein implies
      simultaneous Cluster of Differentiation antigen (CD)19+ depletion as well.
    
  