
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose or safe biologically effective dose of cetuximab when
      administered in combination with cisplatin, external beam radiotherapy, and brachytherapy in
      patients with stage IB-IVA cervical cancer.

      II. Determine the feasibility of this regimen, in terms of chronic and acute toxic effects,
      in these patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the distribution of progression-free survival and overall survival of patients
      treated with this regimen at 1 year after study entry.

      II. Determine the site of recurrence (locoregional vs distant) in patients treated with this
      regimen up to 1 year after study entry.

      III. Correlate response or progression-free survival with epidermal growth factor receptor
      expression in tumor samples from patients treated with this regimen at 1 year after study
      entry.

      IV. Correlate response or progression-free survival with grade of cetuximab-induced rash in
      patients treated with this regimen at 1 year after study entry.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of cetuximab. Patients are stratified
      according to nodal status (positive para-aortic and/or pelvic lymph nodes vs negative
      para-aortic and pelvic lymph nodes).

      Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours and cisplatin IV on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and
      36 (weeks 1-6). Patients also undergo external beam radiotherapy to the para-aortic and
      pelvic lymph nodes OR whole pelvis once daily on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, 22-26, and 29-33
      (weeks 1-5). Patients then receive either 1 or 2 applications of low-dose rate brachytherapy
      in weeks 6-8 OR 5 applications of high-dose rate (HDR)* brachytherapy once weekly in weeks
      4-8. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *No external beam radiotherapy is administered on the day of HDR brachytherapy. If the
      majority of external beam radiotherapy has been administered, HDR brachytherapy may be
      administered in 2 applications per week (separated by at least 72 hours) in order to complete
      all treatment within 8 weeks.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients per stratum receive escalating doses of cetuximab until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year.
    
  