
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a genetic disorder of hemoglobin that affects millions of
      individuals worldwide, with sub-Saharan Africa bearing the greatest burden of disease. The
      leading causes of hospitalization and death in individuals with sickle cell disease are
      painful VOE (associated with tissue injury from reduced oxygen supply) and "acute chest
      syndrome" respectively. Acute chest syndrome (ACS) is a form of acute lung injury unique to
      SCD that arises de novo or during the course of painful VOE.

      A safe, reliable therapeutic deployed early in the course of painful VOE (with or without
      ACS) that restores oxygen supply to tissues, could potentially attenuate tissue injury,
      resolve pain and improve patient outcomes.

      NVX-508 is a liquid fluorocarbon which transports oxygen. Stoichiometrically, NVX-508 has 200
      times the oxygen carrying capacity of human hemoglobin.Oxygen is taken up by NVX-508 as it
      circulates through the alveolar capillary bed in the lungs and is released in blood and
      tissues with low oxygen content. Consequently, if it were administered intravenously (IV) and
      passed through the lungs of patients, it would take up oxygen, increasing the oxygen
      concentration in blood in a dose-dependent manner and release it to tissues with low oxygen.

      The active component of NVX-508 was originally developed as an ultrasound contrast agent. It
      has been tested as such in over 2200 patients to whom it was safely administered as a bolus
      IV injection.The pharmacokinetics of NVX-508 in humans exhibits a biphasic decline after an
      iv bolus dose; a rapid initial decline followed by a slow terminal phase. The terminal phase
      t1/2 (half- life) ranges from 81-99.5 min for doses of 0.15-0.35 ml/kg. NVX-508 is not
      metabolized in humans, it is removed from the body unchanged in the breath (expired air) .

      The rationale for studying NVX-508 for SCD is based on data from preclinical studies in the
      mouse model of ACS. NVX-508 when used as rescue therapy in the mouse model, restored oxygen
      saturation to baseline in mice experiencing hypoxemia, with 100% survival. NVX-508 reduced
      pulmonary vascular congestion in SCD mice experiencing ACS.

      Hypothesis: Intravenous delivery of 4 doses of NVX-508 of up to 0.17 ml/kg per dose, infused
      over 30 minutes will be well tolerated.

      Experimental design: Dose-ranging study in adults with diagnosis of SCD (SS, SC, S-Beta +
      thalassemia, S-Beta0 thalassemia, and SS/S-Hemoglobin D (SD)or S in combination with another
      variant hemoglobin) , who are in steady state (no painful episode, hospitalization or blood
      transfusion in the preceding 4 weeks) will be recruited from a single institution (Ghana
      Institute of Clinical Genetics, Korle-Bu, Accra, Ghana) to participate in the study.

      The study has a 3 + 3 design. The first cohort of 3 subjects enrolled in the study shall be
      administered one dose (0.05 mL/kg) of NVX-508, the next cohort of 3 will be treated using two
      doses of NVX-508 at 0.05 mL/kg and subsequent cohort will be assigned to four doses of
      NVX-508. Higher doses of 0.1ml/kg and 0.17ml/kg will be administered Intra-patient dose
      escalation will not be allowed. Each dose shall be administered as slow IV push over 5-10
      minutes with the next dose administered no less than 90 minutes after cessation of the prior
      infusion, but not more than 120 minutes later.

      Within each cohort, when the first subject is treated, there will be a 72 hour observation
      interval before the next two subjects are treated at the same dose.

      Study Procedures

      A maximum of 24 adults with sickle cell disease aged 18 years and above will be recruited
      into the study.

      Screening - After giving informed consent, potential study participants will undergo
      screening which comprises a standardized history and physical examination, lab tests (blood
      counts, serum chemistries) and electrocardiogram( EKG). Eligible participants will return
      within a week to be enrolled in the study.

      Intervention - Study participants will go to a designated staffed phase I center for
      administration of the study drug. They will have baseline evaluations (arterial blood gas
      evaluation, hemoglobin and EKG) done prior to administration of the study drug. They will
      receive 1, 2 or 4 doses of the study drug depending They will be continuously monitored by
      medical research staff and the principal investigator prior to, during and in the 4 hour
      observation period post intervention, with physical examination, labs ( complete blood
      counts, serum chemistries, coagulation profile and blood samples drawn for blood gas
      evaluation and EKGs.

      Subjects will be discharged from the clinical trials facility after the 4 hour observation
      period if they have had no adverse events requiring further clinical management. There will
      be a one week post-intervention observation period for dose-limiting toxicity for each
      subject, at the end of which they will have a follow up visit.

      Follow up - 1 week after administration of NVX-508, subjects will have a follow-up visit at
      the clinical trial facility which includes history, physical exam and labs. If there are no
      adverse events or problems requiring continued clinical care and monitoring, subjects will
      exit the study once the lab and clinical data from the visit have been completely reviewed.
    
  