
    
      The study will be a prospective parallel randomized clinical trial (RCT) of approximately 20
      months of duration, in which each patient will receive 1 implants placed in the posterior
      mandible. If the patients fulfill the inclusion criteria after implant site preparation, they
      will be randomized to either receive an implant with a one-piece tapering neck configuration
      (P) or with a widening neck configuration (TL).

      52 patients, male or female, aged 18 or older, who are missing one tooth in the posterior
      mandible (positions 4-6).

      A randomization list will determine which implant type has to be inserted. This randomization
      list will be generated by an independent investigator.

      Patients will be recruited by the investigator consecutively. Prior to implant site
      preparation, the clinician will determine if the patient still meets the inclusion criteria
      at surgery in particular if the bone quantity is sufficient. Patients who do not meet the
      inclusion criteria will be excluded from the study and will therefore not be randomized. The
      patients will be randomized to receive P implant or TL implant.

      For both groups, impression will be taken 8 weeks post insertion. Details with regard to the
      prosthetic procedures and materials used for the restoration of the implants will be provided
      in a separate section of this protocol.

      Standardized peri-apical radiographs will be taken before and after prosthesis placement to
      document the crestal bone level at the day of loading.

      Standardized photographs will be taken to measure the soft tissue at the time of loading.

      The thickness of the soft tissue will be measured 2 mm apical to the gingival margin with a
      needle.

      Routine controls are due at 6 and 12 months post loading. Peri-apical radiographs will be
      taken after implant placement, before/after loading and at 12 months post loading. Final
      impressions will be taken at 12 months post loading to evaluate volumetric changes.
    
  