
    
      Acute post-operatory cognitive dysfunction states are one of the most important complications
      in older patients after surgery. Two acute cognitive dysfunctions have been described:
      postoperative delirium (PD) and postoperative subsyndromal delirium (PSSD). In previous
      reports, the incidence of PD in older patients is between 10% to 30%, while PSSD is more
      frequent 30% to 50%. Patients who develop delirium, both as a complete or incomplete
      syndrome, have poorer long-term outcomes, such as longer length of hospital stay,
      institutionalization at discharge, and even higher mortality, and consequently, the human and
      economic costs significantly increase for the health system.

      An early diagnostic and prevention of delirium are the key points to decrease the poor
      long-term outcomes and health costs. The diagnosis requires cognitive testing to elucidate
      functional patients' status before and after surgery. The need for a biomarker that may
      predict the occurrence of PD and PSSD and allow the selection of patients who need prevention
      strategies is a primary research field.

      Here the research team will use an observational cohort, investigator blinded in two-center
      with a primary endpoint to validate the relative alpha power ratio as a predictive biomarker
      of postoperative cognitive dysfunctions.

      To calculate the sample size, the investigators used values obtained from a previous work in
      a cohort of 30 patients and decided to compare the prediction ability of MoCA and alpha power
      ratio. ROC curves and their AUC were used to calculate the prediction ability of MoCA and
      alpha power ratio. Thus, a sample size of 425 patients was calculated considering an AUC of
      MoCA = 0.786 and AUC of alpha power = 0.895, a two-tailed test, an alpha error of 0.05 and a
      power of 0.8 and considering a 25% loss. Investigators consider this study as a pilot
      validation trial to establish the utility and the capacity of the EEG biomarker for
      predicting PD and PSSD, the research team aims to include the 25% of the total sample. This
      yields the need for 106 patients for this preliminary trial.
    
  