
    
      This is a multicenter, single blind, randomized controlled, three-arm, large-scale clinical
      trial. We will recruit 300 PD women who meet diagnostic criteria for PD established in 2005
      from Canada gynaecology and obstetrics association. Exclusion criteria include illiteracy,
      breast feeding women, pregnancy women, serious systemic disease, mental patient, and
      acupuncture experience. Eligible women will be randomly assigned to verum acupuncture group,
      sham acupuncture group and usual care group. Participants in the verum acupuncture group will
      receive traditional acupuncture treatment and will be treated with ture needles, While
      Participants in the sham acupuncture group will be treated with sham acupuncture with
      non-insertive needles at non-acupuncture points. Acupuncture treatment will start from the
      5th or 7th day before the estimated first day of menstrual cycle, and for each cycle,
      participants will receive one session of treatment each day for 5 consecutive days (a
      treatment course), totally for 15 sessions and 3 treatment courses. Participants in the usual
      care group will not receive treatment besides health education as a control group. This trail
      will be composed of a one-menstrual cycle baseline, three-menstrual cycle treatment (cycle 1
      to 3), and three-menstrual cycle follow-up period (cycle 4-6). The primary outcome measure is
      the change of Cox Menstrual Symptom Scale (CMSS) in a menstrual cycle compared to baseline.
      Secondary outcome measures include Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), McGill pain questionnaire
      (SF-MPQ), Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI), and intake of acute medication.
      Psychological outcome measures are Beck Depression Rating Scale (BDI), Beck Anxiety Inventory
      (BAI), NEO Five-Factor Inventory (NEO-FFI), the Doctor-Patient Relationship Scale (PDRQ), the
      Difficult Doctor-Patient Relationship Questionnaire (DDPRQ), and Expectations for
      interventions assessed by acupuncture expectancy scale (AES). Deqi sensation will be measured
      by MGH Acupuncture Sensation Scale (MASS).
    
  