
    
      Colonoscopy is the gold-standard method for CRC screening, as it enables detection and
      real-time removal of pre-cancerous polyps during the examination. It is well known that
      lesions are missed during routine colonoscopy.5 major reasons can be detailed for missing
      polyps during colonoscopy: polyps that are hidden behind folds, polyps that are masked by the
      colon's topography and natural folds, shallow polyps, unscreened portions of the colon (due
      to incomplete colonoscopy) and endoscope slippage. The NaviAid™ G-Eye system presents a
      unique concept that overcomes all 5 items listed above, providing an overall solution to the
      two endoscopy key challenges of limited detection/treatment yield and limited operation
      range.

      The G-Eye endoscope comprises a standard endoscope onto which a unique balloon is permanently
      integrated, at its bending section. The NaviAid™ G-Eye may be used for performing controlled
      withdrawal and endoscope stabilization.

      A major attribute of the NaviAid™ G-Eye system controlled withdrawal technique of the
      endoscope, with the balloon moderately inflated is to expand and stretch the intestinal lumen
      during endoscope withdrawal.

      This is a multicenter, two-arm, randomized, open-label study intended to compare the
      additional diagnostic yield obtained by performing NaviAid™ G-Eye procedure vs. the
      diagnostic yield obtained by performing standard colonoscopy procedure.

      Subjects will be randomized to one of two groups: Group A, the "Study Group," and Group B,
      the "Control Group."

      Group A: Subjects will undergo a complete standard colonoscopy as the first procedure.
      Immediately after the standard colonoscopy procedure, a complete NaviAid™ G-Eye procedure
      will be performed by the same endoscopist.

      Group B: Subjects will undergo a complete NaviAid™ G-Eye procedure as the first procedure.
      Immediately after the NaviAid™ G-Eye procedure, a complete standard colonoscopy will be
      performed by the same endoscopist.
    
  