
    
      1. INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE Since sedation is increasingly administered by
           non-anesthesiologists, patient safety during sedation became of increased interest by
           the Joint Commission for Accreditation of Healthcare Organisations (JCAHO). The current
           standard of respiratory monitoring for patients during sedation is continuous pulse
           oximetry with visual assessment of the patient. Clinical research has demonstrated that
           hypoxemia, secondary to depressed respiratory activity, is a principal risk during
           sedation. Microstream capnography is a relatively new technology for carbon dioxide
           (CO2) monitoring. The technique is based on emission of selective infrared wavelengths
           exactly matching for CO2 absorption. Due to this efficient and selective emission
           process only small samples of CO2 are necessary to detect alveolar hypoventilation, and
           accuracy is maintained with a low flow sample rate. Therefore, capnography can provide
           more useful information on the frequency, effectiveness and regularity of ventilation,
           than pulse oximetry during procedures accomplished under deep sedation. According to
           previous reports capnography provides early detection of alveolar hypoventilation before
           hypoxemia has occurred in nonintubated patients and thereby can improve patient safety
           during sedation.

           This study will provide new information on the efficacy of capnography for early
           detection of hypoxemia during nurse-administered propofol sedation in adults. Previous
           studies, involving a paediatric randomized study and a study in adult gastrointestinal
           endoscopy, were outcome studies with capnography in patients sedated with midazolam in
           combination with fentanyl or meperidine.4 5 Therefore, we will assess the efficacy of
           interventions based on capnographic monitoring of respiratory function in
           nurse-administered propofol sedation. In previously conducted studies independent
           observers monitored the capnographic display and prompted the medical team of the
           changes in respiratory activity. In the following clinical trial we will examine normal
           practice by assessment of the capnogram by the nurse qualified in sedation management.

        2. OBJECTIVES At the Centre for Contraception, Sexuality and Abortion (CASA) Leiden
           abortion procedures are performed under deep sedation using propofol. These procedures
           are not attended by an anesthesiologist and patient's monitoring is performed by nurses
           qualified in patient sedation management, using pulse oximetry and their clinical
           judgement. Supplementary oxygen is not routinely given.

           The purpose of this study is to investigate the use of capnography to improve patient
           safety during deep sedation. This study examines the effectiveness of capnography in
           early detection and therapy of alveolar hypoventilation during deep sedation in
           comparison to standard monitoring with pulse oximetry in abortion procedures. The
           randomized controlled trial determines whether utilizing capnography in women undergoing
           deep sedation with propofol (monotherapy) for abortion procedures will provide early
           detection of suboptimal ventilation and reduce hypoxemia. Unlike previous studies we are
           determined to investigate daily practice when nurses qualified in sedation management
           assess capnography instead of an independent observer assessing capnography. Therefore,
           all nurses qualified in patient sedation management and abortion doctors will be trained
           in assessment of capnography before the trial starts.

           The implications of this study for monitoring deep sedation may be generalized to all
           healthy patients having minimal invasive procedures, particularly when a trained
           anesthesiologist is not in attendance.

        3. STUDY DESIGN This protocol describes a prospective, open, randomized controlled trial
           with two study arms. All patients receive standard care of monitoring performed by the
           medical staff. The study examines whether capnography prevents patients from having
           respiratory events during deep sedation in abortion procedures.Patients randomized to
           the standard care group receive standard of care using pulse oximetry. In the
           capnography arm, respiratory monitoring is performed with pulse oximetry and
           capnography. If the capnogram indicates sub-optimal ventilation and/or apnea, denoted as
           a flat line on the capnometer for ≥ 15 seconds, a respiratory rate ≤ 6, or a end-tidal
           CO2 > 50 mmHg, medical staff will intervene by arousing the patient, performing chinlift
           or jawthrust, abandon from giving additional propofol, or provision of oxygen. The nurse
           qualified in sedation management will assess capnography him/ herself. Medical staff and
           patients are not blinded for the allocation assignment and the study has an open design.

        4. STUDY POPULATION 4.1 Population Participants are recruited at the Centre for
           Contraception, Sexuality and Abortion Leiden, the Netherlands. The study population
           comprises female patients (≥ 18 years) undergoing abortion procedures during first or
           second trimester pregnancies.

           4.2 Inclusion criteria Patients were considered for enrolment if they fulfil all of the
           following inclusion criteria: age 18 years or older, abortion procedures performed until
           22 weeks of gestational age, American Society of Anaesthesiologists (ASA) classes I to
           II, and ability (mental competence) to give informed consent.

           4.3 Exclusion criteria Exclusion criteria were inability to provide informed consent,
           history of allergic reactions to propofol, soybeans or egg proteins, American Society of
           Anaesthesiologists (ASA) classes III- V, sleep apnea syndrome, and seizure disorders.

           4.4 Sample size calculation The sample size calculation for the prospective randomized
           controlled trial is based on a comparison of two proportions. The proportion of patients
           developing hypoxemia during sedation is reported between 47% and 51% in observational
           studies.1 2 Qadeer et al. reported a reduction of hypoxemia (saturation <90%) with
           additional capnography monitoring from 69% to 46% and Lightdale et al. reported a
           reduction of hypoxemia (saturation <95%) in children from 24% to 11%.4 5 Based on an
           observation of daily practice in 58 patients at the CASA clinic Leiden hypoxemia (oxygen
           saturation < 90%) was recorded in 12 patients, corresponding to an incidence of 20.7%.
           To show a decrease in hypoxemia from 20% to 10% with a significance level of 0.05 and a
           power of 0.80, 219 patients are required within each arm, yielding 440 patients to be
           included in total. Give the annual number of 1600 patients and expecting a participation
           rate of 60%, we expect to include these patients within a period of 24 weeks.

        5. METHODS 5.1 Study parameters/endpoints

      5.1.1 Main study parameter/ endpoint The primary outcome is the occurrence of oxygen
      saturations to <90% in the population, measured by continuous pulse oximetry.

      5.1.2 Secondary study parameters/endpoints Secondary study outcomes include occurrence of
      oxygen saturations to <80%, total administered propofol dose, airway interventions
      (repositioning the head, chinlift, supplemental oxygen, bag-mask ventilation), problems
      during the abortion procedure (e.g. arousal or movement of the patient), early termination of
      the procedure due to respiratory problems, episodes of bradycardia, administration of
      atropine.

      5.1.3 Other study parameters Carbon dioxide monitoring with capnography will provide the
      following parameters: apnea (absence of respiratory activity) denoted as a flat line on the
      capnometer for ≥ 15 seconds, abnormal ventilation denoted as a respiratory rate ≤ 6, and
      end-tidal CO2 > 50 mmHg (CO2 > 6.7 kPa).

      Baseline values are age, height, body weight, duration of pregnancy, American Society of
      Anaesthesiologists class, smoking, abuse of alcohol or drugs, and use of soporifics.

      5.2 Randomisation, blinding and treatment allocation During the trial patients are randomly
      assigned to the capnography group (standard care and monitoring with capnography) or the
      control group (standard care) by randomisation. The randomisation is computer-generated and
      stratified for each abortion doctor.

      Participants are recruited by an independent observer or nurse. The patient and medical staff
      will not be blinded to the allocation assignment and also the independent observer is aware
      of the randomisation assignment before the start of the procedure.

      5.3 Study procedures

        -  Daily practice at the CASA clinic: If patients opt for an abortion procedure after five
           days of statutory reflection they are coming to the clinic with an appointment. Before
           any procedure starts, patients have again a conversation with a doctor or nurse about
           their decision to have an abortion. If an abortion is inevitable and pregnancy lasts no
           longer than 16 weeks, the patient is immediately admitted to the clinic. If an abortion
           is inevitable and pregnancy lasts between 16 and 22 weeks, cervical priming with
           misoprostol is administered at least 90 minutes before the abortion procedure.

        -  A routinely performed health questionnaire, blood pressure, heart rate and blood group
           determination are performed in preparation for the procedure. Peripheral venous access
           is established at the holding area. Baseline characteristics for the study are obtained
           by this routinely performed questionnaire including health questions (e.g. weight,
           height, and smoking).

        -  Patients are asked to be a participant for this study by one of the nurses or by the
           researcher at the holding area. They receive an information letter and are able to
           question the researcher about their participation.

        -  Before the procedure starts monitoring, including pulse oximetry and blood pressure, is
           attached to each patient

        -  All patients receive standard monitoring with continuous display of pulse oximetry and
           heart rate. In the intervention group capnography is measured using a cannula under the
           nose connected to the capnograph, Capnostream TM 20, Oridion Medical 1987 ltd. This
           capnographic device displays respiratory rate, end-tidal carbon dioxide (ETCO2) levels,
           and continuous waveforms.

        -  All patients are sedated with an initial dose of 100 milligrams (mg) propofol. In
           addition 20-50 mg propofol is administered when patient discomfort or lighter levels of
           sedation are noticed. The nurse qualified in sedation management determines the doses of
           propofol on a previously described sedation protocol for the CASA clinics. Local
           anesthesia of the cervix is performed with 10-20 ml lidocaine 1%.

        -  When the abortion procedure has finished patients are monitored at the recovery area. If
           they are fully awake and no extensive bleeding has occurred, they are allowed to leave
           the clinic.

      5.4 Withdrawal of individual subjects Subjects can leave the study at any time for any reason
      if they wish to do so without any consequences. It should however be noted that patients
      during sedation no longer have the ability to express their wishes.
    
  