
    
      Annually 1.5 million children and adults experience trauma to the head and brain that results
      in a TBI. Our research suggests that in a subset of patients, TBI induces pituitary
      dysfunction and abnormal growth hormone (GH) secretion. The clinical syndrome associated with
      abnormal GH secretion is characterized by profound fatigue and cognitive dysfunction related
      to executive function, short-term memory, and processing speed index. Fatigue in these
      patients is profound and debilitating leaving them unable to maintain their usual activity
      levels. We have termed this syndrome Brain Injury Associated Fatigue and Altered Cognition
      (BIAFAC).

      Our recent work has shown that cognitive and physical dysfunction are significantly improved
      with recombinant human growth hormone replacement in patients with BIAFAC. Improvements in
      fatigue often precede (~3 months) improvements in cognition (~4-5 months) following rhGH
      treatment. Although rhGH replacement relieves BIAFAC symptoms, it does not cure the
      underlying cause, as symptoms reoccur with rhGH withdrawal.

      Although the mechanisms causing BIAFAC have not been determined, our previous research
      demonstrated that a year of GH treatment resulted in symptom relief which was associated with
      changes in brain morphometry and connectivity. These associated brain changes include
      increased frontal cortical thickness and gray matter volume as well as resting state
      connectivity changes in regions associated with somatosensory networks

      The next step to understanding BIAFAC is to develop a biomarker that identifies individuals
      that are susceptible to developing this syndrome. The University of Michigan maintains a
      searchable DataDirect database of over 4 million individual patient medical records linked
      via the Michigan Genomics Initiative (MGI) to genomic data collected from over 70,000
      patients. By collaborating with the University of Michigan, we have a unique opportunity to
      combine their extensive genomic database with the more than 100 UTMB patients we are
      currently treating for BIAFAC to search for common genetic markers associated with BIAFAC. In
      order to identify patients in the UM genomic database with BIAFAC, we will develop a risk
      stratified machine-learning algorithm based on BIAFAC symptoms. Initial use of the algorithm
      will begin with approximately 9,000 patients in the UM database that have already been
      identified with a diagnosis code of fatigue and malaise. Once these patients are identified,
      a select cohort will be contacted to confirm the accuracy of the algorithm in identifying
      BIAFAC patients. Once we complete the genotyping of UTMB patients with BIAFAC and have
      identified the patients with BIAFAC in the UM genomic database, a genome-wide association
      study (GWAS) will be executed to look for common genetic markers

      Aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Identify patients in the UM MGI cohort who show positive traits associated
      with BIAFAC. Patients in the UM Michigan Genomic Initiative (MGI) cohort will be filtered
      through ICD-9, ICD-10, and CPT codes associated with fatigue, malaise, and other related
      diagnoses. Natural language processing (NLP) approaches will be developed to parse clinical
      notes from candidate patients, recognize relevant medical concepts, and combine features to
      identify candidates. These will be evaluated for algorithmic accuracy using manual review.

      Specific Aim 2: Develop medical concept mapping of EHR systems across UTMB and UM. Semantic
      representations of medical concepts in UTMB and UM will be generated based on co-occurrence
      patterns of these concepts summarized from each site. Statistical methods will be developed
      to generate a mapping of the medical concepts between UTMB and UM and harmonize the data
      across institutions leveraging the trained representations. The learned mapping can
      facilitate the transfer of trained algorithms from one system to another.

      Specific aim 3: Develop a computable phenotype to identify TBI patients with BIAFAC,
      combining the concept mapping identified in Aim 2 with clinical note-based features
      identified in Aim 1.

      Specific Aim 4: Conduct genetic analysis of the UTMB cohort. The MGI cohort individuals are
      genotyped on an Infinium Global Screening Array and imputed to contain >10M genetic markers.
      We will use this data to perform a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of the phenotypes
      identified in Aim 3 by testing each variant for association while accounting for confounders
      such as population stratification.

      Experimental Protocol.

      The investigators will study subjects (aged 18-70 years) with a history of mild TBI (n=100).

      All patients presenting with TBI and BIAFAC symptoms will be invited to participate.

      TBI subjects will have saliva and possibly blood taken for DNA extraction and genotyping,
      which will be used for the GWAS.
    
  