
    
      Recruitment Procedure:

      Potential participants will be recruited from the older adult service within NHS GGC.
      Multidisciplinary team (MDT) staff within the service will identify potential participants
      for a CFT group and if they agree to participate in the group, attendees will then be asked
      to participate in the study by the student researcher. Group attendees' inclusion in the
      group is not dependent on their participation in the study. Inclusion and exclusion criteria
      will be assessed by Principal Clinical Psychologist and eligible participants will be asked
      for their consent to participate in the project by Trainee Clinical Psychologist.

      Outcome Measures:

      Principal Clinical Psychologist will administer outcome measures at beginning and end of the
      group programme. Additionally, measures will be administered after specific sessions to
      assess the effect of specific interventions.

      Outcome measures to be used are -

      Clinical Outcomes:

        -  Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) - a 9 item self-report measure of depressive
           symptoms.1 minute completion time. Administered after sessions 1, 5, 10.

        -  Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7) - a 7 item self-report measure of anxiety symptoms.
           1 minute completion time Administered after sessions 1, 5, 10.

      Mechanisms of Change:

      • Forms of self-criticising/attacking & self-reassuring scale (FSCRS) - a self-report measure
      of self-criticism and self-reassurance. Used to evaluate the level of self-criticism a person
      experiences, which is often linked to mental health problems. Additionally, it evaluates the
      ability to reassure oneself. 4 minutes completion time.

      Administered after sessions 1, 9, 10.

        -  Self-compassion scale (SCS) - a self-report measure measures a person's ability to show
           themselves compassion in the face of challenges. 4 minutes completion time. Administered
           after sessions 1, 8, 10.

        -  Toronto Mindfulness Scale - Trait - a self report measure of mindfulness traits such as
           curiosity, acceptance and openness. Given the CFT group incorporates elements of
           mindfulness, this will be useful to measure. 3 minutes completion time. Administered
           after sessions 1, 7, 10.

        -  Other as Shamer Scale - a self-repost measure to evaluate beliefs a person has about
           other's evaluation of them. 3 minutes completion time. Administered after sessions 1, 5,
           10.

        -  Social Connectedness Scale - Revised - a self-report measure which evaluate people's
           feelings of connectedness to others. To measure whether the group itself has an impact
           on people's feelings. 4 minutes completion time. Administered after sessions 1, 5, 10.

      Design:

      As this is a feasibility study, a mix methods study design will be used. For the quantitative
      part of the study a within group design will be used to assess outcomes at baseline and
      posttreatment. Treatment acceptability will also be evaluated by semi-structured interviews
      following the intervention.

      CFT Protocol:

      A group programme of CFT will run for 10 sessions lasting 90 minutes per session. The group
      has been developed by an experienced NHS Clinical Psychologist working with older adults. The
      group protocol has been developed from a previous group run in NHS GGC with working age
      adults. The group will be delivered by NHS clinicians and led by Dr John Hickey. The sessions
      are titled as follows:

      Session 1: Introduction, aims and soothing rhythm breathing Session 2 & 3: Psychoeducation
      Session 4: Formulation Session 5: Formulation & the threat system Session 6: Compassionate
      Self Session 7: Compassionate Image and barriers to compassion Session 8: Multiple selves -
      responding with different emotions Session 9: Shame and self-criticism Session 10: Review,
      formulation and planning ahead Participants will be asked to practice techniques and record
      their progress throughout the intervention. They will practice breathing and mindfulness
      techniques and keep a compassionate diary to support their learning.

      Data Collection:

      All outcome measures will be completed by participants pre-intervention, they will be posted
      to participants prior to the group (once consent has been received) and they will be asked to
      bring them to the first session. Copies will be available at the first session in case
      participants forget to bring them or have difficulties completing them. Time will be
      available to complete measures if necessary. The measures will also be repeated after
      specific sessions to evaluate any change from a specific intervention. Demographic data will
      also be obtained to allow for a description of the data.

      The lead clinician will administer and collect the outcome measures at the end of the
      specified session. Attendance and dropout from the group will also be recorded for analysis.

      Following the completion of the group, participants will be asked to attend for a
      semi-structured interview to discuss their experience of the CFT group protocol. All those
      who consented to participate in the study will be asked to participate in the semi-structured
      interview. The interviews will be conducted by Fiona McConnell (Trainee Clinical
      Psychologist). Interviews will be based on a topic guide, which will focus on the
      participant's experience of the intervention and their thoughts for improvements. The
      interviews will be audio recorded and transcribed and all patient identifiable data will be
      anonymised. The recordings will be destroyed once the project is complete.
    
  