
    
      Anthropometric Assessment Anthropometric variables will be obtained on the same day as the
      evaluation of BC by trained evaluators. The body weight (kg) will be measured by In Body 230,
      2.0, (Biospace Seoul, Korea). The patient should be in the orthostatic position, facing the
      display, in the center of the scale, barefoot, in light clothes. The height measurement (m)
      will be performed in a stadiometer coupled to the scale W 300, Class III, with a maximum
      capacity of 2m. The patient will be kept with his back to the meter, with the feet united, in
      an erect position, looking at horizon and arms extended to the side of the body. The reading
      will be made in the nearest centimeter when the horizontal rod of the vertical bar of the
      stature scale rests against the individual's head. BMI (kg/m2) will be determined by dividing
      body weight (kg) by height (m) squared.

      Bioimpedance Body composition will be determined by bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA)
      under constant conditions (with subjects appropriately hydrated and at the same time of
      day).The body composition analyzer (InBody230, Biospace Co., Gangnam-gu, Seoul, South Korea)
      was a segmental impedance device that uses a tetrapolar 8-point tactile electrode system, and
      the measured weight range was 10 to 250 kg. Impedance measurements were performed by
      utilizing 2 different frequencies (20 and 100 kHz) at each segment (the right arm, left arm,
      trunk, right leg, and left leg). The participant will be positioned in orthostatic position
      on a platform with lower electrodes for the feet and two brackets (the upper electrodes)
      gripped on hands. Data output was calculated in percentages (%) and included FM, FFM, trunk
      FFM, and appendicular FFM (the sum of the FFM values for the right arm, left arm, right leg,
      and left leg).

      Isokinetic dynamometer The muscular strength evaluation will be performed on the isokinetic
      dynamometer, Biodex ® Multi-joint System 3 (Biodex Medical Systems Inc, Shirley, New York,
      USA). The dynamometer is calibrated thirty minutes before the start of the tests.

      Participants are positioned for evaluation in the concentric / concentric mode of knee joint
      extension and flexion movements. Individuals remain seated with their hip at 90º of flexion,
      affixed to the chair with chest X-belts, a strap around the pelvic girdle, a strap over the
      distal third of the thigh and one at the distal third of the assessed leg, way to free the
      movements of the ankle.

      All participants are instructed to perform four movements with submaximal force to
      familiarize themselves with the equipment. The test is performed first on the dominant limb
      and later on the non-dominant limb. The assessed limb is positioned with the lateral femoral
      condyle (axis of the knee joint movement) aligned to the mechanical axis of the dynamometer.
      The member that is not being evaluated will be aligned with the other member. The volunteers
      are instructed to perform two sets of 4 uninterrupted repetitions of knee extension and
      flexion with interval of 60 seconds. Throughout the period of the test, standardized and
      constant verbal encouragement is performed to obtain as much force as possible during
      contractions.

      The tests are performed with concentric movements of flexion and extension of the knee,
      starting from 90º of flexion and reaching 20º of extension, with correction of the force of
      gravity.

      The angular velocity used will be 60 degrees per second (60º / s).

      The variables that will be obtained through the evaluation of muscular strength are:

      Torque Peak (Nm): is the maximum force reached in each of the repetitions in which the test
      was performed. The peak torque represents the largest muscle contraction in the arc of
      movement and corresponds to the highest point of the force x distance curve.

      Peak torque relative to body weight (Nm / kg): maximum force corrected for body weight, the
      result being expressed in percent newton-kilogram.
    
  