
    
      METHODS - The development of the novel home-based rehabilitation programme, adapted from the
      "Heart Manual", will follow the guidelines of the MRC for developing complex health service
      interventions. The steps of the guidelines include: 1) exploring relevant theory; 2)
      modelling the preliminary intervention by selecting the main components based on the
      literature and qualitative research; 3) pilot-testing the preliminary intervention; 4)
      developing the definitive randomised controlled trial; and, 5) implementing and evaluating
      the randomised controlled trial over the long-term. This study focuses on the first three
      steps of the MRC framework.

      Exploration of relevant theory - Initially, literature relating to cardiac rehabilitation and
      secondary prevention of TIAs and minor stroke will be reviewed following searches in
      appropriate databases with input from a medical librarian. The research team (including the
      applicant, supervisors, collaborators and steering group) will discuss key findings and
      identify those deemed appropriate to the study setting, with identification of appropriate
      behaviour change theory using behaviour change taxonomy.

      Recruitment: Participants will be recruited from one TIA/ 'minor' stroke assessment unit,
      based in the Ulster Hospital for the feasibility study and from 4 sites for the pilot study
      (Royal Victoria Hospital, Ulster Hospital, Antrim and Craigavon Area Hospitals). Patients are
      typically seen within one week of suffering neurological symptoms suggestive of TIA. After
      confirmation of diagnosis and initial management on the day of presentation, the attending
      physician will offer patients a study information sheet and an invitation to participate. If
      the patient agrees to being contacted, the researcher will telephone twenty-four hours later
      to invite them to attend the Clinical Research Facility, QUB to participate in the study and
      written, informed consent will be obtained. The numbers of those who decline to participate
      in the study will be recorded to provide information about recruitment rates.

      Developing the intervention: From those who agree to participate, an initial purposeful
      sample of patients will be invited to focus groups. Participants will be given the manual
      approximately a week before the focus group and asked to read it before attending the focus
      group. The topic guide for focus groups will be based on findings from the literature review
      and will include the formatting and lay-out of the manual, manual content and potential
      improvements to the manual. Health and social care staff involved in the clinical care of TIA
      and stroke patients, members of voluntary organisations, relatives and carers will also be
      invited to participate in a focus group: initial plans are that a sample of these individuals
      would be invited to a single group. Participants' and professionals' experiences of and
      attitudes towards key interventions identified from the literature will also be used in
      modelling the pilot intervention. With each participant's consent, interviews and focus
      groups will be audio-recorded and transcribed. Two researchers will then analyse the
      transcripts independently by: familiarisation; identifying a thematic framework; indexing;
      charting; and, mapping and interpretation.

      Feasibility and then pilot study of the intervention - Baseline assessment: Following
      analysis of the findings of the literature review and qualitative data, the home-based
      vascular rehabilitation manual will be developed, adapting the "Heart Manual" (now referred
      to as 'The Healthy Brain Rehabilitation Manual') accordingly. We plan to conduct both a
      feasibility and pilot studies of our intervention. As described above, prospective trial
      participants will be invited to attend the Clinical Research Facility within 4 weeks of their
      initial TIA/'minor' stroke event, for initial assessment, at which their written consent to
      participate will be sought. Baseline assessments (taking approximately 60 minutes) will be
      completed prior to randomisation to ensure allocation concealment. All patients will
      initially undertake a sub maximal exercise test under the supervision of a trained physician.
      For the pilot study, all will be given, with appropriate instructions, an accelerometer to
      wear for one week to provide a blinded baseline physical activity assessment and these will
      be returned to the applicant after one week.

      Randomisation: Block randomisation will be used and patients will be stratified, based on
      age, sex and diagnosis (TIA/'minor' stroke). Study group allocation will be revealed to
      participants only at the end of the baseline assessment and following completion of all
      initial measurements (except accelerometry).

      Interventions: The feasibility will recruit to 3 different treatments: (1) standard care; (2)
      standard care plus the manual; (3) standard care, manual plus a pedometer. Whilst for the
      pilot study there will also be 3 arms but this will include: 1) control group; 2) manual and
      pedometer supported by telephone follow-up with a GP; 3) manual and pedometer supported by
      telephone follow-up with a stroke nurse. The control group (Group 1) will follow standard
      care guidelines as per treatment protocols and provided by their healthcare professionals at
      the hospital clinic. 'The Healthy Brain Rehabilitation Manual' programme will be explained to
      the appropriate participants by the applicant at the end of the baseline assessment. The use
      of the pedometer, an approach to its use in goal setting and an accompanying diary will also
      be explained to the relevant participants at that time.

      'The Healthy Brain Rehabilitation Manual' will address each of the modifiable vascular risk
      factors, managing one risk factor each week, whilst encouraging the patient to slowly
      increase their activity over the (proposed) six week programme in the setting of their home
      and addressing the issues of anxiety and depression following the diagnosis of TIA or 'minor'
      stroke. The manual therefore involves education and motivation of the patient to address
      these risk factors. The facilitator (the applicant (a General Practitioner) and/or a stroke
      nurse) will also help them identify local support resources, for example smoking cessation
      services, through telephone contact. 'The Healthy Brain Rehabilitation Manual' will utilise
      the behaviour change techniques of goal setting, barrier identification, setting graded
      tasks, self monitoring, feedback, relapse prevention and stress management. Self-set
      pedometer targets will emerge during discussion with the facilitator who will use simple
      motivational interviewing techniques and advise keeping a daily step-count diary. Telephone
      follow-up review, with the applicant, will take place at one and four weeks as per usual
      "Heart Manual" care for the feasibility study as well as at eight weeks for the pilot study,
      unless the findings of initial qualitative work would suggest that an alternative design of a
      follow-up plan would be appropriate. These reviews will include advice regarding addressing
      the modifiable vascular risk factors and, if appropriate, issues with the home-based vascular
      rehabilitation programme ('The Healthy Brain Manual') and pedometer targets.

      Review assessment: All participants will have a 6 week (feasibility study) and a 3 month
      (pilot study) follow-up review appointment. This review should take approximately sixty
      minutes to complete. For the pilot study, all participants will be asked to wear an
      accelerometer again, for one week, to provide a post-intervention physical activity
      assessment and to return this to the researcher following this period.

      End-of study qualitative assessment: At the end of the pilot study, all participants will be
      asked about their perceptions of the relevance, acceptability and value of the intervention,
      using different qualitative techniques, including questionnaires, focus groups and/or semi
      structured interviews.

      The manual will be developed at all stages of the research process as per the MRC guidelines.
    
  