
    
      Consecutive patients that underwent to upper endoscopy (UE) evaluation were included in this
      study. All subjects went to UE according to standard procedure, under propofol sedation, and
      using a high definition endoscope with a working channel of 2.8 mm After gastric mucosa
      inspection using endoscopy, in vivo microscopy analysis at x1000 magnification was done using
      confocal laser endomicroscopy probe (p-CLE) in all patients.

      During UE 5 biopsy sites were performed in accordance to update Sydney system first using
      p-CLE and them by biopsy forceps from the same site (2 from the lesser and greater curvature
      of the antrum about 2-3 cm near the pylorus, 2 from the middle portion of the lesser and
      greater curvatures of the corpus about 8 cm from the cardia, and 1 from the angulus). p-CLE
      images were recorded as video frames and pictures during in vivo microscopy analysis.

      For histopathology all specimens were fixed in 10% formalin. An experienced histopathologist
      analyzed the histological features of each sample with hematoxylin and eosin staining and
      made the diagnosis according to the updated Sydney classification.

      At p-CLE normal crypt was defined by using the classification of Wang et al. After
      histopathology confirm GA, crypts were analyzed using the CV software that is a
      post-procedure tool that could be installed in computers, working as a laboratory data
      analyzer. This software permits to measure diameters of the microscopy findings in an
      escalade model in micrometers, using different colors lines and giving their results in a
      table that could be exported as excel table for analysis of the results The crypts diameters
      were measuring to determine the area by using the elliptic area formula (A = π.d1.d2). The
      inter-crypt space was also measured and defined as the mean of each measured distance between
      the studied crypt and it's adjacent.

      The cutoff value between mild, moderate and severe GA, crypts area was classified across
      tertiles, expressing its distribution using a box-spot graphic. For relationship between
      crypt area (CA) and inter-crypt space, quadratic polynomial regression was used. Data was
      processed using IBM® SPSS® Statistics.
    
  