
    
      Background: Opioid dependence in pregnancy has increased dramatically in the last decade.
      Over 86% of pregnancies conceived by OD women are unintended, compared to 31-43% of
      pregnancies in the general population. In evaluations of contraceptive use among sexually
      active women in opioid treatment programs, 40-75% of sexually active OD women report no
      contraceptive use. Even among women using contraception, 45-55% report using only condoms
      without more effective, hormonal contraception. Pregnancy and the postpartum period are
      unique opportunities to provide contraceptive education and services. Long-acting reversible
      contraception (LARC) has been shown to more effectively prevent rapid repeat, unintended
      pregnancies compared to other postpartum contraceptive options and does not incur the risk of
      venous thromboembolism associated with estrogen-containing methods (i.e. pills, ring, patch).
      No studies have evaluated the impact of immediate postpartum etonogestrel implant (Nexplanon)
      placement on reproductive health outcomes in OD women, a population at significant risk for
      rapid repeat, unintended pregnancy. In contrast to an intrauterine device (IUD), Nexplanon is
      safe to insert regardless of labor and delivery circumstances, does not incur an increased
      risk of postpartum expulsion and is long-acting, which makes it the ideal contraceptive for
      the immediate postpartum period.

      Study site:This single site study will be conducted at Magee-Womens Hospital (MWH) of the
      University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.

      Study Procedures: Recruitment - participants will be recruited during the third trimester of
      pregnancy (≥ 28 weeks gestation) during prenatal care visits.

      Immediate postpartum Nexplanon placement (IPP) - participants who choose to enroll in the IPP
      Nexplanon arm will have Nexplanon placed in the immediate postpartum period (2-4 days
      following delivery), prior to hospital discharge.

      Standard postpartum contraceptive care (control) - participants who choose to enroll in the
      control arm will receive a contraceptive method of their choice according to standard
      clinical protocols. Standard clinical protocols include condoms, Depo Provera (DMPA) or
      progestin-only pills initiated at any time after delivery, Nexplanon insertion at > 4 weeks
      after delivery, combined hormonal contraception (e. g. pills, patch, ring) initiated at any
      time > 4 weeks after delivery or levonorgestrel-intrauterine system or copper IUD insertion
      any time > 6 weeks after delivery.

      Study Duration: 12 months
    
  