
    
      Prompt treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbations with oral
      steroids and/or antibiotics, ideally within 3 days of onset of symptoms, can decrease the
      severity and duration of exacerbations and may reduce the risk of COPD hospitalizations. This
      observational study will examine Veterans' care-seeking behaviors and will focus on patients'
      perceived need for care and perceived access to care and whether these factors delay seeking
      care for COPD exacerbations, increasing the risk for hospitalizations. This study will also
      evaluate one approach of identifying early exacerbations through the use of a remote inhaler
      monitoring system.

      This observational cohort study enrolled 412 Veterans with COPD at high-risk for
      exacerbations. As of March 2019, 246 participants have completed the 1 year follow-up; 133
      are in follow-up. The Specific Aims are: 1) Examine the barriers to seeking care for COPD
      exacerbations or worsening breathing; 2) Test the use of a real-time remote inhaler monitor
      to identify early exacerbations.

      All participants attended one in-person baseline visit to complete spirometry and baseline
      questionnaires. Participants are contacted every 2 weeks for 1 year using an interactive
      voice response system that screens for COPD exacerbations with 4 yes/no questions.
      Participants with a positive screen are called back by research staff to obtain additional
      detailed information on the exacerbation and how it was treated. Data analysis will examine
      whether access to care and baseline factors are associated with a delay in treatment.

      The participants enrolled at two sites: 252 participants at VA Puget Sound in Seattle, WA and
      160 participants at the VA Eastern Colorado in Denver, CO. For Aim 1, 60 participants who
      reported a COPD exacerbation (either hospitalized, seen in the emergency department, treated
      as outpatients, or did not seek treatment) participated in in-depth semi-structured
      interviews by a trained research staff to understand how they responded to their worsening
      symptoms and decided whether to seek care. 24 caregivers for these Veterans were interviewed
      about their perspective on the exacerbation event.

      In Aim 2, 145 participants from Aim 1 used an inhaler monitor with their albuterol inhaler
      during the 12-month follow-up period, which transmits real-time data about their daily
      inhaler use. Data analysis will measure whether a change in albuterol use can predict patient
      reported COPD exacerbations to determine the appropriate cut-offs that can be used in a
      future intervention trial.

      These aims will provide detailed information on how best to intervene to ensure prompt
      identification and treatment of COPD exacerbations. New health care delivery approaches will
      assist Veterans in early identification of exacerbations and provide early access to care
      that can be integrated into the VA primary care, emergency medicine and pulmonary specialty
      care settings.
    
  