
    
      There is no methodology to provide appropriate definitions for survival endpoints. As such,
      including or excluding an event in a survival endpoint definition is only based on opinion
      from experts. For this reason, we launched the DATECAN-1 project in 2009. Its objective is to
      elaborate standardized definitions for survival endpoints in randomized clinical trials,
      based on a rigorous and validated consensus methodology. Once this project will be finalized
      (2012), guidelines for the definitions of survival endpoints to be used in clinical trials
      will be available.

      This collaborative work involves the network of the statisticians from Regional Comprehensive
      Cancer Centers (Bordeaux, Lille, Montpellier, Dijon, Paris, Toulouse), the network of the
      Cancer Data Centers (CTD) of the French National Cancer Institute (INCA; Montpellier,
      Bordeaux, Curie, Dijon-GERCOR) as well as the Headquarters from the European Organization for
      Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). This project is supported by a 2009 grant from the
      French League Against Cancer .

      The DATECAN-1 project relies on a validated formal consensus method (Fitch K. The Rand/UCLA
      appropriateness method user's manual. 2001). This consensus approach formalizes the degree of
      agreement among experts by identifying and selecting the points on which experts agree,
      disagree or are undecided. The guidelines are subsequently based on agreement points. It is a
      rigorous and explicit method since it involves international experts in clinical trials in
      the field of the targeted cancer localizations. This method involves two rounds of rating
      (questionnaires) and an in-person meeting to address points for which consensus has not been
      reached yet.

      We published the methodology of the consensus process (Bellera et al. Eur J Cancer 2013).

      Guidelines have now been published following the international consensus process, for
      pancreatic cancer, sarcoma and GIST, beast cancer and renal cell carcinoma (See "Citations
      filed" below). For other localization (head and neck, stomach, colon): guidelines are
      ongoing.
    
  