
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of Akt/ERK inhibitor ONC 201
      (ONC201) and paclitaxel in patients with platinum refractory or resistant epithelial ovarian,
      fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer. (Part 1) II. To evaluate the objective response
      rate (ORR) of ONC201 in combination with paclitaxel in patients with platinum refractory or
      resistant epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. (Part 2) III. To
      evaluate progression free survival (PFS) of ONC201 in combination with weekly paclitaxel in
      patients with platinum refractory or resistant epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary
      peritoneal cancer. (Part 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the durability/duration of response (DOR) of ONC201 in combination with
      paclitaxel.

      II. To evaluate the safety and patient reported tolerability of ONC201 in combination with
      paclitaxel. (Part 2) III. To evaluate the disease control rate (DCR) of ONC201 in combination
      with paclitaxel.

      IV. To evaluate the cancer antigen-125 (CA-125) and/or human epididymis factor 4 (HE-4)
      response of ONC201 in combination with paclitaxel in those patients with one or both of these
      tumor markers upregulated.

      V. To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of ONC201 in
      combination with paclitaxel.

      VI. To obtain preliminary estimates of overall survival (OS) of ONC201 in combination with
      weekly paclitaxel.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the immune response (specifically natural killer [NK] cell and cytokine
      profile) of ONC201 in combination with paclitaxel in patients with platinum refractory or
      resistant epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive ONC201 orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15, and paclitaxel intravenously (IV)
      over 1 hour on days 2, 9, and 16. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. If paclitaxel must be stopped for any reason, patients
      may continue on ONC201 alone.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year.
    
  