
    
      This study will explore the acceptability of a novel intervention (an 8-week programme of
      Mindfulness training) for people with Osteoarthritis(OA)-related knee pain. Mindfulness
      interventions provide intensive training in mindfulness meditation and its applications for
      coping with stress, illness and pain in day to day life. The aim of the intervention is not
      reduce the severity of pain per se, but to change how an individual responds and copes with
      pain. If effective, patients may report improvements in pain, sleep, quality of life and
      their ability to cope with pain in daily life.

      Before carrying out a study to determine if such an intervention is effective, it is
      important to explore whether it is acceptable to patients. Treatments for OA knee are usually
      targeted at the painful joint e.g medication, injections, physiotherapy, surgery and
      ultimately total knee replacement (TKR), so some patients may not expect a programme based on
      meditation practice to help.

      The investigators will recruit two groups of patients with OA-related knee pain from hospital
      clinics, (i) those with moderate-severe knee pain who have not yet had a TKR and (ii) those
      who have had a TKR who have persistent pain after one-year. All participants will complete
      baseline assessments before commencing an eight-week group based programme of Mindfulness
      training, delivered by an NHS physiotherapist who is also a trained Mindfulness teacher.
      Participants will have daily meditation practices to carry out at home. Follow-up
      questionnaires will be repeated after the intervention and again at 6 months.

      After the intervention, the investigators will conduct group discussions with some of the
      participants to explore their expectations and experiences of the intervention and the study.
      Participants will be in the study for approximately 8 months (from time of recruitment) and
      the study will last 12 months.
    
  