
    
      1. Objectives

      PRIMARY To compare diagnostic yield of stylet-free, solid lesion EUS-FNA using the 22 G FNA
      vs the 25 G FNA needle, in consecutive patients referred to EUS-FNA.

      SECONDARY

      To investigate:

        1. specimen adequacy,

        2. number of FNA passes,

        3. ease of puncture,

        4. failure of the FNA needle and

        5. complications

      3. Methods

      3.1. Design: prospective randomized trial.

      3.2. Inclusion: Consecutive patients referred for EUS-FNA of a solid lesion will be
      considered for inclusion.

      3.3. Exclusion: Age < 18 years, patients with suspected diagnosis of lymphoma, GIST,
      sarcoidosis or other lesions in which a large amount of tissue will be required for
      diagnosis, significant coagulopathy (INR > 1.5, platelets < 50000/mm3, use of low molecular
      weight heparin, use of clopidogrel within 7 days of EUS), cystic lesions, or inability or
      refusal to sign the informed consent.

      3.4. Endoscopic procedures: Informed consent will be obtained before each procedure by one of
      the researchers. Patients will not receive economic compensation or reimbursement of their
      expenses for coming to the exploration, since it is a procedure previously indicated. Then,
      potential candidates will be randomized to 22 G or 25 G FNA using a computer generated random
      sequence. There will be block randomization for a) pancreatic masses, 2) lymph nodes, or 3)
      all other lesions.

      All examinations will be performed by two experienced endosonographers with a lineal
      echoendoscope (AS and SP). EUS procedures will be carried out with the patient, in left
      lateral position under conscious sedation using midazolam (2.5-5 mg) plus meperidine (50-100
      mg) and droperidol (2.5-5 mg). Before performing the EUS-FNA biopsy, a complete examination
      of the pancreas, liver as well as other vicinity organs will be performed.

      EUS-FNA passes will be performed without stylet until sample adequacy or until a maximum of 5
      FNA passes in pancreatic lesions or 3 FNA passes in other lesions. In case of inadequate
      sample after 3 passes, or needle failure, cross over to the other type of needle is allowed.
      Ease of puncture will be scored qualitatively as poor (scored 1), good (scored 2) or
      excellent (scored 3).[14] FNA failure will be also reported. All procedures will be digitally
      videotaped. The examinations will be reviewed by a endosonographer blinded to the type of
      needle used and visibility of the needle will be scored (score 1 "poor", score 2 "good",
      score 3 "excellent").[14] After the procedure, patients will be monitored in the recovery
      room at least 60 minutes before discharge. Immediate complications will be assessed and
      recorded by nurses and/or physicians during and after the procedure while the patient was
      recovering from sedation.

      3.5. Cytological analysis: All passes will be read by one experienced cytopathologist on-site
      utilizing microscopic evaluation of air-dried slides stained with Diff-Quik (International
      Reagents Co., Ltd., Kobe, Japan). The cytopathologist will be blinded to the type of needle
      used. The final cytological diagnosis was made using a standard Papanicolaou stain. For each
      lesion, the cytologist assessed sample adequacy: cellularity (score 1 "poor", score 2 "good",
      score 3 "excellent"),[14] and bloodiness (score 1 "minimal", score 2 "moderate", score 3
      "significant")[21] and the presence or absence of malignancy
      ("positive"/"negative"/"suspicious"/ inconclusive).

      3.6. Follow up Lesions will be considered malignant in the following cases: positive
      cytological diagnosis, positive histological diagnosis and clinical or radiological
      progression in the next 6 months. In case of negative results in the cytological diagnosis
      absence of clinical worsening and radiologic progression at least in the following 6 months
      after FNA will be required.

      3.7. Data collection Clinical data will be prospectively collected and saved in a database
      including: demographic information (age and gender), size and location of the target lesion
      (pancreas, lymph node, liver, adrenal gland, others) and technical and procedure variables:
      FNA path (esophagus, stomach, duodenum), number of needle passes, needle visibility, ease to
      puncture, needle failure, cellularity, bloodiness, cytological diagnosis, final diagnosis,
      immediate complications.

      4. Statistical analysis Results for continuous variables will be expressed as means and
      standard deviations. Categorical variables will be expressed as frequencies and percentages.
      Chi-square test will be used to compare proportions. Continuous variables will be compared
      using Student´s t test. A two-tailed P values of less than 0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant. Data were analyzed with the Statistical Package for Social
      Sciences v. 15.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). The diagnostic yield of 15 G and 22 G needle
      will be evaluated by four criteria: sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and
      negative predictive value.

      Sample size An expected rate of diagnostic yield from EUS guided FNA by using 22G needle of
      85% will be considered. By using a power of 80% and an α value of 0.05 would be necessary 120
      patients per group to detect a 15% difference in the rate of diagnostic yield.
    
  