
    
      OraTest® is a blue dye that is designed to stain cancer cells differently than normal cells.

      SCHEDULED EVALUATION (FIRST VISIT):

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. Your medical
      history will be recorded. Women who are able to have children must have a negative urine
      pregnancy test. Your heart rate, breathing, temperature, and blood pressure will be measured
      before as well as after the first visit.

      Visual Exam - If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will have a
      visual examination where a doctor (Examiner #1) will look inside your mouth very carefully to
      look for any abnormal lesions and check the glands in your neck. This is called the visual
      exam.

      Rinse Staining Procedure (OraTest®) - A second doctor (Examiner #2) will perform another oral
      exam, followed by the new test using OraTest®. This new test uses a blue dye which may stain
      any potential cancer blue so it may make it easier for the doctor to detect any abnormal
      lesions in your mouth. You will be asked not to have intensely-colored sweets like lollipops
      or drinks like black currant juice within 24 hours of your scheduled visit. First you will
      rinse your mouth with about 6 teaspoons of vinegar solution for about 20 seconds and spit it
      out. Next you will rinse your mouth with 6 teaspoons of water for 20 seconds and spit it out.
      Then you will rinse your mouth with about 2 teaspoons of OraTest® for 20 seconds and spit it
      out. Then you will rinse your mouth with about 6 teaspoons of vinegar solution for 20 seconds
      and then spit it out. Then you will rinse your mouth with 6 teaspoons of water for 20 seconds
      and spit it out. Examiner 2 will then check and see if any abnormal tissue absorbed the dye.

      If no suspicious lesions are found by either doctor, you will have completed the study. You
      will be asked to notify the clinic, by phone, if any side effects occur within 7 days after
      your visit. If you are unable to phone the clinic, you will be given diary cards to record
      these side effects. The diary cards are to be mailed to the doctor in the pre-stamped
      envelope given to you.

      If any suspicious lesions are found by either doctor (or both), then you will be asked to
      return in about 2 weeks to confirm the result. This is called the Confirmation Exam.

      CONFIRMATION EXAM (SECOND VISIT):

      At the visit to confirm the result, you will be examined by the same doctor(s) who found the
      suspicious lesion(s). The doctor(s) will use the same examination method that was used during
      the first visit. Your heart rate, breathing, temperature, and blood pressure will be measured
      before as well as after the second visit.

      If you have any suspicious lesions, a specialist at M. D. Anderson will biopsy your
      lesion(s), at this second visit or within 5 days after the visit. During the biopsy, the
      doctor may use the OraTest® cotton swab to help locate the suspicious spot. If the dye is
      used at the biopsy visit, your heart rate, breathing, temperature, and blood pressure will be
      measured before and after the use of OraTest®. After locating the spot, the doctor will
      perform the biopsy. This means that some tissue lining in your mouth from the suspicious area
      will be removed. Some of your tissue will be sent to a laboratory for diagnosis. Your doctor
      will decide the type of care you may need based on the results of the biopsy. The biopsy
      procedure is standard practice and may happen even if you did not participate in this study.
      After the biopsy is taken of the lesion, you will have completed the study.

      If a suspicious lesion is found and you are required to have a biopsy, a sample of tissue
      from the biopsy will be sent to a laboratory outside of M.D. Anderson for review and
      diagnosis. Medical research including genetic testing, chromosomal analysis and other tests
      may be performed on your biopsy. These samples cannot be returned to you because the tissue
      is destroyed during the genetic tests. Before your tissue is sent to the outside laboratory
      your name and any personal identifying information will be coded to protect your privacy. M.
      D. Anderson will not have oversight of any leftover tissue and/or blood that will be banked
      by BRT Laboratories Inc. for additional research.

      If no suspicious lesions are seen at this second visit, then you have completed the study. If
      the dye was used during the exam, then you will be asked to notify the clinic by phone if any
      side effects occur within 7 days after your visit. If you are unable to phone the clinic, you
      will be given diary cards to record these side effects. The diary cards are to be mailed to
      the doctor in the pre-stamped envelope given to you.

      This is an investigational study. OraTest® has not yet been FDA approved for commercial use.
      All study procedures and OraTest® will be provided free of charge; the Sponsor will pay for
      the study drug and pregnancy test if necessary. If further standard of care is needed (for
      example, due to abnormalities found), you and/or your insurance company will be responsible
      for the cost. Insurance companies and Medicare may not pay for the costs of some research
      studies like this one. If your insurance company does not cover the cost of care, then you
      will have to pay these costs. You have the right to ask what it will cost you to take part in
      this study or to have other treatments. If you withdraw from the study early, you will only
      be paid for the portion of the study that you completed. Up to 4000 patients will take part
      in this multicenter study. Up to 50 will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  