
    
      Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is difficult to diagnose and remains a cause of high
      morbidity and mortality in critically ill patients in the ICU. The number of patients with
      positive Aspergillus culture or galactomannan test in respiratory fluids is increasing every
      year. In 2007 our Department tested 21 patients positive for Aspergillus, in 2009 it were 49
      and last year (2011) the investigators found 59 patients to be positive in our 10
      multidisciplinary ICUs. Accepted diagnostic protocols for haemato-oncological patients are
      not applicable for critically ill patients in ICUs. Halo signs, a typical radiological
      indication for IPA, can be found in haematological patients, but in patients in the ICU these
      signs are likely to be masked by pneumonic infiltrations due to ventilator induced lung
      injury and pneumonia. Microbiological diagnostics, like quantification of galactomannan in
      bronchoalveolar lavage specimens, change upon antibiotic treatment. It can be false positive
      in patients treated with beta-lactam antibiotics. Definitive discrimination between
      aspergillic colonisation and IPA often depends on the clinical experience of the treating
      physician, evaluating clinical signs, co-morbidities, and course of the disease. Life saving
      treatment with the first line antimycotic Voriconazol (Vfend®) can only be initiated after
      diagnosis of IPA.

      In this prospective clinical trial the investigators aim to structure, optimize and fast
      track the diagnostic pathway of IPA in critically ill patients treated in our ICU-department.
      After successful diagnosis, primary endpoints of this study will be 28-day mortality and
      duration of the ICU stay. Secondary endpoints will include differences in antimycotic
      treatments, ventilation time and type of ventilation, co - morbidities and treatment costs
      between patients in the colonisation and IPA group.

      Adult patients treated in one of our ten multidisciplinary ICUs with either positive
      respiratory fluid cultures for Aspergillus species or positive galactomannan test will be
      prospectively enrolled. During the 18 month enrollment period (January 2013 until July 2014)
      the investigators plan to screen all critically ill patients and enroll a minimum of 60
      patients, which represents the expected number of patients diagnosed with an IPA in the
      proposed time frame. In agreement with our standard operating procedure, all study patients
      will be routinely subjected to the following examinations, tests and receive diagnostic
      interventions, but the investigator does not assign specific interventions to the patients of
      the study. A bronchoalveolar lavage, will be performed by a senior pulmonologist, to identify
      typical Aspergillus plaques and to obtain sufficient material for microbiological analysis
      (galactomannan test + polymerase chain reaction (PCR)). Blood samples for a galactomannan
      test will be drawn additionally. The galactomannan tests will be repeated weekly as long as
      the infection symptoms persist. Furthermore, patients will be subjected to high-resolution
      computer tomography of the thorax. Clinical and diagnostic data from all patients will be
      collected in a centralized database for subsequent analysis in this study.
    
  