
    
      We believe that most of the stress (patient and surgeon) during VATS anatomical lung
      resection originates from manipulation of the pulmonary arteries. Endostaplers utilized
      during VATS to seal the pulmonary arteries require a lot of space and manipulation of these
      fragile vessels. Furthermore, the arteries must be completely dissected from the surrounding
      tissues. This increases manipulations of pulmonary arteries during the procedure. Energy
      sealing devices require much less space and dissection due to their size and sealing of the
      arteries can be performed without complete dissection from the surrounding tissues. Thus, the
      utilization of energy sealing devices will decrease excessive manipulations on the pulmonary
      arterial branches during VATS anatomical lung resections which can render these procedures
      easier and safer. This will not only decrease the stress on the patient, but also on the
      surgeon and will hopefully allow more surgeons to adopt these minimally invasive techniques
      which have been proven to be superior (length of stay, cost of care, pain, morbidity post-op,
      atrial fibrillation, quality of life, systemic inflammation, ability to receive adjuvant
      chemotherapy) to open thoracotomy.

      The intraoperative techniques will not differ and blood vessel ligation will be performed
      according to standard operative procedures either using staplers or direct ligation of the
      pulmonary vessels.

      After resection and delivery of the resected specimen out of the patient, the specimen will
      be examined in vitro out of the operative field in a non-sterile field in the operative room.
      The lobar pulmonary artery and its main segmental branches will be dissected. Canulation of a
      major segmental branch will be performed using an arterial pressure monitoring catheter. The
      canulation will be secured with ligation of 2-0 silk suture. A three way valve will be
      attached directly to the arterial catheter. One branch of the three way valve will be
      attached to a controlled pressure syringe pump and the other branch will be attached to a
      digital manometer. All other segmental branches of the pulmonary artery will be ligated to
      maintain the pressure throughout the catheterized segmental branch. Normal 25 mmHg pressure
      will be obtained by inflating with normal saline. The lobar pulmonary artery and the main
      segmental branches' diameters will be measured using a digital caliper from the adventitia to
      the adventitia in the inflated portion with normal saline of pressure 25 mmHg. The lobar
      pulmonary artery and the main segmental arteries will be sealed using one of the main energy
      seals (Ligasure, Harmonic scalpel, Enseal, Thunderbeat, unipolar or conventional bipolar
      cautery or application of metal or Hem-o-lok clips). The sealing will be performed with a
      normal 25 mmHg intra-arterial pressure.

      In bipolar sealing, the arterial wall will be compressed between the energy device jaws until
      complete sealing is achieved. The artery will then be divided utilizing fine scissors. In
      pulmonary arterial branches sealed with Harmonic scalpel, Thunderbeat and Enseal, the
      arterial wall sealed will be divided in the same sealing step. In the Unipolar cautery
      arterial sealing, a DeBakey forceps will be utilized to compress the arterial walls together
      and then sealing will be performed with direct application of the unipolar cautery to the
      forceps. Complete sealing achieved by complete carbonization of the arterial walls. The
      artery will be divided with scissors after sealing.

      After division of the pulmonary artery, normal saline solution will be injected through the
      controlled pressure syringe pump to achieve an intraluminal pressure until the bursting
      pressure is reached. Intraluminal pressure will be recorded and the bursting pressure will be
      registered.

      The resected specimens will be divided into 8 groups according to the type of sealing
      performed; (Ligasure, Harmonic scalpel, Enseal, Thunderbeat, Unipolar and conventional
      bipolar cautery, Metal clip, and Hem-o-lok clip)
    
  