
    
      Lymphedema is characterized by accumulation of protein rich fluid in interstitial spaces. It
      is also a chronic condition that needs lifelong care. Untreated lymphedema leads to chronic
      inflammation, cellulitis, pain, tiredness, cosmetic deformities, restriction of individual's
      motion, mobility problems and dysfunctional use of affected extremity. Undiagnosed lymphedema
      worsens gradually thus detecting lymphedema in an early stage have a place in matter. It was
      indicated that early treatment of lymphedema improves treatment outcomes.

      Bio-Electrical Impedance Analysis is a non-invasive method that measures extracellular fluid
      proportion and impedance of related extremity by an advanced low intensity electrical current
      passes through body. It was stated that Bio-Electrical Impedance Analysis measures impedance
      ratio and it is useful in detecting lymphedema in an early stage. Bio-Electrical Impedance
      Analysis (BIA) gives important informations in the assessment of lymphedema by measuring
      directly tissue fluid changes. Lymphedema Index (L-dex) is found by dividing impedance ratios
      of unaffected extremity to affected extremity's impedance ratio with bio-electrical impedance
      analysis. Impedance of extremity lessens by developing lymphedema so L-dex value gets higher.

      Tissue Dielectric Constant (TDC) is an objective and non-invasive measurement method to
      evaluate early tissue fluid changes. A 300 megahertz signal is generated in a control unit
      and transmitted to tissue by probe. Reflected electromagnetic wave depends on dielectric
      constant of tissue. Free and bound water molecules proportion in tissue effect tissue
      dielectric constant. Reflected electromagnetic wave is processed in the control unit and
      relative tissue dielectric constant is calculated. Dielectric constant of pure water is 78.5
      in room temperature. The Scale ranges between 1-80. It was stated that comparing affected and
      unaffected extremities regarding lymphedema existence with TDC measurement, TDC value was
      higher than 1.2 in the experimental group. In the control group, TDC value was lower than 1.2
      . It was also emphasized that this proportion is probably valuable on assessment of upper
      extremity lymphedema. TDC could be done in different depth. 0.5, 1.5, 2.5 and 5.0 mm probes
      are possible for usage.In this study, Moisture Meter-D compact (MMDc) device will be used for
      assessment. It allows evaluation in 2.5 mm depth. In this study, TDC will be applied to upper
      extremity both affected and unaffected side. 6 cm lower point of cubital crease, 8 cm upper
      point of cubital crease and 10 cm lower point of armpit will be marked on two sides with a
      soft pen before measurement.

      Between 18-65 years old total 60 women will be recruited into the study in 3 separate
      groups.The first group will contain patients who had breast cancer surgery yet having no
      lymphedema. The inclusion criteria for involving the first group is surgery time. No one will
      be involved into the first group if surgery was applied 18 months ago before enrollment to
      this study. The second group will contain patients who had breast cancer surgery and having
      upper extremity lymphedema. The third group will contain healthy women. The aim of this study
      whether BIA and TDC methods are in capable of detecting lymphedema in an early stage.
      Measurements will be done at baseline, 6th month and 12th month. Exclusion criteria include
      being involuntary to recruit the study, bilaterally breast surgery history, having
      bilaterally upper extremity lymphedema, active infection, active chemotherapy and
      radiotherapy process, being in malignity period, and having mentally and cognitive disorders.

      Lymphedema treatment may be quite costly due to materials used in the treatment and special
      producted compression stockings. If we take into account that compression stocking must
      change every six months, it carries too much importance regarding cost-effectivity that
      preventing lymphedema before manifesting.Even if lymphedema manifested already, detecting
      lymphedema in an early stage before aggravation improves treatment outcomes and individual's
      quality of life.
    
  