
    
      Psychoeducation given to the parents of the children with ADHD reduce parental stress, but
      these reduces are not proven for parents of the children with ADHD. The objective of this
      study was to determine the effect of psychoeducation on the stress levels of parents of
      children with Attention Deficit and Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). This was a randomised
      controlled study and applied the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT)
      statement. A total of 172 parents (experimental group: 86, control group: 86) participated in
      the study, which was planned as an experimental (randomized controlled, with
      pre-test-post-test control group, follow-up) study. Both the mothers and fathers were
      included in the psychoeducation program for parents which was delivered in two sessions per
      week. The study was evaluated before the first session, after the second session and at the
      6th month. Data were collected using the Personal Information Form and Caregiver Stress Scale
      (CSS). Mean, standard deviation, number and percentage, minimum, maximum, homogeneity tests
      and the chi-square test were used for data analysis. The mean scores obtained from the scales
      before and after the training were compared with the paired-t test and student t test between
      the groups. There was no significant difference between the mean pre-test scores of the
      parents in the experimental and control groups on the whole CSS (p<0.005). Significant
      differences were found between the scores before and after the psychoeducation, and their
      six-month follow-up scores (p<0.001). There were significant differences between the pre- and
      post-test scores, pre-test scores and six-month follow-up scores, and post-test scores and
      six-month follow-up scores of the parents in the experimental group according to the in-group
      comparisons (p>0.05). It was determined that psychoeducation given to parents of children
      with ADHD reduced parental stress.
    
  