
    
      The global average life expectancy and the average age of the population are growing steadily
      along with the age-related diseases. The same trend is also observed in our country.
      Although, maximum life span in Russia decreases. E.g., the number of centenarians in Moscow
      decreased by 244 persons from 2013 to 2014. There were about 400 centenarians in Moscow in
      2014. That is about 3.3 per 100 000 population. In the US, this figure is about 10-20, and
      there are 50 centenarians per 100 000 population in the Okinawa region, Japan. The rate of
      ageing varies substantially, a prime example of this is the centenarians population. These
      people break conventional stereotypes about aging. Chronic diseases in centenarians are
      postponed. They are more active, they work longer, they can better tolerate stressful
      situations. Scientists all over the world are trying to find the secret of their longevity.
      Studies on the medical and social aspects of centenarian longevity are actively carried out
      in the US, Europe, Japan, Australia. In Russia studies were carried out in St. Petersburg,
      Western and Eastern Siberia. According to the New England Centenarian Study, the
      supercentenarians (persons who have lived more than 110 years) life span is actually equal to
      the healthy span without serious illnesses. The aim of research is to study features of
      social status, lifestyle, habits, clinical status, blood chemistry, the amount of progerin,
      genome, composition of the gut microbiota in Moscow centenarians in order to create a model
      of healthy aging. In this study a comprehensive analysis of the longevity phenomenon of one
      hundred centenarians from Moscow and the Moscow region planning to be conducted. Analyzing of
      anamnesis vitae, medical, social, neuro-cognitive, and genetic features is planning. Each
      study participant will undergo a comprehensive geriatric assessment, including examination by
      the neurologist, an assessment of cognitive status,psychogeriatric consultation with the
      assessment of self-perceptions of aging and depression assessment by using the geriatric
      depression scale, neuropsychological testing using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA),
      verbal recognition memory 12 word test, clock-drawing test.Telomere length and progerin level
      in buffy coat layer evaluation, 16sRNA metagenome sequencing, and nuclear magnetic resonance
      spectroscopy for qualitative and quantitative analysis of metabolites in blood serum, will be
      done in all participants. This study will take the science closer to the goal of identifying
      the patterns of "healthy" aging.
    
  