
    
      Cardiovascular disease leading cause of death, resulting in a number of annually deceased
      people higher than from any other. The great incidence of cardiovascular diseases in the
      world spurred the search for new solutions to enable an early detection of pathological
      processes The early detection based in multi-parameters of pathological condition is the key
      to the patient survival .The arterial stiffness is the first vessels modification,
      responsible for several pathological processes, which can lead to cardiovascular diseases.

      The normal aging process is associated with an increase in vascular stiffness which is
      accelerated by atherosclerosis, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus. Several studies have
      revealed that increased aortic stiffness is a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases and
      also is a predictor of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

      Interest in arterial stiffness waned in the early 1900s with the advent of the
      sphygmomanometer, which offered a quantitative measure of blood pressure and risk prediction
      .

      Another factor is Aortic distensibility which is a measurement of vascular elasticity, and
      reflects the stiffness of the aorta . Aortic distensibility is markedly decreased in patients
      with known coronary artery disease . and is inversely proportional to the severity of
      Coronary artery disease .

      Two-dimensional and tissue Doppler imaging derived parameters of ascending aorta have been
      found to be abnormal, indicating increased Aortic stiffness and impaired Aortic
      distensibility in subjects with coronary artery disease, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus.
      However, the direct correlation of Aortic stiffness with Coronary artery disease is hard to
      examine as most of these patients are old and have comorbidities such as hypertension, So
      Investigation of these parameters should be done in patients who are normotensive as most of
      these patients do not have confounding factors that increase Aortic stiffness.

      Although the relationship between Aortic distensibility and Aortic stiffness and
      atherosclerosis is well known , the possible relation between them and the extent and
      complexity of coronary artery disease. as assessed using SYNTAX score has not been clearly
      determined yet.

      The SYNTAX score is a lesion-based angiographic scoring system originally devised to grade
      the complexity of coronary artery disease.

      . It is related to adverse cardiovascular events and predicts mortality and morbidity in
      patients with coronary artery disease.
    
  