
    
      Objective There are many detrimental effects of obstructive airway disease. One of the
      hallmark effects is poor sleep quality. Due to the association of air pollutants with
      worsening respiratory symptoms, a logical intervention to improve sleep quality may be air
      filtration. A novel air filtration system, the PureNight SystemTM, which delivers
      pre-filtered air around the head of a sleeping person, may offer a solution to decrease
      exposure to noxious triggers during time spent sleeping and improve sleep quality.

      One method to measure sleep quality is to use 24-hour actigraphy. The actigraph is a small,
      wrist-worn device that contains a pizo-electric bender element, or accelerometer, that
      measures wrist movement. Algorithms interpret the movement on an epoch-by-epoch basis and
      identify sleep/wake states and circadian rhythms from activity counts.

      Study Design We propose to study the effect of the Pure Night TM air filtration system on a
      cohort of patients with chronic obstructive airway disease with self-reported poor sleep
      quality due to nocturnal respiratory symptoms. We hypothesized that patients using the Pure
      Night TM system would have fewer nocturnal awakenings and a consolidation of sleep time
      measured by actigraphy and better sleep quality measured by quality of sleep questionnaires
      than when not using the device. In a cross-over randomized clinical trial, baseline
      measurements were compared to treatment with the PureNight TM device and with "sham"
      filtration. Sleep variables including data on circadian rhythms were compared using a
      within-subject design between test conditions.

      Methodology Each subject underwent baseline actigraphy over 7 days followed by two seven day
      treatment arms with a 7-day wash-out period between treatment arms. Subject slept with the
      PureNight during each arm of the study. The systems used in each arm of the study were
      identical except one arm had a sham filter replacing the HEPA filter of the PureNight TM
      system in random order. Participants completed the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index at the
      start of the study and at the end of each treatment phase. Objective estimates of sleep were
      calculated from the actigraphy recordings using the device's proprietary software.
    
  