
    
      It started in January 2012 and was completed in June 2013. The TICCS was to be calculated for
      each patient. The presence of coagulopathy was to be assessed by thromboelastography measured
      at the latest 30 minutes after patient's hospital entry or, if not available, by standard
      coagulation tests (International Normalized Ratio or Prothrombin Time, activated partial
      thromboplastin time, fibrinogen, platelets).

      Haemorrhagic shock was to be assessed by the treating physician at hospital entry on the
      basis of persistent hypotension due to a demonstrated active bleeding.

      Surgical procedures and transfusion needs (up to 24 hours) were to be recorded all along
      patients' hospitalization. The transfusion of more than 4 Red Blood Cells units and more than
      3 Fresh Frozen Plasma units within the first hour of care was defined as a massive
      transfusion.

      We defined two populations of patients. "Severe" patients were defined by associating all the
      following conditions: active bleeding + early acute coagulopathy of trauma + need for massive
      transfusion + need for emergent surgical or endovascular hemostasis; "non-severe" patients
      were defined as patients without this 4-conditions association. Patients meeting only three
      of the four criteria or less were thus recorded as "non-severe".

      Quantitative variables were summarized as mean, standard deviation (SD) and range, while
      frequency tables were used for categorical findings. The cut-off value for TICCS was obtained
      by Receiver Operating Characteristic curve analysis based on the severity of the patients.
      Group comparisons were done by Student t-test for continuous variables and by the chi-square
      test (or Fisher exact test) for categorical variables. Each trauma score was characterized by
      its sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predicted values and area under the curve
      (AUC). Results were considered significant at the 5% critical level (P<0.05). Calculations
      were performed with the Statistical Analyses System statistical package for Windows (version
      9.3).
    
  