
    
      CLEANS Synopsis Protocol Number 001 Procedure/Device Endoscopy using a standard suction
      catheter Sponsor Biomerics Advanced Catheter Primary Objective The objective of the trial is
      to evaluate the efficacy of a novel coring/suctioning technique for esophageal food
      impactions using a suction catheter. Data obtained from this clinical trial will be used to
      support this technique for standard clinical use.

      Proposed Use Esophageal food impactions. Study Design This is a single-arm, open label
      observational trial designed to assess the efficacy of a novel suction technique for the
      treatment of esophageal food impactions. The endoscopists performing the procedure are not
      blinded to the treatment.

      Follow-Up Schedule There is no follow-up after the procedure. Number of Subjects/Sites 40
      non-randomized subjects, 10 at 4 investigational sites.

      Exclusion Criteria

        1. Unable to tolerate an endoscopic procedure.

        2. Has a condition that could lead to significant postoperative complications, including
           current infection, anticoagulant use (Note: this is a relative exclusion since these
           patients still may require endoscopic food clearance).

        3. Enrolled in a concurrent clinical food impaction trial.

        4. Inability to comply with the consent process (as determined by investigator).

        5. Pregnant.

      Statistical Methods Statistical Methods were developed based on the Safety Primary Endpoint.

      A sample size of 40 (10 at each site) achieves 80% power to detect a safety non-inferiority
      difference of 0.1322 using a one-sided exact test with a significance level (alpha) of 0.05.
      These results assume a baseline adverse event proportion of 0.03. The non-inferiority
      difference is justified by the low risk nature of the procedure.

      The sample size achieves 80% power to detect a performance non-inferiority difference of
      -0.1837 using a one-sided exact test with a significance level (alpha) of 0.05. These results
      assume a baseline bolus clearance proportion of 0.75. The non-inferiority difference is
      justified by the low risk nature of the procedure.

      Efficacy/performance procedure time endpoint will be assessed with time distribution analysis
      and with linear regression techniques using clinician, site, type of impaction, cause, age,
      gender, and weight as factors. Other factors may be included.

      Efficacy/performance secondary endpoints will be assessed with score distribution analysis
      and with linear regression techniques using clinician, site, type of impaction, cause, age,
      gender, and weight as factors. Other factors may be included.

      Sample size requirements 40 patients, 10 patients at each site. Analysis cohorts All patients
      who undergo endoscopy for a food impaction. Safety Assessments Adverse events will be
      summarized by seriousness, severity, relationship to device and procedure and adverse event
      type.

      Additional Analyses None intended at this time. Randomization Patients will not be
      randomized. Blinding Neither subjects nor endoscopists will be blinded to the study
      treatment.

      Study Duration The study participation will end following the procedure.
    
  