
    
      Cancer-associated anorexia-cachexia is an insidious syndrome that has a major impact on the
      patient's quality of life, but is also associated with a significant reduction in survival.
      Unintentional weight loss can predict a poor prognosis in cancer patients which is most
      likely due to decreased doses of treatment. Despite its clinical importance, it remains a
      widely underestimated and untreated condition. Considering the scarcity of pharmacological
      measures, it is necessary to invest in studies that may contribute to the rational and
      effective treatment of this clinical condition. Mirtazapine has a special therapeutic
      potential because it is a well-tolerated drug with few adverse effects and with well-known
      orexigenic action in clinical practice. It has been shown to have side effects of increased
      appetite and weight gain in cancer subjects with depression and nausea, as well as in
      non-depressed cancer patients, but there are not, as yet, randomized controlled trials
      showing its effect on cancer-associated anorexia-cachexia. The objective of this study is to
      evaluate the effect of mirtazapine as a pharmacological measure in the management of
      cancer-related anorexia-cachexia in patients in palliative care. A randomized, double-blind
      clinical trial involving 40 cancer patients with anorexia-cachexia in palliative care will be
      conducted. Patients will be randomized to receive mirtazapine or megestrol and will be
      evaluated longitudinally for a period of 8 weeks. After the initial evaluation and
      randomization, patients will be reassessed after 4 and 8 weeks at an outpatient clinic where
      they will be evaluated for the following variables: (1) General and demographic
      characteristics; (2) Usual food intake; (3) Anthropometric evaluation; (4) Presence and
      degree of symptoms using the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System; (4) Status performance using
      the Karnofsky performance status; (5) Quality of life using the QLQ-C30 Questionnaire; (6)
      Depression using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale; (7) Prognosis using the
      Palliative Prognostic Score; (8) Evaluation of functional capacity using hand grip strength
      and gait speed; (9) Body composition using electrical bioimpedance and dual energy x-ray
      absorptiometry; (10) Physical Activity Behaviour using a tri-axial accelerometer. Patients
      will also be contacted via telephone calls at weeks 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 for information
      regarding adverse events and drug compliance. The questioning about the occurrence of adverse
      events will also be performed at the outpatient clinic. Self-report of ingestion of tablets
      and counting of tablets on return of packages at the end of the study will be used to
      determine patient compliance. It is expect that use of mirtazapine can bring benefits
      increasing appetite and the body weight in cancer patientes in palliative care compared to
      the use of megestrol.
    
  