
    
      Treatment with paclitaxel-based endovascular devices (PED) has become a common treatment
      option for patients with peripheral artery disease (PAD) involving the femoral-popliteal
      artery. However, an aggregate level meta-analysis identified an association between the use
      of PED and increased all-cause mortality at both two and five-year follow-up intervals,
      though there are significant limitations of these analyses. Exploration of real-world data
      has been suggested as a means to further investigate the safety of PED. The current study
      explores the association of PED and mortality in real-world data using U.S. commercial claims
      from the FAIR Health data warehouse.

      This study aims to evaluate the relative safety of paclitaxel used as an antiproliferative
      agent in the treatment of symptomatic PAD in a real-world scenario. We will analyze
      Paclitaxel Drug-Coated Balloons (DCB) and Paclitaxel Drug-Eluting Stents (DES), in aggregate
      and as unique exposures using propensity score-matched survival analysis. (Inverse
      probability of Treatment Weighting).

      Commercial claims of patients who underwent endovascular interventional treatment of the
      femoral or popliteal arteries for symptomatic PAD between 1/1/15 and 12/31/2019 will form the
      study population. Three separate safety analyses will be performed. 1. Paclitaxel Drug coated
      balloons (DCB) as compared with propensity-matched patients treated with plain transluminal
      balloon angioplasty (PTA). 2. Paclitaxel delivering Drug-Eluting Stents (DES) as compared
      with propensity-matched cases using bare-metal stents (BMS). 3. Patients treated with either
      paclitaxel DCB or paclitaxel DES (any PTX) compared with propensity-matched controls
      (non-PTX,with DCB patients, matched to patients treated with PTA, and DES patients matched to
      patients treated with BMS).

      All proposed analyses will be performed using R 4.01 implemented within the DELTA analytic
      engine. DELTA is an active surveillance safety system that can monitor clinical data
      repositories for safety signals and has been validated to support risk-adjusted prospective
      safety surveillance analyses of complex clinical datasets.
    
  