
    
      Patients with a referral for a complete colonoscopy were included in the study. Polyps were
      removed upon insertion and withdrawal of the colonoscope in Group A or only upon withdrawal
      of the instrument in Group B according to a computer-generated randomization list.

      The following inclusion criteria were used: referral for a complete colonoscopy and age of 18
      years and older. All patients with polyps detected during colonoscopy were included. In order
      to compare the time required for the entire endoscopy between the two treatment groups, we
      only included patients with polyps of up to 10 mm in diameter.

      The following exclusion criteria were applied: colonoscopy due to bleeding, high likelihood
      of colonic stenosis or severe inflammation, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), hereditary
      colonic polyp disease (FAP or HNPCC), contraindications for polypectomy, such as
      coagulopathy, use of anti-clotting medication (anticoagulation, high-dose heparin aspirin,
      NSAIDs), polyps >10 mm in diameter (that cannot be removed through the biopsy channel and
      have to be removed by basket or polyp grasper; the use of these devices necessitates removal
      and consecutive re-insertion of the endoscope, making a comparison of the time intervals
      between the two groups impossible), suboptimal bowel preparation (presence of significant
      amounts of fecal remnants that could not be removed by flushing of the colon over the
      colonoscope and that did not allow clear visualization of the mucosa), and missing signed
      informed consent form.

      The randomization was done as soon as the first polyp was detected. When no polyps were
      detected, the case was regarded as screening failure and excluded from the study.

      Randomization was performed into the following two groups:

      Group A: Removal of all visible polyps upon insertion and withdrawal of the instrument Group
      B: Removal of all visible polyps upon withdrawal of the colonoscope only One day after
      colonoscopy, patients were asked to complete a questionnaire evaluating the tolerance of the
      ileo-colonoscopy (on a visual scale from 1 to 4 where 1 stands for no discomfort, 2 for minor
      discomfort, 3 for moderate discomfort, and 4 for severe discomfort associated with the
      endoscopy).

      Endoscopic procedures:

      Colon preparation was performed using 3 liters of PEG-based standard lavage fluids (Fordtran
      Streuli ®, Streuli Pharma, Switzerland).

      The procedures were performed by senior endoscopists (SW, SRV, HF, NW, PB) with at least 5
      years of experience in colonoscopy and performing at least 200 colonoscopies per year. All
      endoscopists participating in this trial underwent a specific study training headed by SW.
      Polyp size was measured using an opened biopsy forceps (Boston Scientific Radial JawTM 4,
      Reference No 1332, diameter of opened jaws 9mm). All endoscopists had comparable numbers of
      procedures in both approaches to polypectomy.

      Premedication consisted mostly of propofol (60-400 mg) or a combination of midazolam (2.5-5
      mg) and/or meperidine (25-50 mg) intravenously. Examinations were performed in left lateral
      decubitus or supine position. Colonic insufflation was performed with room air. All
      polypectomies in the study groups were performed using the same techniques as in the standard
      care of non-study patients, using snare loops, hot biopsy forceps, with and without
      submucosal injection of saline/epinephrine. Polyps larger than 3 mm were removed by snare,
      polyps smaller than 4 mm were removed by cold biopsy. There were no differences upon
      insertion or withdrawal.

      In Group A, the endoscopist removed all visible polyps instantly regardless whether advancing
      the instrument to the cecum or pulling back. In Group B, the endoscopist advanced the
      endoscope to the cecum without removing polyps. Upon withdrawal, all visible polyps were
      removed successively by standard techniques. In both groups, the endoscopists were instructed
      to focus on rapid introduction.

      Assessments After the endoscopy, the physician completed the data capture sheet evaluating
      the following criteria: patient demographics, patient history, time intervals required for
      the procedure, number of polyps detected upon insertion, number of polyps removed upon
      insertion, number of polyps removed upon withdrawal, overall technical ease (score from 1 to
      4 where 1 stands for no technical problems, 2 for minor, 3 for moderate, and 4 for major
      technical difficulties), presence of technical problems (difficult visualization of the
      polyps, difficult removal of polyps, and difficult retrieval of polyps, all answered
      categorically with "Yes" or "No"), patient tolerance (completed by patients), and
      characterization of every polyp (location, size, time of removal and additional comments).
    
  