
    
      This study is a multi centre, double blinded, randomized, prospective, parallel placebo
      controlled trial for demonstrating the effectiveness of the RhinoChill System for the
      symptomatic relief of migraine headache.

      The specific study design consists of:

        -  Participant identification from neurology clinic records and gaining initial consent to
           transfer contact details to the trial team.

        -  Telephone contact or direct clinic contact with potential participants to describe the
           COOLHEAD 2 trial and to seek expressions of interest.

        -  Initial meetings with potential participants and discussion of trial, provision of
           patient information leaflets. Informed Consent taking.

        -  Initial 30 day prospective data collection period (minimum of 2 migraine attacks, longer
           period if needed)

        -  Randomisation to either placebo or active RhinoChill

        -  Device Delivery and training session for the use of the RhinoChill device, self
           administration, and record keeping.

        -  Treatment period for the treatment of 2 separate migraines with the RhinoChill.

      During an initial screening visit or phonecall, the trial will be discussed with the
      potential participant and the inclusion/exclusion checklist will be completed.

      If the patient meets all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria, they will be
      asked for permission to pass on contact details to a member of the trial team for further
      contact.

      Arrangements will then be made for a meeting with the patient either at the clinic or in
      their own home to further discuss the trial and to consider enrolling into the study. At this
      time, they will be provided with a patient information sheet and will be shown the RhinoChill
      device. The patient will be given the opportunity to fully consider all aspects of
      participation in this trial and to discuss it with family members if they so wish before
      being being consented into the trial by a member of the study team.

      At the time of consent, the researcher will also collect data for the baseline CRF and
      provide initial instruction on completion of the first stage data collection forms (further
      described below)

      At the baseline visit, the patient will first be given the opportunity to ask any questions
      they may have about the research. A member of the research team will take informed consent
      and gain signatures on the consent form. Baseline data will then be collected, including
      history of migraine headache, frequency, severity of symptoms, medication and therapies
      currently ongoing or taken in the past. Base line vital signs will also be recorded at this
      time. Once completed, a short training session on completion of the prospective data
      collection forms for phase 1 of the trial will given and use of the supplied blood pressure
      machine and pulse oxymeter machine. Once the baseline visit has been completed the patient
      will begin a 30 day period of self data collection based on their migraine experience during
      that time frame and using data capture forms provided by the research nurse (a minimum of 2
      migraine attacks are required, therefore if 2 have not occurred during the 30 days, further
      time will be given to allow the second migraine to occur).

      If a patient has not had a single migraine in the first 30 days, then they will not be able
      to continue to the treatment phase as they have not met the inclusion criteria of at least 1
      migraine per month. Following the conclusion to this initial period, the treatment phase will
      then begin.

      After the end of the prospective data collection period, the patient will be randomised to
      either active treatment or placebo treatment. Randomisation will be provided by sealed
      envelopes held by E&E CRO services (Vienna) who are also acting as independent monitors of
      the trial. Randomisation was performed via the online system www.sealedenvelope.com.

      Training will be undertaken to ensure that the patient is fully competent and safe in the use
      of the RhinoChill intranasal cooling device.

      The patient will be instructed on:

        -  Preparation of the device

        -  Insertion of the nasal catheter

        -  Selecting correct flow rate

        -  Positioning during treatment

        -  Cleaning and storage of the nasal catheters

        -  Trial documentation

        -  24 hour contact numbers for additional supplies, troubleshooting and practical support.

      The patient will also be left with a reference booklet for issues around the trial and the
      practical use of the RhinoChill device.

      At the onset of migraine headache (or as soon as possible thereafter), the patient will start
      to complete the 'Treatment' CRF.

      Each step of the treatment procedure is to be completed in order and as described to the
      patient. Patients are instructed that there is no scope for any alteration in the treatment
      order or requirements of the trial unless a safety issue becomes evident. If a patient does
      deviate from the standard procedures as outlined below, they are required to contact the 24
      hour COOLHEAD 2 mobile phone to report the incident so that it can be reviewed and logged as
      a protocol deviation and reviewed by the site/principal investigator at the earliest
      opportunity. The RhinoChill device is then prepared for use and treatment can be
      administered.

      The RhinoChill Migraine Intranasal catheters are then inserted and the 10 minute treatment is
      commenced on Low Flow. following these steps for each individual treatment:

      It is recognised that participants in this study will already be taking medication for their
      migraine headache. Normal prophylaxis will be allowed as part of the trial and will be
      recorded in the initial screening interview. No change in prophylaxis is allowed within three
      months of the start of the trial or while the patient is participating in the trial.

      However, acute treatments such as triptans are allowed to be taken but must be withheld until
      at least two hours following completion of treatment with the RhinoChill to allow assessment
      of the intervention. Any rescue medication taken after this point will be recorded in the
      associated trial documentation. A full medication history along with other therapies
      (including alternative therapies) will also be recorded.

      No new treatment or therapy will start while the participant is enrolled in this trial.
    
  