
    
      Suitable candidates will be identified via patient information brochures and via
      advertisements directed at upper limb amputees. For this purpose, a web-page will be
      constructed for free access by interested individuals. This website will be accessible
      through standard search engines. Interested potential subjects will be instructed to contact
      the investigator for an appointment. At the time of appointment, candidates will be first
      requested to complete a screening consent form (SCF) before undergoing further
      evaluation/medical screening procedures. The SCF includes a written consent to obtain PHI of
      the candidate. When the candidate visits UPMC he will undergo a consultation with the PI who
      will perform a thorough clinical assessment and explain in detail the treatment options,
      risks and benefits of the procedure. Candidates will be requested to complete a screening
      consent at this stage. Appropriate subjects will then undergo further medical screening
      procedures that include a number of examinations and investigations to determine their
      candidacy for hand transplantation. Prospective recipients who are selected based on results
      of screening procedures will be invited to review and sign the full informed consent form
      prior to being wait-listed for the procedure.

      The screening tests include:

      History and physical exam, including height and weight Urine pregnancy test for all female
      subjects of childbearing potential Complete blood count, differential, reticulocyte count,
      platelet count ABO type Liver function tests including SGPT or SGOT, serum bilirubin (total
      and direct), total protein, albumin, alkaline phosphatase and GGT, PT, PTT with INR Serum
      electrolytes and renal function panel to include the following: sodium, potassium, chloride,
      carbon dioxide, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, glucose, creatinine and BUN Urinalysis and
      creatinine clearance test to determine GFR Infectious disease studies: HIV antigen, HTLV I-II
      antibody, antibodies to HIV 1 and 2, hepatitis C virus, syphilis, hepatitis B core antibody,
      and hepatitis B surface antigen titers are required Infectious disease titers: CMV, EBV, HSV,
      toxoplasmosis and VZV (IgG and IgM when indicated) Pulmonary function tests, including DLCO2
      Chest X-ray EKG and MUGA scan or echocardiogram for determination of cardiac ejection
      fraction Sinus X-ray (if clinically indicated) CT scans (CT Angiography)/MRI studies
      (Functional MRI, Skeletal MRIs of hand/hips) as indicated by medical history and physical
      examination Ophthalmologic examination Dental consult Psychiatric evaluation
    
  