
    
      Within the study data on quality of life and various health and non-health resources and
      their costs is collected with the help of questionnaires administered at different points in
      time in different cohorts. Data collection is additional upon data collected in the main
      CAPITA trial, such as incidence data, mortality estimates, use of some health care resources,
      vaccine effectiveness and general background (socio-demographic) data.

      In a first sub-study of CHO-CAP, the CAPITA participants are asked, via written information
      distributed shortly after vaccination, to fill in once-only a short questionnaire describing
      their health status (5 item EQ-5D instrument) and a few additional socio-demographic
      background data. This is done in order to determine an EQ-5D baseline score (index value for
      health status) - a prerequisite to match CAP patients and controls later, and as such an
      inclusion criterion for the two (nested) cohorts that will be followed prospectively.

      About 2,000 cases of CAP are expected to occur in the CAPITA cohort in the next two to three
      years. Assuming a response rate of ~30% for the baseline questionnaire, we will have some 600
      CAP cases out of the 2,000 expected patients for whom a baseline EQ-5D score is available.
      These CAP patients will be asked to participate in a prospective cohort study. Within
      CHO-CAP, these CAP cases will be followed for up to one year after their CAP episode. For
      each CAP case included in the CAP cohort, two controls from the baseline population are
      matched and included in a cohort of controls (non-CAP elderly with similar baseline health
      status). Controls will also be followed for up to one year. The matches between CAP cases and
      controls will be made based on age, sex and EQ-5D baseline score. This implies that controls
      will only be recruited from the group that responded to the baseline measurement of health
      status shortly after vaccination. For both cohorts, the CAP patients and the matched
      controls, additional data on health care and non-health care resource use, on health status,
      using EQ-5D and SF-36 questionnaires, and on selected health outcomes is collected at four
      contact (at 0, 1, 6 and 12 months) moments within a period of 1 year. This will be done using
      questionnaires, distributed during a home visit and by post.
    
  