
    
      The aetiology of female pelvic organ prolapse (FPOP) is complex and likely due to a
      combination of factors. Genetics, race, aging and menopause, obesity and conditions
      associated with a chronically increased intra-abdominal pressure such as chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease as well as childbirth trauma have been implicated. Delivery-related trauma
      to the pubovisceral muscle is common and obviously associated with female pelvic organ
      prolapse.

      It is a common problem with an incidence as high as 40%, and 10-20% of women will require
      surgery for prolapse at least once in their lifetime.

      The levator hiatus defines the 'hernial portal' through which FPOP develops. Childbirth
      clearly leads to an enlargement of the levator hiatus, even in the absence of levator trauma.

      And the levator hiatal dimensions are strongly associated with FPOP and with prolapse
      recurrence Enlargement of the levator hiatus is more likely to be the cause rather than the
      effect of FPOP. Alterations of the levator hiatus morphology following delivery have been
      demonstrated using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and more recently, three-dimensional (3D)
      ultrasound imaging Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been shown to visualize levator ani
      defects effectively, but in recent years, translabial 3- and 4-dimensional (3D/4D) ultrasound
      has shown to provide valuable information on biometrical properties of the pelvic floor and
      morphology of the levator ani muscle.And recently three-dimensional ultrasonography is an
      alternative for MRI in detecting levator defects.

      Currently, technologic advances in 3D ultrasonography allow access to the arbitrarily defined
      planes anywhere within ultrasound volume data and permit direct imaging of the entire levator
      hiatus.

      Translabial three-dimensional ultrasonography has practical advantages because it is less
      expensive, easily accessible, and more readily available for gynecologists.

      3D-Ultrasound in urogynecology could be helpful in diagnosing of urinary incontinence and
      urethral hypermobility, to document pelvic floor anatomy and to assess anatomic and
      functional changes before and after gynecologic surgery.

      The objective of our research was to detect levator ani defects in women with POP before and
      after apical prolapse surgeries and if they will be corrected after the operation or not.

      The secondary objective was to 1)detect the most appropriate surgical procedure in restoring
      the dimensions of the hiatal area.

      2)Correlate between the levator ani defects and the complains, quality of life
      questionnaires, clinical examination of the patient before and after the surgery.

      3)The role of 3D-Ultrasound in diagnosing the pelvic floor defects and targeting the Surgical
      procedure to restore the defects.

      4)Introduce and stress on POP-Q system into Assuit general hospital and Abuteeg Hospital as
      it will be used to evaluate all cases both pre-operatively and during post-operative follow
      up being the standard method for evaluating cases of pelvic organ prolapse.

      Objective cure was defined as the: absence of the prolapse as indicated by a POP-Q stage of
      0-1.
    
  