
    
      Carboplatin is a chemotherapy drug that is used for the treatment of ovarian cancer. GM-CSF
      is a protein that is used to increase the production of white blood cells. rIFN-g is a
      protein that stimulates cells of the immune system.

      Participants will need to have pre-study blood work (about 4 teaspoons) as part of their
      evaluation for study entry. In addition, a chest x-ray and CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis
      will need to be done before any treatments.

      Participants in this study will receive a frequently used dose of carboplatin by vein over 1
      hour every 28 days. In addition, GM-CSF will be given for 7 days and rIFN-g will be given for
      2 days before and after chemotherapy. Both drugs will be given as injections under the skin.
      They will be repeated with each chemotherapy course that participants receive.

      GM-CSF and rIFN-g are being used to try to stimulate the immune system in the belief that
      this adds to the effectiveness of the chemotherapy on the tumor. During each course of
      chemotherapy treatment, blood samples will be taken in order to evaluate the blood count
      response to GM-CSF. Participants will need to remain in the Houston area beginning with the
      first injection of GM-CSF and for up to 9 days following the carboplatin infusion for the
      first course.

      QOL forms will be completed at 5 separate time points during the first course of
      chemotherapy. Later courses will only have 2 time points for completion of the QOL forms. The
      completion of these forms will help researchers to evaluate the effects of the carboplatin
      and the 2 proteins on participants and their quality of life.

      Participants will receive 3 courses of treatment (each course will include 1 treatment with
      carboplatin followed by 2 separate treatment cycles with GM-CSF and rIFN-g) and then be
      evaluated for tumor response. If the tumor is responding, 3 additional courses will be given.
      If after 6 courses of treatment, the tumor has completely responded and there is no evidence
      of the disease, then up to 4 additional courses can be given for completion of therapy. If
      the tumor is still responding after 6 courses but has not completely gone away, then
      additional courses can be given as long as the tumor is responding before completion therapy
      can be considered.

      Completion therapy will include carboplatin given every 28 days by vein along with injections
      of GM-CSF under the skin before and after the chemotherapy. Injections of rIFN-g will be
      given directly into the abdomen through an abdominal catheter if possible. If this is not
      possible, then the rIFN-g will be given as injections under the skin. Participants may choose
      not to receive the rIFN-g through a catheter during the completion phase and can continue to
      receive it under the skin with the chemotherapy. A maximum of 4 additional courses can be
      given during this phase of the study.

      Participants whose disease gets worse will be taken off the study. Participants who have
      intolerable side effect from the study drugs will also be taken off the study treatment.
      Participants will have follow up CT scans after every 3 courses of treatment. Following
      completion of all treatments, participants will need to return to M. D. Anderson every 3
      months for follow-up exams. This will include a physical exam, blood work, and a CT scan.

      This is an investigational study. A total of 65 patients will take part in this study.
    
  