
    
      The growing success of therapeutic interventions (including the antioxidant Vitamin E) for
      Alzheimer's disease in the general population requires a solution to the methodological
      problems so that therapeutic trials can be conducted in the aging population with Down
      syndrome which will ultimately improve their quality of life as well as that of their
      families and caregivers. The experience gained in this trial will be useful to the design of
      appropriate cognitive measures of Alzheimer's disease in persons with Down syndrome in
      subsequent trials.

      The goal of this international three-year study is to determine whether the administration of
      vitamin E, which has been shown to delay the progression of Alzheimer's disease, will slow
      the rate of cognitive/functional decline in persons age 50 or older with Down syndrome.
      Persons with Down syndrome functioning at all levels of intellectual disability will be
      eligible. Men and women of approximately equal numbers and people from minorities and ethnic
      groups other than Caucasian will be included. A total of 350 individuals with Down syndrome,
      50 years of age and older, have been recruited at approximately 21 trial sites. The study is
      a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group design with stratification by
      geographic site and presence of Alzheimer disease according to DSM-IV (American Psychiatric
      Association) criteria for diagnosing this disease.

      Apolipoprotein E (Apo E) genotype will be determined at the screening visit to allow
      secondary analyses of the impact of Apo E genotype (that may influence Alzheimer's disease
      risk) on outcome measures and the response to treatment. DNA specimens will also be stored
      for possible future genetic analyses, with trial sites allowing for non-participation in this
      procedure. Visits will occur at baseline and then at 6 monthly intervals, with each visit
      including interval medical history, current and interval medications, side effects checklist,
      adverse events, pill count, institutionalization status, cognitive, functional, and
      behavioral measures, and DSM-IV diagnostic assessment for Alzheimer's disease.
    
  