
    
      The epidemiological picture of cardiovascular disease in which the IC sets itself as the
      leading cause of readmissions in the National Health System and that has not changed over the
      years, undertake the management of the limited resources of the public health system.
      Moreover, the IC contributes to significant loss of quality of life of patients, many in
      socially productive ages resulting in absenteeism and early retirement. This study aims to
      evaluate the impact of home monitoring, intercalated with telephone contact by the nursing
      staff at the HF patients, after hospital discharge in relation to the rate of hospital
      readmissions, compliance and cost-effectiveness this intervention, compared to conventional
      monitoring of patients within 6 months without this intervention, as well as building a
      structure that allows the use computerized forms of assessment in nursing in cardiology by
      mobile technology, assess the knowledge of the disease and the skills to self-care; assess
      compliance, assess the quality of life, linking the sociodemographic characteristics and
      clinical with adherence to treatment and rates of readmission in both groups, and check the
      cost of home monitoring. For this purpose, a randomized clinical trial was designed in two
      centers, blinded to outcomes and costs of readmission.

      Summary of the study:

      The home based intervention is a multidisciplinary approach that has shown benefit in the
      follow-up of patients with Heart Failure (HF). It is considered one of the most effective
      approaches and humanized by education and care for the patient in his environment of routine.
      In this study the monitoring of HF patients in the home after hospital discharge will include
      the reinforcement, monitoring and reassessment of previously provided guidance on the disease
      and self-care, compliance to prescribed medications and especially the early recognition of
      signs and symptoms of decompensation by patients and their caregivers.

      Detailed description: The epidemiological picture of cardiovascular disease in which the IC
      sets itself as the leading cause of readmissions in the National Health System and that has
      not changed over the years, undertake the management of the limited resources of the public
      health system. Moreover, the IC contributes to significant loss of quality of life of
      patients, many in socially productive ages resulting in absenteeism and early retirement.
      This study aims to evaluate the impact of home monitoring, intercalated with telephone
      contact by the nursing staff at the HF patients, after hospital discharge in relation to the
      rate of hospital readmissions, compliance and cost-effectiveness this intervention, compared
      to conventional monitoring of patients within 6 months without this intervention, as well as
      building a structure that allows the use computerized forms of assessment in nursing in
      cardiology by mobile technology, assess the knowledge of the disease and the skills to
      self-care; assess compliance, assess the quality of life, linking the sociodemographic
      characteristics and clinical with adherence to treatment and rates of readmission in both
      groups, and check the cost of home monitoring. For this purpose, a randomized clinical trial
      was designed in two centers, blinded to outcomes and costs of readmission.

      Intervention: There will provided education about what is heart failure, its causes, how to
      recognize signs and symptoms, monitoring of weight and blood pressure, the importance of
      compliance to treatment. Patients will be instructed about the medications they are using. A
      guide to rest and exercise, sexual activity, vaccines, travel and diet (water and salt
      restriction) will be provided. The involvement of the family will be encouraged and
      reinforced at every home visit. The contact with the team should be done when: patient
      observes an increase of 1 or 2 kg of weight in 2-3 days, worsening of dyspnea on effort,
      edema in legs / abdomen, worsening of cough, persistent vomiting, syncope, sputum with blood,
      fever, persistent tachycardia, motor deficit / paralysis and / or unexplained chest pain. In
      phone calls made between home visits, the compliance to treatment will be evaluated and
      reinforced.
    
  