
    
      The SF prototype is an ultrasound (US) display device under development at our institution
      that replaces the traditional US monitor by using a half -silvered mirror to reflect
      real-time US images into the body. When the operator looks through the half -silvered mirror,
      the US image appears to float beneath the surface of the skin, exactly where it is being
      scanned. The SF merges the US image, probe, needle, operator's hands, and patient into the
      same field of view, making procedures more intuitive to the novice user, in contrast to
      conventional US (CUS) guided procedures, where hand-eye coordination is displaced, forcing
      the operator to look away from the field to see the US screen. We have previously shown that
      VA in phantoms is easier to use, faster to use, and faster to learn than CUS in novice and
      experienced US users. The current SF prototype uses a 10MHz US system (Terason, Burlington,
      MA) modified by attaching a small flat-panel display (AM550L OLED, Kodak, Rochester, NY) and
      a 20x50x1mm half -silvered mirror to the probe. A standard, clear, sterile polyethylene US
      probe cover was placed over the entire SF to sterilize the device. 15 subjects needing PICC
      lines were enrolled in this study. Scanning the upper arm of each patient with the SF, the
      basilic vein, brachial vein, and brachial artery were identified on the in situ US image. A
      21ga needle was guided into the basilic or brachial vein. The number of attempts, or sticks,
      per PICC line placement, specific vein accessed, and reason for a failed attempt were
      recorded.

      The vasculature was clearly visualized in situ using the SF. The needle was aimed and easily
      inserted into the basilic or brachial vein, and the needle tip visualized at its expected
      location. Successful vascular access was obtained with all 15 subjects, 13 of 15 on the first
      attempt, and 2 of 15 on the second attempt. 3 of the 15 lines encountered mild blurriness
      looking through the SF due to inconsistent optical properties of the probe cover.

      This study shows that venous access can be obtained using the SF. Once the optical problems
      with the probe covers are addressed, the SF will be ready for a larger clinical trial.
    
  