
    
      Approximately 40 people will take part in this study and all of these people will take part
      at Duke University Medical Center.

      Participation in this study involves the following.

        -  We will ask you to perform a cardiopulmonary exercise test (walking stress test) to
           determine if you have any undiagnosed cardiovascular health problems that may limit your
           ability to participate in an exercise training program. This test will take place at the
           Duke Center for Living on Duke University Campus.

        -  Complete a body composition assessment. This test is designed to determine your body fat
           and lean body tissue (muscle mass) percentage and will consist of you sitting quietly in
           a chamber with appropriate medical supervision. This test also will take place at the
           Duke Center for Living on Duke University Campus.

        -  Complete two questionnaires one at the beginning and one at the end that asks about how
           you are feeling and about your physical activity levels. The questionnaire takes about
           20-30 minutes.

        -  Provide two blood samples one at the beginning and one at the end to measure levels of
           cardiovascular disease risk factors (cholesterol levels, c-reactive protein and insulin
           levels) in your blood that may be influenced by exercise. Blood collection will be drawn
           by medical staff at Duke University. The amount of blood drawn is approximately 2
           teaspoons (10ml).

        -  We will also collect information on how much treatment you receive as well as how many
           and what type of side-effects you have from your medical treatment. This information
           will be obtained from your medical chart following the completion of your treatment.

      Following the successful completion of all initial tests and procedures (as described above),
      you will be randomly assigned (like flipping a coin) to one of the following two groups:

        1. Exercise Training Group: You will be given a customized training program aimed at
           increasing cardiorespiratory fitness. You will be asked to exercise 3 to 5 times per
           week. All sessions will include a 5 minute warm-up and 5 minute cool-down at the
           beginning and end of each session totaling 30-45 minutes per session. You will also
           receive a heart rate monitor to record each exercise session to monitor adherence and
           compliance. You will receive telephone calls every two weeks to provide encouragement,
           outline goals, and provide feedback on study progress.

           OR

        2. Wait-List Control Group: You will be asked to maintain your usual exercise levels during
           the 6 month study period. You will receive telephone calls to report your levels of
           exercise during the study. After study completion you will receive a heart rate monitor
           and an individualized exercise prescription based on your cardiorespiratory fitness test
           at the end of the study period (6 months).
    
  