
    
      1. Aim To investigate if low dose catheter directed fibrinolysis for 2 hours is superior to
           unfractioned heparin with regards to unloading the right ventricle in acute
           intermediate-high risk pulmonary embolism

        2. Methods 2.1 Study design The study is an open label, randomized, single center trial.
           Patients (n=60) with acute intermediate-high risk acute pulmonary embolism diagnosed
           with computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CTA) will be treated with unfractionated
           heparin (UFH) at the time of diagnosis and randomized 1:1 within 48 h to low dose
           catheter directed thrombolysis or continuation of UFH. Primary endpoint is improvement
           in right-to-left ventricular ratio (RV/LV ratio) evaluated by CTA 24 hours (±2h) after
           randomization. Secondary endpoints are 30 day mortality, reduction in thrombus burden
           evaluated by CTA, length of hospital stay and recurrent PE. Safety will be monitored as
           minor and major bleeding.

           2.2 Patients Patients are eligible for inclusion if they apply to all inclusion and none
           of the exclusion criteria and give their informed written consent

           2.2.1 Recruitment and informed consent Patients admitted to a hospital in Region Midt
           with acute pulmonary embolism will be screened for eligibility for inclusion in the
           trial by a local investigator at the day of admission. The local investigator will then
           contact the PI that will ensure that the patient is eligible for inclusion. All patients
           referred for possible inclusion will be registered as screened. If eligible for
           inclusion, the local investigator will give the verbal and written study information to
           the patient. The local investigator will do the best possible to avoid interruptions and
           the staff will be informed accordingly to ensure fewest possible interruptions during
           the verbal information. The patient will be informed that it is possible to have an
           assessor during the verbal information. After verbal and written information the patient
           will be given a minimum of 1/2 hour and up to 8 hours for reflection before giving their
           consent. The patient will also be informed, that they can withdraw their consent at any
           time.

           2.2.2 Benefits, risk and safety The patients included in this trial will be treated with
           the highest known standard of care for their acute PE. If randomized to conventional
           treatment (UFH), there is no obvious benefit for the individual patient with regards to
           treatment, but the extra diagnostics may aid the treating physician to optimize their
           standard treatment. For patients randomized to CDT there is a potential benefit of
           treatment due to faster removal of thrombus mass in the pulmonary arteries. The biggest
           advantage of this trial is for future patients with acute PE, as this trial will aid
           future decisions with regards to treatment with CDT or UFH. Safety is discussed in
           section 12.

           2.2.3 Patient discontinuation and substitution Patients that are included in the study
           but discontinue (any cause) before their follow-up CTA 24 hours after treatment will be
           excluded from the final data analysis and substituted by a new study patient. Data from
           patients that discontinue (any cause) after their follow-up 24 hours CTA will be
           included in the final analysis. Data from patients that withdraw their consent for study
           participation will be excluded and substituted by a new study patient, if the trial is
           still ongoing at time of withdrawal.

           2.3 Treatment and Randomization 2.3.1 Randomization After study inclusion, patients will
           be transferred to Department of Cardiology, Aarhus University Hospital. Then, patients
           will be randomized to continue UFH with or without CDT. Patient data will be registered
           in the online case report form (CRF) hosted in a RedCap database and the RedCap database
           tool for randomization will be used for randomization to treatment. The recorded
           variable are listed in appendix 1.

           2.6 Statistics A previous similar study using ultrasound assisted CDT (10-20 mg rt-PA
           over 15 hours) versus UFH ULTIMA found an improvement in RV/LV ratio of -0.3 (SD, 0.2)
           vs. -0.03 (SD, 0.16) with UFH alone. And the OPTALYSE(6) study found an improvement in
           RV/LV ratio of -0.46 (no SD reported, only abstract published) using 4/8 mg rt-PA over 2
           hours. Using the most conservative result from the previous trials with a RV/LV
           difference of 0.17 between groups, and SD from a current unpublished PE study from our
           institution of 0.3, power of 0.8 and a significance level of 0.05 the sample size is
           calculated to be 21 patients in each treatment group. Based on this power calculation we
           plan to include a total of 60 patients randomized 1:1 with an interim analysis after the
           inclusion of 42 patients. All data with dichotomous outcome will be analyzed using the
           fisher's exact test. Between group comparison of continuous data will be compared using
           the two-sided unpaired t-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test. Within group comparison of
           continues data will be performed using the two-sided paired t-test and ordinal data with
           the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Ordinal data between groups will be analyzed using a
           chi-square test. Data will be analyzed as intention to treat.

        3. Time Schedule In Region Midt, 350 patients with PE is admitted to the hospital each
           year. Based on a previous study at our institution including patients with
           intermediary-high risk PE patients we plan to include 20 patients/year over a 3 year
           period.

        4. Feasibility The Dep. of Cardiology, Aarhus University Hospital have a long tradition of
           including patients in randomized trials. All necessary equipment and personnel for the
           study is available at the department. Associate Professor Asger Andersen, MD, PhD (AA)
           and Professor Jens Erik Nielsen-Kudsk, MD, DMSc (JENK) will be principal investigators.

        5. Ethics The study will adhere to Danish laws of ethics and management of personal data.
           The study will not begin before it have been approved by The regional data monitoring
           board, the Regional Ethics Committee and the Danish Medicines Agency. The study will
           adhere to the standards of good clinical practice and it will be monitored by the Unit
           of "Good Clinical Practice" at Aalborg and Aarhus University Hospitals. The study will
           pay the outmost respect to the included patients mental and physical health and their
           personal integrity.

        6. Safety The treatment is considered safe and previous studies suggest that this approach
           may be better than conventional therapy. All patients will be monitored continuously
           with ECG, blood pressure and clinical status in the catheterization laboratorium and
           after return to the ward with blood pressure, pulse, respiratory frequency and clinical
           status minimum every hour until two hours after termination of alteplase infusion. If
           any suspected or confirmed complication occurs the physician on call, attending the
           ward, will be contacted to initiate relevant diagnostic testing and/or treatment. The
           staff and physicians attending the ward are well trained in attending critically ill
           patient including patients with acute PE and patients that have been catheterized. The
           invasive procedure will be performed by a trained invasive cardiologist whose expertise
           is to catheterize the pulmonary circulation. Using the low dose short period regime
           suggested in this protocol there have not been reported any bleedings in clinical
           studies. The patients included in the trial will be exposed to an extra CTA which
           exposes the patient to 4-8 millisievert which approximates the background radiation a
           person receives over 3 years and increases the risk of a fatal cancer from 25% to
           25.045%. Patients randomized to CDT will receive an additional 1-2 millisievert from the
           fluoroscopy. The patients included in this study have an estimated 30 day mortality of
           15% and solid preliminary data suggest the treatment to be effective and safe. Therefore
           it is the investigators opinion that the benefits of doing this study outweighs the
           risks.

        7. Publication The results from this trial will be published whether negative, neutral or
           positive. First author will be AA and last author JENK. Members of the steering
           committee and responsible investigators from each trial site will be co-authors. Other
           contributing members of the trial will be offered co-authorship if their contribution
           adheres to the Vancouver protocol for co-authorship.

        8. Perspectives This study will be the first randomized trial to investigate if low dose
           catheter based thrombolysis is superior to unfractioned heparin with regards to
           unloading the right ventricle in patients with acute intermediate-high risk pulmonary
           embolism. If efficient, the findings from this study may motivate a larger clinical
           trial with hard clinical endpoints.
    
  