
    
      Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading non-communicable cause of death. Primary
      prevention measures aim to improve the awareness of the individual risk profile and promote
      healthy lifestyle. Multiple evaluations have shown, that atherosclerosis - the main cause of
      CVDs - begins already early in life. Therefore, prevention programs have to start already in
      childhood.

      The EVA-Tyrol study is a prospective, biomedical cohort study. 2000 participants will be
      recruited from high schools and training companies spread over North- and East-Tyrol
      (Austria) and South-Tyrol (Italy). For the 1500 participants included in the intervention
      group two examinations will be scheduled within a two-year interval. Participants will be in
      the 10th grade (mean age, 15-16 years) at the baseline and in the 12th grade (mean age, 17-18
      years) at the follow-up examination. 500 participants in the 12th grade without participation
      in a health promotion program will serve as a control group. The 2000 participants equal
      roughly 5% of the Tyrolean population of the included age-group. Medical examination includes
      an extensive questionnaire, anthropometric measurements, fasting blood sampling,
      high-resolution ultrasound of the common carotid artery, and carotid-femoral pulse wave
      velocity. Active intervention will consist of (1) enhancing knowledge about CVDs, (2)
      individual medical counseling based on the results of the baseline examination, (3) providing
      an online health promotion tool and (4) involvement of participants in planning and
      conduction of health promotion projects. Main outcome parameter is the difference in the
      number of ideal health metrics as defined by the American Heart Association between the
      intervention and control group.

      This study aims to improve cardiovascular health in Tyrolean adolescents and to evaluate the
      efficacy of this multi-layer health promotion program. Moreover, the investigators expect
      numerous insights in the prevalence of vascular risk conditions and early vascular
      pathologies in adolescents.
    
  