
    
      Platelets suspended in platelet additive solutions (PAS) have been collected and transfused
      in Europe for over 20 years. These PAS solutions outside of the United States (US) are not
      tied to an apheresis device; however in the US, PAS solutions have traditionally been linked
      to a corresponding apheresis device.

      Currently in the US, there are two solutions approved by the Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA) as a PAS for the replacement of 65% plasma in platelet components. Isoplate Solution is
      approved for use with the Trima Accel® Automated Blood Collection System (Trima Accel System)
      and InterSol Solution is approved for use with the Amicus Separator System.

      This study is designed to provide blood centers with the option to use either Isoplate or
      InterSol when collecting platelets for use with PAS. Terumo BCT is pursuing approval for
      InterSol Solution in combination with the Trima Accel System.

      This is a randomized, paired, prospective, open-label, multi-center study. Up to 120 healthy
      adult subjects will be enrolled in this study to ensure 60 paired evaluable data points
      across two Investigational Sites. Evaluable is defined as two completed platelet products
      with 100mL plasma that do not meet any of the protocol analysis exclusion criteria.

      The additional platelet donors account for screen failures, incomplete procedures, and
      protocol exclusions.

      Two units of platelets will be collected from each subject: one Test unit collected as a
      hyperconcentrated platelet product with 100 mL of concurrent plasma and one Control unit of
      platelets in plasma collected according to standard procedure. The Test unit will be
      suspended in 65% Intersol/35% plasma immediately after collection; the Control unit will be
      maintained in 100% plasma.

      Eligible donors who have signed an informed consent will be enrolled. Randomization will
      occur in a ratio of 1:1 to one of the following Treatment Arms:

      Arm A: Collection of one Test unit followed by collection of one Control unit Arm B:
      Collection of one Control unit followed by collection of one Test unit

      The standard apheresis platelet units collected in the Control arm will mirror the
      hyperconcentrated platelet units in the Test arm in terms of yield and final concentration.

      SUBJECT PROCEDURES

      Screening can be performed within 30 days of the apheresis procedure or combined with the
      first Apheresis Visit.

      The following evaluations will be performed:

        1. Informed consent will be obtained prior to initiating any study specific procedures

        2. Eligibility will be confirmed

        3. Demographics (age, gender, ethnic origin), height, and weight

        4. Complete blood count (CBC) for hemoglobin and platelet count on subjects new to the
           Investigative Site that do not have historical hemoglobin and/or platelet count
           measurements

      Apheresis Visit

      The following procedures will be performed at both the first and second Apheresis Visits:

        1. Eligibility will be confirmed

        2. Finger stick hemoglobin

        3. First apheresis procedure will be performed

      Subject will return to the Site in 6 to 8 days following the first apheresis collection for
      the second apheresis collection. This will conclude the subject's participation.

      Apheresis procedures will be run according to the instructions and precautions described in
      the commercially available Trima Accel Operator's Manual for use with Version 6.4.

      The Investigator or designee will perform the venipuncture, monitor the subject during the
      collection, assess and provide any interventions for adverse effects, remove the needle,
      dress the puncture site and monitor subject through recovery.

      The following will be documented:

        1. Trima Procedure details

        2. Adverse events

        3. Medications to treat AEs

        4. Device deficiencies
    
  