
    
      In Denmark, women aged 23-49 are offered cervical screening with liquid-based cytology (LBC)
      every 3rd year, and women aged 50-59 every 5th year. Women aged 60-64 are offered an exit
      HPV-DNA test.

      In 2008 vaccination against Human papilloma virus (HPV) was offered free of charge to girls
      aged 13-15. HPV-vaccination has been part of the child vaccination program for 12-year old
      girls since 2009. Women born in 1994 were offered HPV-vaccination at age 14, and
      approximately 80% are HPV-vaccinated. These women entered the screening program in 2017.

      HPV-testing is shown to provide a better protection against cervical cancer than cytology
      testing, and the 6-year protection against CIN3+ after a negative HPV-test has been observed
      to be higher than the 3-year protection after a negative cytology test (ref).

      The aim of the study is to evaluate if primary screening with HPV-testing and LBC triage
      every 6 years in women offered HPV-vaccination as girls would provide at least the same
      protection as the present screening, measured by cumulative number of cervical
      intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). This screening scheme would allow HPV-negative women to
      benefit from a prolonged screening interval and thereby reduce the burden of screening for
      HPV-vaccinated birth cohorts.

      The study is deemed a method study by the ethical committee of the Capital region and
      informed consent is, therefore, not required. The study is approved by the Danish data
      protection agency.

      The study will be undertaken as a method study embedded in the existing cervical screening
      program in the study area: Region Zealand, Northern Denmark region, Central Denmark region
      and part of region of Southern Denmark. The study is planned to run over three screening
      rounds. We expect 12000 women to be screened in the baseline screening round.

      The study includes all women born in 1994 who live in the study area and participate in
      cervical screening. For a random half of these women, an HPV-DNA test is performed in
      addition to routine cervical cytology. The result of the HPV-test will not affect screening
      or follow-up, but is performed solely for purposes of the method study. CINtec p16 histology
      will be performed on all cervical biopsies in the study to ensure the quality of the
      diagnosis.

      When screening samples are received at the pathology labs the allocation (HPV+/- in addition
      to cytology) will appear automatically in the IT-system.

      The study will be conducted a non-inferiority study. If non-inferiority is declared, analysis
      for superiority will be conducted. Censoring will be performed in the event of death,
      emigration, end of study and at first cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 or above
      (CIN3+) or conization. Data on primary and secondary endpoints will be collected from
      National Health registers.

      The project is supported by funds from 'Det Frie forskningsråd', 'Helsefonden' and 'Johannes
      Clemmesens Forskningsfond'. Cobas HPV-DNA and CINtec p16 histology test-kits are sponsored by
      Roche. Both tests were in standard use in the pathology departments prior to the project.

      Results of the baseline screening round and final results from the study will be published in
      relevant peer-reviewed journals.
    
  