
    
      Objective: this study will determine the effect of physical activity promotion based on Thai
      Physical Activity Guideline (TPAG) and break in workplace sitting on physical activity level,
      physical fitness, body compositions, cognitive functions and cardiometabolic biomarkers in
      office workers at Software Park Thailand under the Office of Science and Technology (NSTDA).

      Study design: an experimental study Interventions: there are two intervention including
      physical activity (PA) coaching based on TPAG and break in workplace sitting. We coach them
      for promoting daily active life and participating to monthly exercise programs. They will
      assign to break in sitting during daily work.

      Methods: The office workers at Software Park Thailand under the Office of Science and
      Technology (NSTDA) will be invited to participate in this study. The participants are a
      convenience sample. The inclusion criteria are: a) age 20-60 years, b) body mass index (BMI)
      ≤23, c) sitting for work more than 8 hours/day, and d) physical inactivity according to the
      PA recommendation of the World Health Organization (WHO). The participants will be divided
      into three groups as the following.

      Experiment 1: 30 subjects will receive PA coaching based on TPAG and long break or break 15
      minutes for every 2 hours (TPAG with LB) Experiment 2: 30 subjects will receive PA coaching
      based on TPAG and short break or break 1-2 minutes for every 1 hours (TPAG with SB) Control
      group: 30 subjects will not receive interventions (control). Demographics are measured by the
      online self-reported questionnaire. The participants will be assessed physical activity
      level, physical fitness, body compositions, cognitive function and cardiometabolic biomarkers
      at baseline, 2-and 6-month after intervention. PA level is measured by the questionnaires and
      the 6-step ladder of TPAG for PA promotion. Physical fitness includes muscles strength and
      endurance, range of motion (ROM) and the 3-minute step test measured by the non invasive
      hemodynamic monitors. Body compositions comprise of BMI, waist circumference, waist to height
      ratio and body fat measured by the Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis. Cognitions comprise of
      stroop color and word test, verbal fluency, digit span test and simple reaction time test.
      The blood test is used to detect the cardiometabolic biomarkers such as fasting blood
      glucose, glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), HDL, LDL and total cholesterol.

      Statistical analysis: The statistical package for social sciences (SPSS) version 21.0 will be
      used for data analysis. Two-way mixed model will be used for determining the effect of PA
      promotion based on TPAG and break in workplace sitting on health outcomes among office
      workers.
    
  