
    
      Whole blood samples will be collected from febrile patients presenting with fever of unknown
      origin and flu-like syndromes. Collection sites will be advised of collection requirements
      specific to patient population with the goal of collecting samples form patient between the
      ages of 2-89 years of age. Samples collected will be de-identified and assigned a specific
      study number. Study numbers and labels will be provided to collection site by the study
      monitor. Samples must be shipped to MRIGlobal or designated study site on the day of
      collection.

      Collection sites will consent patients and collect one (1) 4 mL whole blood sample from
      adults and either (1) 2 mL pediatric whole blood sample or 0.5 mL whole blood sample
      collected in a micro collection container from pediatric patients (anticoagulant: K2EDTA or
      defined alternative) from each patient enrolled into the study. Patients may not be enrolled
      in the study more than once. Patients considered for enrollment will be logged on an
      enrollment log. Log must be reviewed by the site prior to considering a patient for study
      enrollment to confirm enrollment status. Samples collected will be de-identified and assigned
      a specific study number. Study numbers and labels will be provided to collection site by the
      study monitor.

      Study site will accept or reject samples based on shipping verification procedures and then
      process samples acceptable for testing within 24 hours of receipt. Sample testing must be
      performed in accordance with the Applied Biosystems™ Bacillus anthracis Detection Kit
      instructions for use.

      At study start, study site will test whole blood samples received from collection sites daily
      (e.g. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday) using the Applied Biosystems™ Bacillus
      anthracis Detection Kit. No reference testing will be required since the study is designed
      only to demonstrate product specificity. Samples are assumed to be negative for Bacillus
      anthracis. A minimum of 50, but likely 100 febrile whole blood samples will be tested at
      MRIGlobal.

      Data generated will demonstrate product specificity when testing febrile whole blood samples.
    
  