
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of umbilical cord blood (UCB)-derived
           T-regulatory (Treg) cells.

      Secondary

        -  Estimate the proportion of patients with detectable circulating Treg cells at 0, 1, 3,
           7, and 14 days after infusion.

        -  Estimate the risk of grades II-IV and III-IV acute graft versus host disease (GVHD) at
           day +100 with the infusion of Treg cells.

        -  Estimate the proportion of patients with sustained donor engraftment.

        -  Estimate the proportion of patients with double chimerism at 6 months and 1 year.

        -  Determine the speed and cumulative incidence of neutrophil recovery by day 42 and
           platelet recovery by 6 months after UCB transplantation.

        -  Estimate the risk of chronic GVHD at 1 year.

        -  Estimate the probability of disease-free survival at 100 days and 1 year.

        -  Estimate the risk of fungal and viral infections at 1 year

        -  Estimate the risk of relapse at 1 year

        -  Characterize the pattern of immune cell recovery over 1 year

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of umbilical cord blood (UCB)-derived T-regulatory
      (Treg) cells. Patients receive nonmyeloablative UCB transplantation and post-transplant
      immunosuppression as in protocol UMN-2005LS036 (without antithymocyte globulin during
      conditioning regimen).

        -  Nonmyeloablative conditioning and UCB transplantation: Patients receive allopurinol on
           days -7 to day 0, fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days -6 to -2
           and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on day -6; undergo total-body irradiation (TBI)
           once on day -1; and undergo UCB transplantation on day 0.

        -  Immunosuppression therapy: Beginning on day -3 and continuing until day +100, patients
           receive sirolimus intravenously (IV) with 8-12 mg oral loading dose followed by a single
           dose of 4mg/day with a target serum concentration of 3-12 mg/mL with a taper until day
           +180. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil IV or orally every 8 hours on days -3
           to +30.

        -  Radiation therapy: total body irradiation is administered on Day -1 of 200 cGy.

        -  UCB Treg cell infusion: Patients receive escalating doses of UCB-derived CD4+ CD25+ Treg
           cells IV on day +1 (and Day +15 for dose level 5 only) until the maximum tolerated dose
           is obtained.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at day 180, 360, and 720.
    
  