
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of ruxolitinib in combination with
      liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine (CPX-351). (Phase I) II. To evaluate the
      objective response rate in participants with post-myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN)-
      accelerated phase (AP)/blast phase (BP) following treatment with the combination of
      ruxolitinib and CPX-351 (per 2012 MPN-BP criteria). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of ruxolitinib in combination with CPX-351. (Phase
      I) II. Assess survival outcomes and proportion of patients receiving transplant associated
      with ruxolitinib in combination with CPX-351. (Phase II)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the rate of response among participants with MPN-AP/BP using European Leukemia
      Net (ELN) criteria.

      II. Assess the proportion of treated participants with sub-clinical levels of AML (i.e.,
      minimal residual disease, MRD) as measured by flow cytometry and/or next generation
      sequencing of known mutations (e.g., JAK-2, CALR and other disease-specific mutations).
      (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of ruxolitinib followed by a phase II
      study.

      INDUCTION: Patients receive CPX-351 intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5
      and ruxolitinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 6-28 of cycle 1.

      RE-INDUCTION: Patients with significant residual disease may receive CPX-351 IV on days 1 and
      3 and ruxolitinib PO BID on days 4-28 of cycle 2 per the discretion of the treating
      physician. Patients who have persistent disease following 2 cycles of therapy (induction and
      re-induction) will be offered salvage chemotherapy.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients that have =< 5% blasts in bone marrow receive CPX-351 IV on days 1
      and 3 and ruxolitinib PO BID on days 4-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles
      provided that counts have partially recovered in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients who successfully complete consolidation therapy with a
      continued =< 5% blasts in bone marrow and have not undergone an allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation (SCT) receive ruxolitinib PO BID on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ALLOGENEIC STEM CELL TRANSPLANTATION: Patients may undergo an allogeneic SCT at any time
      after achieving =< 5% blasts in bone marrow if they have a suitable donor.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 2
      months for up to 1 year.
    
  