
    
      Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is endemic in Southern China and Southeast Asia. Several
      prospective randomized trials have demonstrated that concurrent chemoradiotherapy was
      superior to radiotherapy alone in the treatment of locoregionally advanced NPC. Concurrently,
      although cisplatin-based concurrent chemoradiotherapy was considered as the standard regimen
      for locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma, several prospective randomized trials
      have demonstrated that only 52-63% patients can finished three cycles cisplatin-based
      concurrent chemoradiotherapy( DDP, 100mg/m2,D1,D22 and D43), due to chemoradiotherapy induced
      toxicity. Combined analyses of NPC-9901 and NPC-9902 Trials indicated that the 5-year
      locoregional failure free survival was insignificant between the patients received between
      two and three cycles cisplatin-based concurrent chemoradiotherapy. Our previous studies have
      also demonstrated that the five years overall survival, distant metastasis free survival and
      5-year locoregional failure free survival was not observed significant difference between the
      patients received between two and three cycles cisplatin-based concurrent chemotherapy. It
      indicated that one pressing questions remain to be resolved: can we define the optimal dose
      so that we can reduce toxicity by avoiding unnecessary overdose or an ineffective phase of
      treatment? Recently, the quantification of pretreatment plasma Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA,
      which was considered the most potential biomarker to compliment TNM stage, was demonstrated a
      useful biomarker for the risk stratification, monitoring and prediction of the prognosis of
      NPC. The investigators previous study demonstrated that for local and regionally advanced NPC
      patients with EBV DNA <4,000copies/mL, the 3-year's PFS and DMFS was approximate to 90%.
      Pretreatment plasma EBV DNA levels might be applied to guide concurrent chemotherapy regimen
      for local and regionally advanced NPC patients. Therefore, the investigators make a
      hypothesis that the low risk locoregionally advanced NPC patients received two cycles of
      chemotherapy may gain similar long-term survival as those received three cycles of
      chemotherapy, leading to less chemotherapy induced toxicity. Therefore, this phase II
      non-inferiority, randomised controlled clinical trial was designed to assess efficacy for
      low-risk patients, identified with pretreatment plasma EBV DNA <4,000 copies/mL, received two
      cycle cisplatin-based chemotherapy compared with three cycle cisplatin-based chemotherapy
    
  