
    
      Resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) has depicted cyclical
      functional connectivity changes during the ictal and inter-ictal phase of the migraine
      attack. In this pilot study, Functional Connectivity (FC) changes during nitroglycerin (NTG)
      induced migraine attacks were assessed vs the pain-free condition in healthy subjects.

      To this end, subjects with episodic migraine (EM) without aura were enrolled. NTG-triggered a
      spontaneous-like migraine attack in the subjects. They underwent 4 rs-fMRI scan repetitions
      during different phases of the attack (baseline, prodromal, full blown, recovery phase) with
      a 3 Tesla MR scanner. According to the pain field literature, several regions of interests
      were studied, in particular the thalamic areas and the salience network (SN) were selected as
      primary areas of interest for the analyses. Subjects' rs-fMRI data were first processed with
      a seed-based correlation analysis (SCA) to assess the static changes in FC between the
      thalamus and the rest of the brain during the experiment. The wavelet coherence approach
      (WCA) were also applied to test the changes in time-in-phase coherence between the thalamus
      and the salience network (SN).

      Healthy subject were administered nitroglycerin as well and scanned at a pain free baseline
      and after 3 hours in order to compare the response.

      The rebound headache that followed acute drug withdrawal were used as a surrogate paradigm of
      spontaneous attack. Patients with chronic migraine and medication overuse were hospitalized
      for a supervised withdrawal program at the Mondino Foundation; during the program if they
      experienced a rebound headache attack, they were scanned with a rs-fMRI acquisition.

      The acquired imagines were analyzed with the same procedure regarding the evaluation of
      static and dynamic functional connectivity fluctuation.
    
  