
    
      Subjects will undergo four approximately 84 hour studies. The first day of each study will be
      an approximately 12 hour inpatient visit to include activities of daily living and an
      exercise period with 2 days spent as an outpatient. The subject will come back to the
      research center on the fourth day to complete another approximately 12 hour inpatient visit
      to include activities of daily living and an exercise period followed by removal of all
      devices. In randomized order, subjects will have glucose controlled using the following
      systems: 1) dual-hormone closed-loop system, 2) insulin only closed-loop system, 3)
      predictive low glucose suspend system and 4) sensor augmented pump therapy with subject using
      their own insulin and insulin pump. Both of the closed-loop system algorithms have an
      exercise detection algorithm that uses inputs from a heart rate monitor and accelerometer,
      the Zephyrlife BioPatch. After exercise detection, insulin is turned off for the first 30
      minutes, the total insulin infusion rate is adjusted by an exercise multiplier, and for the
      dual-hormone system, the target glucose for glucagon is increased along with the maximum dose
      of glucagon allowed. The predictive low glucose suspend system will utilize the patient's
      optimized basal rates, correction factor, and carb ratio. The patient will bolus for meals
      and hyperglycemia as usual under PLGS, but will have the additional safety net of the pump
      suspending insulin when it predicts a hypoglycemic event. The Dexcom CGM system and the
      Tandem t:slim pumps will be used for all three intervention visits.

      Subjects will arrive at the CTRC at 7am at the start of intervention visits. Subjects will
      eat breakfast, lunch and dinner in the research center. Subjects will eat breakfast at
      8:30am. After breakfast, subjects will complete activities of daily living (sitting on a
      chair, lying on a bed, washing dishes, sweeping the floor, etc.). Subjects will eat lunch at
      12pm. Subjects will exercise for 45 minutes on a treadmill around 2pm. Subjects will eat
      dinner at 6pm and be discharged. The subject will then go home for Day 2 and Day 3 and return
      on Day 4 to complete another 12 hour inpatient visit with the schedule of activities
      identical to Day 1.
    
  