
    
      Significance The obesity epidemic is a worldwide public health problem. Recent data indicate
      that over 650 million adults around the world (~13%) are considered obese. Obesity is one of
      the major risk factors for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) and 90% of T2D cases are
      attributable to excess fat mass. The connection between obesity and T2D is believed to be
      intrinsically related to insulin resistance (IR). IR is characterized by a blunted effect of
      insulin on decreasing circulating blood glucose at the whole-body level and/or a lower
      response of certain tissues to the action of insulin. For example, skeletal muscle is
      responsible for ~70% of insulin-stimulated postprandial glucose uptake and plays a key role
      in the maintenance of whole-body insulin sensitivity and glycemic homeostasis. Additionally,
      IR is one of the earliest detectable defects preceding hyperglycemia, present up to 10 years
      before diabetes is diagnosed.

      Although the cause of obesity-induced IR is complex and multifactorial, the beneficial
      effects of exercise training in preventing and treating IR are well established. In
      individuals with IR, an improvement in insulin action on skeletal muscle glucose metabolism
      is one of the main effects induced by exercise training. For example, previous research
      demonstrated that a single session of exercise reduced cellular stress, which may contribute
      to exercise-induced increases in insulin sensitivity. Despite the efficacy of exercise
      training on IR, the majority of individuals do not achieve the minimum recommended levels of
      physical activity: 30 minutes or more of moderate intensity physical activity at least 5 days
      a week, or 20 minutes of vigorous physical activity at least 3 days a week, or a combination
      thereof, in addition to activities of daily living. Of note, lack of time and difficulty in
      accessing facilities for exercise are commonly cited as barriers to physical activity.

      In this context, the high-intensity interval training (HIIT), which consists of short periods
      of intense exercise (≥ 80% of maximal heart rate) alternated with periods of active recovery
      or rest, is a relatively time-efficient training strategy to improve metabolic health and has
      been considered more enjoyable than moderate-to-vigorous intensity continuous training. HIIT
      increases skeletal muscle oxidative capacity and induces physiological remodeling like the
      changes promoted by continuous moderate-intensity aerobic training. HIIT appears effective in
      improving insulin sensitivity, particularly in those at risk of, or with, T2D. A previous
      study using 10 x of 60-seconds of cycling intervals (∼90% of maximal heart rate) interspersed
      with 60-seconds of active recovery, three times per week over a period of two weeks, reduced
      hyperglycemia and increased skeletal muscle oxidative capacity in patients with T2D. Recently
      published data has shown that an 8-week HIIT program resulted in lower IR in individuals with
      obesity and also promoted greater expression of proteins related to oxidative metabolism in
      skeletal muscle. Although HIIT may be an efficient option to improve insulin sensitivity and
      glycemic control in individuals at risk of T2D, most HIIT studies have been conducted
      primarily in traditional laboratory setting and may not be practical for the general
      population.

      Innovation The common approach to study the effects of exercise are either using treadmills
      or cycle ergometers. These approaches have limited translation to a "real word" scenario.
      Among the barriers generally reported for a regular physical activity program are lack of
      time, difficulty in accessing facilities for exercise, and low motivation. The goal of the
      proposed study is to investigate the effects of a HIIT program using a suitable exercise
      alternative (stair climbing) on IR in individuals with obesity and at risk of T2D. Stair
      climbing can be considered an activity of daily living and is easily accessible. Previous
      studies have shown that one short bout of stair climbing (<6 min) acutely increased
      postprandial glucose uptake in middle-aged men with impaired glucose tolerance and older T2D
      subjects. Another study showed 6 weeks of a brief high intense intermittent stair climbing
      program was effective improving cardiorespiratory fitness in healthy individuals but did not
      improve IR. More recently, a preliminary study examined the effect of 6 weeks of brief
      intermittent stair climbing exercise on glycemic control in people with T2D. The authors
      reported that the protocol (3 x 1-minute bouts of repeatedly ascending and descending a
      single flight of stairs) was insufficient to induce improvements in glucose control. In this
      context, the volume was too low (approximately 50 stairs) and there was no progression of
      training volume over time. Additionally, the authors counted for the time descending the
      stairs as part of the 1-minute bout which may have reduced even more the time spent ascending
      the stairs. To address these limitations, the proposed study will implement a more prolonged
      protocol with progressive increase in exercise volume and will only count the time spent
      ascending the stairs. To the best of the author's knowledge, no study has tested this
      approach using HIIT in individuals with obesity and a risk of T2D. Findings from this study
      will help to translate research-based evidence to clinical practice and contribute to prevent
      or treat individuals at risk of T2D with a nonpharmacological and low-cost approach. This
      topic is within the "Cell and Organism" New Mexico - Idea Network of Biomedical Research
      Excellence (NM-INBRE) focus area to advance the understanding of human health.

      Approach The study is an 8-wk within-subject intervention design where participants will be
      tested pre and post intervention. 20 participants (10 males and 10 females) will be recruited
      from the local community through poster advertisement and one-to-one interaction. Before
      agreeing to participate in the study, the participants will given written informed consent,
      which will be approved by the institutional review board of the local institution. Inclusion
      criteria include body mass index (BMI) ≥ 30 kg/m2; homeostasis model assessment for insulin
      resistance (HOMA-IR) ≥ 2.71; no fear of being totally submerged underwater; freedom from
      orthopedic injuries, diagnoses of T2D or glucose intolerance, known acute or chronic
      diseases, and current use of anti-inflammatory, hypoglycemic or other drugs known to affect
      metabolism. Subjects that meet the initial requirements will have a fasting blood draw.
      Individuals with altered glucose metabolism (fasting plasma glucose >126 mg/dL) will be
      excluded. The researchers will ensure the inclusion of males and females from differing
      ethnic background. The required sample size was calculated a priori based on changes in the
      HOMA-IR using an alpha level of 0.05 and power of 80%. Prior to exercise training,
      participants undergo: a fasting blood draw for blood glucose and insulin measurements,
      anthropometrics and body composition analysis, and a maximal graded exercise test.

      The exercise training protocol consist of 8 weeks of HIIT using stair climbing with a
      frequency of 3 times a week, totaling 24 training sessions. For the first week of the stair
      training exercise program subjects will meet at UNM's Teaching Education Building (Stair Case
      2). The following 7 weeks subjects can perform the exercise program at a staircase most
      convenient to them and approved by the research team. The warm-up will consist of 2 minutes
      of ascending and descending the stairs at a comfortable pace. The high-intensity intermittent
      exercise will be comprised of 6-12 x 30-seconds bout of ascending at an all-effort at a
      moderate pace. A 30- seconds walking recovery will occur between the exercise bouts. After
      the exercise session the subject will walk during a 2-minute cool down. Every session will
      last between 10 to 15 minutes. The number of bouts (6-12) will be increased progressively
      over the weeks. During the first (week 1) and final week (week 8) of the exercise program
      subjects will be monitored by a trained exercise physiologist. During these supervised
      visits, heart rate and rating of perceived exertion (OMNI scale) will be measured at the end
      of each stair climbing bout and after active recovery. Subjects will have the option to
      request further monitoring if desired. Weeks 2 through 7 OMNI will be self-recorded by the
      subjects.

      Measurements Insulin resistance - After a 10-hour fast and at least 72 hours before and after
      the training, venous blood samples will be collected for the measurement of blood glucose and
      insulin. HOMA-IR (calculated by [glucose (mmol)] x [insulin (µU/ml)] ÷ 22.5) will be
      determined from the fasting glucose and insulin concentrations.

      Anthropometric and body composition measurements - Height and body mass will be measured
      using an analog scale with coupled stadiometer. BMI will be calculated using height in m and
      body mass in kg. Relative body fat (%BF) values will be determined through underwater
      weighing (UWW) at measured residual lung volume. The highest 3 UWW trials ± 100 g will be
      averaged and used for computation of body volume. Body volume will be corrected for residual
      lung volume using the dry-land oxygen dilution technique so that body density can be computed
      and converted into %BF formula.

      Maximal Oxygen Consumption - Maximal oxygen consumption will be measured using a maximal ramp
      graded test protocol conducted on a treadmill. The speed will be increased every 60s at an
      individual rate, which will be based on the participant's exercise history questionnaire
      (Veterans Specific Activity Questionnaire), to induce fatigue within 8 to 12 minutes. Expired
      gases will be analyzed using a metabolic cart. Heart rate (HR) will be recorded continuously
      using a HR transmitter strap (S810i series, Polar, USA).

      Calculations and Statistical Analyses Data will be presented as mean ± standard deviation. A
      statistical software will be used for statistical analysis. The Shapiro-Wilk test will be
      used to analyze the data normality. Area under the curve (AUC) for insulin and glucose will
      be calculated using the Trapezoidal method. For study 1, a Student t test will be used to
      analyze the effects of training (pre vs post). For study 2, a two-way analyses of variance
      (ANOVA) will be used to test the effect of the two exercise protocols (factor 1 = pre and
      post 8 weeks of training and factor 2 = single session vs multiple sessions). If
      statistically significant F values are observed, a Tukey post hoc test will be performed. The
      alpha level is set at P ≤ 0.05 for statistical significance.

      Potential problems and strategies: Dropout and compliance are limitations in exercise
      training interventions. The researchers will provide training session on three different
      times a day (early morning, afternoon and evenings) to accommodate people with different
      schedules. Also, participants will be compensated for time.
    
  