
    
      Gastrointestinal angiodysplasia (GIAD, a.k.a. angioectasia, arteriovenous malformations or
      AVM, and vascular ectasia) are mucosal or submucosal dilated blood vessels lined by
      epithelium with no overlying mucosal lesion formed due to a combination of sub-mucosal vein
      obstruction, hypoxemia and neovascularization. It is a frequent cause of obscure GI bleeding,
      and the most common finding when evaluating mid-small bowel hemorrhage. It is also more
      common in patients with underlying valvular heart disease (especially aortic stenosis),
      end-stage renal disease, and von Willebrand disease (acquired or congenital). These lesions
      are usually multifocal as forty to 60% of the patients will have more than one About half
      stop bleeding spontaneously but at least a quarter of patients will suffer recurrent GI
      bleeding manifested by overt bleeding (melena or hematochezia), persistent fecal occult blood
      or persistent iron deficiency anemia.

      Management includes endoscopic therapy, surgery, therapeutic angiography, and pharmacological
      treatment. Endoscopic therapy including thermal methods (multi-polar electrocoagulation,
      argon plasma coagulation, laser), injections (sclerosants, saline, epinephrine), and
      mechanical methods (hemostatic clips, band ligators) are widely used to treat all causes of
      GI bleeding including GIAD. Argon plasma coagulation (APC) is the preferred mode of
      endoscopic therapy for GIAD due to availability, relative ease of use, and a perceived
      superficial rather than deep depth of burn; however, studies have shown that depth of tissue
      injury can be substantial. APC therapy may not be uniform as adequacy and depth of ablation
      depends on the presence of debris, mucous or blood between the APC probe and tissue, and the
      ability to target the tissue in the presence of breathing, intestinal peristalsis, and scope
      position. The APC catheter can also bend during repeated insertions, a necessary maneuver to
      remove the burned tissue debris on the tip of the catheter which otherwise affects the argon
      plasma beam and this may terminally damage it.

      Angioectasia rebleeding rates are high, at least 25 to over 50%. An improvement in our
      ability to treat small bowel GIAD is desirable. An ablation catheter would need to be easy to
      use repetitively through the enteroscope, be more maneuverable to direct treatment to the
      lesions, and also cover more area of intestinal mucosa per treatment compared to APC, and it
      should be low risk for damage to the healthy intestinal mucosa while treating GIAD.

      Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) may hold the answer. It's efficacy for treatment of superficial
      Barrett esophagus is undisputed, and it has recently been used with success to treat gastric
      antral vascular ectasia (GAVE) a condition which is remarkably similar to GIAD.

      This study will determine the depth of burn achieved on fresh and healthy small bowel
      explants using a dedicated small bowel RFA catheter at usual RFA settings.
    
  