
    
      The trial will be conducted as a multi-centre trial. Secondary objectives of this study are
      to monitor changes of regional myocardial function, myocardial perfusion and extent of
      non-viable myocardium from baseline to 6 months after revascularisation between the treatment
      groups. Furthermore the following parameters over up to 12 months of follow-up are analysed:
      occurrence of major adverse cardiac events (death, myocardial infarction, coronary bypass
      grafting, or re-intervention), spontaneously reported adverse events. Analyses of cardiac
      function consists of evaluation of segmental systolic wall thickening, end-diastolic volume,
      end-systolic volume, stroke volume, ejection fraction and cardiac output by means of magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI). The extent of non-viable myocardium and myocardial perfusion will be
      assessed using contrast enhanced MRI.

      This study consists of a revascularisation period (angioplasty of the infarcted vessel), a
      treatment period (up to 28 days), and a follow-up period (up to 12 months). The
      Revascularisation Period starts with the treatment of the patient in the emergency room. As
      soon as possible the patient will be transferred to the catheterisation laboratory where
      acute percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) of the infarct-related artery will be
      performed. The first phase of the Treatment Period consists of a screening period during
      which a patient's eligibility is preliminarily evaluated. The second phase of the Treatment
      Period is the randomisation for patients in the control or G-CSF/Sitagliptin treatment group.
      After baseline MRI, patients are randomised. Patients will be treated either with G-CSF
      (10µg/kg/d divided in two doses subcutaneously) over a period of 5 days and Sitagliptin 100
      mg each day for 28 days or with placebo. Patients will be randomised in 1:1 ratio to the
      control and verum therapy treatment groups. Follow-up Period assessments will be performed in
      all patients at 6 months including clinical status, occurrence of adverse events, laboratory
      investigations, and MRI. To assess occurrence of in-stent restenosis, routine control
      angiography will be performed in all patients 6 months after initial PCI. Safety will be
      evaluated by monitoring treatment-emergent signs and symptoms, 12-lead ECGs, vital signs,
      physical examination, and clinical laboratory assessments after 1 month and 1 year.
    
  