
    
      This study is a single-center observational study on a patient cohort of at least 80 patients
      with histologically-confirmed locally advanced gastric cancer (LAGC). The protocol used in
      this study is approved by the Ethics Committee of Beijing Cancer Hospital.

      The primary endpoint is the 3-year progression-free survival (PFS) rate. The secondary
      endpoints are the overall survival (OS) and safety.

      Currently, the best treatment for early and mid-stage LAGC patients is resection but even
      with successful treatment, most patients still relapse and the 5-year survival rate is less
      than 30%.

      For patients with cT4a/T4bN+M0, including T4b、Bulky-N2, primary lesions are not always fully
      excised during treatment and prognosis for these patients is generally poor. Recent studies,
      however, have suggested that the inclusion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NCT) can improve
      patient outcomes by: 1) downstaging tumors and increasing the likelihood of curative
      resection, 2) reducing the prevalence of micro metastases.

      Historically, Oxaliplatin and s-1 combination therapy has been shown to be well-tolerated in
      patients with recurrent or metastatic gastric cancer.

      To best evaluate the treatment response of NCT, we plan to investigate the effect of new
      technologies and assays on the successful prediction of patient outcomes.

      Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), fragmented DNA with an average size of 166 bp, is released by
      cancer cells into circulation. Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are rare malignant cells
      detached from tumors which enter the bloodstream. Both these biomarkers can be used for
      prognosis and the dynamic monitoring of disease progression.

      In the MAGIC trial, patients with tumor that are MSI-H or MMRD, had survival rates superior
      to those with MSS/MSI-L or MMRP tumors when treated with surgery alone.

      We will combine dMMR/MSI status with the dynamic evaluation of CTCs and ctDNA using liquid
      biopsy technology to determine whether changes in tumor burden in response to NTC can
      identify potential treatment responders.

      Sequential peripheral blood samples for CTCs and ctDNA analysis will be taken before and
      after NCT, as well as one week after surgery.

      Tumor assessments will be performed after 2 cycles NCT based on RECIST v1.1 criteria using
      CT/MRI scan.
    
  