
    
      Chronic kidney disease not requiring dialysis (CKD) is common, but under-recognized, among
      patients who frequent the health care system, where improving patient safety is a high
      priority. Poor recognition of the disease and several other features unique to CKD make it a
      high-risk condition for adverse, patient-safety incidents (PSIs). In this context, PSIs refer
      to events of unintended harm or injury related to medications or medical care. These adverse
      safety events may include those usually cited for the general population (PSI), but also,
      CKD-specific unsafe practices (CKD-PSI) all of which, in turn, can lead to frequent
      hospitalization, accelerated loss of kidney function, increased risk of end-stage renal
      disease (ESRD), and death - all common outcomes in CKD. CKD-PSIs have been established in
      prior work by the investigators of this study with the help of an expert panel but it is not
      known how commonly PSIs or CKD-PSIs occur or how to measure these reliably in the CKD
      population. Furthermore, it is not known what role poor disease recognition plays in the
      occurrence of such safety events. Finally, it remains to be determined whether CKD-PSIs
      contribute to the high frequency of adverse outcomes so common in this disease. If CKD-PSIs
      are common and account for a significant portion of the adverse events so common in this
      population, then it is possible that by reducing the incidence of CKD-PSIs, through increased
      disease recognition, outcomes can be improved in this patient population.

      In this study, the investigators will enroll volunteers from the population with pre-dialysis
      CKD for the purpose of observing the frequency of CKD-PSI in the target population detected
      over time. The participants will be assessed annually for events that relate to CKD-PSI. The
      first 100 participants (Phase I) will be provided with a standard medical alert accessory
      (bracelet or necklace) which is commonly used to alert doctors and other providers of a
      patient's disease state. In this case the medical alert accessory will state "Decreased
      Kidney Function. For My Care, Please Visit (website) www.safekidneycare.org" Participants are
      asked to log onto the website using unique 4-digit identifier (ID) assigned by the PI to
      track the participant's use of the website and to further improve the website. Since all
      information on the website is available to the public, participants are not required to use
      the ID to access the content of the website. The website does not collect or store patient
      health information, except for the Internet Protocol (IP) address which provides limited
      information on the location of the computer used to access the website (city, state, zip, and
      area code).

      The volunteers in Phase I will be tracked over time as to whether they use and tolerate this
      medical alert bracelet/necklace and for their incidence of CKD-PSI. Enrollment will continue
      after Phase I in Phase II (n = 250) with participants tracked on an identical study schedule
      for detection of CKD-PSI. All study procedures are the same for Phase II except for the
      medical alert accessory. The overall goal of this study will be to determine: the frequency
      of CKD-PSI in the target population, the acceptability of an alert device (Phase I only)
      intended to increase the recognition of CKD, and the contribution of CKD-PSI to the high
      incidence of adverse outcomes in CKD
    
  