
    
      Urinary incontinence (UI) is the involuntary and unintentional leaking of urine. Over 20
      million of women experience UI, approximately 34% (range 25-45%) of all US women are affected
      indicating a significant healthcare concern with both financial and quality of life
      implications. The financial cost of UI in the United States (U.S) exceeds $65 billion per
      year (in year 2007 dollars), and it is projected that the cost will be $82.6 billion in
      2020.Women with UI feel shame about this condition, report poor self-esteem, and are at
      increased risk of depression. Pregnancy is a high-risk time for developing stress UI, urine
      leakage with physical effort, with a reported prevalence of 35-67% during pregnancy and 31%
      postpartum. Pregnancy also places women at increased risk of developing UI later in life.

      High quality evidence shows that pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) during pregnancy
      effectively reduces the risk of UI during pregnancy and the postpartum period by 39-59%. A
      recent Cochrane review examined the evidence for PFMT based on 38 trials involving 9,892
      women from 20 countries. The authors concluded that in continent pregnant women, performing
      antenatal PFMT may decrease the risk of UI in late pregnancy and in the mid-postnatal period
      greater 3 to six months postpartum. However, evidence shows that many women in the U.S. do
      not receive effective PFMT. PFMT to prevent UI is not routinely offered or well taught to
      pregnant women.

      There is a critical need for a low cost and easily accessible program to prevent UI in
      pregnancy and postpartum that can reach a large number of women. Such a program could reduce
      the financial and psychological impact of UI on pregnant women, lower the risk of UI with its
      associated negative outcomes and address a priority area identified by National Institute of
      Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK). A mobile health application that teaches
      UI preventive program during pregnancy has the potential of being a cost effective tool to
      reach a large number of pregnant women. The plan is to offer PFMT, the Knack (squeeze before
      you sneeze trick), bladder training (BT) with urge suppression and healthy bladder education
      (fluid modification, bowel habits) using a mobile health application that allows women to
      learn and practice these new habits anytime and anywhere that is convenient to them. In the
      pilot studies, as supported by other studies, it was learned that the main obstacles to
      preventing UI by means of PFMT are the feasibility of group classes and low adherence to the
      exercise routine. Mobile health application (mApp) offers an innovative approach to improve
      feasibility. PFMT mApps showed effectiveness in women with stress UI and improved adherence
      to PFMT in women with UI. Additionally, stress UI self-management that includes PFMT with
      mApp has been shown to be cost-effective. Measurement of adherence to behavioral protocols
      has often been overlooked in research. Few studies provide information about how adherent
      women were with PFMT and the literature is sparse on methods to identify barriers and improve
      adherence. Adherence to PFM exercises during pregnancy was reported to be between 16%-69%,
      and adherence rates 4-6 weeks after delivery were 43%-83%. Common reasons for not doing PFMT
      during pregnancy and postpartum include exercises are: forgetting, being too busy, and the
      belief they have become unnecessary due to the absence of symptoms. Using a mobile App is an
      innovative way to address these obstacles. To help women overcome these particular barriers,
      this study proposes a Bladder Health mobile application (BHmApp) that will use various forms
      of reminders, provide exercise aids, link daily exercises to environmental cues, and
      integrate exercises into the patient's everyday activities.

      To support adherence, the BHmAPP will communicate realistic expectations, make it clear that
      it may take weeks to months for symptom improvement, and it may be irregular, with "good"
      days and "bad" days. The BHmApp can provide support by tracking and reinforcing progress,
      identifying and addressing barriers, and encouraging persistence.

      During the last year, the team worked on designing and building the BHmApp aimed to teach
      pregnant women new habits and exercises that will keep their bladder healthy during pregnancy
      and decrease the risk of UI during this period of a woman's life that is considered high risk
      for developing UI. In this pilot study, it is proposed to evaluate the ability to comprehend
      the tool and take appropriate actions using the BHmApp, and the feasibility of using the
      BHmApp during pregnancy.

      The BHmApp is designed to: effectively engage pregnant women prior to development of UI and
      associated bladder symptoms, teach them new health habits that will decrease their risk of UI
      and associated bladder symptoms and increase their ability to keep their bladder healthy. The
      proposed project is innovative in the following ways:

        1. BHmApp focus is the prevention of UI. Currently, there are many mApps that teach PFMT to
           treat UI, most use simple instruction protocols, use the same protocol for all patients,
           and end up working the same way as simple verbal instruction. This BHmApp protocol is
           designed for pregnant women, offering training for PFMT, Knack, BT and urge suppression
           and bladder health strategies, allows women to connect with a bladder health coach to
           ask questions, offers notification reminders of exercise time, and a way for women to
           record and track adherence to PFMT.

        2. The BHmApp is built specifically for pregnant women. With pregnancy being the high-risk
           time in a woman's life to develop UI, there is a need for a UI prevention program that
           can reach large numbers of women at low cost. The BHmApp is designed to teach pregnant
           women these new habits and skills, and offers a new opportunity in the effort to prevent
           UI. This BHmApp takes into consideration the physiologic changes in a woman's body
           during pregnancy, and the restrictions to certain exercises and habits during pregnancy.
           For example, bladder health is not practiced until 4 weeks after delivery and PFMT is
           done in sitting position after 20-weeks gestation.

        3. The BHmApp format allows participants to access the health information at any time, and
           anywhere that is convenient for them. Pregnancy is a busy period of time in a woman's
           life, with increased healthcare visits, preparing for new baby, and an increased chance
           of fatigue and insomnia. Offering a chance to gain new knowledge and learn new habits
           through short (2-3 minutes) lessons, that can be accessed at a woman's convenience,
           would significantly increase the chances of learning these important skills and habits
           during pregnancy.

           Participants will complete the following study activities:

           Study Initiation:

           • Complete demographics questionnaire (name, medical Record Number (MRN), email address,
           Tel. No. Cell Phone Carrier)

             -  Complete International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire - Short Form
                (ICIQ-SF) - measures UI frequency, severity, and impact on Quality of Life (QOL)

             -  Download the Bladder Health Mobile Application (BHmApp) on phone

                4 Weeks after BHmApp Download or at End of App Lessons:

             -  Complete the Patient Education Materials Assessment Tool (PEMAT) - (about 22-24
                weeks gestation) - a scoring questionnaire to assess understandability and
                actionability for audiovisual or printed patient education materials.

           26-28 Weeks Gestation Email/Text Sent • Complete Pelvic Floor Muscle Training (PFMT)
           adherence questionnaire

           30-32 Weeks Gestation Email/Text Sent • Complete Pelvic Floor Muscle Training (PFMT)
           adherence questionnaire

           34-36 Weeks Gestation Email/Text Sent

           • Complete Pelvic Floor Muscle Training (PFMT) adherence questionnaire

             -  Complete International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire - Short Form
                (ICIQ-SF)

                6 Weeks Postpartum Email/Text Sent

             -  Complete International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire - Short Form
                (ICIQ-SF)

             -  Complete Pelvic Floor Muscle Training (PFMT) adherence questionnaire and Bladder
                Training (BT) adherence questionnaire

                12 weeks Postpartum Email/Text Sent

             -  Complete International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire - Short Form
                (ICIQ-SF)

             -  Complete Pelvic Floor Muscle Training (PFMT) adherence questionnaire and Bladder
                Training (BT) adherence questionnaire

           The BHmApp is 2-4 minutes in length with separate quick and slow exercises. Soft music
           is played through the entire recording with the sound slightly increasing during the
           relaxation period. The work-out music is motivational but not too fast.

           The app contains 3 audio lessons:

           Lesson 1, the quick squeeze Lesson 2, the slow squeeze Lesson 3, practice a full set of
           a pelvic muscle exercises including the quick squeeze and slow squeeze
    
  