
    
      The significance of this study is twofold. First, one typical hurdle in applying advanced
      quantitative MRI to clinical protocols is the long acquisition time. The proposed novel
      acceleration techniques will facilitate clinical translations of T1ρ and T2 imaging by
      reducing the time and cost to integrate the sequences into standard clinical practice,
      increasing patient comfortableness and reducing potential motion artifacts. Second, it is an
      essential but sometimes overlooked step to investigate quantification variability across
      sites and MR systems in order to validate MR imaging biomarkers and to apply the measures in
      large scale multi-vendor multi-site trials. Specifically, there is a lack of systematic
      evaluation of inter-vendor inter-site variability of T1ρ imaging even though it has been
      widely applied in neural imaging, liver imaging, cardiac imaging, oncology imaging, and
      musculoskeletal imaging. Furthermore, no commercial T1ρ phantoms are available with validated
      reference values. The proposed study is addressing these significant gaps. By implementing
      and cross-validating T1ρ and T2 imaging on MR systems from different vendors, the outcomes
      from the proposed study (dedicated calibration phantoms, fast and standardized acquisition
      and analysis protocols) will provide the field with essential tools for future multi-vendor
      multi-site trials that will use these quantitative imaging techniques. In this proposal, the
      innovation and development in patients at risk for osteoarthritis will be tested.

      In this study, novel accelerated T1ρ and T2 imaging methods will be developed to
      systematically evaluate inter-vendor inter-site variation of these measures using dedicated
      T1ρ and T2 calibration phantoms (to be developed in this study) and traveling subjects, and
      demonstrate the feasibility in patients after ACL injury and reconstruction who are at risk
      of post-traumatic OA. The investigation has three Specific Aims:

        1. - Develop novel acceleration techniques for fast 3D T1ρ and T2 imaging. Despite the
           increasing availability of accelerated morphologic imaging using compressed sensing (CS)
           techniques, applications of CS to quantitative MRI are still very limited with the
           challenges of maintaining quantitative accuracy. A novel convex, model-based CS
           technique will be developed to take full advantage of the known model for T1ρ and T2
           decay.

        2. - Develop a calibration phantom suitable for standardization of T1ρ and T2 measurements
           and implement acceleration techniques on MR systems of three major vendors (Siemens, GE
           and Philips). The phantom development and reference measurements will be in
           collaboration with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). The
           accelerated T1ρ and T2 sequences will be implemented on six MR systems at four sites
           from three vendors. Inter-site and inter-vendor variation of T1ρ and T2 will be
           quantified in phantoms and traveling human subjects.

        3. - Demonstrate the ability of the newly developed acceleration techniques to quantify
           cartilage degeneration longitudinally in a multi-vendor setting. Subjects with acute
           anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears, an established 'early OA' model, along with
           age-, gender-, and BMI-matched controls will be scanned on three MR systems using
           standard and accelerated T1ρ and T2 protocols at baseline and one-year. A novel
           atlas-based voxel-based relaxometry (VBR) analysis will be applied. Cross-sectional and
           longitudinal measures will be compared between standard and accelerated T1ρ and T2
           protocols.

      Four groups of subjects will be recruited at CCF for the study.

      Group I: 30 volunteers (for Aim 1) The 30 volunteers from Group I will be recruited at CCF
      for evaluating differences between standard T1rho and T2 imaging vs accelerated T1rho and T2
      imaging techniques that will be developed from this study.

      Group II: 8 traveling volunteers (for Aim 2) The 8 traveling volunteers in Group II will be
      recruited at CCF and be scanned at CCF, University of California San Francisco, University of
      Kentucky and Albert Einstein College of Medicine.

      Group III: 30 patients with acute ACL tears (for Aim 3) Group IV: 12 controls who are matched
      with Group III patients with age, sex and BMI (for Aim 3) Subjects in group III and IV will
      be recruited at CCF and scanned at baseline and 1-year at all of the three MR systems at CCF
      (Siemens, GE, Philips).

      Subjects of Group I will be recruited in year 1 and 2; Group II will be recruited in year 2
      and 3, and Group III and IV will be recruited in year 3-5. Group II and IV share the same
      inclusion and exclusion criteria, therefore subjects can participate the study and serve as
      subjects within both groups.

      At two other sites involved in the study, University of California San Francisco (UCSF) and
      Albert Einstein College of Medicine at New York, 20 local volunteers will be recruited for
      sequence development in year 1 and 2.
    
  