
    
      Postoperative delirium is a frequent complication after cardiac surgery. In the literature an
      incidence ranging from 0 - 72 % is reported. The aetiology of this complication is
      multifactorial. A decline in cerebral cholinergic transmission as well as perioperative
      cerebral hypoperfusion or a systemic inflammatory response triggered by the extracorporeal
      circulation have been suspected. Advanced age is the most important patient-related risk
      factor. A perioperative delirium is an extremely unpleasant experience for the affected
      patients. Equally important is the fact that a delirium is associated with a prolonged length
      of stay on the intensive care unit and in hospital. Furthermore, patients who develop
      delirium have an increased six-month mortality. Recently successful treatment and prevention
      of the delirium with cholinesterase inhibitors such as rivastigmine have been reported.

      The proposed study will test the hypothesis that prophylactically administered rivastigmine
      is able to prevent or at least reduce the symptoms of the postoperative delirium in elderly
      patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery with extracorporeal circulation.

      This study is designed as a double blind randomised placebo controlled trial. Half the
      patients will receive placebo. The other half will receive rivastigmine 1.5m-1.5mg-1.5mg
      (oral solution), starting on the evening preceding the operation and for the first seven days
      postoperatively. Patients in both groups who develop delirium will be treated with a rescue
      medication consisting of lorazepam and haloperidol.

      Measurements will include the incidence of delirium assessed using the Confusion Assessment
      Method (CAM). The severity of symptoms will by characterised by the Mini Mental Score and
      clock drawing. Further measurements will include the prescribed doses of rescue medication,
      the length of stay on intensive care and in hospital, the time of extracorporeal circulation,
      and laboratory parameters such as CRP, albumin, lymphocyte count, vitamin B12 and folic acid
      levels. Side effects of rivastigmine will be quantified.

      The primary endpoint of this study is the incidence of delirium. Secondary endpoints will be
      the severity of delirium, the used doses of rescue medication, and length of stay (intensive
      care and hospital).
    
  