
    
      In the systematic sclérodermie, 15 to 25 % of the patients suffer from active digital ulcers
      and 35 to 50 % of the patients will make a digital ulcer. These digital ulcers are in touch
      with an obstructive digital arteriopathy, that is arterial hurts modifying the arterial flow.
      It thus seems interesting to have diagnostic tools allowing to make the diagnosis in
      particular upstream to the appearance of ulcers. At present, the digital pressures can be
      used.

      At the digital level, the diagnosis of obstructive arteriopathy is very difficult in the
      absence of ulcer or of true ischemic signs, and the arteriography, which is an examination to
      inject an intra-arterial contrast agent, is the reference measure.

      For this study, the investigator shall use the Laser doppler PeriFlux 5000 system (Perimed,
      Jarfalla, Sweden - List IIa) who is regularly used in clinical routine and who has a marking
      IT for the recording of the blood flow at the cutaneous level for the measures of blood
      pressure in particular (measures of pressures in the big toe and in the fingers).

      The measure by "Laser Doppler" uses a monochromatic light (laser) to measure the
      concentration as well as the speed of travel of red blood cells in the skin and deduct the
      cutaneous blood flow. This material is used in this project because the investigators have
      already highlighted with this one that the detection of an obstructive digital arteriopathy
      was excellent.

      Given the invasive and costly nature of arteriography, it is only very rarely performed.
      Moreover, this can not be carried out during a simple consultation.

      Nevertheless, it is important for the patient and the practitioner to determine whether the
      digital symptoms are related to benign vasomotor phenomena or to a real digital arterial
      disease. The therapeutic management is different.
    
  