
    
      this double-blinded randomized study will be conducted at Ain-Shams university hospitals.
      Patients are aged 21-60 years and body weight 60-100 Kg of the American Society of
      Anaesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I or II scheduled for laparoscopic cholecystectomy
      under general anesthesia will be enrolled in this study., patients will be randomly divided
      into 2 equal groups; The M(Mirtazapine) group:(n=45) each patient will receive an oral
      disintegrating tablet (ODT) of mirtazapine 30 mg with sips of water and 100 ml 0.9% sodium
      chloride (normal saline [NS]) (IVI) over 15 min as a placebo 1 h preoperatively.

      The D (Dexamethasone) group: (n=45) each patient will receive a placebo tablet identical to
      Mirta tablet orally with sips of water and Dex 8 mg ampoule diluted in 100 ml 0.9% NS IVI
      over 15 min, 1 h preoperatively.

      standard monitoring in the form of (ECG, pulse oximeter, NIBP, peripheral temperature
      monitoring) will be attached to all patients and capnography will be connected after
      intubation. baseline measures will be recorded, and subsequent values will be recorded every
      15 min. Patients will be observed for 24 hours postoperative. And the following will be
      recorded; Time to awakening (time from the end of anesthesia until the patients opened their
      eyes on command) and Time to the first analgesia. Patients´ vital data (BP, HR, RR, O2
      saturation) will be monitored every 15 minutes for the first postoperative hour, then every 4
      hours. Postoperative pain will be assessed every 4 hours with a 10-cm visual analog scale VAS
      (0=no pain to 10=most severe pain) score. The incidence of occurrence of postoperative Nausea
      and vomiting will be evaluated every 4 hours on a two-point verbal scale (0, none; 1, nausea
      or vomiting). The severity of nausea and vomiting will be assessed using a verbal numerical
      rating scale from 0 = no nausea/ vomiting and 10 = nausea/ vomiting as bad as it could be.The
      complete response is defined as no nausea, no vomiting, and no antiemetic medication during a
      24-h postoperative period
    
  