
    
      For purposes of this study, two patient streams will be developed and implemented: AMD
      screening patients (Group 1) and post-Lucentis monitoring patients (Group 2).

      Group 1 patients will be collected through all referrals to any of the physician
      investigators with a provisional diagnosis of possible wet AMD. Any request for clinical
      evaluation of a patient for presumed wet AMD will be randomized into Group 1R (Routine
      Screening) and Group 1T (Tele-ophthalmology screening).

      In group 1R patients will receive an appointment in the current standard fashion with review
      and consultation within the retinal physician's office, evaluation of the need for diagnostic
      testing and subsequent treatment as indicated. Group 1T will undergo pre-screening at the
      nearest OHC. These patients will obtain full ocular evaluation by the current OTN (Ontario
      Telemedicine Network) ophthalmology pilot standards (visual acuity, intraocular pressure
      measurement, fundus photography and OCT - at a quality level established by a working group
      for the OTN in 2009). At the completion of the screening visit, images and data will be
      stored in the OHC database and notification of the visit sent to the treating center. This
      will trigger a formal evaluation and grading of the patient's status and determination of the
      need for an in person evaluation and treatment at the treating center. This formal evaluation
      will occur only if the teleophthalmology dataset suggests the presence of wet AMD requiring
      treatment or if the dataset quality is insufficient to allow accurate determination of the
      need to treat. In both groups following consultation, a full report for each patient will be
      generated which documents the patient's current macular status and suggested management
      strategy.

      Group 2 patients will be collected from the patients previously treated for wet AMD within
      the practices of the physician investigators. All patients in whom the disease is inactive
      (not receiving active treatment) and who therefore require monitoring will be randomized into
      Group 2R (Routine Monitoring) and Group 2T (Teleophthalmology Monitoring).

      As in group 1, patients in Group 2T will obtain a full ocular evaluation by the current OTN
      (Ontario Telemedicine Network) ophthalmology pilot standards, and as in group 1, this data
      will be analyzed to determine the need for retreatment. If necessary, the patients will be
      recalled to the treating center. Those who do not meet the requirements for retreatment will
      be booked for reassessment in two months. The two month follow up period, although longer
      than the "gold standard", is the routine being employed clinically at this time across the
      province. This is due to the current OHIP rules which cover the costs associated with OCT to
      a maximum of 6 per year and a desire to limit the out of pocket expenses patients incur. The
      follow up period of two months will be standard in both groups 2T and 2R.

      Group 2R patients will be reviewed in person with evaluation in the standard fashion by
      obtaining visual acuity, fundus photography and OCT within the investigators clinic and will
      receive treatment following this consultation as needed on the date of that visit.

      Data will be collected, stored, and transmitted in a secure password protected manner with
      appropriate encryption.

      Data to be obtained will include participant age, sex, number and type of prior AMD
      treatments, current driving status, distance from the site of residence to the screening and
      treatment sites respectively. Data to answer objective 2 will be obtained by the research
      coordinator at study entry including duration of visual symptoms, time (in weeks) from
      initiation of symptoms to initial assessment visit and time (in weeks) between initial
      assessment and screening visit to determine treatment eligibility), time from monitoring
      visit to treatment, and the number of visits not requiring treatment (deemed "avoidable").
      The study will included a short, post screening visit patient satisfaction questionnaire to
      assess the perceived patient satisfaction with the screening/monitoring process to answer
      objective 6. In patients who are being followed after treatment, additional demographics from
      the office of the vitreoretinal surgeons will be collected including baseline visual acuity,
      and prior treatments (in each eye and number of treatments).

      Data will be collected to document patient compliance with scheduled visits, the timing of
      evaluations, the imaging quality/adequacy as perceived by the grading physician, recurrent
      disease activity and recurrence rate, and time from the assessment visits treatment if
      applicable. Patients will also be administered a short patient satisfaction survey regarding
      duration of visit, parking / facility access, perceived satisfaction with clinic or OHC
      visit. These questionnaires will be done at discharge from the hospital system, at the
      completion of the first OHC visit and at the end of 1 year of follow up.
    
  