
    
      Evidence from initial analysis of 5 SNPs in the one-carbon metabolism pathway suggests that
      one-carbon pathway genes may predict risk of ocular changes and possible vision impairment
      during and after long-duration space flight. It is not precisely known whether it is these
      particular genes, or a haplotype of genes that are linked to these genes, that influence
      risk. Furthermore, ancestry is a strong factor that predicts SNP occurrence in a population,
      and the association between one-carbon metabolism and the risk of vision-related issues may
      simply stem from the fact that one particular ancestry has a higher prevalence of these SNPs.

      The investigators propose that there are other SNPs in the one-carbon metabolism pathway that
      alter risk of ocular changes and potential vision impairment during long-duration
      spaceflight. To that end, extended studies of one-carbon genetics in astronauts have recently
      been initiated. The investigators hypothesize that the differences between genetic,
      biochemical, and ophthalmologic findings in PCOS and/or IIH patients and controls will mirror
      many of the differences found between astronauts who had ophthalmic issues during and after
      flight.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

      The key aims of this study are to: a) determine extensive one carbon pathway and related
      biochemistry, targeted metabolomics, and genetics (523 SNPs of the 85 major genes), and b)
      conduct ophthalmologic exams on patients in one of four treatment groups:

        1. women diagnosed with PCOS without IIH

        2. women diagnosed with PCOS and IIH

        3. women diagnosed with IIH without PCOS

        4. women without PCOS or IIH Participants will be matched by age and body mass index (BMI).
           Statistical analyses will be used to evaluate the independent and shared contributions
           of age, body mass (BMI), and genetics on biochemical, and ophthalmologic outcomes, with
           False Discovery Rate adjustments to account for multiple comparisons.

      A secondary aim is to combine the patient and control data from this study with ISS
      crewmember data in order to help inform us on whether or not these two cohorts (astronauts
      with ophthalmic issues, PCOS patients) share similar associations among one-carbon metabolism
      genetics and biochemistry and ophthalmologic data identified in the investigators' earlier
      analyses.
    
  