
    
      The aim of the project is to explore the feasibility and effectiveness of using a
      telerehabilitation system to improve cognitive function in recruited study participants of
      community dwelling adult patients (over 18 years) with cognitive impairment secondary to
      acquired brain injury.

      The study objectives are:

        1. To investigate the feasibility through a pilot programme of utilising a
           telerehabilitation system to deliver cognitive rehabilitation to a cohort of East
           Yorkshire community dwelling patients within their home environment.

        2. To investigate the feasibility that a cohort of community dwelling patients with post
           acquired brain injury cognitive impairment can participate in a 12-week duration therapy
           programme using a telerehabilitation system designed to improve domains of cognitive
           function (attention, reaction times, memory and executive function).

        3. To investigate whether health related quality of life (HRQOL) is improved in study
           participants taking part in a 12-week programme of using a cognitive telerehabilitation
           system.

        4. To investigate whether leisure time physical activity in increased in the study
           participants.

      These study objectives will be achieved through measurement of the following outcome
      parameters:

        1. Administering the Godin leisure time exercise questionnaire (Godin LTQ). This is a
           self-report paper-based questionnaire that will be administered pre and post
           intervention.

        2. The HRQOL of patients with cognitive impairment following acquired brain injury as
           measured by the following self-report paper-based questionnaires: European quality of
           life -5 dimension (EQ-5D), fatigue severity scale (FSS) and the Short form 12 (SF-12).
           Mood will be assessed with the hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS). These
           questionnaires will be administered pre and post intervention.

        3. A user satisfaction questionnaire will be administered following the intervention as a
           measure of acceptance and satisfaction with engaging in guided self-rehabilitation
           through the use of telerehabilitation technology. This will be administered in the post
           intervention assessment only.

        4. Baseline cognitive screening using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) test to
           determine suitability for the intervention.

        5. Assessment of cognitive function of patients before and after the telerehabilitation
           intervention by administering the following questionnaires:

             1. Trail making and colour word interference subtests of the Delis-Kaplan Executive
                Function Systems (D-KEFS).

             2. Walking While Talking (WWT) - Executive Function test.

             3. The Repeatable Battery of the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS). This
                is a screening measure that assesses: Immediate and delayed memory, Attention,
                Language and Visuospatial/Constructional skills.

             4. The Speed of Information Processing Subtests from the BIRT Memory and Information
                Processing Battery (BMIPB). This measures an individual's capacity for information
                processing, as well as their motor speed.

      Study design The study design is a prospective pre-post intervention study aimed at
      evaluating cognitive rehabilitation in a sample of patients with cognitive impairment
      following acquired brain injury. The study primarily seeks to validate the feasibility of
      using purposefully designed videogames-based virtual reality technology to improve cognitive
      function in patients with cognitive dysfunction following acquired brain injury.

      Recruited participants will undergo baseline assessments of cognitive function, leisure time
      activity, health related quality of life before engaging in a 12-week telerehabilitation
      programme using the Intendu functional brain trainer. Post intervention assessment using the
      same outcome measures administered in the baseline assessment will be performed 1 week after
      completion of the therapy programme.

      The total duration of involvement for each participant is anticipated to be 14 weeks.
    
  