
    
      Methodology: Up to 76 total male and female patients enrolled in the ICHP who meet criteria
      for insomnia will be recruited. All ICHP patients meet the following criteria before
      enrolling in the program: military beneficiaries at least 18 years of age who are
      self-referred or referred by their physician.

      Randomization: Participants will be selected for treatment groups based on a block
      randomization scheme. The total number of blocks will be 19, and the number of subjects per
      block will be 4. The treatment labels will be: ICHP and ICHP + CBT-I. The randomization
      scheme varies the sequence of treatment categories in each block.

      Allocation concealment: The allocation sequence will be concealed from the research team
      enrolling participants in sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed, and stapled envelopes.

      Once randomized, patients identified for the study will participate in the ICHP group or the
      ICHP + CBT-I group (which consists of the ICHP program plus a 6-session CBT-I treatment). The
      6 sessions will consist of 4 in-person appointments and two telephone appointments. Each
      in-person session will be approximately 1 hour, and each phone session will be approximately
      30 minutes.

      The study data will be analyzed in two phases. Phase I will be a pilot study to determine the
      feasibility and acceptability of CBT-I within the ICHP program.

      Phase II will be implementation of the full RCT to determine the effectiveness of the CBT-I
      intervention compared to ICHP usual care. Data collected during Phase I will be utilized in
      the final analysis unless changes to the procedures which could affect outcome measures are
      made after participants begin.

      Phase I (feasibility and acceptability): Primary outcomes for Phase I of the study will be
      descriptive statistics on feasibility and acceptability measures as well as qualitative
      responses to a post-treatment interview with participants. Secondary outcomes for Phase I
      will be between-group differences in sleep outcomes.

      Minimum criteria for advancing to Phase II include the following:

        -  Recruitment rate: Average of 21 participants enrolled per year. If the recruitment rate
           during Phase I is not sufficient to enroll 21 participants per year during Phase II, it
           will be necessary to modify the recruitment strategy in order to increase the rate of
           participant enrollment before proceeding to Phase II.

        -  Treatment acceptability rate, as measured by both of the following:

             -  50% of Phase I participants scoring question 3 of the Insomnia Treatment Evaluation
                Measure-Revised (ITEM-R) as a "3" or "4."

             -  Question 3 asks: "How satisfied are you with the treatment received"

             -  Minimum of 50% of participants answering question 1 of the Post-Study Questionnaire
                ("Did you find this insomnia treatment valuable and useful to you?") as: ◦"Yes"
                (item a) or ◦"Moderately Useful" (item c)

      Phase II (effectiveness of intervention): Primary outcomes for Phase II will be between-group
      differences in level of change in sleep outcomes. Secondary outcomes for Phase II will
      include: between-group differences in changes in depression, fatigue, perceived stress,
      sleepiness, and sleep-related quality of life. Tertiary outcomes (exploratory) will include
      changes in secondary cardiovascular risk factors.
    
  