
    
      Acute sciatica, a major cause of pain and disability, is a common presentation to medical
      practices and hospitals. Up to 25% of patients do not recover after 12 months. Sciatica
      refers to radicular pain and radiculopathy from lumbosacral nerve root pathology caused by
      lumbosacral disc herniation and degenerative lumbosacral spondylosis involving the L2/3 to
      L5/S1 intervertebral discs and foramina. Selective transforaminal epidural steroid injection
      and systemic steroids are therapeutic options in patients who do not improve with
      conservative management. However, there is limited evidence of effectiveness of these
      treatments in acute sciatica.

      This pilot study is designed to evaluate the following feasibility and study conduct issues:
      type and standardization of interventions and associated sham and placebo control,
      appropriateness of inclusion and exclusion criteria, rate of recruitment, study conduct
      including randomisation allocation concealment, successful masking, wait time for delivery of
      services (allied health, diagnostic imaging, and procedures), and ensuring efficient,
      appropriate and safe study conduct for recruitment from emergency departments, hospital
      inpatients, general practitioners and specialists in the community, and radiology departments
      in hospital and community practices. Study logistics will differ across these settings, and
      processes to ensure standardization will be evaluated. Other issues explored include
      co-therapy with analgesics, NSAIDS, pregabalin, physical and manual therapies, and the timing
      of rescue therapy, including neurosurgery. It is our experience with previous RCTs that
      piloting all facets and procedures is essential for the successful conduct of a RCT.

      Furthermore, results of the categorical and continuous primary and secondary outcomes from
      this pilot RCT will be used to calculate the sample size of an adequately powered RCT to
      determine which treatments currently used in the management of acute sciatica/lumbosacral
      radiculopathy of less than 4 weeks duration, is the most effective in reducing pain and
      disability in the short-term and prevent progression to persistent or recurrent
      sciatica/lumbosacral radiculopathy in the long term.

      Study Design: 60 patients with acute sciatica will randomised 1:1:1:1

      Arm 1: CT - fluoroscopic guided transforaminal lumbar epidural steroid (1 ml) mixed with
      local anaesthetic (1 ml) (Active Intervention) AND oral placebo taper (Placebo Control) Note:
      The injectable steroid and local anaesthetic preparation is standardized to replicate current
      practice: EITHER (i) betamethasone injectable 5.7 (1ml), a particulate corticosteroid with
      the local anaesthetic bupivacaine 0.5% (1ml) OR (ii) dexamethasone injectable 4mg (1ml) a
      non-particulate corticosteroid with local anaesthetic lignocaine 1% (1ml).

      Arm 2: CT - fluoroscopic guided transforaminal lumbar epidural normal saline (1 ml) mixed
      with local anaesthetic (1ml) (Active Intervention controlling for pharmacology) AND oral
      placebo taper (Placebo Control) Note: The Normal Saline is a Normal Saline flush 0.9%
      injectable solution. The local anaesthetic preparation is standardized to replicate current
      practice: EITHER (i) bupivacaine 0.5% (1ml) OR (ii) lignocaine 1% (1ml).

      Arm 3: Oral dexamethasone taper (Active Intervention) AND sham injection (Sham Control) Oral
      dexamethasone taper is a 15 day tapered dosing: (i) days 1-5, dexamethasone 4 mg morning and
      evening, (ii) days 6-10, dexamethasone 2 mg morning and evening, and (iii) days 11-15,
      dexamethasone 1mg morning and evening. The dexamethasone gelatine capsule is identical to the
      placebo capsule in appearance. The sham injection is CT/fluoroscopic guided (with parameters
      set to zero) lumbar sham injection. The needle placement is down to muscle layer but NOT into
      the epidural space, and there is no injection of any fluid.

      Arm 4: Sham injection (Sham Control) AND oral placebo taper (Placebo Control) The sham
      injection is CT/fluoroscopic guided (with parameters set to zero) lumbar sham injection. The
      needle placement is down to muscle layer but NOT into the epidural space, and there is no
      injection of any fluid. The oral placebo is a gelatine capsule with filler. It is identical
      to the dexamethasone capsule in appearance.

      Participants: If eligibility criteria are met then participants will be invited to
      participate in the RCT. If the participant agrees, then the participant proceeds down study
      pathway. A log of all potential participants who are referred and screened and who either
      decline to participate in the RCT or deemed ineligible by the eligibility criteria will be
      kept. This will ascertain the representativeness of those who consent to be randomized,
      consistent with CONSORT guidelines. Data collected in the refusal/reject log will include
      age, gender, reason(s) for ineligibility or refusal, and, if available, pain/disability score
      and treatment.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome is reduction of disability at 3 weeks using the
      condition-specific Oswestry Disability Index (ODI). Secondary outcomes include reduction of
      disability at 6 and 48 weeks on (ODI), Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) for leg pain and for back
      pain respectively, measures of generic function/disability and quality of life (SF-36,
      EQ-5D), length of hospital stay, medication co-therapy use (simple analgesics, opiate
      analgesics, pregabalin, and NSAIDs), need for rescue procedures or surgery, time to return to
      work (if applicable), compliance with treatment, masking success, measures of study conduct
      and efficiency, and adverse events.
    
  