
    
      This is a randomized, open label phase III trial in patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia,
      Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia, and Myelodysplastic Syndrome undergoing matched unrelated donor
      transplant.

      Patients randomized to the treatment arm (atorvastatin):

      The prophylaxis atorvastatin treatment (taken by mouth) for GVHD will start at 14 days prior
      to transplant and continue until 365 days post-transplant or until development of significant
      adverse events or desire of the primary treating physician to stop the administration.

      The patients will also receive our institution's standard graft versus host disease
      prophylactic regimen which consists of two drugs. It has been shown that immunosuppression
      with two drugs is better than a single agent thus our institution utilizes a combination of
      Methotrexate and Tacrolimus. For all matched unrelated donor allogeneic transplantation
      patients, the following schedule of Methotrexate will be administered intravenously (IV)
      post-transplant on Days 1, 3 and 6. Tacrolimus will be administered 2 days prior to
      transplant and continue approximately 180 days post-transplant. Tacrolimus will be
      administered IV until patient can take it by mouth.

      Patients randomized to standard of care:

      Patients will receive our institution's standard graft versus host disease prophylactic
      regimen which consists of two drugs. It has been shown that immunosuppression with two drugs
      is better than a single agent thus our institution utilizes a combination of Methotrexate and
      Tacrolimus. For all matched unrelated donor allogeneic transplantation patients, the
      following schedule of Methotrexate will be administered intravenously (IV) post-transplant on
      Days 1, 3 and 6. Tacrolimus will be administered 2 days prior to transplant and continue
      approximately 180 days post-transplant. Tacrolimus will be administered IV until patient can
      take it by mouth.
    
  