
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To demonstrate an absolute improvement in neoadjuvant rectal cancer (NAR) score for the
      experimental regimen as compared to concurrently randomized control patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival (OS). II. To compare disease-free survival (DFS). III. To
      compare the rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) (nodes and tumor).

      IV. To compare the rate of sphincter preservation.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the proportion of patients who have a tumor resection overall, conditional on
      beginning induction chemotherapy, and conditional on beginning chemoradiotherapy.

      II. To compare time from initiation of chemoradiotherapy to surgery in the subset of patients
      with tumor resection.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the rate of disease progression during chemotherapy (prior to chemoradiation).

      II. To compare the rate of clinical complete response rate (cCR). III. To compare the rate of
      negative circumferential margin. IV. To compare the rate of completion of all cycles of
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      V. To compare the rate of completion of full course of chemoradiation. VI. To compare the
      toxicity and safety between interventions. VII. To explore the correlative molecular
      predictors of response and distant failure.

      VIII. To explore the relationship between radiographic findings and pathologic outcomes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive mFOLFOX6 regimen consisting of oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2
      hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV continuously over
      46-48 hours on days 1-2. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 8 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. 3-4 weeks after last does of mFOLFOX6 patient
      undergo radiation therapy (RT) and receive capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID)
      Monday-Friday for 5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive mFOLFOX6 regimen consisting of oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours,
      leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46-48
      hours on days 1-2. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 8 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. 3-4 weeks after last does of mFOLFOX6 patient undergo
      RT and receive capecitabine PO BID and veliparib PO BID Monday-Friday for 5 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive mFOLFOX6 regimen consisting of oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours,
      leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46-48
      hours on days 1-2. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 8 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. 3-4 weeks after last does of mFOLFOX6 patient undergo
      RT and receive capecitabine PO BID Monday-Friday for 5 weeks. They also receive pembrolizumab
      IV over 30 minutes every 3 weeks beginning on day 1 of RT for up to 6 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and every 6 months
      for up to 3 years.
    
  