
    
      Up to 50 patients with chronic hepatitis C, who are treatment na(SqrRoot) ve or relapsers to
      any interferon/ribavirin regimen will be enrolled into this pilot study evaluating
      chlorcyclizine HCl with or without ribavirin (RBV) as antiviral therapy. Adult patients
      (greater than or equal to18 years of age) with evidence of active chronic hepatitis C
      infection (all genotypes) with detectable HCV RNA in serum >10,000 IU/mL without
      contraindications to chlorcyclizine HCl or ribavirin or evidence/history of hepatic
      decompensation will be enrolled. Patients will be monitored for at least two months with
      regular testing for ALT and HCV RNA quantitative levels before treatment and will undergo
      admission to start therapy, which includes a thorough medical evaluation and timed blood
      sampling. Patients will be randomized to one of two treatment groups; one with chlorcyclizine
      HCl (75 mg twice daily) and the other with RBV+ chlorcyclizine HCl (75 mg twice daily). For
      all genotypes, RBV will be dosed based on weight (1000 mg daily <75 kg and 1200 mg daily
      greater than or equal to 75 kg). At each clinic visit, patients will be questioned about side
      effects and symptoms, undergo a focused physical examination, and have blood taken for
      complete blood counts, HCV RNA, PT/INR and routine liver tests (ALT, AST, alkaline
      phosphatase, direct and total bilirubin, and albumin). At the end of 28 days of treatment,
      patients will undergo a repeat thorough medical evaluation inclusive of a complete physical
      exam, symptom scale evaluation, complete blood counts, routine liver tests, and HCV serology
      panels. The primary endpoint of therapy will be a decline in quantitative HCV RNA viral
      levels after 28 days of treatment as compared to baseline viral titers and between groups.
      Several secondary endpoints will be measured, including side effects of therapy, ALT levels,
      quantification of chlorcyclizine HCl and its metabolites in serum, and quality of life.
      Therapy will be stopped for intolerance to RBV and/or chlorcyclizine HCl (which will be
      carefully defined).
    
  