
    
      All patients with severe sepsis and septic shock and fulfilling the inclusion criteria should
      be screened for the study on two surgical (septic surgical patients), one medical intensive
      care unit (septic non-surgical patients) and one neurological intensive care unit (non-septic
      patients) at the university hospital of Rostock, Germany.

      The inclusion of patients will be started if written informed consent was obtained from all
      participants or their representatives (if direct consent could not be obtained).

      The aim of the study is to determine differences in the neurological outcome of surgical and
      non-surgical septic patients (incidence, severity and length of
      critical-illness-polyneuropathy/-myopathy and septic encephalopathy). The main interest of
      the study is to find parameters associated with an improved neurological outcome in septic
      patients within an observation time of 100 days.

      The main criterion is the incidence, severity and length of septic encephalopathy and
      critical-illness-polyneuropathy and -myopathy on days 7 and 28.

      From all patients basic demographic data, illness severity scores (APACHE-II, SOFA) and
      delirium scores for the assessment of septic encephalopathy (CAM-ICU, ICDSC), laboratory,
      cerebrospinal fluid and microbiological results, electrophysiological
      (electroneurography(ENG)), electroencephalography (EEG), cranial MRI results, pre-morbidity
      data and clinical outcome for the study cohort will be recorded. At the days 1, 3, 7 and 28
      the patients will be screened for clinical and laboratory/immunological data: hemodynamic,
      inflammation, coagulation, organ function, blood parameters including cytokines.

      Neurological examination and EEG will be performed within 24 hours after the beginning of the
      study. Examination of liquor cerebrospinalis will be performed within 24-48 hours and cranial
      MRI between day 3 and 7 after the inclusion of the patient. ENG will be done earliest one
      week after the beginning of the study.
    
  