
    
      Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT) is primarily limited by
      graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). In murine models, we found that donor CD4+ Th1 cells
      (secretion of IL-2 and IFN-Gamma) mediate GVHD. In contrast, donor Th2 cells (secretion of
      IL-4 and IL-10) do not generate GVHD, and abrogate Th1-mediated GVHD. We also found that
      murine allografts enriched with Th2 cells reduced GVHD without impairing the ability of donor
      T cells to prevent graft rejection. These studies indicate that donor Th2 cells may be a new
      approach to reducing GVHD.

      In addition to GVHD, allogeneic PBSCT has been limited by toxicity associated with
      conventional myeloablative preparative regimens. Although non-myeloablative regimens may
      reduce regimen-related toxicity, such transplants have been associated with a 30 to 40%
      incidence of severe acute GVHD (similar to rates observed with myeloablative regimens).
      Because non-myeloablative regimens appear to have reduced regimen-related toxicity, we have
      conducted this pilot study of Th2 cells in the setting of an immunoablative
      (non-myeloablative) preparative regimen.

      In this protocol, patients with lymphoid or hematologic malignancy receive induction therapy
      (fludarabine and EPOCH) and transplant chemotherapy (fludarabine and cytoxan) to deplete host
      T cells that mediate graft rejection. In our initial NCI cohort receiving HLA-matched
      sibling, G-CSF mobilized PBSCT on this protocol (n=19), graft rejection was prevented in all
      cases, with most recipients having 100% donor chimerism by day 28 post-SCT. With this reduced
      intensity regimen, GVHD remained a significant complication, with 6/19 recipients having
      grade II and 6/19 recipients having grade III acute GVHD. Importantly, potent
      graft-versus-tumor responses were observed, with 9/19 patients remaining in complete
      remission at a median of 17 months post-SCT.

      Given that this allogeneic SCT regimen achieves engraftment and durable anti-tumor responses,
      yet is associated with GVHD, this protocol represents an appropriate setting for evaluation
      of donor Th2 cells. Initial patients will receive Th2 cells in a phase I manner. Three
      patients will receive 5 x 10(6) Th2/kg, six patients will receive 2.5 x 10(7) Th2/kg, and six
      patients will receive 1.25 x 10(8) Th2/kg. The highest dose of Th2 cells that results in an
      acceptable toxicity profile (not more than 1/6 serious adverse events) and a favorable rate
      of acute GVHD (not more than 2/6 cases of grade II or greater acute GVHD) will be selected
      for the phase II study arm. Eighteen patients will be treated with allogeneic SCT and Th2
      cells on this phase II study arm. In the event that Th2 recipients have reduced GVHD, further
      clinical trials involving Th2 cells will be warranted.
    
  