
    
      The specific aims of the current project are:

        1. To investigate the practicability, the investigators plan to determine the accuracy of
           the weight-supporting system of the Andago and the time needed for donning and doffing.
           The investigators also evaluate the number of times that the device stops and the nature
           of these stops (due to errors, sitting of the patient, when preventing falls, or when
           the patient moves too fast).

        2. To evaluate acceptability, the investigators plan to evaluate differences in motivation
           and measures reflecting safety (i.e. number of falls prevented) and subjective feeling
           of safety when patients walk with the Andago compared to walking with their usual
           walking aids.

        3. To evaluate the appropriateness, the investigators are interested in differences between
           walking on a treadmill and walking overground with this device or changes that occur
           during walking overground when changing the level of BWS through the unloading system.
           Therapists should be aware of these differences to know what the advantage of such a
           system could be or how adjustments in settings influence the walking pattern. The
           investigators plan two investigations: (a) To determine differences in stride-to-stride
           variability, leg muscle activation, hip, knee and ankle joint kinematics and other gait
           parameters during walking in the Andago (overground) versus walking on a treadmill. (b)
           To determine differences in the same parameters when walking in the Andago with
           different levels of BWS. These levels are the minimal required level of BWS to walk
           without buckling the knees (ref BWS), ref BWS plus 15% and ref BWS plus 30%.

      To investigate these aims, the patients will be asked to participate in 3 appointments, which
      should be scheduled within 10 days.
    
  