
    
      The research design for this exploratory/developmental R21 application will be the same as
      the anticipated design for a future definitive R01 investigation. A randomized controlled
      treatment study will be used to compare neurological recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI)
      in individuals receiving an acupuncture protocol designed to maximize treatment effectiveness
      (treatment protocol) with an alternative acupuncture protocol designed to minimize treatment
      effectiveness (control). The two acupuncture protocols will be identical except for 1) needle
      placement, 2) use of sham, non-penetrating needles and 3) use of electricity for needle
      stimulation. The two protocols are designed to be indistinguishable to an individual, so
      participants will remain blind to whether they are receiving the treatment or the control
      protocol.

      Specific Aim: to implement and evaluate a research protocol for demonstrating the efficacy of
      Acupuncture Therapy to improve neurological recovery after incomplete SCI compared to a
      control protocol.

      Hypothesis: acupuncture treatment results in greater neurological recovery than a control
      treatment after an incomplete SCI.

      Before proposing a definitive R01 investigation to test this hypothesis, several preliminary
      steps are required and will be addressed in this feasibility study. Five objectives have been
      identified for the current R21 application as follows.

      Objective 1 - Demonstrate that participants are unable to distinguish between treatment and
      control protocols, assuring participant blinding.

      Objective 2 - Verify the inter-rater reliability of the primary outcome measures -the
      American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) motor and sensory scores as defined by the ASIA
      Standards for Neurological Classification of SCI.1

      Objective 3 - Collect pilot data for use in power analysis to determine the desired sample
      size in the definitive R01 investigation, including effect sizes, enrollment and dropout
      rates.

      Objective 4 - Identify any unanticipated difficulties in implementing the treatment and
      control protocols and identify the clinical resources needed to conduct an R01 investigation.

      Objective 5 - Prepare an application for an R01 definitive investigation including an
      operations manual for the protocol.
    
  