
    
      Background: Cesarean section (CS) is the single most common surgical procedure performed
      worldwide. In Ethiopia, estimates suggest that CS accounts for 30-50% of all operations
      performed. Population-based work indicates that CS rates of up to 19% are demonstrably
      related to improved maternal and neonatal survival. In Ethiopia, the national CS rate per
      live births was 1.9% in 2016, but rates are highly variable by region. In addition,
      complications are common, and gynecological and obstetric surgical interventions are
      associated with high rates of morbidity. Infections and complications following CS are
      estimated to cause 15% of maternal deaths in the country, and the overall SSI rate following
      CS is estimated at 9%. Failure to administer preoperative antibiotics has been highlighted as
      a particular improvement opportunity, and is one of the critical processes this program will
      focus on.

      Lifebox, a charity devoted to improving surgical and anesthesia safety, developed a program
      to improve compliance with the WHO Surgical Safety Checklist and improve adherence to
      critical standards of perioperative infection prevention. This initiative, called Clean Cut,
      is an adaptive, multimodal surgical infection prevention program that integrates
      perioperative process improvement and patient outcomes measurement using process mapping,
      training and improved management practices, and compliance with critical standards of
      surgical antisepsis. The program was the result of a joint collaboration between the
      Ethiopian Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH), the Surgical Society of Ethiopia, and Lifebox
      and resulted in a 35% relative risk reduction in postoperative infections.

      Aims - Primary:

        1. To improve compliance with a core set of critical perioperative infection prevention and
           control practices that are essential to reducing infectious risks from surgical
           intervention

        2. To reduce postoperative infections in patients undergoing CS Secondary

        3. To reduce postoperative infections in patients undergoing other obstetrical and
           gynecological operations

        4. To reduce the need for reoperation in patients undergoing obstetrical and gynecological
           operations

        5. To reduce mortality rates in patients undergoing obstetrical and gynecological
           operations Ancillary

        6. To assess facility readiness for and capacities to engage in quality improvement
           programs in surgery

      Participants: Any patient undergoing obstetric and gynecologic surgery at any time in one of
      the targeted operating theatres is eligible for inclusion; there will be no exclusion
      criteria.

      The Intervention: Clean Cut focuses on improving compliance with six critical perioperative
      infection prevention standards:

        -  appropriate skin preparation of the surgeon's hands and the surgical site

        -  maintenance of the sterile field by ensuring the integrity and sterility of surgical
           gowns, drapes, and gloves

        -  confirmation of instrument sterility

        -  appropriate antibiotic administration

        -  complete swab counts

        -  routine use of the WHO Surgical Safety Checklist

      Clean Cut is implemented in five phases:

        1. Identification of a Clean Cut team to include members from all perioperative
           disciplines: Ob/Gyn, surgery, nursing, anesthesia, QI personnel and operating room (OR)
           management;

        2. Establishment of a baseline by conducting context assessments and process mapping the
           six perioperative standards, and establishing a data collection system;

        3. Modification and implementation of the WHO Surgical Safety Checklist to fit local
           practices;

        4. Ongoing data feedback to connect baseline data with process maps, coupled with
           site-specific action plans for improvement;

        5. Targeted training, workshops, and refresher courses using local providers, coupled with
           a transition to hospital management for sustaining the program.

      Clean Cut has been adapted specifically for obstetric and gynecological operations and will
      implement it in ten maternity hospitals/departments in Ethiopia in order to reduce infections
      and other complications for women undergoing cesarean delivery and other obstetric and
      gynecologic operations. Clean Cut has been designed with sustainability at its core - the
      strategy emphasizes teamwork and collective leadership to identify and address critical gaps
      in perioperative safety processes.

      Study Design: The impact of the CS-tailored Clean Cut program will be tested through a
      cluster randomized stepped-wedge study design at 10 hospitals over the course of 24 months.
      Each selected hospital will be distributed into two groups based on the type of facility:
      university teaching and referral hospitals in one group, and regional, district, and
      community hospitals in another. Five clusters and their order will be randomly established,
      paring a teaching/referral hospital with a regional/district/community hospital. These
      hospitals will start by collecting inpatient and outpatient outcomes on all patients
      undergoing CS prior to implementation. Over the course of 10 months, 2 hospitals at a time
      will begin implementing Clean Cut at 2-month intervals. Each starts by assembling a
      multidisciplinary improvement team, undergoing team training on WHO Surgical Safety Checklist
      use and implementation, and gathering compliance information about intraoperative safety
      practices. The initiation of Clean Cut will also involve creating facility-specific process
      maps of each critical perioperative practice. Once these process maps and compliance data are
      complete, usually after 2-4 weeks, the team establishes an adaptive, facility-driven
      improvement plan based on process gaps and barriers to best practice.

      Risks, benefits, and IRB review: The protocol has been approved by the Armauer Hansen
      Research Institute (AHRI/ ALERT) Ethics Review Committee, which is one of the accredited
      ethical boards at a national level, and is now under review by the national committee. As the
      standards being implemented are not in dispute and are considered critical for ensuring
      antisepsis and sterility, patient informed consent will not be obtained and waiver for
      informed consent has been requested. The Investigator will ensure that this trial is
      conducted in accordance with relevant regulations and with Good Clinical Practice. Patient
      data will be kept confidential throughout the study and stored on encrypted servers and
      password-protected devices.

      The benefits of this study are improvements in compliance with best practices in
      perioperative infection prevention. There are no known risks other than those typically
      associated with surgery that are not specific to this trial.

      Institutional oversight: Lifebox and the Ethiopian Society of Obstetricians and Gynecologists
      are jointly organizing and running this study. Lifebox will be responsible for data security
      and analysis. The ten hospitals are listed in this protocol.

      Funding: UBS Optimus Foundation through a Gates Grand Challenge Grant

      Study Contact:

      Thomas Weiser MD MPH Associate Professor of Surgery, Stanford University Consulting Medical
      Officer, Lifebox
    
  