
    
      So far, in patients with lymphoma a variety of studies aimed at the evaluation of prognosis
      have been conducted. In particular, different demographic, clinical and biological factors
      have shown a prognostic role in univariate and multivariate analysis, including age, gender,
      stage, tumor burden, bone marrow involvement, systemic symptoms, Performance status, serum
      lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level, anemia, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and beta-2
      microglobulin.

      The combination of those parameters has allowed the identification of several prognostic
      scores.

      Attempts to define prognosis in follicular lymphomas begun in the late '70s. Then, when in
      1993 the International Prognostic Index (IPI) was defined for aggressive lymphomas it was
      also applied to low-grade lymphomas leading to conflicting results, and the need for a
      prognostic index specifically designed for follicular lymphomas emerged.

      A large study on prognosis in patients with follicular lymphoma was performed by the Italian
      Lymphoma Intergroup that leaded to the definition of the Italian Lymphoma Intergroup (ILI)
      score, based on 987 patients (Federico M et al. Blood 2000; 95(3):783-789). In 2004 the
      Follicular Lymphoma International Prognostic Project allowed the definition of a new score on
      4167 pts with follicular lymphoma, the Follicular Lymphoma International Prognostic Index
      (FLIPI) (Solal-Céligny P et al. Blood 2004;104(5):1258-1265). This score is based on the
      evaluation of age (younger than 60 years vs 60 years or older), Ann Arbor stage (I-II vs
      III-IV), number of nodal sites (0-4 vs > 5 or more), Hemoglobin (Hb)level (greater than or
      equal 12g/dL vs lower than 12g/dL), serum Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) (normal vs elevated)
      and identifies three main groups of patients with different survival:low risk (0-1 factors);
      intermediate risk (2 factors); high risk (3-5 factors).

      Notwithstanding the huge number of patients considered in these studies, all mentioned
      prognostic scores (IPI, ILI and FLIPI) are based on a retrospective analysis of archive data.
      This approach can introduce biases that can hamper final results. A first problem is the
      selection of patients that can be influenced by single institution policy and patient's or
      physician's related factors. Furthermore, some important variables, such as
      beta2-microglobulin or Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR), that have frequently shown a
      high prognostic significance in univariate analysis, are hardly included in the final indexes
      because they are available only in a small number of patients thus loosing their value in
      multivariate analysis. Then, lacking homogeneous and prospectively defined criteria,
      retrospective evaluation of some study parameter as for example clinical response cannot be
      easily defined and all derived endpoints such as Failure Free Survival (FFS)or Progression
      Free Survival (PFS) may be biased.

      Finally the results of a retrospective analysis aiming at the evaluation of survival are
      dependent on the type of administered treatment and with the recent advent of new drugs such
      as monoclonal antibodies and purine analogs that can be used also in the elderly patients the
      role of some established prognostic factor may have changed.

      These are the reasons why we thought it would be useful to start a new study based on the
      prospective registration in a short period of time of patients with follicular lymphoma for
      whom it would be possible collect an exhaustive set of clinical data and biological
      information.
    
  