
    
      A disturbingly high number of young children around the world experience stunted growth and
      development with irreparable consequences through the lifespan. Determinants of stunted
      growth and development are multi-factorial, including interactions between biological,
      behavioral, social, and environmental conditions, yet the evidence-base is minimal for
      integrated approaches to tackle the interwoven factors. Our group recently found significant
      impacts from an egg intervention on young child growth and biomarkers of nutrition and brain
      development. The effects on important psychosocial indicators of child development, however,
      were not assessed. Building on these findings and those of our pilot study of a group-based,
      multicomponent intervention (Grandi Byen, Haitian Creole for "grow well"), this randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) seeks to examine a greater breadth of egg intervention outcomes, the
      synergistic effects of adding psychoeducational parenting to the egg intervention, and
      mediating biological, behavioral and social factors.

      The 3-arm longitudinal RCT will be carried out in Cap-Haitien, Haiti, where our group has a
      decade of research experience, established partnerships, and a strong research
      infrastructure. It is representative of resource-poor urban contexts globally, where parents
      face common economic and environmental challenges to child growth and development. The trial
      will compare the following groups for effectiveness in reducing young child stunted growth
      and enhancing overall development: 1) standard well-baby care, (n=200); 2) nutrition
      intervention (one egg per day for 6 months), (n=200); and 3) multicomponent Grandi Byen
      intervention (responsive parenting, nutrition, hygiene + one egg per day for 6 months),
      (n=200). Infants will be enrolled between 6-8 months of age and followed longitudinally for
      one year.

      The specific aims of this project are:

      Aim 1 (primary): To demonstrate the reproducibility and feasibility of egg-based
      interventions in reducing childhood stunting, and test its impact on development. Hypothesis
      1: Linear growth will be increased by 0.30 LAZ in children receiving one egg per day compared
      to standard care. Hypothesis 2: Children receiving the egg intervention will have better
      cognitive, motor and language development compared to standard care. Question 1
      (exploratory): Does an egg-based intervention impact social-emotional development?

      Aim 2 (primary): To investigate the incremental benefit of Grandi Byen compared to egg only
      and standard care groups on primary outcomes of child growth and development. Hypothesis 3:
      Children of mothers receiving Grandi Byen will increase linear growth by 0.10 LAZ compared to
      the egg intervention. Hypothesis 4: Children of mothers receiving Grandi Byen will have
      higher scores on child cognition, language, motor, and socio-emotional development, with an
      effect size of 0.36 on cognition, compared to standard care. An economic evaluation will be
      conducted to compare the efficiency of the interventions.

      Aim 3 (secondary). To explore pathways of intervention impacts on child growth and
      development by delineating the additive and synergistic effects of biological (nutrient
      biomarkers, bone age, and enteric disease), psychosocial (responsive parenting, cognitive
      stimulation), and environmental (hygiene and sanitation, diet) factors.

      This study expands upon this earlier work by bringing together a transdisciplinary team
      spanning the biological and social sciences to work in partnership with Haitian
      collaborators. We will merge methods and concepts to produce comprehensive perspectives on
      several high priority areas including social, economic and biological factors that impact
      child brain development and function, nutrition among infants and very young children,
      determinants of bone health; and traumatic stress associated with growing up in abject
      poverty.
    
  