
    
      Background:

        -  Ependymomas are glial based tumors arising from the ependymal lining of the ventricular
           system and central canal of the spinal cord

        -  These tumors affect both adults and children and represent approximately 1.2%-7.8% of
           all intracranial cancers.

        -  Currently, the standard therapy for newly diagnosed low-grade ependymoma includes total
           surgical excision, when possible, followed by radiation therapy. Complete surgical
           resection is often not possible because of the location of the tumor and the concern for
           damage to surrounding eloquent brain during surgery. The situation is even more critical
           for patients with anaplastic ependymomas because of the higher proliferative rate and
           greater propensity for tumor infiltration into surrounding normal brain, preventing any
           possibility of complete tumor removal by surgery.

        -  For patients with the more aggressive anaplastic ependymoma, chemotherapy is often
           administered either before or after the radiation in the hope that infiltrating tumor
           cells will be eliminated.

        -  Extensive experience has been gathered with the use of bevacizumab in other
           neuroepithelial tumors such as malignant gliomas. Based on the interesting results
           observed in the reported small series of patients with recurrent ependymomas treated
           with bevacizumab, as well as on the evidence of VEGF-promoted angiogenesis in these
           tumors, we designed a phase II study to test the efficacy of bevacizumab in patients
           with recurrent ependymoma. As results in most types of tumors have indicated that
           anti-angiogenesis therapies are more effective when given in combination with cytotoxic
           chemotherapy, in this study bevacizumab will be combined with carboplatin. The choice of
           carboplatin is justified by the fact that, as detailed above, this remains the most
           effective agent in this disease, and extensive toxicity data is available for the
           combination of bevacizumab and carboplatin in a variety of tumor types, including GBMs.

      Objective:

      To evaluate the efficacy of carboplatin and bevacizumab for the treatment of recurrent low
      grade or anaplastic ependymoma. The primary endpoint will be progression-free survival (PFS)
      at one year.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically proven intra-cranial or spinal ependymoma or anaplastic ependymoma. There
           must be pathologic or imaging confirmation of tumor progression or regrowth.

        -  Patients must be greater than or equal to18 years old.

        -  Patients must have a Karnofsky performance status of greater than or equal to 60.

        -  Patients must have adequate bone marrow function, adequate liver function and adequate
           renal function before starting therapy.

        -  Patients must have recovered from the toxic effects of prior therapy.

        -  Patients having undergone recent resection of recurrent or progressive tumor will be
           eligible.

        -  Patients must have failed prior radiation therapy and must have an interval of greater
           than or equal to 42 days from the completion of radiation therapy to study entry.

        -  Women of childbearing potential must have a negative B-HCG pregnancy test documented
           within 14 days prior to registration.

        -  Women of childbearing potential and male participants agree to practice adequate
           contraception.

        -  Patients must not have any significant medical illnesses or active infection.

        -  Patients must not have history of any other cancer.

        -  Patients must not be pregnant/breast feeding.

        -  Patients must not have received prior therapy with bevacizumab, or related drugs.

        -  No active bleeding or pathological condition that carries a high risk of bleeding.

        -  No major surgical procedure, open biopsy, or significant traumatic injury within 28
           days.

      Design:

        -  This is a phase II study to evaluate the efficacy of carboplatin and bevacizumab for the
           treatment of recurrent low grade or anaplastic ependymoma. This trial is designed
           utilizing a Simon optimal two-stage design.

        -  Carboplatin will be given on day 1 of each cycle. Bevacizumab will be administered on
           days 1 and 15 of each cycle. The total duration of treatment will be 6 cycles. After
           cycle 6, carboplatin should be discontinued, but bevacizumab may be continued at the
           discretion of the treating physician.

        -  Patients will be monitored for hematologic or serologic evidence of myelosuppression,
           hepatic injury, renal injury, and electrolyte disturbances and for clinical evidence of
           other toxicity.
    
  