
    
      STUDY OUTLINE: This is a single institution study. Patients with newly diagnosed breast
      cancer stages I to III with any biomarker status (ER, PR and HER), without preexisting
      peripheral neuropathy planning to receive treatment with platinum-based compounds
      (Carboplatin and Cisplatin) and/or taxanes (Docetaxel and Paclitaxel) and chemotherapy naive
      patients with gynecologic cancers including ovarian, uterine, and cervical cancer planning to
      receive definitive number of platinum-based compounds (carboplatin or cisplatin) and/or
      taxanes (docetaxel and paclitaxel) chemotherapy are potential study patients.

      Subjects will be randomized into one of two treatment arms within 3 weeks of starting the
      offending chemotherapy agents after fulfilling the other study eligibility requirements. Arm
      1 (investigational) will receive INF twice a week for six weeks by the same treating physical
      therapist (physical therapist #1). Arm 2 (control) will receive a standardized program of
      muscle stretching and strengthening exercises twice a week for 6 weeks under the supervision
      of treating physical therapist #1. Actual treatment time for both modalities is approximately
      45 minutes. Measurements used to detect the presence and degree of peripheral neuropathy will
      be administered by the same assessment physical therapist (physical therapist #2) at baseline
      and at the end of weeks 3, 6, and 3 months post last physical therapy treatment. Assessment
      tools are: ultrasound imaging on the popliteal and posterior tibia artery, the 20-item Pain
      Quality Assessment Scale (PQAS, specifically addresses neuropathological symptomatology), the
      National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Distress thermometer (DT), and the Michigan
      Neuropathy Screening Instrument (MNSI) will be assessed and recorded along with treatment
      adherence. Treating physician will be recording National Cancer Institute Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) neuropathy score and performance status at routine
      intervals during and after chemotherapy.

      Objectives

      Primary objective

      • To compare the degree of neuropathy and distress between Arm 1 receiving INF therapy
      compared to Arm 2 receiving usual care of muscle stretching and strengthening exercises based
      on standardized measurements (PQAS, MNSI, NCCN DT, and AE assessment).

      Secondary objectives

        -  To compare the Ultrasound measurements of peak systolic velocity, volume flow and
           pulsatility of popliteal and posterior tibia artery between the two treatment arms for
           assessing differences in vascular perfusion.

        -  To compare the rate of any dose reductions and premature chemotherapy discontinuation
           rates due to peripheral neuropathy between Arm 1 receiving INF therapy compared to Arm 2
           receiving standardized program of muscle stretching and strengthening exercises.

        -  To compare subject acceptability, burden and satisfaction with the assigned physical
           therapy modality between the two arms based on patient satisfaction questionnaire
           administered at the end of treatment.
    
  