
    
      Criteria of peripheral hypotonia are : absent or depressed tendon reflexes , failure of
      movements on postural reflexes ,fasciculation with or without muscle atrophy .A sequential
      scheme of localization would begin with the anterior horn cell (AHC), and progress to the
      peripheral nerve , neuromuscular junction (NMJ) and the muscle itself.

      Electroneuromyography (ENMG) provides useful information on many neuromuscular diseases. In
      addition nerve conduction study is also helpful to identify the most common peripheral
      disorders causing hypotonia in these children.

      The initial approach to hypotonia is to determine whether the problem is due to central or
      peripheral origin.This is of crucial importance when forming a plan for diagnostic
      investigations and management.

      Many muscle diseases share common clinical features that may lead to laboratory diagnosis by
      using enzyme levels that are affected in some of these diseases(e.g creatine phosphokinase ).
      However the use of serum creatine phosphokinase level may not possibly differentiate between
      various muscle diseases . The selective involvement of certain muscles is a key to the
      diagnosis of muscle disease].

      High resolution ultrasound allows visualization of the muscle, nerve and adjacent structures
      and can offer real-time information regarding neuromuscular diseases. It can be used as a
      helping tool to electrodiagnosis with estimation of the serum creatine phosphokinase levels
      of these cases.

      The aim of this work :is to give a profile of the causes of peripheral hypotonia in infant
      and children attending Assiut University Children Hospital during one year of the study .

      Besides full clinical assessment of the cases including birth history , developmental
      history, age, sex, and duration of illness as well as age of onset of observed weakness will
      be recorded. Full neurological examination will be done in all cases .Cases will have serum
      creatine phosphokinase levels, electromyography and nerve conduction studies done as
      indicated.Cases will also have real time muscle ultrasonography done.

        -  Our results will be compared with the results obtained by other investigators .

        -  Statistical analysis : correlation studies will be done between the various methods of
           investigations used .Chi2 test will be used to indicate the prevalence of the various
           causes of hypotonia found in the study .
    
  