
    
      Design and Project Type In order to allow for appropriate data collection and comparison of
      TSB versus TcB measurements, this will be a prospective cohort study design. The expected
      duration will be 2 years. An interim analysis will occur approximately every six months.

      Description of Intervention TcB measurements will be obtained within approximately 30 minutes
      of the TSB being drawn before initiation of phototherapy, approximately 24 hours after the
      initiation of phototherapy and approximately 24 hours after completion of phototherapy. The
      TcB measurement will involve lightly pushing three times at each site which will yield an
      average transcutaneous bilirubin value. This will be calculated for the interscapular,
      buttock and sternal automatically by the bilirubinometer. While on phototherapy a measurement
      of the diapered, non-exposed buttock area will be obtained at approximately 24 hours to
      coincide with the standard of care serum bilirubin measurement.

      Instruments The JM-103 is the bilirubinometer that will be utilized in obtaining TcB
      measurements for this project. This meter is currently used on an as-needed basis within the
      unit for late preterm or term infants.

      Data Collection Basic demographic data such as gestational age, ethnicity and gender will be
      collected. Relevant laboratory data such as blood type of mom and infant, and Coomb's test
      results will be collected. In addition, enteral and intravenous nutrition data will be
      collected including the type and volume of feeds at the same time the TcB is obtained. The
      results, date, time and location of the TSB and TcB will be collected for analysis.

      TcB measurements will be obtained on those infants that are already ordered to have a blood
      draw for a serum bilirubin level. In the event the enrolled neonate does not require
      phototherapy during their hospitalization, the initial baseline TSB and TcB measurements will
      be collected and analyzed. Data will be collected during the first week of life. In the event
      that a neonate requires a second course of phototherapy and this is initiated during the
      first week of life, TcB and TSB measurements will be collected through the completion of
      phototherapy at 24 hours post treatment. If the enrolled neonate does not require
      phototherapy during their hospitalization, the initial baseline TSB and TcB measurements will
      be collected and analyzed.
    
  