
    
      FOA PAR-11-242 seeks research that will improve the design, implementation, and effectiveness
      of interventions to prevent Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) and unintentional
      injury-related infant deaths associated with the sleep environment. The SMART (Social Media
      and Risk Reduction Training) Infant Care Practices proposal is a collaborative effort among
      researchers who collectively have generated much of the data on infant care practices that
      underlie the need for this FOA, and who have access to an already existing and operational
      infrastructure that permits performance of a large randomized clinical trial to study
      preventative interventions. This infrastructure was created for the NICHD-funded SAFE Infant
      Care Practices study, for which mothers are being recruited in 2011, 2012, and 2013 at a
      nationally-representative group of birth hospitals, with completion of infant care practice
      surveys at 2-5 months after birth. These hospitals, which will complete their participation
      in SAFE during 2013, are geographically and culturally diverse, will have had 3 years of
      baseline infant care practice data collected, and have a proven track record of successful
      recruitment. We will use our collective extensive experience studying barriers to adherence
      to safe sleep practices to develop two complementary, culturally competent intervention
      strategies and to test the effectiveness of each strategy, as well as both strategies in
      combination. Both of the proposed intervention strategies, described below, were selected
      largely because they can be used in diverse populations and offer the potential to be rapidly
      disseminated nationwide.

      Nursery Education: A nursery-based training program will be modeled after our successful
      pilot study and informed by our collective research on barriers to adopting safe sleep
      practices. We will use social marketing strategies to capture the attention of nursing staff
      and empower them to improve safe sleep practice modeling and messaging received by mothers
      and extended families during the post-partum hospital stay.

      mHealth: We will use an innovative approach, using mobile messaging, that applies expertise
      in social marketing to provide multiple short culturally competent videos delivered via email
      from the end of the post-partum hospital stay through 2 months of age. This strategy will
      leverage the internet as a powerful tool to access health information, and mobile devices
      (e.g., cell phones), which have made internet access possible for many, particularly those
      who are younger, minority, and from lower socioeconomic and educational backgrounds. Using
      technology to deliver health-related information is likely to be a well-accepted and
      effective strategy, particularly among minority and low-income populations. Indeed, studies
      demonstrate that email may be an effective, inexpensive, and time-efficient strategy to
      transmit health information.

      For each of the safe sleep practice interventions (Nursery Education and mHealth), we will
      develop control interventions in which the Nursery Education or mHealth approach is used to
      promote breastfeeding. We have chosen breastfeeding as the control intervention because it 1)
      is not expected to impact endpoints critical to the assessment of the safe sleep practice
      intervention, and 2) provides health promoting messages to control mothers.

      In the SMART study, we propose a 4-arm RCT in which 16 hospitals completing participation in
      the SAFE study are randomly assigned to one of the following groups (with Safe Sleep
      Intervention and/or Breastfeeding Control): 1) Safe Sleep Nursery Education and Breastfeeding
      mHealth messaging; 2) Breastfeeding Nursery Education and Safe Sleep mHealth messaging; 3)
      Safe Sleep Nursery Education and Safe Sleep mHealth messaging; and 4) Breastfeeding Nursery
      Education and Breastfeeding mHealth messaging. We are uniquely positioned to design,
      implement and test the effectiveness of these interventions in a methodologically rigorous
      way and propose the following specific aims: Primary Aim: To assess the effectiveness of the
      interventions aimed at promoting safe sleep practices compared with the breastfeeding
      controls.

      Hypothesis:For each recommended safe sleep practice (supine sleep position, not bed sharing,
      pacifier use, avoiding use of soft bedding), when controlling for other variables, there will
      be: a) an increased adherence for mothers who received Safe Sleep Nursery Education; b) an
      increased adherence for mothers who received Safe Sleep mHealth messaging; and c) compared to
      mothers who received either Safe Sleep Nursery Education or Safe Sleep mHealth messaging
      alone, an increased adherence for mothers who received both Safe Sleep Nursery Education and
      Safe Sleep mHealth messaging.

      Secondary Aim: Assess potential mediating factors that may explain the intervention effects
      on infant care practices and that may inform areas for future improved intervention
      approaches.

      Hypothesis: Changes in variables within each of the domains of the Theory of Planned Behavior
      (Attitudes/Beliefs, Social Norms, Perceived Control) will be mediators of the effectiveness
      of safe sleep interventions.
    
  