
    
      Quality assurance plan:

      According to the European's Commission guidelines, the procedure for quality control focuses
      on the deliverables revision and in the quality of each procedure. The deliverables will be
      sent to the Administrative committee. The administrative Committee, composed by the Project's
      Promoter and its associates, will assume the role as a quality manager. It includes the
      following tasks:

      Making sure of the monitoring of all of the changes in documentation. Making sure the
      activity's coordination and reports are completed according to an adequate quality and in an
      appropriate manner.

      Reviewing the contract deliverables. Monitoring and auditing the project's activities
      according to plan, making the specific revisions of the contractual deliverables, directed to
      the achievement of the established objectives.

      The electronic Case Report Form (eCRF) has been designed to capture all data required in the
      protocol. A unique eCRF will be completed for subject, taking into account the protection law
      in each country of the study.Subjects will be identified by a unique subject number (with key
      held by the relevant partner), so none identification card number will be recorded on the
      eCRF or the database. The monitor will guarantee that the eCRF is fully and correctly fill up
      according to the source documents. The researcher will assure that all data recorded in the
      eCRF coincide with the information recorded in the source documents.

      Plan for missing data to address situations where variables are reported as missing:

      The investigators will check the missing data in each eCRF and source documents.

      Statistical analysis:

      Investigator will assess the associations of each scale with the outcome for each setting and
      outcome through logistic regressions. First, investigators will compute the classification
      performance (sensitivity, specificity, Receptors Operational Curve (ROC), Area Under the
      Curve (AUC), predictive values, likelihood ratios) for each model. Second, investigators will
      study the feasibility of the models taking into account the time needed for the scale and the
      percentage of patients that can be assessed per case. Investigators will evaluate the
      sensitivity to change of the scales and the covariance of the scales with other measures as
      the SPPB through a mixed linear model.

      Sample Size: Participants will be recruited in Spain, Italy, France, United Kingdom and
      Poland. The total sample will be of 1.940 subjects. Each participating centre will have to
      recruit a total of 388 patients, corresponding to 97 subjects in each clinical setting by
      centre.
    
  