
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the safest dose of alemtuzumab as consolidation therapy in patients in
           second remission after fludarabine phosphate alone; fludarabine phosphate and
           cyclophosphamide; fludarabine phosphate, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab; bendamustine
           hydrochloride alone; or bendamustine hydrochloride and rituximab.

        -  To determine the frequency of cytomegalovirus reactivations or infections during or
           after alemtuzumab treatment.

        -  To determine which dose of alemtuzumab is efficient to eliminate minimal residual
           disease in peripheral blood and bone marrow (i.e., to turn a clinical partial remission
           into a clinical complete remission [CR], to turn a flow cytometry-positive CR into a
           flow cytometry-negative CR, or to turn a PCR-positive CR into a PCR-negative CR).

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of alemtuzumab.

        -  To compare the pharmacokinetic profile between intravenous versus subcutaneous
           administration of alemtuzumab.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of alemtuzumab.

        -  Group 1: Patients receive escalating doses of alemtuzumab IV over 2 hours once weekly
           for 8 weeks until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined.

        -  Group 2: Patients receive escalating doses of alemtuzumab subcutaneously once weekly for
           8 weeks, beginning with the MTD determined in group 1 until a second MTD is determined.

      Patients undergo bone marrow and blood sample collection periodically for laboratory and
      pharmacokinetic studies. Samples are analyzed for minimal residual disease and T-cell subsets
      (i.e., CD4 and CD8) via quantitative-PCR analysis and flow cytometry and cytomegalovirus
      antigens via PCR.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months.
    
  