
    
      Background: Pressure ulcers result in substantial financial costs to the healthcare system as
      well as significant distress to affected patients and their families. As interface pressure
      is a key risk factor in the development of pressure ulcers, continuous visual feedback of
      continuous pressure imaging (CPI) between the body and support surface could inform
      healthcare providers on repositioning strategies and play a key role in an overall strategy
      for the prevention and management of pressure ulcers. This randomized, controlled trial aims
      to study the effect of CPI on the reduction of interface pressure, and the incidence of
      pressure ulcers in vulnerable hospital patients.

      Methods: A parallel two-group randomized controlled clinical trial will be conducted. A total
      of 678 eligible consenting inpatients at high risk of pressure ulcer development in a
      tertiary acute care institution will be randomly allocated to either have the ForeSite PT™
      system with the liquid-crystal display ("LCD") monitor turned on to provide visual feedback
      through CPI to healthcare providers while also collecting continuous interface pressure data
      (intervention group), or have the ForeSite PT™ system with the LCD monitor turned off,
      therefore not providing visual feedback or CPI to healthcare providers, while collecting
      continuous interface pressure data in the background (control group), in a ratio of 1:1. Data
      will be collected on both groups for three days (72 hours). The primary outcome will be the
      differences in the two groups' interface pressure analysis. The interface pressure readings
      will be collected through hourly sampling of continuous interface pressure recordings taken
      throughout this study period. Clinical outcomes will be the differences in the two groups'
      pressure-related skin and soft tissue change in areas at risk of pressure ulcer. It will be
      obtained at baseline (within 24 hours of admission) and on the third day of the trial.
      Perceptions of intervention patients and healthcare providers will be obtained on the third
      day.

      Discussion: This will be the first randomized controlled trial to investigate the effect of
      CPI on interface pressure of vulnerable hospital patients, and the association between
      interface pressure and development of pressure-related skin and soft tissue changes. The
      results could provide important information to guide clinical practice in the prevention and
      management of pressure ulcers.
    
  