
    
      In prior studies that have analyzed physical activity in dialysis patients, three-dimensional
      accelerometers, physical performance tasks or self-reporting physical activity questionnaires
      have been used to measure levels of activity. This proposed study differs in that it will
      determine the effectiveness of providing "feedback" to dialysis patients using a fitness
      tracking bracelet. For the purpose of this study, the word 'feedback' is used to refer to the
      information provided to the subject that demonstrates the number of steps taken since the
      previous dialysis session as displayed by the Fitbit® application. This 'feedback' will allow
      subjects to be more aware of their overall physical activity on a quantitative level.

      The study will seek to explore an association between feedback and physical activity.
      Improved physical activity could improve indicators of subjects' health status such as blood
      pressure, inflammatory markers, and pre-albumin levels, which will also be monitored and
      recorded.

      While informing subjects quantitatively about their levels of physical activity could be a
      promising method to encourage them to be more active, it is unclear at this point if that
      strategy actually works. This is an important practical question though, because actually
      informing subjects on a regular basis about their activity level may pose substantial
      operative challenges and result in additional costs.

      The importance of encouraging subjects to be more physically active should not be
      underestimated. Studying the physical activity of dialysis patients is important because it
      allows researchers to consider the long-term effects that may influence the subject's
      well-being. Johansen et al. showed that there was a direct relationship between the
      inactivity of dialysis patients and susceptibility to hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular
      disease and even mortality. Additionally, the study demonstrated the importance of
      implementing programs to promote physical activity [1]. If feedback does indeed increase
      physical activity, then it will be substantially beneficial for this program to be
      implemented.
    
  