
    
      This is a randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, active-controlled, crossover, multicentre,
      phase II proof of concept study in patients with PD and end-of-dose motor fluctuations. The
      patient's individually optimised daily levodopa regimen must be kept stable for at least 2
      weeks before randomisation. The patients will be randomised to receive ODM-101 with 65 mg of
      carbidopa, ODM-101 with 105 mg of carbidopa and Stalevo® according to a 3-period crossover
      design.

      The study consists of a screening period, 3 treatment periods and a post-treatment period.
      For each patient,there will be 9 visits: a screening visit performed 7-28 days before
      randomisation, a randomisation visit (visit 1), 6 visits during the 3 treatment periods (i.e.
      2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 weeks after randomisation and the start of the study treatment; visits
      2-7), and an end-of-study visit 7-21 days after the last visit of the last treatment period.
      The duration of study will be 14-23 weeks for each patient.

      The patients switch to study drugs after all assessments have been done at visit 1. The
      strength of the levodopa in the study drug is determined by the patient's individually
      optimised levodopa regimen before randomisation. During the first 2 weeks of each treatment
      period, the patient's levodopa strength (but not frequency) in the study drug will be
      adjusted as necessary by the investigator. For the remaining 2 weeks of each treatment
      period, the levodopa strengths should be kept stable.

      Unscheduled visits maybe performed during the first 2 weeks of each treatment period, if
      there is a need to adjust the levodopa strength. In case the patient has not contacted the
      study centre within a week after the start of the treatment period, the study personnel will
      phone the patient to ensure that the symptoms and possible adverse events (AEs) are
      sufficiently controlled and captured, and to assess the need to adjust the levodopa
      treatment.
    
  