
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the clinical response rate (complete and partial) in patients with sporadic or
           neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1)-associated high-grade stage III or IV malignant
           peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs) after treatment with 4 courses of chemotherapy
           comprising doxorubicin hydrochloride and ifosfamide (IA) followed by etoposide and
           ifosfamide (IE).

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the utility of fludeoxyglucose F18 positron emission tomography (^18FDG-PET)
           and automated MRI volumetric tumor analysis as tools to assess response to treatment.

        -  Correlate response evaluation by 2-dimensional WHO criteria, 1-dimensional RECIST
           criteria, ^18FDG-PET, and volumetric MRI with percent necrosis in tumor specimens from
           patients who undergo surgery for local control after chemotherapy.

        -  Evaluate the response of plexiform neurofibroma(s) (if present) to chemotherapy using
           WHO criteria and automated volumetric MRI analysis.

        -  Evaluate the molecular biology of sporadic and NF1-associated MPNSTs by performing a
           detailed pathologic analysis of tumor samples with the goal to analyze if markers can be
           identified that predict for response to chemotherapy or outcome.

        -  Construct a tissue microarray from submitted tumor samples, that will be used in the
           future to identify novel targets for treatment of MPNSTs.

        -  Assess if a serum biomarker can be identified, that predicts for the presence of a MPNST
           versus benign plexiform neurofibroma.

        -  Increase the knowledge of the epidemiology and clinical presentation of NF1-associated
           MPNSTs.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to type of malignant
      peripheral nerve sheath tumor (MPNST) (sporadic MPNST vs neurofibromatosis type 1
      [NF1]-associated MPNST). Patients receive 1 of 2 treatment regimens depending on the location
      of the MPNST and tumor response to chemotherapy.

        -  Chemotherapy and local control by radiotherapy and surgery: Patients receive doxorubicin
           hydrochloride and ifosfamide (IA) chemotherapy comprising doxorubicin hydrochloride IV
           over 15 minutes on days 1 and 2 and ifosfamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. Treatment
           repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients
           then receive etoposide and ifosfamide (IE) chemotherapy comprising etoposide IV over 1
           hour and ifosfamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2
           courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also
           receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) after each chemotherapy course beginning
           on day 6 or 7 and continuing until blood counts recover or pegfilgrastim SC once on day
           6 or 7.

      After recovery from chemotherapy, patients undergo radiotherapy and receive 2 more courses of
      IE during radiotherapy followed by 2 more courses of IA after completion of radiotherapy.
      Some patients may then undergo surgery.

        -  Chemotherapy and local control by surgery: Patients receive 2 courses of IA followed by
           2 courses of IE as above. After recovery from chemotherapy, patients undergo surgery.
           After recovery from surgery, patients receive 2 more courses of IA followed by 2 more
           courses of IE in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 74 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  