
    
      Incomplete cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) makes up half of all the newly admitted
      patients. The overall prognosis for walking is better than the upper limb recovery in
      incomplete tetraplegia. Upper limb deficits result in difficulty in managing daily activities
      and self-care and impacts quality of life. Rehabilitation of the upper limb involves high
      intensity repetitive activities that are directed to a specific task. The demands of these
      programs can be up to 5 hours of therapy, 5 days a week for 12 weeks. Home-based therapies
      augmented by tele-rehabilitation presents a more realistic alternative to clinic-based
      application of these programs due to transportation and time commitment. However, engaging
      and motivating therapy options are needed for home to enhance client outcomes and improve
      compliance. Some of the latest equipment provides this capability and engages the patient
      using games for training. However, high equipment cost limits its widespread use.

      In this study, we will engage individuals with cervical SCI in a 4-week (8 visit) evaluation
      of a variety of training protocols to gather information on their perceptions regarding
      motivation, engagement, and challenge it offers; its ability to address limitations they
      experience; and its feasibility within the home.

      The long-term goal of this National Institute of Disability Independent Living and
      Rehabilitation (NIDILRR) funded Spinal Cord Injury Model System (SCIMS) project is to develop
      an engaging and evidence-informed intervention for home-based upper limb activity-based
      rehabilitation in individuals with spinal cord injury (SCI). A review of literature was
      recently conducted by the research team to get a scope of the evidence related to current
      activity-based therapies and the equipment used to deliver these programs. There is
      insufficient information about the value of high-end equipment involving games relative to
      lower cost alternatives, or the perceptions of clients regarding the use of various
      technologies related to motivation, engagement, appropriate level of difficulty and
      feasibility within the home. This lab-based study aims to understand the experiences related
      to rehabilitation training and high and low end equipment for upper limb activity-based
      rehabilitation in individuals with spinal cord injury.
    
  