
    
      Background:

      Focusing on low-level perceptual activities, and robust, controlled explorations with
      medium-sized cohorts, several studies have shown tACS effects related to oscillatory activity
      and inter-regional synchrony.

      For example, in healthy subjects, occipital tACS showed an increase in posterior alpha power
      following tACS alpha (10-14 Hz). At higher frequencies, the 60 Hz tACS showed a sustained
      reduction in visual contrast sensitivity threshold . Two studies in 2014 have also shown
      following 40 Hz tACS stimulation of occipital or parietal brain regions in healthy humans,
      sustained dependent on synchrony of posterior interhemispheric gamma band networks, and
      modulation effects of moving target perception Very recently, a 10 Hz occipital tACS
      stimulation study coupled with functional magnetic resonance Imaging recording (fMRI) showed
      diffuse effects likely to indicate occipito-parieto-temporal synchronization during the
      delayed phase of effects.

      Among patients' trials, an observational study of uncontrolled occipital tACS in patients
      with optic nerve lesions showed improved visual acuity and visual field size, accompanied by
      an increase in power and of occipital alpha synchrony by targeting periorbital regions; More
      recently, a double-blind, multicenter, controlled trial in patients with optic nerve lesions
      showed, with daily transorbital tACS sessions lasting 10 weeks, a sustained (2.5%) increase
      in visual field size versus stimulation placebo.

      This project aims to compare, on the same patient population, two tACS stimulation
      strategies, with the aim of increasing the attentional orientation towards the blind visual
      hemi-field and thus the visual detection of stimuli in this hemi-field. .

      For this, the study will evaluate on the one hand an occipital stimulation (V1-IPS)
      contralateral to the lesion, at a alfa frequency (10 Hz), which induces the desynchronization
      of the contralateral hemisphere with the aim of improving the visual perception of targets in
      the blind visual hemi-field. This intervention will be compared to a stimulation of the
      frontal region (FEF) of the right hemisphere at a high-beta frequency (30 Hz), which showed
      effects of facilitation of endogenous and exogenous attentional orientation. The two previous
      strategies will be compared to a placebo tACS stimulation session.

      The overall goal of this project is to modulate visual perception in patients with HH in the
      chronic phase using transcranial AC stimulation. The study aim is to evaluate the behavioral
      effects of tACS stimulation of the right fronto-parietal network (FEF-IPS) and the occipital
      and parieto-occipital region (V1-IPS), contralateral to the lesion, on visual perception in
      static and kinetic perimetry. The effects of stimulation of these two targets on brain
      activity by electrophysiology (EEG) will be quantified. The hypothesis is that the tACS, by
      increasing the functional connectivity (phase synchronism at the frequency delivered during
      the stimulation), will make it possible to modulate the threshold of visual perception.

      Specifically, the hypothesis is that a single session of 30 Hz tACS stimulation of the right
      frontal cortex (around the right FEF) will increase fronto-parietal synchrony within the
      right hemisphere of patients with lesions acquired brain responsible for chronic HH, thus
      improving the static and kinetic visual field in the first 30 minutes post-stimulation. The
      investigator team also hypothesize that a single session of tACS stimulation on the occipital
      and posterior parietal cortex contralateral to the lesion (around the V1 region) of patients
      with acquired brain lesions responsible for chronic HH will improve the visual field in the
      first 30 minutes post-stimulation, but this improvement will be less compared to the
      improvement caused by the stimulation of the right FEF, which could be accompanied by a
      temporary decrease in the visual perception of the targets on the healthy visual hemi-field.

      Methods:

      Monocentric comparative randomized controlled, cross-over and blinded study, Major population
      (n = 18), acquired brain lesion responsible for homonymous hemianopia, chronic phase of
      cerebrovascular accident (between 3 months and 5 years of evolution) and cohort (n = 18)
      healthy subjects not treated with tACS to obtain normative data from visual fields,
      neuroimaging (MRI) and electroencephalography (EEG)

        -  Each patient or each healthy volunteer will have an inclusion visit including visual
           static and kinetic perimetry, EEG recordings, cognitive tests, questionnaire and brain
           MRI.

        -  Then, each patient will have 3 visits, including a first evaluation period (perimetry
           and EEG) then a stimulation session (right frontal active tACS or contralesional
           occipito-parietal active tACS, or placebo tACS) then a second evaluation time (EEG,
           perimetry , and reading tests)

      Discussion:

      The investigator team expect an immediate and significant increase in visual field size and
      improved visual detection capabilities of patients treated with active tACS stimulation on
      the right frontal region (FEF) and / or contralateral occipital region (V1-IPS) lesion

      The project will contribute to the development of an innovative treatment to improve the
      quality of life of HH brain-injured patients, lacking effective treatment options to date.

      TACS is an easily accessible and easily applicable technique in large-scale clinical
      practice. Coupled with EEG monitoring, it is the only one that allows efficient and safe
      manipulation of oscillatory activity and interregional synchronicity.

      Interest in these new methods of non-invasive brain stimulation guiding brain plasticity, in
      stroke (130,000 new cases / year) or head trauma is very important. The scientific, clinical
      and technological implications are major.
    
  