
    
      -  In postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy, navelbine plus platinum (NP), the most commonly
           used therapeutic protocol, had more advantages than other 3 generations of new drugs
           plus platinum. With the continuous implementation of individual therapies for lung
           cancer, some new drugs became selective to pathological patterns and gene types, and it
           was unclear whether these drugs would be more effective than conventional drugs in
           postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy. The first- and second-generation of drugs were not
           observed with survival advantages except the third generation, so what conclusion would
           be made in selecting individual chemotherapeutic drugs according to pathological
           patterns? In this study, Pemetrexed plus Platinum were adopted in postoperative adjuvant
           chemotherapy on patients with adeno-carcinoma, while Docetaxel plus Platinum were
           performed on those with non-adeno-carcinoma.

        -  Apart from individual chemotherapy on the basis of different pathological patterns,
           anti-angiogenesis therapy has been quickly developed in recent years, becoming the most
           effective approach to improve chemotherapeutic efficacy. The main mechanism of
           anti-angiogenesis drugs includes inhabiting tumor angiogenesis to postpone or inhabit
           the recurrence of residual tumor through reconstructing the balance of anti-angiogenesis
           and preventing the growth of micro-metastasis to keep it in resting stage. The effect of
           adjuvant chemotherapy can be promoted by increasing the drug sensitivity, and survival
           time can be prolonged though further delaying the time and decreasing the rate of
           postoperative recurrence and metastasis of tumor by anti-angiogenesis therapy combined
           with adjuvant chemotherapy. As more attentions are increasingly given to
           anti-angiogenesis drugs in postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy at present, Endostar, an
           anti-angiogenesis drug studied independently in China, had favorable effect in treating
           advanced lung cancer when combined with chemotherapy. Therefore, this study protocol to
           gather the effect of Endostar on improving the survival of early lung cancer patients by
           observing its effect on partial NSCLC patients in treatment group when combined with
           other therapies.

        -  A total of 392 NSCLC patients in phase ⅠB were selected in this perspective, randomized,
           open and control clinical trial, in which 262 and 130 patients served as research and
           control groups respectively by 2:1. Patients 4-8 weeks after operation were divided
           according to different high risk factors. A total of 4-week different chemotherapies (21
           d as a course) were given to patients with different pathological patterns in research
           group, in which adeno-carcinoma group and non-adeno-carcinoma group were treated by
           Pemetrexed plus Cis-platinum and Docetaxel plus Cis-platinum, respectively. Then, above
           two groups were randomly divided into two subgroups respectively by 1:1, with subgroup 1
           being treated with original chemotherapies while subgroup 2 being added with
           rh-Endostatin therapy.

        -  High risk factors included poor differentiation (including neuro-endocrine carcinoma),
           blood vessel invasion, wedge incision, tumor diameter >4 cm, visceral pleura
           involvement, ambiguous N staging and incisal edge <1 cm.
    
  