
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Classify all patients within the Massachusetts General Primary Care-Practice Based
           Research Network (MGPC-PBRN) according to patient-primary care provider (PCP) linkage
           status.

        -  Develop a breast cancer screening intervention program called Mammography FastTrack that
           facilitates the ordering of mammograms to be used either by PCPs (for PCP-linked
           patients) or by practice managers (for practice-linked patients).

        -  Compare the impact of the Mammography FastTrack program on mammography screening rates
           in PCP-linked vs practice-linked patients overdue for breast cancer screening.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study.

      Mammography-eligible women are linked to either a provider or a practice within the
      Massachusetts General Primary Care Practice-Based Research Network (MGPC-PBRN). Practices
      within the MGPC-PBRN are stratified according to baseline mammography screening rates (high
      vs low) and practice type (community health center vs hospital-based vs community-based) and
      are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I: Physicians and practice managers receive e-mail alerts at months 1 and 3
           informing them of the availability of mammography screening data for their panel of
           primary-care patients. A hyperlink refers the provider to a web-portal for the
           Mammography FastTrack program that lists all eligible patients who have not undergone
           mammography. The provider may then click a button to schedule, defer (providing reason
           for deferral), or provide the date of a recent mammogram.

        -  Arm II: Practices continue standard care. At the end of 12 months, electronic report and
           billing data and a review of electronic health records are used to determine the
           completion of mammograms.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 6,730 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  