
    
      The investigators will conduct an assessor blind controlled clinical trial, participants in
      the COLP group will be fully informed about the interventions the participants will be
      allocated for. As this study is designed to be a proof-of-concept, only an authorized member
      of the study staff will be conducting the assessments. Suppose the subject has been approved
      to participate by the treating physician. In that case, the co-investigator will discuss the
      study's details and answer questions both before and during the first study visit.

      Study Design and Flow:

      This study contains one experimental arm and one control group. The experiment will run in a
      parallel design, with each subject having six days of participation. Each group will have
      evaluations before starting the trial (Baseline) and assessments after the six days of study
      participation. Subjects will be evaluated using the following tools: Morphine Equivalent Dose
      Conversion (MEDC); Modified Brief Pain Inventory (BPI); Spinal Cord Injury - Quality of Life
      measurement system (SCI-QOL); and Numerical Opioid Side Effects (NOSE). The investigators
      will also record medication changes, side effects, and pain levels as measured by the Visual
      Analog Scale (VAS) daily for each patient.

      For this open placebo- opioid dose reduction study. The investigators will enroll a total of
      60 subjects with SCI, polytrauma, and burn injury patients from the Comprehensive
      Rehabilitation Program at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital and ongoing neuropathic or
      nociceptive pain. Experimental treatments will take place at either Spaulding Rehabilitation
      Hospital (SRH). The investigators will coordinate with the appropriate care outlets to ensure
      that the study's procedures will not interfere with their standard of care at Spaulding. This
      includes, but is not limited to: physicians, therapists, and nurses working with the patient.
      The investigators will schedule inpatients as their clinical schedule allows.

      After enrollment, subjects will be randomized to receive COLP treatment or to receive
      standardized opioid dosage.

      Oxycodone Intervention and Rescue Medication:

      All patients enrolled in this study will receive oxycodone as primary opioid medication for
      pain control. The treating physician will prescribe a short-acting form of oxycodone 3-4
      times per day. The accepted range dosage for this medication will be from 10 to 50 mg PO per
      day (Q24H), treating physicians will decide the oxycodone dosage to control pain effectively.
      The investigators expect patients enrolled in this study to take an average of 30-40 mg of
      oxycodone per day (Q24H).

      If a subject requires rescue medication, it will be determined by clinical staff.

      Baseline assessments will be performed by the investigators. Subjects on the COLP group will
      undergo three consecutive days of opioid conditioning paired with taste and odorous placebos
      (pill and smell), followed by three days of the evoked response phase, where the active
      opioid medication will be alternated with full placebo dosages to decrease the therapeutic
      opioid dose by 50%. Females of childbearing age-eligible to participate in the study will be
      tested for pregnancy using a serum human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) test.

      The treatment regime and schedule for patients in the COLP group will include a short-acting
      opioid prescribed on a program of 3-4 times per day. This will be considered the active agent
      for the pharmaco-conditioning intervention; subjects will have access and receive rescue
      medication if necessary (PRN). Other forms of analgesics (NSAIDs and combos) will be
      prescribed under the criteria of treating physicians; if combined agents containing opiates
      are used, a morphine equivalence calculation will be applied.
    
  