
    
      Even though the generated data on standard interferon for the treatment of chronic
      HBV-infection in HIV-coinfected patients appears not promising at the moment, it is however
      the only treatment with a curative intention. Trials with pegylated interferon in the
      treatment of chronic HBV-infection in monoinfected patients with pegylated interferons showed
      higher efficacy than standard of care and when compared to historic data higher efficacy
      compared to non-pegylated interferon. This suggests in parallel a higher efficacy in the
      treatment of chronic hepatitis B in HIV-coinfected as well. At the same time, analysis
      suggested a further benefit when pegylated interferon therapy was prolonged beyond 24 weeks
      to 48 weeks as the elimination of HBV-DNA from serum appeared to continue beyond 24 weeks.
      Looking again at data from chronic hepatitis C infection, it is well known that the
      elimination kinetics of HCV-RNA in HIV-coinfected patients is slower compared to
      HCV-monoinfected patients, clearly suggesting rationale to offer 48 weeks pegylated
      interferon for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B to HIV-coinfected patients as well.

      Parallel to the above said there are several other factors suggesting a positive effect of a
      combination treatment with nucleoside / nucleotide analogues active against HBV and
      interferon. Therefore patients in need for antiretroviral therapy with CD4-cells above 200/µl
      will be randomized to either PegIFN as part of a combination treatment with FTC and TDF or to
      FTC / TDF combination therapy alone. Patients receiving HAART will also receive a third
      active antiretroviral HIV-drug, either a non-nucleoside analogue (NNRTI) or a protease
      inhibitor (PI), at the choice of the investigator. A non-divergent antiretroviral therapy
      solely based on nucleoside analogues will not be allowed in this trial.

      The objective of this study is to assess the efficacy (HBV-DNA < 5x10³ copies/ml, loss of
      HBe-Ag, HBe-seroconversion) and safety (adverse events, serious adverse events) of PegIFN for
      48 weeks, to that of PegIFN for 48 weeks plus TDF and FTC containing HAART, to that of TDF
      and FTC containing HAART for 72 weeks.
    
  