
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is estimated to be the third most common chronic disease in
      Veterans and is associated with an increased risk of hypertension, heart attacks, strokes,
      depression, and driving accidents. Current in-person management at a sleep center limits
      Veterans' access to care, prolongs patient wait times, and requires Veterans living in remote
      areas to travel long distances. This proposal will evaluate an innovative web-based clinical
      pathway to diagnose and manage Veterans with OSA. In FY13, the investigative team received a
      VHA Innovation Award to create the Remote Veteran Apnea Management Portal (REVAMP), a
      personalized, interactive website that, when combined with other emerging telehealth
      technologies, is designed to improve access to care, reduce patient wait times, and allow
      Veterans to receive care without travelling to a sleep center. Veterans complete intake and
      follow-up questionnaires on the REVAMP website and perform an unattended home sleep test
      (HST) without in-person instructions. Sleep specialists review the findings with the patient
      during an initial phone clinic. REVAMP auto-populates the Veteran's questionnaire responses
      into templated progress notes that are exported to CPRS, the electronic medical record.
      Veterans diagnosed with OSA are treated with automatically adjusting positive airway pressure
      (APAP) units. These devices transmit data wirelessly to the website where treatment use and
      its effectiveness can be monitored by both Veterans and practitioners, thereby promoting
      patient self-management and productive patient-practitioner interactions.

      The investigators' proposed prospective, randomized intervention will compare the clinical
      and cost-effectiveness of REVAMP management of Veterans with OSA to in-person care. Aim 1
      will determine if management with REVAMP is clinically non-inferior to in-person care in
      terms of improvement in functional outcomes and APAP adherence. Non-inferiority of clinical
      effectiveness following 3 months of APAP treatment will be expressed in terms of improvement
      in the score of the Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire (FOSQ-10), the investigators'
      primary outcome measure. Adherence to APAP will be objectively monitored by wireless
      transmission of data from the participant's home unit. In Aim 2, patient preference, medical
      service use and cost will be collected every 3 months for the entire observation period to
      compare cost effectiveness of the two managements. Preference will be assessed by the SF-6D,6
      and the EQ-5D.7, 8 Differences in the ratio of cost and quality-adjusted life years saved by
      REVAMP compared to in-person management will test the hypothesis that REVAMP management will
      have lower cost and equivalent outcomes. The results of Aims 1 and 2 will provide evidence to
      support widespread dissemination of REVAMP. Formative evaluation in Aim 3 will use
      qualitative (targeted phone interviews) and quantitative measures (attrition, work alliance,
      and patient satisfaction) to inform clinicians, administrators and other stakeholders how to
      implement this innovative chronic disease pathway.

      Aim 1 (primary). To compare functional outcomes following 3 months of APAP treatment in
      Veterans with OSA randomized to REVAMP versus in-person management. The primary outcome
      measure in this modified intent-to-treat analysis (i.e., subjects initiated on APAP with at
      least one FOSQ follow-up score) will be the change from baseline in the FOSQ-10 score.
      Analysis will also compare the mean daily hours of APAP use in participants in the two groups
      initiated on APAP treatment.

      Hypothesis 1a: Mean change in FOSQ-10 score among participants randomized to REVAMP
      management will be no more than one point less than that in participants receiving in-person
      management.

      Hypothesis 1b: Mean daily hours of APAP use among participants receiving REVAMP management
      will be no more than 0.75 hour less than that in participants randomized to in-person
      management.

      Aim 2 (secondary): To compare the differences in cost and quality-adjusted life years (QALY)
      between REVAMP management and in-person management. The perspective of the analysis will be
      that of the VA and the intention to treat analysis set will include all randomized
      participants.

      Hypothesis 2a: Average total health-care delivery cost will be lower for participants
      receiving REVAMP compared to in-person management.

      Hypothesis 2b: The 90% lower limit of cost per QALY ratio comparing in-person versus REVAMP
      manage-ment will be > $100,000 (i.e., the investigators will have 90% confidence that REVAMP
      is good value for the cost).

      Aim 3 (exploratory): To conduct a mixed methods formative evaluation that will guide REVAMP's
      widespread implementation. Quantitative component: The investigators will track quantitative
      outcome measures across both groups including attrition, participant- and practitioner-rated
      therapeutic alliance (Working Alliance Inventory-Short Revised [WAI-SR]),9 and participant
      treatment satisfaction (Client Satisfaction Questionnaire [CSQ-8]).10 The investigators will
      compare the scores of the WAI-SR and CSQ-8 and attrition rates between treatment arms.
      Qualitative component: The investigators will explore participant- and practitioner-level
      perspectives, attitudes, and preferences regarding REVAMP versus in-person management, as
      well as barriers and facilitators to participation in either clinical pathway through phone
      interviews with participants from the two intervention groups, participants who withdraw from
      either intervention, and staff who provide care through REVAMP.
    
  