
    
      Pregnant women experience unique physiological changes that may result in clinically
      significant alterations in drug PKs. Unfortunately, there have been few clinical trials to
      study the PKs of ARV, TB, and hormonal contraceptive drugs in pregnant women. The development
      of appropriate dosing regimens for the HIV-infected pregnant woman is critical to the health
      of both mother and fetus. Overdosing may lead to maternal adverse events and increased risk
      of fetal toxicity, while underdosing may lead to inadequate virologic control, increased risk
      of developing drug resistance mutations, and a higher rate of perinatal HIV transmission.
      This study will evaluate the PKs of ARVs used during pregnancy; evaluate TB drugs used during
      pregnancy, both in women who are HIV-positive and also taking ARVs and in women who are
      HIV-negative and not taking ARVs; and evaluate the PKs of hormonal contraceptive medications
      taken along with ARVs.

      There will be five main groups of study arms: HIV-infected pregnant women taking ARVs without
      TB treatment, HIV-infected pregnant women taking ARVs with first-line TB treatment,
      HIV-uninfected pregnant women taking no ARVs with first-line TB treatment, HIV-infected and
      HIV-uninfected pregnant women with or without ARVs with second-line TB treatment for
      drug-resistant TB, and HIV-infected postpartum women taking ARVs and hormonal contraceptives.
      Participants will not receive medications through this study-they will continue on ARV, TB,
      and/or contraceptive medications prescribed by their health care providers.

      Women who are 20 0/7 weeks to 37 6/7 weeks pregnant will be enrolled in this study and will
      remain in the study for up to 12 weeks after delivery. Postpartum women will be enrolled at 2
      to 12 weeks after delivery and followed until 6 to 7 weeks after starting contraceptives.
      Infants will be followed for 16 to 24 weeks of life. At all study visits, participants will
      undergo a medical history, a physical exam, and blood collection. At some visits, women in
      some arms will undergo a vaginal swab. Blood collection from the mother and the detached
      umbilical cord will occur during delivery. Intensive PK sampling will be performed at study
      visits during the second and third trimester of pregnancy and/or postpartum, depending on the
      study arm. Additional study visits may occur depending on the ARV drug regimen prescribed.
    
  