
    
      Colorectal cancer ist the 2nd most leading cancer among men and women in germany. Screening
      colonoscopy is provided for all people over 55 years in germany to detect and remove
      precancerous lesions (polyps) and thereby prevent the occurence of colorectal cancers.
      According to the result of screening colonoscopy and histopathological examination of the
      removed polyps the next examination will be planned. But so called interval carcinomas were
      observed with increasing incidence. Thus, further tools and mechanisms, beyond but in
      addition to endoscopy and histopathology, are strongly required to reduce such interval
      carcinomas and get a better and deeper inside into molecular alterations which occurs in
      premalignant lesions in the colon and describe risk populations which might benefit from
      shorter surveillance strategies by colonoscopy. Therefore we will enroll 100 patients, which
      underwent screening colonoscopy with polyp ectomy. Each polyp, provided for endoscopical
      removal, well be biopsied and stored separately. In each case, diagnosis is ensured. Per
      patient a maximum of 6 biopsies (from 6 different polyps) is intended. All biopsies were
      stored and processed without formalin in special boxes (PaxGene by Qiagen®). After
      microdissection of polyp tissue and isolation of DNA targeted next generation sequencing of
      38 genes (ACVR1B, DCC, MIER3, SLC9A9, AKT1, DMD, MLH1, SMAD2, APC, EP300, MSH2, SMAD4, ATM,
      ERBB2, MSH3, TCERG1, ATP6V0D2, FBXW7, MSH6, TCF7L2, BAX, FZD3, MYO1B, TGFBR2, BRAF, GPC6,
      NRAS, TP53, CASP8, KRAS, PIK3CA, WBSCR17, CDC27, MAP2K4, PIK3R1, CTNNB1, MAP7, PTPN12)
      followed by bioinformatics and systems biology analyses. The sequencing results were
      correlated to the endoscopical and histopathological findings. In parallel we are collecting
      EDTA-blood samples for analysis of circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA). NGS targeted sequencing
      of these 38 genes should also be performed on cfDNA level to investigate the potential of
      liquid biopsies in premalignant colorectal lesions.
    
  