
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare overall survival (with acceptable morbidity) of patients with prostate cancer
           treated with delayed vs immediate androgen deprivation therapy (ADT).

      Secondary

        -  Compare cancer-specific survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare clinical progression in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare time to first androgen independence in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare complication rate incidence and timing (e.g., cord compression or pathological
           failure) in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare treatment-related morbidity (including cognitive morbidity or osteoporosis) in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine prognostic factors for progression in patients treated with delayed ADT.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized, controlled study. Patients in group 1 are
      stratified according to prior therapy (prostatectomy vs radiotherapy vs prostatectomy and
      radiotherapy), relapse-free interval (< 2 years vs ≥ 2 years), type of planned androgen
      deprivation therapy (ADT) (continuous vs intermittent), and participating center. Patients in
      group 2 are stratified according to type of planned ADT (continuous vs intermittent), disease
      type (localized vs metastatic), and participating center. Patients in both groups are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (delayed ADT): Beginning at least 2 years after study entry or after exhibiting
           evidence of significant disease progression*, patients receive either continuous ADT OR
           intermittent ADT comprising either bilateral orchiectomy OR luteinizing
           hormone-releasing hormone agonist with or without oral antiandrogen therapy.

        -  Arm II (immediate ADT): Beginning immediately after randomization, patients receive
           either continuous ADT OR intermittent ADT as in arm I.

      NOTE: *Patients in group 1 begin delayed ADT at least 2 years after study entry unless 1 of
      the following clinical criteria is present: prostate-specific antigen (PSA) doubling time of
      < 12 months with PSA ≥ 10 ng/mL OR PSA doubling time of ≤ 6 months based on 3 consecutive
      measurements obtained ≥ 2 months apart OR development of metastases or symptoms. Patients in
      group 2 begin delayed ADT at least 2 years after study entry unless 1 of the following
      clinical criteria is present: development of symptoms OR PSA ≥ 60 ng/mL OR PSA doubling time
      of ≤ 6 months based on 3 consecutive measurements obtained ≥ 2 months apart.

      After 9 months of ADT, all patients are assessed for response. Patients with PSA < 4 ng/mL
      may discontinue ADT. These patients are followed every 3 months. Treatment may be restarted
      when PSA is > 20 ng/mL OR PSA is > the PSA level at study entry OR at clinical progression.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 3
      years.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      periodically thereafter at the discretion of the principal investigator.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 300-2,000 patients will be accrued for this study within 2-5
      years.
    
  