
    
      Lung cancer ranks among the most commonly occurring malignancies and currently is the leading
      cause of cancer-related cause worldwide including Taiwan [1, 2]. Although a lot of research
      focus on the treatment of lung cancer, the prognosis of lung cancer remains dismal and a five
      year survival ate is less than 15% [3]. Unfortunately, early detection of lung cancer is
      still a problem. In a tertiary care hospital in Taiwan, only 27.3% of patients could received
      operation (stage I 15%, stage II 7.5%) [4]. Lymph node staging is also important for
      evaluation the possibility of operation.

      Fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDP-PET) is now used by oncologist to
      evaluate lung masses, solitary pulmonary nodules and intrathoracic lymph nodes. As the
      technique becomes more widespread, it is now used even as a first line imaging investigation.
      Although PET has a high negative predictive value, it is neither sensitive nor specific to
      differentiate benign from malignant mediastinal lymph nodes [5, 6]. If PET positive
      mediastinal lymph nodes are equal to malignant involvement, some patients might be excluded
      from potentially curative surgery. Several national guideline groups suggest that PET
      positive lymph nodes should be biopsied if it is likely that the result will alter clinical
      management [7, 8].

      "Cervical mediastinoscopy" has been regarded as the "standard procedure" for sampling
      mediastinal lymph nodes. However, these techniques require general anesthesia and could not
      be repeated because of adhesion. Access to hilar nodal stations can be difficult for
      mediastinoscopy. In recent years, one minimally invasive method endobronchial
      ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) was used for biopsy of both
      hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes [9]. EBUS-TBNA allows the mediastinal lymph nodes to be
      targeted in the areas accessible to cervical mediastinoscopy, as well as some hilar nodes
      (lymph node stations 2-4, 7, 10-12)[9] .

      Kazuhiro Yasufuku had published the first report of real-time EBUS-TBNA in evaluating
      mediastinal lymphadenopathy in 2004 [10]. Currently, the main indication of EBUS-TBNA is the
      mediastinal nodal staging of NSCLC after recent meta-analyses established the comparable
      sensitivity and specificity of nodal staging by EBUS-TBNA and cervical mediastinoscopy [11].
      Efficacy in evaluation of other disease processes such as sarcoidosis and lymphoma has also
      been established [12].

      Although there were several large studies to compare the diagnostic efficacy of mediastinal
      malignant lymphadenopathy between FDG-PET and EBUS-TBNA, the investigators need to have our
      own data because of high incidence of TB lymphadenitis in Taiwan, where the diagnostic
      accuracy of PET may be lower than other countries.
    
  