
    
      When patients operated on outside intensive care or intensive care units are hospitalized,
      vital signs are collected intermittently by various conventional devices. During the
      follow-up period of these patients, it is possible that abnormal vital signs that may
      identify clinical deterioration may appear a few minutes to a few hours before a serious
      adverse event (infection etc.) occurs. These signals often go unnoticed due to infrequent
      monitoring.

      The establishment of teams to ensure a rapid response would improve the safety of
      hospitalized patients for whom the detection of abnormal vital signs predictive of clinical
      deterioration would generate an alarm. This system is based on the identification of patients
      at risk and the rapid intervention of the team.

      One of the crucial issues is therefore the speed of the alarm and its reliability.

      The evolution of electronic technology offers the possibility of using inexpensive portable
      devices (connected patches) that can provide information on vital signs in real time. Vital
      signs collected by these devices could be analyzed to predict clinical deterioration prior to
      hospital staff visits, especially at night and on weekends when staffing levels are generally
      lower.

      The connected patch used in this research is the Scaléo Médical company's device "myAngel
      VitalSigns". The long-term objective would be to be able to use this connected patch in
      surgical departments to detect early a complication, particularly of a cardiovascular or
      respiratory nature, and therefore to treat it without wasting time. However, it has not been
      validated in a hospital setting; that is the purpose of the project.

      The objective of this research is therefore to validate Scaléo Médical's connected patch in
      different locations: post-interventional surveillance room that approaches a conventional
      hospital room, operating room where artifacts are numerous.
    
  