
    
      It is predicted that music therapy will be beneficial before and during angiography in order
      to prevent complications, reduce anxiety and pain, and provide patient comfort and
      satisfaction. This study was planned as randomized controlled to determine the effect of
      music therapy applied before and during angiography on pain, anxiety and physiological
      parameters after angiography.

      Material - Method Research design: The study was planned as a pre-test, post-test design,
      single center, randomized controlled experimental study.

      Place and Time of the Study: The study is planned to be conducted in the coronary
      angiography(CAG) unit of a university hospital between January 2021 and December 2021.

      Population and sampling: The population of the study consists of patients who will undergoing
      CAG between January 2021 and December 2021. No special method is used for sample selection,
      individuals who are treated on the specified dates, who meet the inclusion criteria and who
      volunteer to participate in the study will be included in the sample. Power analysis will be
      done to determine the sample size. The sample of the study will be composed of individuals
      who meet the inclusion criteria of the study within the time that the study is planned. As a
      result of the literature review, the number of samples for each group was found to be 28 at a
      significance level of α = 0.05 and a power of 80% in randomized controlled studies with CAG.
      However, considering that there may be losses in the implementation phase of the study,
      provided that the individuals who will be treated with CAG are included, 20% more of these
      numbers in each group will be included in the study. Thus, the study sample will be composed
      of a total of 102 individuals, 34 in each group (intervention 1 group listening to music
      before the procedure = 34, intervention 2 group listening to music during the procedure = 34,
      control group = 34). In addition, while the application of the study continues, the data
      obtained will be transferred to the computer program and it will be evaluated whether the
      sufficient sample number has been reached by power analysis.

      Data Collection Tools Data in the research; The Introductory Form will be collected using the
      State-Trait Anxiety Scale, Vital Signs Follow-up Form and Visual Pain Scale.

      Patient Information Form This form consists of 17 questions in order to determine the
      personal information of the patients (age, gender, occupation, educational status, marital
      status, people living with them, income level, smoking-alcohol use, family angiography
      history, social security, etc.).

      State-Trait Anxiety Scale The original of this scale was developed by Spielberger et al. In
      1970 to determine the level of anxiety. It consists of two parts as "State and Trait Anxiety
      Scale".

        -  State Anxiety Scale: It is a 4-point Likert type scale consisting of 20 questions aiming
           to measure how individuals feel at the moment. The scores obtained from the scale vary
           between 20 and 80, and a high score indicates that anxiety is high, and a low score
           indicates that anxiety level is low. The adaptation to the Turkish form was made by Öner
           and Le Compte. In the state anxiety scale; There are two types of expressions: direct
           expressions expressing negative feelings and inverted statements expressing positive
           feelings. The expressions to be scored in reverse in the State Anxiety Scale are items
           1, 2, 5, 8, 10, 11, 15, 16, 19 and 20. While these items are scored, those with 1 weight
           value are converted to 4, and those with 4 weight values are converted into 1 and the
           score is calculated. A total score of 0-19 from the scale indicates that there is no
           anxiety, the total score between 20-39 indicates mild, the total score between 40-59
           indicates moderate, and the total score between 60-79 indicates severe anxiety, while 60
           points above indicate the need for professional help. Test-retest reliability of the
           scale was found between 0.16 and 0.54.

        -  Trait Anxiety Scale: Indicates how the person feels regardless of the situation and
           conditions. Scores from each scale range between 20 and 80. A high score means high, and
           a low score means a low level of anxiety. The same is true when interpreting the scores
           in order of percentage. That is, a low percentage (1, 5, 10) shows that anxiety is low.
           The average score level determined in the applications varies between 36 and 41. 0-30
           indicates low anxiety, 31-49 indicates moderate anxiety, and 50 and above indicate high
           anxiety. The expressions with reverse scoring on the Spielberg Trait Anxiety Scale are
           1, 6, 7, 10, 13, 16, 19. Test-retest reliability was found between 0.73 and 0.86.

      Vital Signs Follow-up Form This form; It was prepared with the aim of recording body
      temperature, pulse, blood pressure, oxygen saturation and respiratory values from vital signs
      of the individual measured before and after the procedure. The vital signs of the patients
      measured by the clinical nurses before and after the procedure and recorded on the nurse
      observation form will be recorded in the vital signs follow-up form by the investigators.

      Visual Pain Scale Visual analog scale was used to evaluate the pain. It consists of a
      straight line with endpoints defining the extremes such as "no pain" and "pain as bad as
      possible". The patient is asked to mark the pain level on the line between the two end
      points. This tool was first used in psychology by Freyd in 1923. Kersten et al. Proved in
      their study that VAS is a valid tool for pain assessment. This results in accordance with
      Unsal and Ergül vase 2.9% rate in their study has determined that it is being used in studies
      in Turkey. The horizontal form of VAS will be used in the assessment of pain in our study.

      Data Collection Individuals meeting the inclusion criteria in data collection will be
      randomized into 3 groups. Individuals who meet the inclusion criteria in the study will be
      randomized in a computer program and divided into intervention group 1, intervention group 2
      and control group. Individuals undergoing elective angiography will be included in the groups
      according to their arrival order. In the randomization table, the first column represents the
      "intervention 1 group", the second column represents the "intervention 2 group", and the
      third column represents the "control group". Patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be
      included in the group in which column they are included in the order of arrival.

      Intervention 1 Group After the polyclinic controls of the patients, on the day of the CAG
      procedure, data collection forms will be applied in the CAG unit 30 minutes before the
      procedure. Patients in the Intervention 1 group will be offered Turkish Folk, Classical,
      Turkish Art and Sufi Music as an option, and the music preferred by the patients will be
      played with headphones for 15-20 minutes before the CAG procedure. Since individuals are in
      the CAG unit collectively before the procedure, headphones will be used in order not to
      disturb other individuals. In determining the music to be played, literature was searched and
      expert opinion was obtained from the academicians of Fine Arts Education Department Music
      Department. After the interviews, musical types will be arranged as instrumental, non-verbal,
      at 70 decibels, approximately 60 metronome per minute, in terms of rhythm and duration, and
      will be played according to the individual's choice. Instrumental works will be uploaded to
      the portable MP3 player provided by the researchers. The patients in the Intervention 1 group
      will be introduced to the MP3 player before the procedure and how they should use it and the
      questions of the patients will be answered. After the patients who are taken to the CAG unit
      for the CAG procedure are prepared for the operation, the patients will be told to imagine
      that the outcome of the procedure will be positive, headphones will be worn and music therapy
      will be started. In addition, patients will be informed that they can interfere with the
      sound of the music, turn the sound on and off, stop the music and start listening again if
      they wish. The physiological parameters of the patient will be measured by the clinical nurse
      15 minutes after the procedure, and data collection forms will be applied again after 20
      minutes.

      Intervention 2 Group After the polyclinic controls of the patients, on the day of the
      angiography procedure, data collection forms will be applied in the angiography unit 30
      minutes before the procedure. Patients in the Intervention 2 group will be offered Turkish
      Folk, Classical, Turkish Art and Sufi Music as an option, and the music preferred by the
      patients will be played through a speaker that will be placed in the CAG hall during the CAG
      procedure. In determining the music to be played, literature was searched and expert opinion
      was obtained from the academicians of Fine Arts Education Department Music Department. After
      the interviews, musical types will be arranged as instrumental, non-verbal, 75 decibels,
      approximately 60 metronome per minute, in terms of rhythm and duration, and will be played
      according to the individual's choice. The physiological parameters of the patient will be
      measured by the clinical nurse 15 minutes after the procedure, and data collection forms will
      be applied again after 20 minutes.

      Control Group After the polyclinic controls of the patients, on the day of the aCAG
      procedure, data collection forms will be applied in the angiography unit 30 minutes before
      the procedure. Routine care will be applied to patients in this group and music therapy will
      not be applied. The physiological parameters of the patient will be measured by the clinical
      nurse 15 minutes after the procedure, and data collection forms will be applied again 20
      minutes later.

      Ethical considerations: Ethical approval will be obtained from the "Bolu Abant İzzet Baysal
      University Clinical Research Ethics Committee" in order to conduct the study. Institutional
      permission will be obtained from "Izzet Baysal Training and Research Hospital where the study
      will be conducted. In addition, before starting the application, written consent will be
      obtained by the researcher explaining the purpose of the study to those who meet the
      inclusion criteria of the study.

      Data analysis: In evaluating the data, the significance level was taken as p <0.05, and the
      data will be analyzed using the SPSS (25.00) program. In the evaluation of the data, besides
      descriptive statistical methods (frequency, percentage and average), Independent Samples
      Unrelated samples t test will be used for intergroup comparisons of parameters showing normal
      distribution, and related samples t test will be used for intragroup comparisons. In the
      intergroup comparisons of non-normally distributed parameters, Kruskall Wallis will be used
      to determine the significant difference of variables with more than three subcategories, the
      Mann Whitney U will be used to determine the group that causes the difference, and the
      Wilcoxon signed rank test (for the same group data) will be used for intragroup comparisons
      of non-normally distributed parameters.
    
  