
    
      This study aims to recruit 30 subjects between the ages of 18-65 who meet the Diagnostic and
      Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-V) criteria for a current episode of major
      depressive disorder. Participants will be recruited from the population of patients seeking
      rTMS from the University of California Los Angeles(UCLA) Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation
      Clinic. All patients considered for participation in the study will carry a diagnosis of
      major depression as established by the referring psychiatrist and this will be confirmed
      based on an interview using the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI).
      Moreover, they will meet criteria for treatment resistance as defined by lack of response to
      two prior antidepressant trials at adequate dosage and duration. After providing voluntary,
      capable, informed consent, participants will be enrolled in the study. Participants will then
      complete baseline assessments including the Antidepressant Treatment History Form (ATHF) and
      the 30-item Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology Self Report (IDS-SR30) as well as the
      clinician-rated 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D17).

      Once a diagnosis of treatment resistant major depression has been established, the primary
      outcome measure will be the IDS-SR30 score, which is our standard procedure for monitoring
      treatment outcome in the TMS clinic. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two
      treatment conditions: Adderall XR (n=15) versus placebo (n=15). Participants and all research
      team members will be blinded to the assigned treatment condition. Timing of all steps in the
      study protocol will use 'study time', meaning that although patients remain on the drug
      during weekends, only weekdays (Mon-Fri) count when assessing progress through the protocol.
      For example, a patient that started day 1 of the study on a Thursday, would reach day 5 on
      Wednesday the following week. Adderall XR or placebo will be initiated at least 10 days prior
      to the start of rTMS treatment in order to assess side effects and establish stable mood on
      the study drug. In order to study how Adderall XR affects response to rTMS, independent of
      any direct antidepressant effects, patients must exhibit stable mood prior to initiating
      rTMS. IDS-SR30 and HAM-D17 will be repeated on study days 5 and 10 on drug to determine if
      patients have a stable baseline mood (see study schedule chart, below). Patients will be
      considered to exhibit stable mood and qualify for initiating treatment if the IDS-SR30 score
      changes by less than 10% between assessments at study day 5 and 10.

      The investigators predict that some patients may exhibit improvement in IDS score at day 5,
      however, if they exhibit significant additional improvement between day 5 and 10, starting
      rTMS will be delayed until depression scores are stabilized. Specifically, if the mood score
      changes by more than 10%, the Subject will wait an additional 5 days or multiples of 5 days
      up to 15 days as needed, until the weekly change in mood score meets this criterion. The
      investigators predict that few of these treatment-resistant, depressed patients will exhibit
      more than a couple weeks of continuous improvement, but if they do they may be better suited
      by continuing stimulant treatment with their primary provider rather than undergoing TMS.
      Study subjects who no longer complain of depression and no longer meet criteria for Major
      Depressive Disorder (MDD) after initiating treatment (Adderall XR vs. placebo) will be
      removed from the study because rTMS is no longer indicated. For such patients, the blind will
      be broken and they would have the option to continue the study medication at the discretion
      of their primary prescribing physician.

      Participants will be assessed for medication side effects alongside IDS-SR30 assessments and
      rTMS will begin once they exhibit stably depressed mood. Participants in both treatment
      groups will begin a standard, FDA approved rTMS treatment protocol, delivered with a Magstim
      or Magventure device. Participants will be assessed for side effects at each rTMS treatment
      session. Participants will complete the IDS-SR30, HAM-D17 and a Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for
      overall tolerability after 5 and 10 rTMS treatment sessions. After completion of the 10th
      treatment session and the final set of assessments, all study related activities will be
      complete and the blind will be broken.

      Based on our recent observational study, the investigators predict that the effect Adderall
      XR on rTMS outcome will be most apparent early in the treatment course. Moreover, in our
      standard treatment algorithm, rTMS treatment parameters are generally kept uniform during the
      first 10 treatments and begin to diverge thereafter depending on treatment response. Thus,
      examining outcomes after treatment 10 will yield the best controlled dataset for detecting a
      significant effect of the study drug. Patients may complete additional rTMS treatments at the
      discretion of the treating physician, and may elect to continue taking the study drug at the
      discretion of their prescribing psychiatrist. Therefore, patients that exhibit significant
      improvement in depression while taking Adderall XR would have the option to continue beyond
      the initial 10 treatments. Otherwise, patients will discontinue the study medication at this
      point and given the low dose and short duration of treatment, it is not anticipated that
      patients will require any need to wean off the study medication.
    
  