
    
      Medical complications, both minor and serious, play a large role in post-stroke management
      and outcome. Infection, especially pneumonia and urinary tract infections (UTI), is one of
      the most common medical complications of stroke. In addition, immunosuppression secondary to
      stroke may increase the risk of infection after stroke, and fever secondary to infection may
      result in poor outcomes. UTIs occur in 3 to 16% of patients within the first week to month
      after a cerebrovascular event. Compared with patients who do not develop post-stroke UTIs,
      those who do have a UTI have poorer outcomes; such patients have an approximately 3-fold
      increased odds of a higher mRS, and a 4.5-fold higher odds for the combined endpoint of death
      or disability.

      Between 15% and 25% of all hospitalized patients receive short-term indwelling urinary
      catheters, often unnecessarily. In the general medical population, the risk of UTI ranges
      from 3%-10% per day of catheterization, and approaches 100% after 30 continuous days.
      Catheter-associated UTI (CAUTI) is the second most commonly reported healthcare-associated
      infection in acute care hospitals, accounting for approximately one-third of all infections
      reported to the National Healthcare Safety Network in 2006-2007, and is the leading cause of
      secondary nosocomial bloodstream infections. CAUTIs have been estimated to cost $589 to $758
      per infection, and between 17 and 69% may be preventable.

      The recently released draft guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
      (CDC) for prevention of CAUTI suggest appropriate indications for indwelling urethral
      catheter use, including acute urinary retention or obstruction, need for accurate
      measurements of urinary output in critically ill patients, and prolonged immobilization, but
      an estimated 20 to 50% of hospitalized patients have urinary catheters placed without clear
      indications.

      We will conduct a pilot RCT to determine the tolerability and efficacy of a protocol to avoid
      catheter placement in patients admitted to the UCSF neurovascular service with ischemic
      stroke or intracerebral hemorrhage. There are two study arms: a usual care control group will
      have catheter placement on admission, and the intervention group will not have a catheter
      placed on admission. The intervention arm will be treated using a protocol, developed with a
      multidisciplinary team, and instituted by nurses to avoid the need for catheter placement.
      The sample will be followed during hospital admission, with the main outcome measures being
      the tolerability of the protocol by the nursing staff, patient comfort and the incidence of
      UTI during hospitalization. The subjects will be followed during their hospitalization and a
      follow-up telephone call will be made to them at 90-days post-stroke.

      We hypothesize that limiting the use of Foley catheters to the medical indications noted in
      the CDC guidelines, which is not current standard practice, will decrease the number of
      catheters placed, and thereby reduce the number of UTIs in stroke patients. The ultimate goal
      of this study is to improve clinical outcomes, decrease hospital length of stay, cost of
      care, and time to rehabilitation among patients who suffer a stroke.
    
  