
    
      Surgical site infection following cardiac surgery is source of a significant morbidity and
      mortality. It may occur in patients who present preexisting fragilizing underlying
      conditions, and who suffer a major surgical traumatism, considering the sternotomy, the
      presence of an eventual extracorporeal circulation, the bleeding risk associated to the
      procedure, hypothermia, etc.

      Many risk factors have already been studied, and might be targeted by prevented measures.

      Some of them concern the pre-operative period, related to the patient's underlying
      conditions, the disinfection and eventual decolonisation of the patients; some concern the
      procedure intrinsically, according to the surgical technique preferred; an important role may
      be accorded to the post-operative period, during which a high density of care might be
      responsible of an eventual contamination, recolonisation, or fragilisation of the patients,
      thus making them more susceptible to infection.

      Despite the control of the modifiable risk factors and the application of preventive
      measures, we are facing a progressive increasing in surgical site infection since a few
      months.

      We aim to prospectively and exhaustively evaluate all the risk factors that can play a role
      before, during or after the surgical period, in the routine procedures involving a
      sternotomy, including coronary artery bypass graft, valvuloplasty (except for endocarditis),
      thoracic aortic surgery, and combined procedures, without considering the degree of
      emergency, the presence of an extracorporeal membrane, in every major adult admitted in the
      department of cardiothoracic surgery.

      Those events can be related to the contemporary increased activity in the department of
      cardiothoracic surgery. This hypothesis was advanced as an explanation, but the growing
      number of patients operated during the last months couldn't be the only factor responsible of
      the post-operative infectious complications. Moreover, microbiological epidemiology does not
      simply allow a single targeted preventive strategy because there is no particular agent
      responsible of these infections, and the bacterial populations are globally comparable to the
      classical ones identified in this type of surgery. It is including of large majority of gram
      positive cocci, essentially Staphylococcus aureus (in which we find a quasi absence of
      methicillin-resistance) and epidermis, and a significant prevalence of gram negative bacilli.
      So there is no evidence of an epidemic recrudescence linked to a specific microbiological
      element that could be easily identified.

      Nevertheless, the recommended prophylaxis deserve to be reconsidered, regarding the overall
      emergence in every class of microbial agents, which constitute a real problem that have to
      face each intensive care unit; thus, it seems logical to consider that the same protocol
      applied during several years may lose in efficacy while the epidemiology of resistance is in
      constant and accelerating evolution. So the microbial agents could be identical as those
      classically identified, so may not their susceptibility. At least, we might consider an
      eventual modification of our choices in which prophylaxis should be administered.

      The evaluation starts preoperatively after information of the eligible patients, at the
      admission in the cardiothoracic department, while it can also be initiated during the
      preoperative anesthaesic evaluation. In all case, a moment before admission in operating room
      should be dedicated by a resident in surgery or anesthesiolgy to recense the pre existing
      conditions.

      Then the time of the procedure may involve different actors (perfusionist, all member of the
      anesthesiologic team, surgeons) to examine each step of the procedure, pre-established on a
      checklist to which every one has access (informed file for each patient who enter the
      operating room).

      After surgery, the cares occur in a dedicated unit as long as the patient's status justify
      intensive monitoring, often invasive, and eventual appropriate suppliance mediated by drugs
      or devices according to intensivist praticians in charge, surgeon or anesthesiologist, the
      procedure and the patient's tolerance.

      As early as possible, the discharge of this unit is decided to pursuit in a conventional
      sector, where the patient is in charge of the surgical staff only, with a more moderate
      surveillance but to permit an early rehabilitation, before discharge of the hospital, towards
      a rehabilitation facility, and then return at home.

      The follow-up is commonly accomplished by all the actors taking part in the operating room,
      and after in the intensive care unit. But during hospitalisation or after discharge, it is
      the surgeons' role to diagnose and declare to hygienists all the infectious complications
      that might be considered as surgical site infection. In case of re-admission for
      complications, the hygienist staff should also receive such a declaration.

      In order to collect exhaustively all the interesting variables before, during and after
      surgery, for a period potentially prolonged until 3months, one member of the anesthesiologist
      staff is in charge to audit the follow-up in every care unit inside hospital from admission
      until discharge, and also after check if an eventual event occurred, with the hygienists
      informed of that event.

      An ancillary study might next be conducted, in order to evaluate the pharmacokinetic of
      antibiotic prophylaxis for patient under extracorporeal circulation. It might eventually
      study the modality of continuous administration over a prolonged time during surgery; it
      might include blood samples during procedure and immediately after for repeated antibiotic
      dosages.

      Sites were blood sample is taken can be extracorporeal circulation or catheter used for
      routine monitoring, such as radial artery catheter, for invasive blood pressure monitoring,
      which is a constant mean of surveillance peroperatively and after surgery in intensive care
      unit.

      So this procedure does not implicate further invasive manipulations that are not already in
      part of the routine standard cares.
    
  