
    
      Background: Diagnosis of SpA in the absence of objective signs of inflammation or structural
      damage can be challenging, and especially difficult to differentiate from Fibromyalgia.
      Furthermore, such patients can easily be classified as active and refractory to NSAIDs, and
      inappropriately receive TNF alpha blockers.

      Objective: Primary objective: To evaluate the impact of fibromyalgia in the TNF alpha
      treatment effect in axial Spondyloarthritis in both anti-TNF naïve and - experienced
      patients.

      Methods: Design: Prospective observational national (France) study with 2 visits 3 months
      apart (baseline and 12 weeks after TNF alpha blockers initiation). Patients: 500 SpA patients
      (diagnosis according to their treating rheumatologist) initiating a TNF alpha blocker. Data
      collection: items permitting the calculation of the ASAS criteria, the FIRST questionnaire
      (Fibromyalgia Rapid Screen Test), patients and disease characteristics, disease activity and
      severity items, and the domain leading the doctor's decision for initiating the TNF alpha
      blocker (CRP/Imaging/Symptoms) will be collected at baseline. Effectiveness measures (e.g.
      BASDAI and patient's global) and the doctor's decision to continue/discontinue the TNF alpha
      blocker will be collected during the second visit. Statistical analysis: for the main
      objective, evaluation of the predictive factors of a TNF alpha response in real life, and the
      impact of Fibromyalgia in such response (e.g. logistic regression to estimate BASDAI
      reduction of 50%). For the secondary objectives: evaluation of the relative attributable
      risks of the doctor's domains leading the TNF alpha blocker initiation (Imaging/CRP/Symptoms)
      in order to explain the anti-TNF therapy response; evaluation of the concordance existing
      between the current recommendations and the daily practice.

      Expected results: A positive finding might results into a change in the way of managing
      patients (e.g. carefully checking for the co-existence of fibromyalgia before confirming a
      spondyloarthritis diagnosis, an active disease and also before initiating a specific therapy
      such as biologics.
    
  