
    
      The EFFORT Ultrasound (US) is a sub study of the parent EFFORT trial; a multi-center,
      pragmatic, volunteer-driven, registry-based, randomized, clinical trial of 4000 nutritionally
      high-risk critically ill patients in the intensive care unit. Patients will be randomized to
      1 of 2 treatment groups: a usual care prescription (≤1.2 g/kg/d) or a higher prescription
      (≥2.2 g/kg/d) of protein. Other than the protein amount the patient is randomized to, the
      remainder of care provided to randomized patient will be at the discretion of ICU providers.

      In both groups, targets will be achieved through any combination of enteral nutrition (high
      protein content in high group if available), protein supplements, and parenteral nutrition or
      amino acids only (as clinically available). The only difference between the 2 groups is the
      protein targets that are set. Similar efforts should be used in both groups to achieve at
      least 80% of these targets. The remainder of care provided to eligible patients will be at
      the discretion of ICU providers.

      Patients in the US sub-study will undergo the US measures at baseline (within 24 hours of
      randomization, 10 days post randomization (if still in hospital) and just prior to hospital
      discharge. In the event that hospital discharge is prior to day 10, the day 10 measure will
      not be done. To ensure standardization and quality in the measures, we have created high
      quality training materials and will have US films sent centrally to abstract all
      measurements. In the first 10 patients enrolled in the US sub-study, participating sites will
      conduct a run-in phase where their submitted data will be evaluated for quality and
      reliability (both intra and inter-rater reliability) to ensure subsequent measures are of
      high quality. Nutritional and clinical data for these patients will be included in the parent
      EFFORT trial but the US measures may be omitted if quality is poor.

      The investigator has posed the following research question:

      Primary Sub Study Research Question:

      In critically ill patients with nutrition 'risk factors', what is the effect of prescribing a
      higher dose (≥2.2 grams/kg/day) of protein/amino acid administration compared to the usual
      care prescription (≤1.2 gram/kg/day) on muscle mass and quality, and 60 day mortality?

      The proposed hypothesis:

      Compared to receiving the usual care of protein/amino acids, the administration of a higher
      dose of protein/amino acids (a consequence of having a higher prescription) to nutritionally
      high-risk critically ill patients will be associated with greater muscle mass, improved
      survival and a quicker rate of recovery.
    
  