
    
      The technical quality of coronary artery bypass anastomoses during coronary artery bypass
      grafting is often evaluated by measuring flow rate in grafts using transit time flowmetry.
      Unfortunately, flow rate and flow waveform are poor indicators of the anatomy of anastomoses.
      A better way to evaluate the anatomy of an anastomosis is 3-dimensional imaging. Three
      problems must be overcome in performing epicardial echocardiography on the beating heart:

        1. The transducer must be kept in a steady position relative to the anastomosis for 5 to 10
           cardiac cycles to minimize frame-rate variability.

        2. Ultrasound gel must be kept in contact with the transducer and the region studied.

        3. The transducer must not cause any deformation of the vessels.

      The investigators designed an ultrasound transducer positioning device, the Echoclip device
      (Aalborg Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark), which can stabilize the involved part of the myocardium
      on the beating heart, keep the gel at place, and position the ultrasound transducer correctly
      for imaging. The present study is a feasibility study with the aim to evaluate if the
      echoclip device facilitates imaging of coronary bypass anastomoses during coronary artery
      bypass surgery in humans to the same degree as was shown in animal studies. Ultrasonography
      will be used for visualizing all coronary anastomoses during 100 elective low-risk (logistic
      II EuroSCORE <6) on-pump coronary artery bypass procedures. It will be registered if the
      heel, the central portion and the toe of the anastomosis can be visualized in end-to-side and
      side-to-side anastomoses.Use of the echoclip devise will be considered a success if at least
      80% of all parts of the anastomoses can be visualized either directly or by electronic
      reading using a special developed algorithm that may identify the inner border of the
      anastomoses.
    
  