
    
      Phase III, prospective, multicentric, randomized, controlled, open trial in parallel groups
      with a blind adjudication of all end-point criteria.

      Reference therapy :

      Patients randomized to the control group will receive postoperative treatment according to
      local practice in the participating centers. However, the participating centers will have to
      comply with the following guidelines.

      Adjuvant chemotherapy:

      Adjuvant chemotherapy will be offered in all patients with stage II and stage IIIA cancers.
      Adjuvant chemotherapy will be platin based and include two drugs for a maximum of 4 cycles.
      Each center will have to select one regimen before the beginning of the study for all
      patients included in the study.

      Preoperative chemotherapy:

      Patients who had chemotherapy before surgery can be included in the study provided that they
      had a complete surgical resection. In this case the tumor stage for stratification will be
      the pathologic stage assessed after surgery.

      Stage I cancers:

      Patients with stage I cancer who will not be selected for postoperative chemotherapy can be
      included in the study. Contraindication to chemotherapy Patients with a contraindication to
      postoperative chemotherapy and those who refuse chemotherapy can be included in the study
      provided they fulfill all inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Experimental treatment:

      Experimental treatment is tinzaparin administered subcutaneously once a day at the dose of
      100 IU/Kg during a twelve week period beginning after a maximum period of 8 weeks after
      surgery. Patients randomized in the experimental group will receive adjuvant postoperative
      treatment according to local practice with the same guidelines as in the control group.

        -  Patient follow-up:

      All patients will be followed according to local practice, but at least two outpatient visits
      with a chest radiograph will be planned each year during the three year follow-up period
      after last inclusion.

        -  Duration of the trial:

      Inclusion period (first patient in to last patient in) : 6 years. Patient total follow-up
      (from surgery to end of follow-up) : 3 years after last inclusion (first enrolled patients
      were followed 9 years). Total study period : 9 years.
    
  