
    
      Background

      Several studies have shown that high-intensity interval training (HIIT) is more effective
      than moderate-intensity continuous exercise training (MICE) at improving functional capacity
      and quality of life in stable cardiac patients and can be performed safely.

      It has therefore emerged as a new and important exercise modality in cardiac rehabilitation
      centres all over Europe for stable heart failure patients with LV dysfunction. Its safety and
      efficacy has not yet been tested in patients with acute LV dysfunction due to a myocardial
      infarction. In clinical practice, the difference between acute and chronic left ventricular
      dysfunction is often not made and patients with a condition after a recent myocardial
      infarction and LV dysfunction might be offered the same training regimens as patients with
      chronic heart failure, including HIIT, although its effect on post-infarction remodeling is
      unknown. On the other hand, avoidance of a negative remodeling after an acute myocardial
      infarction is of upmost importance. Therefore, assessment of the influence of HIIT on
      post-infarct LV-remodeling is urgently needed.

      Objective

      To determine the effect of HIIT on left ventricular remodelling (measured by end diastolic
      volume) compared to the effect of the more established MICE training modality in patients
      after a recent myocardial infarction and LV dysfunction.

      Methods

      After a 3-week run-in phase with MICE only training for all patients, patients randomised to
      the HIIT group will perform two HIIT and one MICE session per week while the MICE group
      performs 3 MICE sessions per week. Outcomes will be assessed before and after the 9-week
      intervention. End diastolic volume will be measured by 2-dimensional echography, peak oxygen
      uptake (peak VO2) and exercise capacity by cardiopulmonary exercise testing on a cycle
      ergometer, quality of life by questionnaires, vascular function by arterial stiffness
      measurement, leg muscle cross-sectional area by peripheral quantitative computed tomography,
      and leg muscle function by jumping mechanography. During the 4th and the 12th week of the
      rehabilitation training, heart rate variability will be measured in the morning following
      training, and blood samples will be taken after a training session to analyse markers of
      myocardial stress (Troponin T, MR-proANP, BNP).
    
  