
    
      The proposed study will use a randomized clinical trial design to examine the effectiveness
      of centralized disease management (CDM) versus counseling alone (C) for smoking cessation.
      Hospitalized smokers in 30 rural critical access hospitals will be randomly assigned to
      either CDM (n=303) or C (n=303). Participants in both arms of the study will receive
      in-hospital smoking cessation counseling via telephone followed by 4 outpatient
      telephone-based counseling calls. The content and timing of these counseling calls are
      designed to emulate models of smoking cessation counseling that have been previously shown to
      be effective for hospitalized smokers. For recipients assigned to CDM, the counseling will be
      streamlined to allow time on the calls for specific disease management interventions,
      including screening for contraindications to pharmacotherapy and linking medication choices
      to the smoker's insurance coverage. After completing calls with CDM participants, the Tobacco
      Treatment Specialists will coordinate therapy with the patient's health care providers by
      providing them with brief consultation reports, prepared order sheets for inpatient
      treatment, and outpatient prescription requests. Six months postdischarge, participants in
      both groups will be contacted again, and persistent or relapsed smokers will be offered
      another cycle of the C or CDM intervention.

      Assessments will be conducted at baseline and at months 3, 6, and 12. The primary outcome of
      interest will be biochemically verified 7-day point prevalence abstinence at 12 months.
      Secondary endpoints include number of quit attempts and number of cigarettes smoked (among
      continuing smokers), pharmacotherapy utilization, duration of pharmacotherapy utilization,
      and the extent of discussions with the healthcare provider. We will also examine the marginal
      cost-effectiveness of the intervention.
    
  