
    
      This randomized, two arm clinical trial will evaluate the efficacy of self-administered
      hypnosis for the treatment of hot flashes in postmenopausal women using a 1:1 randomization
      schedule.

      Primary Objective

      To evaluate the efficacy of the self-administered hypnosis intervention for hot flashes
      compared to the self-administered white noise hypnosis.

      Hypothesis 1: Self-administered hypnosis will significantly decrease vasomotor symptoms (hot
      flash score of frequency and severity) compared to the self-administered white noise hypnosis
      at 6 weeks.

      Secondary Objectives

      To evaluate the efficacy of the self-administered hypnosis compared to self-administered
      white noise hypnosis for hot flash activity interference, sleep disturbance, anxiety and
      perception of benefit; with the expectation that there will be significant improvements among
      participants in the self-administered hypnosis group when compared with the self-administered
      white noise hypnosis group at 6 weeks. The investigators will also evaluate the effects of
      self-administered hypnosis compared to the self-administered white noise hypnosis at 12 weeks
      for all secondary outcomes except perception of benefit. Additionally, mediators (perceived
      stress, cortisol, and heart rate variability (HRV)) and moderators (hypnotizability and
      practice adherence) of hot flash reduction will be explored.

      Hypothesis 2.1: Compared to self-administered white noise hypnosis, the self-administered
      hypnosis intervention will result in significant improvements in hot flash activity
      interference, sleep disturbance, and anxiety at 6 and 12 weeks, and perception of benefit at
      6 weeks.

      Hypothesis 2.2 A decrease in perceived stress will be indicated in the self-administered
      hypnosis group due to the intervention, which will correspond and contribute to further
      decrease of the hot flash score at 6 and 12 weeks.

      Hypothesis 2.3 Diurnal salivary cortisol will demonstrate better circadian rhythms (steeper
      slopes) in those with larger hot flash reductions and in the self-administered hypnosis group
      compared to participants in the self-administered white noise hypnosis at 6 weeks.

      Hypothesis 2.4 Self-administration of hypnosis and greater hot flash reductions will result
      in higher resting and 24-hour parasympathetic activity, reflected as higher HRV at 6 weeks.

      Hypothesis 2.5 Higher hypnotizability scores and better adherence rates will be associated
      with greater reductions in hot flash scores in the self-administered hypnosis group.

      Hypothesis 2.6 Self-administered hypnosis will significantly decrease vasomotor symptoms (hot
      flash score of frequency and severity) compared to the self-administered white noise hypnosis
      at 12 weeks.

      Recruitment Plan

      Potential participants will be identified in three ways: postcard mailings and invitation
      letters; physician referrals and IRB approved chart screening; and flyers, advertisements and
      press releases. Physician referrals will come primarily from cancer centers at University of
      Michigan Cancer Center Breast Clinic in Ann Arbor, MI, and the Baylor Scott & White Health
      Center in Waco, TX.

      At Michigan, key eligibility criteria will be used to identify potential eligible women
      through the Honest Broker Office. Charts will be further screened, with IRB approval, for
      eligibility. If eligible, women will be sent an invitation letter where they can opt in or
      out of being contacted to learn more about the study.

      In addition, at Michigan, outreach will occur through obstetrics and gynecology, mammography,
      and internal medicine clinics to enable recruitment of women without a history of breast
      cancer. Mass mailings and local advertisement may also be used.

      At Baylor University, a successful and proven method of accrual has been the use of mass
      mailings and local advertisement (e.g. newspaper, magazines, flyers). Additionally, Dr.
      Elkins is a medical associate with Baylor Scott & White Health Center, which provides a
      direct connection with physicians and medical staff who will provide potential referrals.

      It is expected that each site (Baylor University and University of Michigan) will recruit
      approximately half of the participants. Accrual will be closely monitored and efforts to
      randomize an equal number at each site will be made.

      The study coordinators will provide education about the trial and a consent form for review
      both by phone and at the baseline/consent session. All other education beyond the baseline
      data collection will be provided at the second session 7-30 days later. Both sessions will be
      between 45-60 minutes. Sessions will be held at Dr. Barton's and Dr. Elkin's research
      offices, which each provide privacy, a recliner, a relaxing environment, and convenient
      parking.
    
  