
    
      Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is a chronic, metabolic disease characterized by elevated levels of
      blood glucose (or blood sugar), which leads over time to serious damage to the heart, blood
      vessels, eyes, kidneys, and nerves. People with diabetes can develop an eye disease called
      Diabetic Retinopathy when high blood sugar levels damage the blood vessels in the retina.
      Diabetic Retinopathy if detected early can be treated to preserve the vision. Once the vision
      has been lost it cannot usually be restored. Diabetic retinopathy is an emerging cause of
      blindness in developing countries. Diabetic retinopathy is a common and specific
      microvascular complication of diabetes and remains the leading cause of preventable blindness
      in working-aged people. It is identified in a third of people with diabetes and associated
      with an increased risk of life-threatening systemic vascular complications, including stroke,
      coronary heart disease, and heart failure.

      The worldwide prevalence of diabetic retinopathy (DR) was found to be 34.6%. WHO estimates
      that DR is responsible for 4.8% of the 37 million cases of blindness throughout the world.
      Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is the fifth leading cause of visual impairment and the fourth
      leading cause of blindness in the world (WHO, TADDS). In a study undertaken in an urban
      population in Nepal, M.D.Bhattarai found the prevalence of diabetes among people aged 20
      years and above to be 14.6% and the prevalence among people aged 40 years and above to be
      19%. KAP study in Kathmandu revealed good knowledge, good attitude but poor practice among
      the diabetic group. In contrast, the non-diabetic groups showed poor knowledge but a good
      attitude and poor lifestyle practices. Hence diabetic group needs good practice like early
      diagnosis of DR and self-care, and the non-diabetic group needs knowledge. Simply increasing
      awareness among diabetic patients about the risk factors is not sufficient to improve
      ophthalmic care. Various strategies will be necessary to improve good practice and patient
      visits to an eye clinic on a regular basis.

      Reiyukai Eiko Masunaga Eye Hospital (REMEH) was established in February 2007. REMEH is a
      non-profitable organization. Approximately 411,057 populations of Kavrepalanchowk district
      are the catchment area of REMEH. The REMEH hospital provided OPD service to 43,787 patients
      in 2018 and 54,213 patients in 2019, performed 1,058 cataract surgeries in 2018 and 1,647 in
      2019. Similarly, retina services were resumed from October 2019.

      People are unaware of this new retinal service in the hospital. There was irregular retinal
      service due to the lack of a vitreoretinal surgeon. But now there is regular medical as well
      as surgical retina service. The unavailability of retina surgeons, low literacy rate and the
      lack of awareness programs conducted in the community, costly retinal services, lack of
      proper linkage to diabetic clinics and REMEH could be a reason for the low uptake of retina
      services. The investigators would like to fill this gap and increase the uptake of this
      retina sub-specialty focusing on Diabetes Mellitus to decrease blindness caused by Diabetic
      Retinopathy by augmenting the referral pathway and declining the problem tree.

      Methods:

      This study is operational research that will take place in REMEH. The study design is a
      non-randomized pre and post-intervention study design without a control group. The
      intervention will consist of Health Education to specific health personnel who deal with DM
      patients. A multi-specialty hospital named Scheer Memorial Hospital will be the intervention
      hospital. Through the intervention, a referral pathway will be created to send the diabetes
      patients for diabetic retinopathy screening to REMEH.

      Research Objective:

      Primary Objective: To provide health education intervention to selected health personnel and
      establish a referral pathway.

      Secondary Objective: To increase the attendance of patients with Diabetes Mellitus for
      retinal screening at REMEH.

      Details of the intervention hospital:

      Scheer memorial hospital is a 150-bed hospital with daily 475 outpatient department patients.
      It is located 1.8 km away from REMEH and has 223 staff.

      Intervention:

      Using the complete enumerations of all health personnel treating patients with diabetes,
      below mentioned personnel will have more chances to interact with diabetic patients so only a
      total of 19 health personnel will be chosen. They are 4 physicians, 4 pediatricians, 8
      medical officers, and 3 assistants of Scheer Hospital.

      Actions expected from selected health personnel in Scheer Memorial

        1. Counsel DM patients to visit REMEH

        2. Use referral slip while referring patients to REMEH

        3. Handover DR-related pamphlet to DM patients.

      1. Record total cases referred to REMEH in a month Depending on the feasibility, the Pilot
      may be conducted with another group of doctors, to see if the materials are well understood
      and the duration is optimal. A pilot test will help to see the smoothness of the sessions
      conducted. Necessary modification in the PPT, method of training delivery if needed will be
      done for the training sessions after the pilot Pilot visit: It will include the same IEC
      materials used for intervention. PPT presentation by retina specialist with ample time to
      answer queries. One short video display. Distribution of posters, pamphlets,

        1. st visit: The information sheet with the consent form will be shared. The pre-test will
           be done. PPT presentation by retina specialist with information on DR and importance of
           the timely visit to screen eyes for DM patients will be presented. Distribution of
           posters, pamphlets will be done.

        2. nd visit: Two video presentations about Diabetic Retinopathy will be done. And posters
           and pamphlets will be distributed.

        3. rd visit: Refresher of previous sessions. A small quiz about the knowledge about DR
           among the health personnel will be done and a post-test will be done about the acquired
           knowledge.

      Data collection:

      Baseline data collection has been started from 1st June 2020 and has been continued till 25th
      February 2021.

      Time Management for the manuscript-

        1. Preparation (three months: March 2020 to December 2020) The first 10 months will be used
           for planning, proposal writing, and getting ethical approval from Nepal Health Research
           Council. Scheer Memorial will be requested for approval of the study.

        2. Pre-test and Intervention (February 2021 to April 2021) Baseline data will be collected
           from June 1st to February 25th and the intervention started on 26th February 2021.
           Initially, the Scheer Memorial hospital will be visited by the management team and the
           procedure regarding the project will be explained including the patient referral
           process. Similarly, a register will be maintained at REMEH to get demographic
           information of each and every Diabetes Mellitus patient and information on the referral
           physician/hospitals or self-referral visiting REMEH. Monthly data will be collected from
           both the hospital regarding the number of patients referred for DR screening. Pretest to
           see the smoothness of the training will be done and then monthly once visits will be
           done at Scheer Memorial for intervention.

        3. Data collection (Four months: May 2021 to July 2021) The data will be collected for
           another three months ie: May to July 2021. Data on demographic detail of health
           personnel, pre, and post-test scoring will be collected. Data on demographic details,
           referral hospital, presence and stage of DR, visual outcome of patients will also be
           collected.

        4. Data analysis and Manuscript writing: (2 months: August- September 2021) The last 2
           months August and September will be for data analysis and manuscript writing.

      Study Subjects:

      Target population: Health care personnel Study participants: Selected health care personnel
      from Scheer Memorial Hospital hospital.

      Sampling techniques: Complete enumerations of all health personnel treating diabetic
      patients.

      The procedure of Data Collection: Primary data collection will be done by a single person who
      assists in OPD and who will be designated for data collection. The register will be
      maintained at REMEH and monthly data on the number of DM patients referred for DR screening
      will be collected from Scheer Memorial. These data will later be entered into Microsoft Excel
      files or SPSS on weekly basis.

      Project Strategies /Activities and patient pathway:

      The study will be explained to Scheer Memorial Hospital

        -  Intervention in Scheer Memorial Hospital to do awareness campaigns and refer diabetic
           patients to REMEH.

        -  The health personals will be acknowledged in the study.

        -  A referral slip/ written communication will be made and the referral process will be a
           vice versa feedback process.

        -  Screening of all Diabetes patients will be done at REMEH by dilated fundus examination
           under slit-lamp biomicroscopy.

        -  Dilated fundus examination of diabetic patients visiting the hospital will be done by
           slit-lamp biomicroscopy.

      When the participants enter REMEH for retinal services firstly the patient will be assessed.
      The demographic data along with the referred physician or self-referral will be noted. It
      will include history focused on diabetes and its modifiers. History of patients includes:
      duration of diabetes, past glycemic control (hemoglobin A,1c), Medications (especially
      insulin, oral hypoglycemic, anti-hypertensives, and lipid-lowering drugs), mention whether
      simply diet control or herbal, systemic history (e.g., renal disease, systemic hypertension,
      serum lipid levels, pregnancy, Anemia, Cardiac condition), ocular history smoking history and
      contact information.

      The screening will be made according to WHO tools for assessment of Diabetic Retinopathy.
      Detailed patient assessment will include a complete ophthalmic examination, including visual
      acuity and the identification and grading of severity of DR and presence of DME for each eye.

      Physical examination of the eye will include: Visual acuity, measurement of intraocular
      pressure (IOP), gonioscopy when indicated (e.g., when neovascularization of the iris is seen
      or in eyes with increased IOP), slit-lamp bio-microscopy for anterior segment evaluation, and
      fundus examination.

      The follow-up will be scheduled according to the National Guidelines for Management of
      Diabetic Retinopathy 2017.

      Data entry and Analysis: Data entry and management will be done by the optometrist.
      Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 20 will be used in the end just
      before project outcomes.

      Ethical approvals: Ethical approval taken from Nepal Health Research Council (NHRC)

      Discussion:

      Our study is a non-randomized pre and post-intervention design which includes the
      collaboration between an eye hospital and multi-specialty hospital focusing on the health
      professional as a stakeholder to increase the referral of diabetic. The stakeholders will be
      provided health education on awareness of diabetic retinopathy using PPTs, posters,
      pamphlets, and referral slips. The outcome of the intervention will be assessed by a pre-and
      post-evaluation questionnaire.

      There are few studies similar to ours that have assessed the awareness of physicians by
      calculating the Diabetic retinopathy awareness index. Anwar et al conducted a 27-item
      consented & validated, multiple-choice questionnaire based on physician's characteristics,
      knowledge, and practice of diabetic eye care and challenges faced due to the current DR
      referral system in Pakistan.

      The investigators will use a referral slip as a mode of communication between an
      ophthalmologist and health care personnel with reference to the referral of diabetic
      patients. Storey et al found that written communication between an ophthalmologist and a
      primary care physician (PCP) and referral vice versa was effective to change the behavior of
      the referring physicians. Riordan et al assessed that phone /letter reminder to patient and
      provider level training increased diabetic screening. Printed educational messages or posters
      also increased behavior and attitude change to primary care physicians.

      Grimshaw et al also found that printed educational messages increased the number of referrals
      by primary care physicians similar to our study where the investigators are using referral
      slips to communicate between the ophthalmologist and health Health education intervention
      could be a low-cost solution to improve the awareness, access, utilization of retinal health
      care services; thus, health education intervention could reduce the burden of DR among people
      with diabetes. However, this is an unexplored area in Nepal. Working closely with the
      stakeholders, this study will evaluate the role of health education interventions (which are
      already validated in other low-income settings) to reduce the burden of DR in Nepal.

      Strength and Limitations:

      The strength of our study is that it will be one of the first studies including stakeholders
      to increase the attendance of diabetic retinopathy in Nepal. This helps to reduce the
      unavoidable blindness caused by diabetic retinopathy.
    
  