
    
      Impaired gastric motility and constipation are common issues among patients in the intensive
      care setting. Contributing factors include trauma, multiple surgical procedures, lack of
      ambulation, and the use of opiate analgesics to control pain. Common treatments for altered
      gastric motility and constipation include administration of pro-motility agents, stool
      softeners and bowel stimulants.

      Enteral feeding is considered the safest and most effective way to provide nutrition to
      critically ill patients. Nutrition can be delayed and/or held when impaired gastric motility
      and constipation are present. Studies suggest that delays in the administration of nutrition
      can lead to prolonged ventilator time and increased length of stay in the intensive care
      setting as well as an increase in mortality.

      Naloxone, a competitive opioid antagonist, is most commonly administered systemically to
      counteract the central and peripheral effects of opioids. When administered enterally
      naloxone has also been found to increase gastric emptying. Studies in patients receiving
      enteral feeds with multiple risk factors for altered gastric motility and constipation
      suggest that administration of enteral naloxone can reduce the incidence and extent of
      altered gastric motility and aid in defecation while not totally reversing the systemic
      effects of the opiate being administered. Due to these findings, it appears that enterally
      administered naloxone would provide a significant advantage over traditional gastrointestinal
      stimulants in preventing constipation in critically ill patients receiving continuous
      administration of opiate analgesics. In addition, the use of an enterally administered opiate
      antagonist may also alleviate the need for routine administration of pro-kinetic agents in
      order to promote adequate gastrointestinal motility and toleration of enterally administered
      nutrition. As a result, the comparison of enteral naloxone plus a stool softener versus a
      traditional bowel regimen containing a stimulant and stool softener will aid in assessing the
      effectiveness of opiate reversal locally in the gastrointestinal tract in prevention of
      decreased gastric motility and constipation.
    
  