
    
      There is no current universally-accepted set of functional tests or scoring systems for the
      diagnosis of ETD or measure of the pressure-regulating function of the ET; current practice
      shows that the diagnosis of ETD relies largely on clinical observation. Though there are
      several tests that have been developed to characterize ETF, many of them require specialized
      equipment and trained personnel to administer the test, which are only available in
      specialized testing centers. As such, this study aims to compare the use of the EarPopper
      plus tympanometry to Tubomanometry as a ETF test.

      Tubomanometry is a simple in-office test based on the Politzer maneuver, in which air is
      blown into one of the nostrils while occluding the contralateral nostril and swallowing. The
      tubomanometer consists of an air pump attached to a manometer to adjust the target pressure,
      a two-pronged nose piece to deliver a controlled airflow to the nostrils and an external ear
      canal sensor to detect displacement of the tympanic membrane (TM). Since the middle ear is a
      closed system, displacement of the TM during a swallow is considered a successful ET opening.
      Tubomanometry is easily tolerated by both adults and children is currently used most widely
      to evaluate ETF changes after ET balloon dilation. The EarPopper is, like the tubomanometer,
      a modified politzer device and is used as a treatment device for ET obstruction. It
      introduces a continuous airflow into the nostril and has no external ear canal probe. The
      user perceives the ET opening as a subjective sensation of ear fulness. In this pilot study,
      the investigators will test the feasibility of a new ETF test protocol that will use the
      EarPopper to trigger the opening of the ET followed by a tympanogram to confirm if there was
      a change in middle ear pressure. The investigators expect that the combination of these two
      devices will be comparable to the Tubomanometry test, which will also be performed in the
      same test session.

      Previous studies show that ET opening efficiency is determined by the coordinated function of
      paratubal muscles, especially of the levator (mLVP) and tensor veli palatini (mTVP) muscles.
      Nasal endoscopy video recordings have shown a large variability in soft palate closure, as it
      depends largely on individual effort. For this reason, besides swallowing, the investigators
      will also employ two additional methods to standardize the elevation of the soft palate and
      facilitate the opening of the ET: the Fish maneuver (puffing the cheeks and blowing out
      against a closed mouth) and the EMST-150 device (blowing into the device with a preset low
      and high resistances). As part of the development of this new testing protocol, these three
      maneuvers will be used during the EarPopper plus tympanometry and Tubomanometry tests. They
      will be performed during the EarPopper test, with concurrent video-otoscopy recordings to
      detect movement of the tympanic membrane that could be interpreted as an ET opening, and
      during trans-nasal video-endoscopy to record the movement and positioning of the soft palate.

      The investigators expect that, in comparing the maneuvers performed during EarPopper plus
      tympanometry and Tubomanometry tests, they will assess the feasibility of the protocol,
      define maneuvers to standardize paratubal muscular contraction and determine if the EarPopper
      plus tympanometry measurements are comparable to Tubomanometry.
    
  