
    
      STUDY DESCRIPTION This is a multinational, randomised open label study comparing Prasugrel
      versus Clopidogrel in ACS patients who have high platelet reactivity managed with an early
      invasive strategy (PCI as early as possible and no later than 72 hours from admission).

      Patients identified with low platelet reactivity indicating a good response to Clopidogrel
      will be entered into an observational Registry.

      Sites There will be three participating hospitals, two in the UK and one in Germany.

      Screening All patients admitted to the hospital with suspected ACS requiring early PCI
      (within 3 days of admission) will be screened for entry into the trial.

      The investigator and/or his/her designee will explain the study requirements and procedures
      and obtain consent before any study procedures are performed.

      We estimate approximately 500 patients will be screened. From these a total of 140 patients
      will be randomised, the remaining screened patients will be entered into the registry. There
      will be competitive recruitment and each site is expected to randomise about 40 to 50
      patients each. We estimate 7 to 8 patients randomised per month over a period of 18 months.

      Routine blood tests and investigations will be carried out according to local management
      strategies. The angiogram and PCI procedure are part of the routine management for this
      patient and will be performed according to local policies and procedures.

      A research blood sample will be required to determine platelet activity which has to be taken
      > 2hours from the standard Clopidogrel pre-PCI loading. For most patients this will be taken
      in the catheter laboratory around the PCI procedure. In a few patients who are loaded with
      Clopidogrel close to the PCI procedure the blood samples may be taken in the ward or recovery
      area. Depending on the platelet activity results patients will be either entered into the
      registry or randomly allocated to either Clopidogrel or Prasugrel.

        1. Patients who are good responders to Clopidogrel (platelet reactivity <400 AUC min) will
           be entered into the registry.

        2. Patients who are poor responders to Clopidogrel (platelet reactivity > 400AUC min) will
           be randomised.

      REGISTRY PATIENTS Patients will continue on the standard treatment of Clopidogrel. Data will
      be collected of routine blood tests and investigations, medication and procedures. Additional
      blood samples will be taken (if patient consents) for the biomarker and genetic sub-studies.
      Their GP will be contacted at 30±5 days to see if they are alive.

      RANDOMISED PATIENTS Randomisation Investigators will access an automated telephone or
      automated web service. Investigators will have to confirm patient fulfils the eligibility
      criteria and that consent has been obtained.

      Randomised Treatment Randomised patients will be allocated to receive either open label
      Clopidogrel (Plavix) or Prasugrel (Efient).

      Group 1: Clopidogrel (Plavix)

        -  Day 1 Loading 600mg

        -  Day 2 to 7 day: 150mg o.d.

        -  Day 8 to 30±5 days: 75mg o.d.

      Group 2: Prasugrel (Efient)

        -  Day 1 loading 60mg

        -  Day 2 to 7 10mg o.d.

        -  Day 8 to 30±5 days 10mg od

      Drug Supply and Storage Prasugrel, a commercially available product, will be supplied by Eli
      Lilly which holds the manufacturing license to produce Prasugrel. Clopidogrel (Plavix) will
      be purchased by the hospital Pharmacy through normal purchasing arrangements. All study drugs
      should be stored in an appropriate locked room, under the control of the Hospital Pharmacist
      or the Investigator, in the conditions described in the package insert.

      Hospital Admission to Discharge

        -  Patients will be followed until they are discharged home.

        -  Blood samples taken for platelet activity at 1, 4 and 24 hours, and pre-discharge.

        -  Blood sample for the biomarker substudy will be taken pre-PCI procedure at 24 hours and
           at discharge.

        -  Blood sample for the genetic substudy will be taken at baseline or if not possible
           pre-discharge.

        -  Patients will have instructions on how to contact the research team if they have any
           questions or concerns.

      One Month Follow UP RCT Patients in the RCT will be required to attend the hospital for a
      follow up visit at 30±5 days from date of randomisation. Patients will be assessed by the
      investigator or his/her designee for heart rate and blood pressure, medication tolerance and
      compliance, occurrence of adverse events and clinical endpoints, blood sample for platelet
      activity. At this time the investigator will discuss with the patient their treatment options
      after this period.

      Sub-studies There are two sub-studies proposed (i) biomarker and (ii) genetic. Blood samples
      will be taken and stored locally before shipment to a core lab in Germany.
    
  