
    
      Intensive monitoring of renal function provides an early opportunity to modify or attenuate
      certain risk factors (e.g., nephrotoxin exposure) for AKI. Intensive monitoring of urine
      output (UO) provides a real-time continuous assessment of renal function in the ICU. However,
      the association between intensive monitoring and less-intensive monitoring of urine output,
      with or without close monitoring of serum creatinine (sCr), on susceptibility to AKI and
      outcomes from AKI are unknown. Our preliminary data indicates that intensive monitoring of UO
      is associated with lower hospital mortality as compared to less-intensive monitoring for
      patients that develop AKI. If intensive monitoring of renal function is associated with lower
      risk of AKI and improved outcomes from AKI, then such monitoring techniques could be widely
      used in hospitalized patients including non-intensive care settings to either prevent AKI or
      progression of AKI.

      Therefore, this observational retrospective cohort study aims to compare the outcomes of
      patients undergoing intensive monitoring of renal function (UO and/or sCr) with those of
      patients undergoing less intensive monitoring. Outcomes will include mortality within 30 days
      of ICU admission among critically ill patients with and without AKI. Development of severe
      AKI within 7 days of ICU admission and fluid overload on any ICU day in patients who develop
      severe AKI (KDIGO stage 3) will also be assessed.

      This study will utilize a large, heterogeneous cohort (n=~54,800) of critically ill patients
      admitted to the ICU over 8 year period at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. The
      study population will consist of patients who receive intensive monitoring of UO (defined as
      measured at least every 2 hours within the first 48 hours of ICU admission) and strict
      creatinine measurement (defined as at least daily). Patients who fail to meet criteria for
      intensive monitoring will be controls (less-intensive monitoring group). AKI will be
      diagnosed according to the KDIGO stage 1-3 criteria over a 7-day period. Mortality at 30-days
      from ICU admission will be ascertained using the social security death master file. In order
      to account for indication bias, a propensity score for intensive monitoring will be built
      using various risk factors. Risk and severity of illness-adjusted estimates will be generated
      for susceptibility to AKI and mortality from AKI between intensive and less-intensive
      monitoring groups.
    
  