
    
      Type of study: Randomized, placebo-controlled single-center pilot study Expected duration of
      subject participation: from the start of cardiac surgical procedure to 24 hours after
      separation from CPB.

      Summary description of sequence and duration of all trial periods:

        1. Recruitment and Enrollment: Patients undergoing CABG and/or valve surgery will be
           approached by their anesthesia provider regarding their interest in participating in
           this study. Those who express interest will be screened for inclusion and exclusion
           criteria the morning or day before scheduled surgery. Informed consent will be obtained
           from participants by study personnel.

        2. Preoperative data will be obtained from the electronic medical record and verified with
           the patient: sex, age, height/weight/BSA, type of surgery, preoperative use of ACEi,
           beta-blocker, calcium-channel blocker, amiodarone, LVEF), and mean arterial pressure
           (MAP).

        3. Intraoperative events, Operative and Medication Data: All participants will undergo
           routine induction of anesthesia. Anesthesia will be induced and maintained with
           midazolam, fentanyl, propofol, and isoflurane. The patient will undergo routine
           monitoring for all cardiac surgical patients at DHMC, which includes: arterial line mean
           arterial pressure (MAP, mmHg), central venous pressure (CVP, mmHg), cardiac output (CO,
           liters.min-1) by pulmonary artery catheter (PAC) thermodilution, serum pH, pCO2 and
           lactate by blood gas sampling during the pre-CPB period, during CPB and after separation
           from CPB, and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE). Vasopressor will be initiated and
           titrated to maintain MAP>60mmHg in the pre- and post-CPB period, MAP>50mmHg while on
           CPB, and vasopressor doses will be recorded on the anesthesia record by the providing
           team. After the induction of cardiopulmonary bypass, all patients will undergo
           non-pulsatile hypothermic (32-34 degrees celsius) CPB with a membrane oxygenator and an
           arterial line filter. The pump will be primed with crystalloid and serial hematocrit
           levels will be maintained at > 18%. Perfusion will be maintained at pump flow rates of
           2-2.5L.min1.m2 throughout CPB to maintain mean arterial pressures 50-80mmg. Arterial
           blood gases will be measured every 20-30minutes to maintain arterial carbon dioxide
           partial pressures of 35-40mmHg, unadjusted for temperature (alpha-stat) and oxygen
           partial pressures of 150-250mmHg. An automated anesthesia record keeping system (e-DH,
           EPIC®™) records intraoperative hemodynamics at one-minute intervals and stores them into
           a networked drive. Total CPB time and cross-clamp time and intraoperative medications
           will also be recorded into e-DH.

        4. On the initiation of CPB, participants will be randomized to: Group 1 - Hydroxocobalamin
           (n=20), Group 2 - Methylene blue (n=20) or Group 3 - Placebo (n=20)

        5. 15 minutes after the initiation of CPB, the study drug will be administered
           intravenously through the central venous line by the anesthesia providers.

        6. The study endpoints will be recorded from the anesthesia record above: MAP, CVP, CO,
           serum pH, pCO2 and lactate, vasopressor requirements, LVEF by TEE and end-tidal
           isoflurane dose at the following time points: 30 minutes after the induction of
           anesthesia (A), 15 minutes after the initiation of CPB just before the administration of
           study drug (pre-drug; time B), 30- and 60- minutes after the administration of study
           drug (post drug, times C and D), and 15-30 and 60-90 minutes after separation from CPB
           (post CPB, times E and F).

        7. From the above measurements, calculated endpoints are derived: cardiac index calculated
           by CI=CO/body surface area (BSA), and systemic vascular resistance (SVR in dynes.s.cm-5)
           = (MAP-CVP)/CO x 800, and SVR index (SVRI) = (MAP-CVP)/CI x 800.

        8. Follow-up will be carried out 24 hours after separation from CPB. Most patients are
           extubated in the intensive care unit at this time. The following data will be recorded:
           whether the patient has been extubated, vasopressor requirement, MAP and SVR, and
           adverse events at 24 hours.
    
  