
    
      STUDY DESIGN 5.1 Study Description This open-label, non-randomized phase I trial is designed
      to assess the safety, tolerability and maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/recommended phase II dose
      (RPTD) of TH-302 plus pazopanib in adult subjects with advanced solid tumors.

      Patients will be accrued (enrolled) at Duke University Medical Center. Accrued (enrolled)
      subjects are defined as subjects who give informed consent. Approximately 50 subjects may be
      enrolled to ensure the trial obtains approximately 30 evaluable subjects.

      Evaluable subjects are defined as those subjects who give informed consent, meet
      inclusion/exclusion screening criteria, received study drug treatment and completed the first
      cycle of safety assessments or have dose limiting toxicity that precludes completing the full
      cycle of assessments.

      Please note that the number of accrued subjects exceeds the number of evaluable subjects for
      the following reasons:

        1. Screen failures: Subjects with informed consent that do not meet inclusion/exclusion
           screening criteria.

        2. Treated patients: Subjects with informed consent that meet the inclusion/exclusion
           criteria and received study drug treatment but did not complete the first cycle of
           safety assessments for primary study end points (e.g. those subjects who have disease
           progression or inter-current illness).

      There will be two stages to this Phase I study. Stage 1 will be the dose escalation component
      to determine safety and the recommended phase II dose (RPTD) for TH-302 plus pazopanib
      combination. Dose escalation will begin with cohort 1 and continue as described in Table 5.1.

      Stage 2 will be an expanded cohort which will better describe the tolerability and toxicity
      profile and (2) to further assess biomarkers related to mechanisms of the study agents. The
      treatment schedule will be as follows:

      Table 5.1 Cohort Doses Cohort # subjects Threshold 302 mg/m2, intravenously Days 1, 8, 15
      Pazopanib mg, orally daily

        -  1 3-6 240 800 Starting Dose

             1. 3-6 340 800

             2. 3-6 480 800

             3. 3-6 575 800 Expanded Cohort 12-18 RPTD 800

                Subjects will be treated on 28 day cycles after satisfying eligibility and
                screening criteria.

                Intermediate dosing levels may be explored. Toxicity will be assessed every visit
                and as clinically indicated. Efficacy will be assessed every 2 cycles and as
                clinically indicated.

                Dose Escalation and Treatment Schema

                The NCI Common Toxicity Criteria version 4.0 will be used to grade adverse events.
                The following adverse events will be considered dose limiting toxicity (DLT) if
                occurring during the first cycle of treatment and deemed to be related to study
                treatment:

        -  Hematologic toxicity: Any grade 4 neutropenia, thrombocytopenia or anemia or grade ≥ 3
           neutropenia or thrombocytopenia lasting over 7 days

        -  Any grade 3 thrombocytopenia associated with bleeding

        -  Neutropenic fever

        -  Nausea,Vomiting or Diarrhea grade 3 and lasting 4 days despite adequate supportive
           measures

        -  Grade ≥ 3 ALT or AST elevation > 7 days

        -  Other non-hematologic toxicity grade 3 excluding alopecia, anorexia, fatigue,
           hypertension, isolated lab abnormalities (not clinically significant) and/ rare,
           idiosyncratic reactions to any of the study drugs. Anorexia, fatigue and hypertension
           will be considered as DLT only if they reach grade 4 or are considered unmanageable.

        -  Treatment delay of ≥ 14 days for cycle 2 due to unresolved toxicity

        -  Any treatment-related death or treatment-related hospitalization

      Management and dose modifications associated with adverse events are outlined in Sections 9
      and 10.

      Dose escalation will proceed in Stage 1 within each cohort according to the following scheme:

      Number of Patients with DLT at a Given Dose Level Escalation Decision Rule 0 out of 3 Enter 3
      subjects at the next dose level.

      1 out of 3 Enter 3 more subjects at this dose level. < 1 out of 6 (a) Proceed to the next
      dose level OR (b) This will be the recommended MTD/RPTD if at highest dose level. > 2 out of
      3-6 Dose escalation will be stopped. Three (3) additional subjects will be entered at the
      next lowest dose level (if only 3 subjects were treated at this level).

        -  3 subjects with advanced solid tumors will be accrued at the starting dose level. If no
           DLTs are seen, 3 subjects will be enrolled in the next dose level.

        -  Subjects will be monitored for at least one full cycle before advancement to the next
           dose level.

        -  If one of three subjects has DLT at a given dose level, then an additional three
           subjects will be enrolled at that dose level.

        -  If 1/6 subjects experiences DLT at a given dose level, then escalation will continue to
           the next dose level.

        -  If ≥ 2 out of 3-6 subjects have DLT at any dose level, then that dose level will be
           considered to have unacceptable toxicity, and the next lower dose level will be expanded
           to 6 patients. In this case, the next lower dose level will be declared as the MTD
           provided ≤ 1/6 subjects have DLT (otherwise, dose will be further de-escalated). In
           cases where the only toxicity seen at this lower dose level is Grade ≤ 2, re-escalation
           for intermediate dosing will be considered. If there is uncertainty about study drug
           attribution to DLT then re-escalation to full doses is also permitted.

        -  If > 33% of subjects has DLT at any dose level, then that dose level will be considered
           to have unacceptable toxicity. The dose level immediately below the one with
           unacceptable toxicity will be the recommended phase II dose.

        -  If no unacceptable toxicity is seen at the highest dose level, then the highest dosing
           regimen will be considered the MTD or the phase II RPTD.

        -  Up to 6 subjects will be enrolled at MTD to better define tolerability and safety before
           proceeding to the expanded cohort.
    
  