
    
      FOxTROT is a multi-centre randomised controlled trial (RCT) with the following objectives:

      Primary objectives:

        -  To determine if neoadjuvant chemotherapy with or without panitumumab followed by
           deferred surgery and completion of chemotherapy postoperatively can reduce the 2-year
           recurrence as compared to surgery and postoperative chemotherapy with or without
           panitumumab.

        -  To determine if, in patients with RAS-wt tumours, adding panitumumab to neoadjuvant
           therapy increases anti-tumour activity as measured by tumour shrinkage.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the accuracy of pre-treatment CT scan staging.

        -  To assess the tolerability of the neoadjuvant therapies.

        -  To assess the nature and frequency of surgical complications.

        -  To measure the impact of the treatments on quality of life and on resource usage.

        -  To assess whether adding panitumumab to neoadjuvant CT reduces 2-year recurrence

        -  To assess the prognostic and predictive value of tumour biomarkers

        -  To assess the influence of resectional quality on outcome

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (< 50 year vs
      50-59 years vs 60-69 years vs ≥ 70 years), radiological T-stage (T3 vs T4), radiological
      nodal status (Nx vs N0 vs N1 vs N2), site of primary tumor, proposed chemotherapy (OxMdG vs
      OxCap), and defunctioning colostomy (yes vs no). Planned chemo duration 12 or 24 weeks.

      Patients receive 1 of the 2 following treatment regimens:

        -  OxMdG: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV and folinic acid IV over 2 hours followed by
           fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours on day 1 for 1 course.

        -  OxCap: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral capecitabine twice
           daily on days 1-15 for 1 course.

      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Neoadjuvant therapy:

             -  Arm I: Patients receive 1 of the following chemotherapy regimens:

                  -  OxMdG: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and fluorouracil IV
                     continuously over 46 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 3
                     courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

                  -  OxCap: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral
                     capecitabine twice daily on days 1-15. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 2
                     courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive the following regimen:

                  -  OxMdG + panitumumab: Patients receive panitumumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1
                     followed by oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and fluorouracil IV continuously over
                     46 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 3 courses in the
                     absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Approximately 52 days after beginning chemotherapy, patients in both arms proceed to surgery.

        -  Surgery: Patients in both arms undergo surgical resection of the primary tumour.

        -  Adjuvant therapy: Beginning 4-8 weeks after completion of surgery, patients receive
           adjuvant treatment on the same arm for which they received neoadjuvant therapy.

             -  Patients receive either nine 2-week courses of OxMdG therapy or six 3-week courses
                of OxCap therapy.

      Tumour tissue is collected during surgery and blood samples are collected periodically for
      biomarker studies. Samples are analyzed for the detection of KRAS and NRAS mutations; the
      detection of EGFR expression and/or functional genetic polymorphisms of the EGFR gene via
      PCR; the detection of copy number EGFR gene amplification via fluorescence in situ
      hybridization (FISH); the detection of EGFR activation via immunohistochemistry (IHC); the
      detection of EGFR by downstream parameters via western blotting and/or gene expression
      microarray techniques; for proteomics; and for epigenetics.

      Patients complete quality of life questionnaires prior to surgery, before first course of
      postoperative chemotherapy, and at 1 year following randomization.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 3 years and
      then annually thereafter.
    
  