
    
      Dental caries is a multifactorial bacterial disease that is a significant public health
      problem in many countries.Microbiological and molecular studies show that there are increase
      chances of caries development in pregnant women.The reason is that Pregnancy is a condition
      involving many physical and physiological changes that may lead to many temporary adaptive
      changes in the body structure. This occurs due to release of number of hormones as estrogen,
      progesterone, relaxin and gonadotropin.

      Studies using phenotyping and genotyping techniques have strongly proposed that mother is the
      primary source of infection for children who carry S. mutans strains and saliva is the main
      source of S. mutans transfer.The rate and degree of transmission depends on degree of
      infection of the parent, caretaker or playmate, the frequency of contact with the infant and
      his/her diet and immune status.Recent studies show that infants can get colonize by S. mutans
      from their mothers before the eruption of their primary teeth.

      Hames et al (2006) has found that there is a positive correlation between the infected
      children and their parents with high S. mutans count.It was found that parents who had high
      levels of S. mutans in their saliva were the source of transmission of S. mutans in their
      children concluding that several preventive programs could be beneficial to prevent vertical
      transmission from mothers to infants.

      Studies have also shown that preventive care measures in pregnant women or mother with
      younger children leads to reduction in S. mutans levels in them with subsequent decrease in
      colonization of these microorganisms and caries development.Recent research work has also
      reported that preventive program applied to the pregnant women reduce both the amount of
      plaque and S. mutans colonization and thus has a positive effect.

      There are few interventional studies to determine the effect of oral environment
      stabilization (OES) procedure on S. mutans count in pregnant women through ART. Volpato et al
      (2011) found that there is a decrease in S. mutans colony forming units counts ,with a
      statistically significant difference (p<0.0001),between pregnant women's saliva samples
      before and after OES.And he concluded that OES is an effective clinical procedure in
      diminishing the number of Streptococcus mutans colony forming units in the saliva of
      high-caries risk pregnant women. This management is simple and effective, equivalent to the
      basic treatment needs of pregnant women that look for dental care in public service.
    
  