
    
      Study Description:

      The primary goal of this protocol is to test whether 48 weeks of treatment with tolebrutinib,
      an investigational, orally available, brain-penetrant, Bruton s tyrosine kinase (BTK)
      inhibitor, affects an imaging marker (the paramagnetic rim ) associated with chronically
      inflamed white matter lesions in multiple sclerosis (MS). In this rater-blinded but otherwise
      open-label study, ten adults with MS who are on stable disease-modifying treatment with
      intravenous anti-CD20 antibody therapy and are within 3 months of their most recent dose,
      have at least one paramagnetic rim lesion on 7-tesla magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and
      have developed no new white matter lesions or clinical relapses for at least 6 months, will
      initiate treatment with tolebrutinib 60 mg/day and agree to forego further anti-CD20 or other
      disease-modifying therapy for the duration of the trial. Radiological, clinical, and
      biological outcomes are measured at 24, 48 (primary), 72, and 96 weeks, with additional
      interspersed visits for safety monitoring. Participants may subsequently continue on
      treatment until tolebrutinib is marketed or commercial development halted. A comparison group
      of 10 participants who meet inclusion criteria but choose to stay on anti-CD20 therapy will
      also be enrolled. The primary outcome measure is disappearance of one or more paramagnetic
      rims from white matter lesions identified at baseline. Secondary outcomes include safety and
      tolerability and additional radiological outcomes. Exploratory clinical, radiological, and
      laboratory measures will be obtained to investigate the mechanism of action of tolebrutinib
      and for biomarker development, and to compare the tolebrutinib and anti-CD20 cohorts.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective: To evaluate the effects of 48 weeks of tolebrutinib treatment on the
      paramagnetic rim of chronically inflamed white matter lesions, as seen on 7-tesla MRI.

      Secondary Objectives: (1) To assess safety and tolerability of 96 weeks of treatment with
      tolebrutinib following intravenous anti-CD20 antibody therapy. (2) To assess the possible
      repair of chronically inflamed white matter lesions in which inflammation at the lesion edge
      has been modulated by tolebrutinib.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoint: Per-patient proportion of lesions in which the paramagnetic rim has been
      modulated at the end of 48 weeks.

      Secondary Endpoints: (1) Adverse event tables. (2) Changes in T1 relaxation time within
      paramagnetic rim lesions at the end of 96 weeks, relative to non-rim lesions. (3) Changes in
      size of paramagnetic rim lesions at the end of 96 weeks, relative to non-rim lesions.

      Study Population: Up to 10 adults with multiple sclerosis, targeting at least 7 participants
      who complete 96 weeks of tolebrutinib therapy. Up to 10 adults with multiple sclerosis who
      meet inclusion criteria but choose to stay on anti-CD20 therapy.

      Phase: 2

      Description of Study Intervention: Oral tolebrutinib 60 mg per day for 96 weeks, with
      optional long-term extension and follow-up

      Study Duration: 5 years

      Participant Duration: 96 weeks for the primary study plus optional long-term extension and
      follow-up
    
  