
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. For patients with progressive carcinoid tumors, progression-free survival (PFS defined by
      central review according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1) will
      be compared between patients randomized to treatment with pazopanib (pazopanib hydrochloride)
      versus placebo.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Overall survival (OS) will be compared between treatment arms. II. Objective response
      rate, duration of response, and time to treatment failure will be compared between treatment
      arms.

      III. Progression free survival (PFS) as assessed by central radiology review and local
      radiology review will be compared overall and within treatment arms.

      IV. Safety and tolerability of treatment with pazopanib/placebo will be evaluated within each
      treatment arm.

      V. PFS and other indicators of efficacy will be estimated in patients who crossover to
      pazopanib from placebo.

      VI. To determine the turn-around time for timely adjudicated central review. VII. To
      characterize the nature of discordance between local and central radiology review in
      assessment of progression.

      VIII. To characterize the type and rate of progression in carcinoid (at study entry,
      on-study, and at progression).

      IX. To develop new methods for modeling carcinoid growth and detecting treatment effects, and
      to perform simulations that advance new clinical trial designs to apply to future trials of
      carcinoid therapeutics.

      X. To assess for differences in quality of life (QOL)-related domains between the two
      treatment groups (pazopanib versus placebo).

      XI. To determine if the more brief measures of QOL-related domains provide comparable
      information to that which is provided by the longer assessments (European Organization for
      Research and Treatment of Cancer [EORTC], neuroendocrine tumors [NET]21).

      XII. To provide validation data for the EORTC NET21 module in terms of responsiveness over
      time and differences across arms.

      XIII. To determine whether components of the plasma angiome panel that have been shown to be
      predictive previously (interleukin-6 [IL-6] and vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF]-D)
      are predictive of a therapeutic advantage for pazopanib treatment in baseline samples from
      the patients treated on A021202.

      XIV. To determine whether other components of the plasma angiome panel tested (not IL-6 and
      VEGF-D) are predictive of a therapeutic advantage for pazopanib treatment in baseline samples
      from the patients treated on A021202.

      XV. To evaluate the changes in the plasma angiome markers after treatment with or without
      pazopanib over time.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. PFS at 6 months will be estimated within each treatment arm. II. Biochemical response (for
      chromogranin A, defined as a decrease of 50% or more in chromogranin A levels from baseline
      and for 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid [5-HIAA], defined as a decrease of 50% or more in urinary
      5-HIAA levels from baseline) will be compared between treatment arms among patients with
      elevated baseline levels of chromogranin A (CGA) and 5-HIAA.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive pazopanib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. At the time of progressive disease,
      patients may cross-over to Arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 5 years.
    
  