
    
      Objectives The primary purpose of this study is to examine the effectiveness of tPA 2.0 mg as
      compared to 1.0 mg in restoring hemodialysis catheter (HDC) function after blood occlusion.

      Specifically, the study aims to:

        1. Examine the risk reduction (absolute and relative) in HDC occlusion that is associated
           with the administration of 2.0mg tPA as opposed to 1.0 mg tPA in HD patients

        2. Compare the median catheter removal time between hemodialysis (HD) patients who
           experienced HDC occlusion and were managed with tPA 2.0 mg and those who were managed
           with tPA 1.0 mg.

        3. Compare the average number of tPA repeats between HD patients who receive 2.0 mg and
           those who receive 1.0 mg dose.

        4. Compare the rate of HDC stripping between HD patients who experienced HDC occlusion and
           were managed with 2.0 mg tPA and those who were managed with 1.0 mg tPA.

      Hypotheses

        1. Patients who receive tPA 2.0 mg dose for the management of their HDC blood occlusion
           will experience a higher rate of HDC function restoration than patients who receive tPA
           1.0 mg dose.

        2. Median time to HDC catheter removal after successful management of HDC occlusion with
           tPA will be higher among those who receive 2.0 mg tPA than those who receive 1.0 mg tPA.

        3. b) The number of repeats of tPA administration will be less among patients who receive
           2.0 mg dose than it is among those who receive 1.0 mg dose.

        4. The rate of HDC stripping for HD patients who experienced catheter occlusion will be
           lower among patients who received 2.0 mg tPA than it is among patients who received 1.0
           mg tPA.

      Methods and Materials

      A double blind, randomized, controlled clinical trial will be conducted on consenting
      hemodialysis patients who will require tPA management of their HDC dysfunction. All patients
      will be recruited from a regional out-patient HD unit in southwestern Ontario. Eligible HD
      patients will be approached with verbal and written explanation about the research, and will
      be invited to sign a written consent to participate in the study. All consenting patients
      will be randomly assigned to either of the two study groups, based on allocation concealment
      principles, immediately after they experience HDC occlusion due to a blood clot. Patient
      recruitment will continue until a minimum sample of 75 participants per group is achieved, to
      provide a total minimum sample of 150 participants.

      Recruitment Protocol All study participants will be recruited from the out-patient HD unit at
      our region, which provides HD services to an average of 250 patients at any given year. Prior
      to the initiation of the study, the research team will hold an information session to orient
      the staff at the HD unit to the study protocol. All HD patients who attend our regional unit
      will be approached with information about the study, its purpose and protocol, and will be
      asked to provide voluntary written consent to participate in the study. Consents will be
      sought from all prospective participants before an HDC occlusion takes place. Once an HDC
      occlusion is reported and the patient is deemed by the nurse to be eligible for tPA
      management according to the guidelines of the Medical Directive for tPA administration, the
      patient will be allocated to either of the study groups by a research assistant. Patient
      allocation will be performed based on a predetermined concealed random sequence to ensure
      that neither the patient nor members of the research team are aware of the patient random
      allocation to either of the study groups. To ensure that the two groups have an equal number
      of participants, block randomization approach with five participants per block will be
      implemented. In order to enhance the allocation concealment process, the random codes will be
      generated by a colleague who is not a member of the research team using a computer program.
      Each random allocation code will be kept according to the order of its sequence in an oblique
      envelope at a locked cabinet in the HD unit.

      Data Collection and tPA Administration Protocols Once allocated to a treatment group, the
      patient will be blindly given the treatment according to the medical directive of the HD unit
      for the administration of tPA for the management of HDC occlusion. To ensure blinding of
      treatment, the two groups will be coded as "A" and "B" and these codes will only be known to
      the pharmacist (not involved with the study) who will pre-fill the tPA syringes and label
      them accordingly. Thus, the pharmacist will prepare all 1.0mg and the 2.0mg doses in 2.0ml
      syringes; whereby the 1.0mg dose will be prepared in a concentration of 1.0mg/2.0ml, while
      the 2.0mg dose will be prepared in a concentration of 2.0mg/2.0ml. The varying syringe
      concentrations will ensure that both doses are identical to ensure the blinding of the two
      study groups. Once ready to administer the tPA according to the medical directive, the HD
      nurse will instill the prefilled tPA solution into the occluded HDC lumen and allow it to
      dwell in the lumen for 30 minutes. The HD nurse will then withdraw 3.0 ml of blood from the
      occluded lumen and assess for patency. If there is a backflow and the HDC is deemed patent,
      the HD nurse will recommence HD. If the HDC lumen is not patent after the first instill, the
      HD nurse may repeat the tPA administration procedure up to a maximum of a total of three
      times before a referral for therapeutic radiology is arranged to strip the catheter. Data on
      the total number of repeats, the outcome of each repeat, and the outcome of the radiology
      will be collected. The nurse initiating the tPA medical directive will document the
      administration of tPA in the patient medication record according to their volume (i.e., 2ml
      pre-filled dose). He/she will also communicate the procedure to the Research Assistant for
      the study on a separate log book that will be kept at the nurses' station of the HD unit. The
      Research Assistant will review the log book on regular basis to collect data on the tPA
      administration procedure, demographic information, prognostic factors, participants' relevant
      medications and blood labs, and medical history. Patients will be followed up after tPA
      management until he/she reaches the study endpoint.
    
  