
    
      The INTENSITY-HIGH study primarily seeks to explore the physiological mechanisms (mainly
      using endothelial function and vascular imaging of inflammation) by which secondary
      prevention in patients with established cardiovascular disease may benefit from even lower
      LDL levels using PCSK9 therapies. This will then set the basis for potential changes to
      guidelines about what a "healthy cholesterol" level should be and the targets these should be
      achieving, or indeed if there is a plateau beyond which there is no further benefit on
      surrogates of CV disease.

      Endothelial function can be measured in the peripheral vasculature in a number of different
      ways, which include venous occlusion plethysmography with intra-arterial infusions of
      acetylcholine, ischemia flow-mediated endothelium-dependent dilatation (FMD) of the brachial
      artery, reactive hyperemia peripheral arterial tonometry (RH-PAT) and others. A venous
      plethysmography measure of forearm blood flow to intra-arterial acetylcholine infusion is the
      most sensitive and direct measurement of endothelium release of nitric oxides, but is more
      invasive than other techniques. FMD is non-invasive and measures changes in the brachial
      artery to ischemia. It is acknowledged that whilst FMD has a larger coefficient variation and
      is more technician dependent, it is more patient-friendly in that it is of shorter duration
      procedure wise, is non-invasive and is repeatable over a short period; therefore we have
      employed this technique in this study to improve chances of patient acceptability. RH-PAT is
      an alternative non-invasive assessment which measures volume changes at the fingertip (a
      surrogate of reactive hyperemia), is easy to implement and is not operator dependent.
      However, as yet it remains not well validated. Therefore, flow mediated dilatation has been
      selected for this study.

      Metabolically active inflammatory cells utilize more glucose than non-activated cells, and
      the degree of metabolic activity can be measured using 18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron
      emission tomography/computed tomography (FDG-PET/CT). Cellular FDG uptake is largely
      irreversible and correlates with glucose usage and macrophage numbers in both tumor cells and
      atherosclerotic plaques [38, 39]. FDG PET imaging has been successfully used to determine
      culprit plaques responsible for TIA and stroke [4042]. The signal has also been shown to be
      responsive to therapy, with clear reductions in FDG uptake noted in both humans and animal
      models of atherosclerosis [43, 44]. In addition, very recently, it has been shown that
      FDG-PET/CT is a reliable technique to assess changes in plaque structure with good
      reproducibility [40]. Taken together, these findings suggest a role for FDG PET/CT imaging in
      the assessment of the antiinflammatory potential of novel compounds such as PCSK9 therapies.
    
  