
    
      Adolescent overweight and obesity (AOB; i.e., a body mass index (BMI) greater than 85th
      percentile for age, height, and gender) affects 34.5% of adolescents. Over 80% of obese
      adolescents will become obese adults and experience increased risk of cardiovascular disease,
      type 2 diabetes, gallbladder disease, and some forms of cancer. Because of contraindications
      and hesitations to pursue psychopharmacology or bariatric surgery, behavioral interventions
      are the first-line treatment for AOB. Unfortunately, adolescent outcomes from pediatric
      behavioral obesity treatments are poor. In fact, the modal weight loss in behavioral
      interventions is less than a single BMI point, and many participants lose no weight at all.
      Outcomes in adolescents are worse than those found in younger children and adults. Notably,
      the vast majority of existing interventions tested in adolescents are designed for younger
      children, which may preclude an adolescent's success in these interventions. Successful
      behavioral AOB interventions may require augmentations that address developmental concerns
      unique to adolescence. For example, research has shown that, in contrast to younger children,
      many adolescents are making their own food decisions and are thus more likely to engage in
      problematic eating behaviors during treatment. As a necessary step towards developing
      specialized interventions for AOB, it is critical to understand the underlying mechanisms of
      continued engagement in problematic eating behaviors during AOB interventions.

      Three types of problematic eating behaviors are strongly linked (cross-sectionally and
      longitudinally) with AOB. First, reward-driven overeating (i.e., frequently eating
      energy-dense foods) results in excess calorie intake, which, in turn, produces adiposity
      during childhood and adolescence. Second, loss-of-control eating (LOC; the experience of not
      being able to stop eating once started) is an exceptionally strong predictor of excess weight
      gain, i.e., an additional 2.4kg per year compared to peers without LOC. Third, rigid dietary
      restriction involves skipping meals and cutting out food groups for the purposes of weight
      regulation, but instead results in intense feelings of deprivation. As a result, rigid
      dietary restriction has the paradoxical effect of calorie overconsumption, excess weight
      gain, and poor outcomes from pediatric obesity treatment. Taken together, findings indicate
      that elucidating the drivers of these three problematic eating behaviors is critical to
      improving AOB treatment outcomes.

      An aberrant decision-making framework represents an attractive paradigm for understanding the
      above-described problematic eating behaviors, especially given that they all run counter to
      adolescents' intentions and well-being. There are several aberrant decision-making processes
      endemic to the adolescent developmental period. Three of these processes in particular appear
      to be directly linked to the three problematic eating behaviors described above. To the
      extent that aberrant decision-making produces problematic eating behavior, aberrant
      decision-making can also be hypothesized to predict poor weight loss outcomes. Below, three
      aberrant decision-making processes and their links to problematic eating behavior are
      described.

      Increased delay discounting. Delay discounting refers to the tendency to discount greater,
      later rewards in favor of smaller, sooner rewards. A combination of greater sensitivity to
      reward and slow development of self-regulatory neural processes contributes to especially
      high discounting rates in some adolescents. Relatively higher discounting rates may produce
      reward-driven eating, i.e., frequent consumption of energy-dense foods (e.g., high-fat, high
      sugar foods), while discounting the future reward (e.g., weight loss) that would be derived
      from forgoing immediate gratification. Indeed, a recent meta-analysis concluded that higher
      discounting rates were strongly cross-sectionally linked with AOB. Although behavioral weight
      loss programs discourage consumption of energy-dense foods, psychological strategies for how
      to prioritize long-term over short-term rewards are not provided. Thus, delay discounting
      likely contributes to continued reward-driven eating during treatment. However, no studies
      have tested whether delay discounting predicts reward-driven overeating (and its effect on
      weight) during AOB treatment.

      Affect-driven impulsivity. Affect-driven impulsivity refers to a tendency to choose
      maladaptive behaviors geared towards the immediate cessation of a negative affective state,
      despite negative consequences. Affect-driven impulsivity likely drives continued LOC eating
      during treatment, precluding successful weight loss. Affect-driven impulsivity is a
      cross-sectional predictor of AOB, but it may be a particularly strong driver of LOC eating
      because compulsive eating serves the function of reducing distress. Although no studies have
      compared adolescents with and without LOC on affect-driven impulsivity, adolescents with LOC
      eating demonstrate overall higher levels of emotional reactivity and emotional eating. LOC
      eating resulting from affect-driven impulsivity may continue to occur during treatment
      because little treatment content focuses on skills for tolerating negative affect. Dr.
      Manasse's work demonstrates that increased affect-driven impulsivity predicts poor outcomes
      from adult binge eating treatment. However, no studies have examined whether affect-driven
      impulsivity predicts (1) engagement in LOC during treatment or (2) poor AOB treatment
      outcomes.

      Perseverative decision-making. Perseverative decision-making is characterized by weakened
      ability to stop engagement in habitual behaviors despite changing contingencies. Highly
      perseverative decision-making may contribute to repeated engagement in rigid dietary
      restriction (i.e., setting rigid calorie goals, cutting out specific foods) that increase
      deprivation. This deprivation, in turn, leads to episodes of overeating that preclude
      successful caloric restriction. Those who show highly perseverative decision-making continue
      engaging in this rigid dietary restriction behavior despite the fact that it ultimately
      delivers the opposite of its intended effect. Indeed, perseverative decision-making and rigid
      dieting are associated with the presence of LOC eating, and perseveration is
      cross-sectionally associated with obesity in adolescence. Despite the established links
      between perseverative decision-making with unhealthy dieting and excess weight, no studies
      have examined whether perseverative decision-making underlies continued engagement in
      problematic dietary restriction during treatment and predicts poor outcomes.

      To inform the development of tailored intervention approaches, the current study, funded by
      the National Institutes of Health, aims to elucidate the specific aberrant decision-making
      processes associated with three problematic eating behaviors and weight loss outcomes.
      Results from the study will provide specific direction for what components (e.g., strategies
      for tolerating emotional distress or promoting flexible thinking) should comprise a future
      decision-making intervention for AOB and for whom (e.g., those with LOC, those who engage in
      problematic restriction) certain components would be most relevant. Given that LOC eating is
      a robust predictor of excess weight gain but only 20-30% of those with AOB endorse LOC
      eating, the study team will oversample individuals with clinically significant LOC, i.e., the
      study will recruit a total of 80 adolescents (ages 14-18) with overweight/obesity, half of
      whom (n=40) endorse clinically significant (i.e., at least once weekly) LOC eating and the
      other half of whom (n=40) endorse subclinical LOC or no LOC. All participants will receive a
      16-week group-based, remotely delivered behavioral weight loss intervention and complete a
      6-month follow-up. Decision-making measures will be administered at baseline. Problematic
      eating behaviors and weight will be assessed at all time points.
    
  