
    
      Significance of Research Question: TRD patients present with the inability to disengage from
      negative perceptions and memories, which further dysregulates their mood and prevents them
      from engaging the outside world with flexibility. The investigators will demonstrate that
      LPP, a measure of early emotional processes, is a valid target for treating TRD. Intermittent
      bilateral EpCS will directly engage attention allocation networks, modulate LPP and decrease
      depressive symptoms. Using Bayesian optimization tools, the investigators can explore a
      larger number of settings than otherwise possible using classic parametric permutations, and
      reliably establish a sustained effective target engagement over time. Machine learning and an
      adaptive clinical trial design will offset the relatively small sample size, enable
      individualized treatments and help demonstrate that intermittent bilateral EpCS is an
      effective antidepressant treatment option for severe and chronic depression.

      Objectives (confirm target engagement and demonstrate clinical relevance): To examine the
      relationship between reductions in LPP and clinical improvement. The investigators will
      define the optimal interval for adjusting EpCS settings over time and key design elements for
      a more definitive randomized control trial (RCT). This study also aims to explore other
      electrophysiology and behavioral measures that can add to the adaptive stimulation parameters
      adjustments method.

      Hypothesis: Severe TRD patients with chronic intermittent EpCS therapy will show a sustained
      lowering of LPP (replication of target engagement) over a 6-month period, and this change
      will be related to decreases in Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD24). This pattern
      will demonstrate that target engagement (lowering of LPP) is a key mechanism of
      antidepressant treatment with EpCS.
    
  