
    
      It is very important to understand the influence of drug interactions of patients in clinical
      anesthesia. However, there were only a few quantitative studies on the pharmacodynamics of
      different drug combinations and patient responses. In recent years, the investigators have
      innovatively utilized the response surface models in patients receiving painless
      gastro-intestinal endoscopies. Appropriate pharmacodynamic models of clinical anesthesia for
      these procedures provide observation, evaluation, and prediction of the pharmacodynamic
      effects of a combination of clinical anesthetics to such patients. Patients with endoscopic
      retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) and bronchoscopy often have a need for painless
      service, but current clinical studies of using a pharmacodynamic model were lacking in these
      patients. The investigators therefore design a two-year prospective, observational project to
      investigate the optimal drug concentration combinations for the shortest wake-up time,
      adequate analgesia, and appropriate depth of anesthesia for sedative endoscopic ERCP and
      sedative bronchoscopy using pharmacodynamic models. Multidimensional surface charting will be
      performed by inputting diversified parameters to predict the drug interactions of the model
      groups. In this prospective, observational study, the investigators plan to enroll 40 ASA
      Class Forty ASA Class II-III, aged 20-80 adult patients who require sedative ERCP and
      bronchoscopy. Moderate to heavy sedation will be performed only after patients' inform
      consents and approval of the institutional ethics committee. The investigators plan to
      complete this series of studies within two years: The first year: ERCP(10 patients) and
      broncoscopy (10 patients). The second year: ERCP(10 patients) and broncoscopy (10 patients).
      Using response surface models, this study will offer us novel information about patients
      during procedures which may substantially increase the anesthesia quality and outcome of
      sedative ERCP and broncoscopy. Physiological signals such as anesthesia depth, drug
      concentrations and dosages, alertness/sedation score, heart rate, blood pressure, peripheral
      oxygen saturation, and physical activity responses during painless procedures will be
      collected and then the above data will be applied to the response surface models. Then the
      investigators will find the most appropriate anesthetic response surface which may delineate
      the effects of drug combinations, and will further improve the anesthesia safety and quality
      for painless ERCP and bronchoscopy patients.
    
  