
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK) and
      pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of GSK2339345 in healthy subjects. GSK2339345 is a blocker of
      neuronal voltage gated sodium channels in development for the treatment of chronic cough,
      excessive cough and post-viral and viral (acute) cough. Inhaled pan NaV inhibitors are
      associated with oropharyngeal sensation perturbation and so this study will establish the
      potential local sensate effects of GSK2339345 at multiples of the predicted inhaled
      therapeutic dose. This study also aims to define the maximum tolerated dose of GSK2339345.

      Part A of this study will be conducted in healthy volunteers to investigate the safety and
      tolerability of GSK2339345, in particular examining oropharyngeal sensation perturbation.
      Part A is an open label, oral, single-dose escalating rinse, gargle and spit study.
      Assessments of sensate changes will include 4 point scale, assessment of sensation on base of
      tongue, sensation of temperature, assessment of taste, a water swallow test and assessment of
      potential paraesthesias. Part A will also include PK assessments to investigate the PK
      profile of GSK2339345.

      Part B of this study is a randomised, double blind, placebo controlled, inhaled dose
      escalation study over two study days per dose to examine the possible adverse events such as
      transient mouth, throat and upper airway numbness in healthy volunteers. Similar assessments
      of sensations to those used in Part A will be performed. The potential for systemic
      cardiovascular (CV) or central nervous system (CNS) effects will also be assessed.
      Pharmacodynamic effects of GSK2339345 will be investigated in Part B using a capsaicin cough
      challenge. The study will investigate whether GSK2339345 can alter the capsaicin cough
      threshold (as determined by the capsaicin concentration required to induce 2 or more (C2) and
      5 or more (C5) coughs) in healthy volunteers. Part B will also include PK assessments to
      investigate the PK profile of GSK2339345. Placebo will be used as a control and nebulised
      lidocaine will be used for control and blinding purposes only.
    
  