
    
      Specific Aims: Wolfram syndrome (WFS) is a rare (1 in ~770,000) autosomal recessive genetic
      disease characterized by early childhood onset insulin dependent diabetes, optic nerve
      atrophy, vision and hearing loss, diabetes insipidus and neurodegeneration, resulting in
      death in middle adulthood, typically due to brainstem atrophy-induced respiratory failure 3.
      There are no interventions to slow or stop this devastating deterioration. However, much is
      known about the mechanisms underlying these effects. The causative gene (WFS1) was identified
      by the investigators group in 19984, and a number of loss-of-function mutations have been
      described 4-6. Cell 7 and animal models 8 have determined that WFS1 encodes an endoplasmic
      reticulum (ER) membrane-embedded protein called wolframin 9, and that mutant forms of the
      WSF1 protein lead to disturbances of ER calcium homeostasis, driving ER stress-mediated
      apoptosis 10-12. This process kills insulin producing pancreatic β-cells, leading to
      diabetes. WFS1 is also expressed throughout the brain, and cell death via ER stress is
      thought to underlie neurodegeneration in WFS 6,13, as well as being implicated in more common
      neurodegenerative and endocrine (Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes) diseases 14. Work in animal
      models of WFS is progressing rapidly towards the identification of viable interventions for
      the ER stress related cell death12. Some neurological features of the disease may be feasible
      to target and monitor in clinical trials, due to the fact that diabetes is already present
      when a patient is diagnosed with WFS. Unfortunately, there is limited information on the
      pattern of brain changes associated with WFS. Although clinical retrospective data suggest
      that neurological features occur late (15-30 yrs of age; Fig 10) in the disease process15,16,
      direct measurements (Preliminary Data) suggest that certain neurological abnormalities are
      present at the earliest time point assessed, suggesting altered neurodevelopment, whereas
      others follow a more neurodegenerative pattern. These distinctions are fundamentally new
      insights into this disease and may shape treatment, biomarker selection and the investigators
      understanding of the impact of ER stress on the developing brain. A better understanding of
      the neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental changes in early WFS is a necessary first step
      towards being ready for future clinical trials. Thus, the primary goal of this proposal is to
      determine the pattern of brain alterations in WFS over time. Only by understanding the
      natural history of brain functional and structural changes in WFS will the investigator be
      prepared to evaluate any benefits of novel treatments. The investigator will perform
      cross-sectional and longitudinal assessments of youth with WFS, targeting sensitive neural
      systems with quantified neuroimaging and relevant behavioral measures. In addition, the
      investigator will validate a new WFS severity rating scale (WFS Unified Rating Scale or
      WURS), which will have utility in future multi-site or treatment studies. Preliminary data
      support the feasibility of this approach and its potential to generate important new
      information about neurologic patterns in WFS. A better understanding of the trajectory of ER
      stress-mediated brain changes in WFS may be relevant to other more common diseases. Specific
      aims follow:

        1. To determine the pattern of neurologic impairment in WFS and its association with
           disease severity in a cross-sectional sample. The investigator hypothesizes that
           specific brain measures will be altered earlier and will associate more closely with
           overall disease severity than others in WFS. The investigator proposes that regional
           white matter microstructural integrity in the cerebellum, optic nerve area, brain stem
           volume, balance and possibly anxiety will distinguish individuals with early WFS from
           controls and will correlate with severity on a standardized rating scale. To test this
           hypothesis, the investigator will perform quantified neuroimaging, cognitive, motor,
           psychiatric, visual and auditory evaluations on individuals with WFS, preferentially
           recruiting those earlier in the disease process, (n=30; age 5 and older, within 10 years
           of diabetes onset) and on matched healthy controls (n=30) and controls with Type 1
           Diabetes Mellitus (T1DM; n=30).

        2. To determine the longitudinal pattern of neurologic deterioration in WFS. The
           investigator hypothesize that measures specified in Aim 1 will show detectable change,
           and that the most sensitive measures will show change in the early Wolfram patients
           compared to control groups. To test this hypothesis, WFS, T1DM and control participants
           will be re-assessed annually for 3 years. Variables of interest identified in
           cross-sectional analyses will be targeted and compared between groups and correlated
           with change in disease severity as measured with the investigators standardized rating
           scale.

        3. To explore brain structure-function relationships within WFS. To determine if
           neuroimaging measures identified in Aims 1 and 2 have functional correlates, the
           investigator will explore how differences (cross-sectional data) or change (longitudinal
           data) in neuroimaging variables correlate with differences or change in selected
           functional measures. Such data would help build hypotheses about the neural
           underpinnings of functional changes in WFS. For example, the investigator speculates
           that the integrity of the brainstem and cerebellum will be related to gait and balance
           and that optic nerve area will be related to visual acuity.
    
  