
    
      BACKGROUND Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) is the gold-standard test for investigating upper
      gastrointestinal (GI) tract pathology. The learning curve for EGD is generally steep and it
      is often performed by trainees at the mid stages of core training as well as nurse
      endoscopists. Currently the Joint Advisory Group for GI endoscopy (JAG) recommends a minimum
      number of 200 procedures to acquire the skills and perform endoscopy independently. However,
      there has been very little research done to set the standard required to measure EGD
      performance. The only validated quality indicators in EGD include the successful J-manoeuvre
      rate and D2 intubation rate, which reflect very basic skills and do not measure diagnostic
      ability. This contrasts with key performance indicators (KPI) for colonoscopy, for which
      extensive research has led to development of formal quality performance indicators. In
      colonoscopy formal quality indicators include (i) cecal intubation rate, (ii) adenoma
      detection rate, (iii) rectal retroversion rate, (iv) colonoscopy withdrawal time, (v) polyp
      retrieval rate, (vi) post-colonoscopy colorectal cancer rate and (vii) perforation rate. This
      has allowed researchers to demonstrate that poor quality colonoscopy leads to an increase in
      the incidence of interval cancers.

      Similar benchmarks have not been set for the upper GI tract. A recent UK study revealed that
      7.7% cases of upper GI cancers were missed on previous EGD and that there was a correlation
      between missed cancer and high number of procedures per lists and hence, arguably, those
      performed under user time pressure. This is in line with studies on other Western populations
      indicating that between 5.3% and 13.9% of patients with upper GI cancers have had normal EGD
      reported within the previous 3 years. Given that gastroscopy is the most commonly performed
      procedure in endoscopy units in the UK and its demand is increasing, there is an urge to
      identify diagnostic KPI to measure diagnostic skills, to improve quality of the endoscopies
      and to reduce the rate of missed diagnoses. Furthermore, such minimum quality standards are
      extremely important to counteract the potential negative effects on the performance of the
      pressure faced by endoscopy departments to deliver diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in a
      timely fashion. The importance of adequate procedure time for diagnostic accuracy has been
      demonstrated both in the detection of oesophageal and gastric neoplastic lesions. For
      detection of upper GI neoplasia, it has been demonstrated that a minimum of 7 minutes per
      procedure should be spent in order to ensure adequate visualisation and allow detection of
      high-risk lesion . In a Korean study, that compared faster with slower endoscopists, all of
      whom had adequate training and experience, the slower endoscopists (withdrawal time from
      duodenum >3min) had a significantly higher detection rate of upper GI neoplasia. Finally, in
      the context of Barrett's oesophagus (BO), longer inspection times during EGD correlated with
      increase detection rate.

      Pre-malignant lesions in the upper GI tract are generally understudied when compared to those
      in the lower GI tract. Furthermore, their epidemiology seems to vary with geography, and this
      has not been inadequately investigated in the UK. Barrett's esophagus (BE) is the only known
      precursor to esophageal adenocarcinoma. The population prevalence is difficult to estimate
      given that the condition can be asymptomatic, and the diagnosis is only made by endoscopy and
      biopsy. It is estimated that the prevalence in the general population in Western Countries is
      1-2% with significant geographic variation, but increases in patients undergoing endoscopic
      procedures (4.0% in Dutch population, 5.6% USA). However, the majority of studies looking at
      BE prevalence are confounded by the fact that most procedures were performed for GERD
      symptoms generating selection bias. In studies performed in patients referred for colonoscopy
      (n=1500 approximately) the prevalence of BE varied between 6.8% and 16.7%.

      Similar to oesophageal cancer, gastric cancer has its own pre-malignant precursors including
      gastric intestinal metaplasia (GIM) and gastric atrophy (GA) . The endoscopic diagnosis of GA
      and GIM however is not straightforward as the colorimetric shift from normal to pathological
      mucosa is subtle and additional endoscopic signs such as disappearance of gastric folds can
      be affected by the degree of air insufflation. The prevalence of GA can reach up to 33.3% in
      Western Europeans and is higher in East Asia. For GIM, the reported population prevalence in
      Western Countries ranges from 7 to 28.6%. These rates are however probably affected by
      selection bias, such as enrichment of individuals affected by H. pylori infection. In a Dutch
      study on patient referred for colonoscopy 0.8% had GA, 7.1% had both GA and GIM and 1.4% had
      gastric dysplasia.

      For esophageal squamous dysplasia, the precursor lesion of oesophageal squamous cell
      carcinoma, prevalence estimates are between 3 and 38%. This reflects the variation in
      endoscopic methods, histopathological scoring and the studied populations from high-risk
      geographic regions such has Korea. The prevalence of squamous dysplasia in Western Countries
      in not well known, since it is generally very difficult to diagnose on white light endoscopy.
      It can be argued that squamous dysplasia is vastly underdiagnosed in clinical practice as the
      ratio between oesophageal adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma in the UK is just over
      2:1, however squamous dysplasia is rarely diagnosed.

      Duodenal adenoma is another understudied pre-malignant lesion that can in fact undergo
      malignant transformation in 30-85% of cases and as such, needs to be recognised and treated
      early and definitively . These occur very often in the context of familial adenomatous
      polyposis (FAP) syndrome, whereas sporadic duodenal adenomas are much rarer with a prevalence
      of 0.03-0.4% (32, 33).

      The majority of studies looking at prevalence of pre-malignant upper GI conditions in the
      general population referred for EGD are limited by the lack of standardised endoscopy and
      biopsy protocols. In addition, none of the studies looked at variation of prevalence based on
      experience. Furthermore, no expert review of endoscopic images has been performed to ensure
      quality of the diagnosis. Although quality standards in upper GI endoscopy have been proposed
      by the British Society of Gastroenterology and European Society of Gastrointestinal
      Endoscopy, the majority of the statements in these guidelines have a low level of evidence
      and weak to moderate strength of the recommendation. Most importantly, none of the statements
      refer to diagnostic KPI, given that the expected detection rate of the upper GI
      pre-neoplastic and early neoplastic lesions at endoscopy is unknown. This represents a gap
      that our study aims to tackle.

      HYPOTHESIS The hypothesis is that the prevalence of upper Gi pre-malignant condition is
      underestimated based on available literature data and that the detection rate of
      pre-cancerous upper GI lesions improves with a more rigorous and systematic approach to
      performing EGD. In the future, using diagnostic KPI to monitor performance of upper GI
      endoscopists will result in improved outcomes of oesophago-gastric cancer.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES The aim of this study is to assess endoscopic and pathological outcomes
      during routine EGD using standard photo-documentation and biopsy protocol.

      The primary objective is to define the prevalence of pre-malignant or early malignant upper
      GI tract lesions as measured by a standardised endoscopy and biopsy protocol. This is further
      broken down into categories of pre-malignant pathology, namely: 1) Barrett's esophagus with
      and without dysplasia; 2) squamous dysplasia;, 3) gastric atrophy/gastric intestinal
      metaplasia; , 4) gastric adenoma; and 5) duodenal adenoma.

      The secondary objectives are:

        1. Missed rate of endoscopic diagnosis compared to pathological diagnosis

        2. Missed rate of endoscopic diagnosis compared to expert review of endoscopic photos

        3. Correlation between duration of the endoscopy and detection of pre-neoplastic and
           neoplastic lesions

        4. Quality of the endoscopic pictures taken in routine endoscopy

        5. Correlation between endoscopist experience and rate of detection

        6. Correlation between use of image enhanced endoscopy and rate of detection

        7. Interobserver agreement among expert and not expert endoscopists

        8. Correlation between life-style factors and pathological outcomes

      STUDY DESIGN This will be a multicenter population study. Recruiting centers will be a range
      of Teaching and District General Hospitals in England. 1000 patients referred for urgent or
      routine endoscopy to evaluate upper GI symptoms will be recruited. The detection rates of
      upper GI tract pre-malignant lesions in our study procedures will be compared to standard
      historical data from each participating institution. An equivalent population from the year
      prior to the start of recruitment, matched for age, sex, indication for endoscopy and
      referral pathway, will be retrieved from the archives of each participating NHS Trust and
      directly contrasted to this study population to evaluate whether the detection rate of
      pre-malignant upper GI tract lesions improves with a more rigorous and systematic approach to
      performing EGD using a standardized photo documentation and biopsy protocol. In this way, the
      investigators can evaluate the immediate impact of our study and the utility of the proposed
      diagnostic KPI. As an example, the investigators already have date to show that in 2019 over
      8,500 EGD were performed in Cambridge alone, of which 53% had biopsies taken. Based on
      matched pathology record, only 29 new diagnoses of GA or GIM were made during the same time
      period, suggesting the possibility of large under-detection of premalignant stomach. The
      endoscopic pictures will be evaluated by two expert endoscopists with interest in detection
      and treatment of upper GI pre-malignant and early malignant conditions. The quality of the
      pictures will be scored on a visual analogue scale based on two parameters: optical quality
      and representation of the intended section of the upper GI tract. The endoscopists will note
      the presence of premalignant conditions. In case of disagreement, a third investigator will
      review the picture to achieve a gold standard endoscopic diagnosis.
    
  