
    
      Although many developing countries have witnessed declines in both post-neonatal and 1-4
      year-old child deaths, neonatal death rates have remained relatively constant, with an
      estimated 4 million annual neonatal deaths globally (Lawn et al, 2005). Almost all of the
      neonatal deaths (99%) occur in developing countries (Bryce et al., 2005; Ahmad et al., 2007).
      In many of these settings, the rate of home delivery is high and the attendance at birth by
      skilled personnel is low, leading to many babies being born in unhygienic conditions (Bhutta
      et al., 2005). Birth in these settings is accompanied by a high rate of infections in both
      mothers and newborns. It has been estimated that about 1 out of 5 neonates develop life
      threatening infections (Stoll, 1997). Several preventative interventions against neonatal
      infections including tetanus toxoid immunization to pregnant women, early and exclusive
      breastfeeding, and use of clean delivery kits have been identified and incorporated in many
      programs (Bhutta et al., 2005). Yet, neonatal infections remain the most important cause of
      neonatal deaths. Globally, an estimated one-third of the neonatal deaths are attributed to
      infections (Lawn 2005). In settings characterized by high neonatal mortality rates, the
      proportion of neonatal deaths due to infections has been estimated at approximately 50% (Bang
      1999; Lawn 2005; Baqui 2006). These infectious deaths include sepsis, pneumonia, tetanus,
      meningitis and diarrhea. A further 27% of the neonatal deaths are related to premature birth
      and infections are the direct cause in many of these premature neonates. Therefore,
      strategies for timely identification and management of infections in young infants (0-59
      days) including neonates are urgently needed.

      Current Treatment Options: Hospital care The WHO recommends that all cases of suspected
      severe infection in young infants (0-59 days old) are treated in hospitals with a 7-10 day
      course of injectable antibiotics - penicillin (or ampicillin) and gentamicin. However, in
      many developing countries, this care is often not available or accessible, or not acceptable
      to families. Furthermore, in low-resource settings, reliance on a strategy of hospitalization
      of young infants with suspected severe infections has a number of inherent disadvantages.
      First, in many settings, a vast majority of young infants who are referred may not be able to
      get to the hospital (Peterson et al., 2004) and may not receive the treatment, increasing
      their risk of dying. Second, routine hospitalization and the use of injectable antibiotics,
      either intravenously or intramuscularly substantially increases the cost of health care
      (Al-Eidan et al., 1999) and often hospital beds are not available to admit all young infants
      with suspected serious infections. Third, hospitalization increases the risk of exposure to
      multi-drug resistant nosocomial pathogens that are increasingly difficult to treat (Jarvis
      WR, 2004; Pong et al., 2004).

      Evidence of alternative approaches:

      Strategies for community-based management of infections in young infants have been developed
      and evaluated in several research settings (Bang et al., 1999; Baqui et al., 2007; Kanal et
      al., 2007). Our group, known as Projahnmo, has recently completed a trial of a package of
      maternal and neonatal interventions in Sylhet district, Bangladesh, and demonstrated
      significant reduction of neonatal mortality (Baqui et al., 2008b). In one of the intervention
      arms, we trained village-based community health workers to assess newborns and manage
      newborns with severe infections using an algorithm similar to the one used in Integrated
      Management of Childhood and Neonatal Illness (IMNCI). Management included referral of
      neonates with signs of severe infection to a qualified provider and home treatment in
      referral failure cases. If referral failed but parents consented to home treatment, CHWs
      treated neonates with severe infections using injectable procaine penicillin and gentamicin.
      For severe infections, the rate of referral compliance was only 34%, and home treatment
      acceptance was 43%. The case fatality rate was 4.4% for those treated by CHWs, 14.2% for
      those treated by qualified medical providers, and 28.5% for those who either received no
      treatment or who were treated by untrained providers. After controlling for differences in
      background characteristics and illness signs among treatment groups, newborns treated by CHWs
      had a hazard ratio of 0.22 (95% confidence interval 0.07-0.71) for death during neonatal
      period and those treated by qualified providers had a hazards ratio of 0.60 (95% confidence
      interval of 0.37-0.99), compared to newborns who received no treatment or were treated by
      untrained providers (Baqui et al., 2007; Baqui et al., 2008a). These data suggest that
      treatment of neonates by CHWs was generally acceptable to the community. Home treatment of
      suspected sepsis in neonates by CHWs is effective in low-resource settings.

      There are, however, major challenges associated with current community-based strategies for
      injectable therapy. First, it is difficult to ensure availability of trained health workers
      who are able to safely and optimally administer injectable antibiotics daily for 7 to 10
      days, and to ensure supplies and quality assurance. Second, a 7 to 10-day regimen of
      parenteral antibiotic therapy presents specific challenges to community acceptance and
      compliance. Third, unsupervised use of injection at the community level may be unsafe and can
      increase the risk of transmission of HIV, hepatitis and other viral diseases through the use
      of contaminated needles (Simonsen et al., 1999). Therefore, it is important to reduce the
      number of injections to be used in the community. Furthermore, the rationale for 7-10 days of
      parenteral antibiotic therapy is not fully established. Injectable therapy is chosen because
      of the perception that it is the most efficacious regimen in the treatment of severe disease.
      For some neonatal infections, however, alternative regimes such as a combination of
      parenteral and oral therapy or switching to an oral antibiotic after initial treatment for
      2-3 days with injectable antibiotics may be equally effective.

      To overcome the disadvantages of hospitalization and challenges of community-based injectable
      therapy, recent research has looked at the potential use of oral treatment for severe
      pneumonia in older infants. Hazir et al (2008) recently reported the results from an
      open-label equivalency trial conducted at seven study sites in Pakistan. 2,037 children aged
      3-59 months with severe pneumonia were randomly allocated to either initial hospitalization
      and parenteral ampicillin (100 mg/kg per day in four doses) for 48 h, followed by 3 days of
      oral amoxicillin (80-90 mg/kg per day in two doses; n=1012) or to home-based treatment for 5
      days with oral amoxicillin (80-90 mg/kg per day in two doses; n=1025). Follow-up assessments
      were done at days 1, 3, 6, and 14 after enrolment. There was no difference in treatment
      failure rates (clinical deterioration) by day 7 between the hospitalized (8.6%) and the
      ambulatory group (7.5%; risk difference 1•1%; 95% CI -1•3 to 3•5). This result suggests
      empowering first-level health workers to manage severely ill children when referral is
      difficult. High failure rates were associated with young age, very fast breathing, and low
      weight for age. These findings suggest that it may not be safe to treat young infants with
      suspected severe infection with oral antibiotic alone.

      Global research priority: Simplified antibiotic regimen for infections in young infants

      In the fall of 2007, Saving Newborn Lives (SNL) of Save the Children-US, USAID and WHO
      convened a global consultation to review the new study findings on infection management in
      young infants in community-based settings and to guide future research priorities. Based on
      the existing research findings at that time, the consultation participants concluded that
      there was still insufficient evidence to make policy recommendations for global programs. The
      consultation charged future research to test optimal combination of oral and intramuscular
      (IM) antibiotic regimens that would be feasible to implement in first-level facilities and
      community and will be acceptable to families for settings characterized by weak health
      systems. We designed this study with these recommendations in mind.
    
  