
    
      -  Trial design: A prospective randomised study with three arms, one arm with monopolar
           surgery and two different arms with bipolar surgery. Its a one center study.

        -  Trial population: Pre-or perimenopausal women reffered to our clinic with bleeding
           disorders and were we plan to do endometrial resection. Patients with a bleeding
           disorder due to fibroids type 0 and 1 will be included and patients with polyps were
           endometrial resection is planned at the same time will also be included.

        -  Preoperative selection: The fibroids will be mapped using transvaginal ultrasound
           according to the classification ESGE. Type 0 and 1 fibroids will be included. Diameter
           of the fibroid must not extend 4cm. The endometrium size double layer will be recorded.
           Uterine size anetrior /posterior diameter, longitudinal diameter (cavity; top fundal to
           isthmus) will be measured. Were polyps are included these will be measured; length and
           width. Higham score (PBAC), Se-hgb, Ferritin, FSH and Oestradiol will be documented at
           all visits. Menstrual pain will be documented due to a VAS-scale.

        -  Treatment regimen:Randomisation in blocs of 20 between monopolar and two types of
           bipolar surgery.

        -  Surgical Technique: The cervical canal will be dilated to Hegar 10 or 11 and a rigid
           resectoscope Ch. 26 is passed to the uterine cavity. Glycine 1,5% or Saline (Baxter) is
           infused to irrigate the uterine cavity (Iglesias technique) Automatic pressure cuff
           maintains an infusion pressure of 100mm Hg and suction 10-15mmHg is applied to the
           outflow tube in order to achieve a sufficient flow.Fibroids type 0 and 1 are resected in
           total if possible or flush to the plane of the uterine wall. The tissue chips are
           removed at intervals by currette and forceps. The operation will be performed by
           experienced surgeons.

        -  Primary response variables: Safety is our primary response variable. Fluid absorption
           and lowering of Se-Sodium will be analysed. These parameters are the only objective
           parameters which can tell us about safety. Nausea will be reorded on a VAS-scale.

             -  Secondary resonse variables: Operating time, tissue removed, easisness of
                operation, levels of vaginal bleeding measured by the methosd of Hgham(PBAC)before
                and at follow up.

      After 6 month and one year we will look at secondary intervention like repeated resection or
      hysterectomy.
    
  