
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In 1972, the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial began recruiting 12,866 men, ages 35 to
      57, selected for elevation of one or more risk factors but free from coronary heart disease
      and followed them for an average of seven years after randomization to a risk factor
      modification group or to a control group referred to their own physicians for treatment. The
      serum from MRFIT had been stored since 1972. Detailed follow-up for the cohort was completed
      through 1985 and was extended through 1988 using the National Death Index.

      The role of insulin as a major risk factor for atherosclerosis resurfaced in the 1980s and
      was the subject of much research at the basic science, clinical, and epidemiological levels.
      The MRFIT serum data base probably was the only remaining such serum bank in the United
      States that could test the relationship between insulin levels and coronary heart disease
      mortality that included detailed measurements of other major cardiovascular risk factors, as
      well as both baseline and two-hour post-load glucose levels in a predominantly non-diabetic
      population.

      DHEAS is the most abundant circulating steroid hormone in man and is readily converted to
      DHEA which is a potent non-competitive inhibitor of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, the
      rate limiting enzyme of the pentose cycle. Several studies suggest a key role of DHEAS in
      obesity, lipid metabolism, cellular proliferation, and atherosclerosis. Barrett-Connor in
      1986 reported that low levels of this hormone were a risk factor for cardiovascular disease
      in men. Other studies report that administration of DHEAS to laboratory animals appears to
      delay aging, prevent obesity, and lower serum cholesterol levels.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A nested case-control study was conducted using the stored blood serum. Laboratory
      measurements were done blindly without knowledge of whether the specimen was from a case or a
      control. Insulin was measured in all 600 specimens. DHEAS was measured in 200 cases and 100
      controls. The means and distribution of insulin or DHEAS levels were compared between cases
      and controls. The analysis was done separately for the coronary heart disease deaths and
      surviving myocardial infarction cases and, if there were no differences between the case
      groups, they were pooled for comparison with the controls. The relationships were determined
      among the potential confounders, coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality and serum
      insulin or DHEAS levels. This analysis also included data on baseline serum cholesterol,
      systolic and diastolic blood pressure, cigarette smoking, serum thiocyanate, HDL and LDL
      cholesterol, triglycerides, basal metabolic index, fasting and one-hour blood glucose.
      Alcohol intake, physical activity, pulmonary function, and education were also evaluated. The
      relationships among insulin or DHEAS and coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality were
      evaluated after adjusting for possible confounders.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  