
    
      OBJECTIVES: Primary I. To "Pick a Winner" by deciding whether further development of
      epigenetic priming with decitabine prior to standard "7+3" induction chemotherapy should be
      pursued.

      Secondary I. To determine whether epigenetic priming with decitabine prior to standard
      cytarabine and daunorubicin hydrochloride "7+3" induction chemotherapy has sufficient
      efficacy to warrant further development as assessed by an overall CR1 rate ≥ 50%.

      II. To establish the safety and expected toxicities of decitabine when used as priming for
      cytarabine and daunorubicin hydrochloride "7+3" induction chemotherapy in acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML).

      III. To assess the pharmacodynamics of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) hypomethylation when
      decitabine is administered as a short infusion.

      IV. To investigate, in selected cases, the molecular and cellular consequences of
      decitabine-induced hypomethylation by assessing the effects of decitabine-mediated
      hypomethylation on transcriptional patterns in AML cells, and by determining the effect of
      hypomethylation on the differentiation and/or apoptosis of leukemic blasts. (exploratory) V.
      To identify biomolecular correlates of treatment response (biomarkers) to induction
      chemotherapy in AML based upon the epigenetic pattern of DNA methylation in AML specimens
      obtained prior to treatment. (exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (less than 50
      years vs 50-65 years), white blood cell count (≤ 30 K/mL vs greater than 30 K/mL),
      cytogenetic risk group (intermediate vs adverse risk), and antecedent hematological condition
      preceding the diagnosis of acute myeloid leukemia (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1
      of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive induction chemotherapy comprising daunorubicin hydrochloride
      intravenously (IV) daily on days 1-3 and cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-7 in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who do not achieve a
      complete remission (CR) after the first induction-chemotherapy course receive a second
      identical induction course.

      Arm II: Patients receive decitabine IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -1. Patients then receive
      induction chemotherapy as in arm I in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients who do not achieve a CR after the first induction-chemotherapy course
      receive a second identical induction course.

      Patients undergo blood, bone marrow, and oral mucosa cells sample collection at baseline,
      prior to induction therapy, and after treatment for DNA methylation studies and
      pharmacodynamic studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 10 years.
    
  