
    
      BACKGROUND: Aspirin use is widespread and increasing in elderly patients. The main hazard is
      gastrointestinal bleeding, the incidence of which is rising, probably because of increased
      aspirin use. The proposed trial is based on evidence that peptic ulcer bleeding in aspirin
      users occurs predominantly in people infected with the ulcerogenic bacterium, Helicobacter
      pylori. Our hypothesis is that low doses of aspirin do not cause ulcers in the way that high
      doses do. Instead we think that H. pylori causes the ulcer and aspirin, by thinning the
      blood, makes it bleed. If the bacterium is eradicated the patient will not get an ulcer and
      therefore there is no increased bleeding risk with aspirin. Development of the trial protocol
      has been based on results of a preparatory Medical Research Council-funded 2525 patient pilot
      study which had a 47% patient response rate. This enabled us to design the currently proposed
      large simple outcomes study to investigate directly the hypothesis that a one week course of
      H. pylori eradication will halve the rate of hospitalisation due to ulcer bleeding over ~2.5
      years in aspirin users.

      TRIAL CONDUCT: A large number of patients (~170,000), using aspirin <326 mg daily will be
      invited to participate. Suitable respondents (~33,000) who are H. pylori positive (~6,600)
      will give consent (including access to Hospital Episode Statistics and Office of National
      Statistics mortality data) and be randomised to eradication treatment or placebo. There will
      be no follow-up trial visits for 90% of patients. Instead the MiQuest tool, developed to
      interrogate different GP electronic databases, will be used together with direct patient
      notification to identify all possible ulcer bleeding admissions. An expert panel will use
      validated methodology to adjudicate whether patients have suffered ulcer bleeding (primary
      endpoint). The trial will continue until 87 positively adjudicated events have occurred, to
      ensure it has the power to answer the question of whether H. pylori eradication reduces the
      risk of ulcer bleeding.
    
  