
    
      Background & Rationale:

      Convergent epidemiological and clinical observations have identified urate - a major
      antioxidant and the end product of purine metabolism in humans - as the first molecular
      predictor of both the risk and the progression of typical Parkinson's disease (PD). Among
      some 1600 early PD patients enrolled in prior clinical trials, those with baseline serum
      urate levels in the highest quintile (i.e., in the upper normal range) displayed a 40% slower
      rate of clinical (disability) progression compared to those with baseline urate at or below
      the median (with p<0.000001 for trend across quintiles). Similarly, amongst those who
      underwent serial SPECT brain scans for changes in dopamine transporter (DAT) binding, those
      with higher baseline serum urate levels displayed a slower rate of radiographic progression
      (loss of striatal DAT). Moreover, urate levels in baseline cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples
      also correlate inversely with rates of clinical progression. Although this link between urate
      and a slower decline in PD appears reproducible and robust, the critical question of
      causality remains to be answered by a well-designed clinical trial. The biological
      plausibility of neuroprotection by urate strengthens the rationale for expedient pursuit of a
      trial. The availability of established pharmacological approaches to elevating urate makes
      such a trial feasible. In particular, inosine, an orally bioavailable, central nervous system
      (CNS)-penetrant purine precursor of urate, offers a practical strategy as it can readily
      elevate serum urate, has been widely consumed as a nutritional supplement, and has been
      administered chronically in several multi-year clinical trials for multiple sclerosis. Before
      embarking on a neuroprotection trial of inosine for PD, careful assessment of the safety,
      validity and methodology of this approach in PD patients is warranted.

      Specific Aims:

      The main goal of the study is to determine whether inosine is suitable for phase III
      evaluation of its ability to modify the rate of disability progression in PD. Specific
      primary aims entail the determination of the safety and tolerability of oral inosine, and its
      ability to elevate urate levels in serum or CSF; and the selection of an optimal dosing
      regimen. Secondary aims entail the further optimization of a possible phase III study design.

      Methods:

      A placebo-controlled double-blind dose-ranging randomized trial of inosine will be conducted
      in early PD. Ninety untreated subjects diagnosed with idiopathic PD and with a serum urate
      below the population mean (~6 mg/dL) will be enrolled at 17 North American sites and
      randomized to one of three treatment groups (n=30): 1) placebo, 2) inosine dosed to produce a
      mild elevation in serum urate, and 3) inosine dosed to produce a moderate elevation.
      Tolerability, validity (urate elevation), dosage and symptomatic efficacy will be assessed
      after 12 weeks of treatment. Contingent on adequate tolerability and validity as assessed in
      this short-term analysis, the study will continue for 2 years total duration with 2 groups
      (placebo and a merged single inosine dosing group) or the original 3 to assess long-term
      tolerability and safety, which will focus on main known risks of urolithiasis and gouty
      arthritis and the theoretical risk of cardiovascular disease.

      Significance:

      This study will determine whether a phase III trial of inosine as a potential neuroprotectant
      in PD is warranted. If it is, then the present study could shorten substantially the lead
      time, and through optimization of key design features would enhance the likelihood of its
      safety and success.
    
  