
    
      As a standard of care for patients who are intubated in the ICU; to assess ability to be
      extubated, a Spontaneous Breathing Trial (SBT) is performed, where the level of ventilator
      support is reduced, and patient's response is observed to predict if they will tolerate
      extubation.

      Spontaneous breathing trials (SBTs) are standard of care in assessing extubation readiness;
      however, there are no universally accepted guidelines regarding their precise performance and
      reporting.

      Given that health is associated with a high degree of variation of physiologic parameters
      (e.g. heart and respiratory rate), and illness & stress are associated with a loss of
      variability, the investigators have demonstrated that maintaining a high level of heart rate
      (HRV) and respiratory rate variability (RRV) prior to and throughout the Spontaneous
      Breathing Trial (SBT) will predict successful extubation, and a reduction in heart rate (HRV)
      and respiratory rate variability (RRV) predicts extubation failure.

      Research to date has already demonstrated the added prognostic value and the investigators
      have derived a predictive model based on continuous monitoring of respiratory rate
      variability (RRV). The investigators are now poised to evaluate Extubation Advisor (EA)
      software with the overall goal to transform monitoring and improve care.

      This study is a mixed methods, pilot phase I observational study of the clinical
      implementation of a novel clinical decision support product, Extubation Advisor.TM In this
      study the investigators will evaluate the feedback of RTs as well as the feedback of MDs
      post-treatment (extubation) decision.

      Questionnaires will be sent to Respiratory Therapists (RT's) and Medical Doctors (MD's) to
      solicit feedback on the electronic Spontaneous Breathing Trial (SBT) Case Report Form (CRF)
      and the Extubation Advisor TM (EA) report. All questionnaires will be answered based on a
      rating scale of 1-5 where 1 is unacceptable and 5 is excellent.

      As this proposed study is observational and has no impact on patient care/outcomes, and to
      avoid bias associated with requiring consent, the investigators believe this study represents
      one of the limited circumstances under which waived consent may be permitted.
    
  