
    
      -  Within 21 days of starting treatment the following tests will be performed: physical
           exam (including vital signs), ECG, neurological examination, blood tests, urine tests,
           bone marrow aspiration, x-rays and MRI or CT scan.

        -  Patients will receive bortezomib intravenously on day 1,4,8 and 11 followed by 10 days
           of rest. CC-5013 will be given orally on days 1-14 followed by 7-dyas of rest. One cycle
           lasts 21 days. This study will evaluate different dose levels of bortezomib and CC-5013
           to see which dose level seems to be the best for most people. There will be 8 dose
           levels.

        -  Patients will be assigned to a dose level depending upon when they begin the study and
           how other dose levels have been tolerated by patients that are already on the study.
           Three to six patients will be treated at each dose level and will be observed for one
           full cycle. Depending upon the side effects, the dose level will increase, stay the same
           or be decreased by one level for the next group. 10 additional patients will be treated
           at the dose that is thought the best.

        -  On day four of the treatment cycle blood tests, vital signs and a review of side effects
           will be performed.

        -  On day eight of the the treatment cycle blood tests, vital signs, review of side effects
           and an ECG will be performed prior to medication administration. A bortezomib level will
           be taken before bortezomib infusion, 15 minutes, 1/2 hour, 45 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours,
           4 hours, 6 hours, 8 hours and 12 hours after the dose. Additional blood levels will be
           collected 24, 48, and 72 hours after the dose. (These blood levels will done during the
           first cycle only).

        -  On day 11 and day 14 of the treatment cycle blood tests, vital signs and review of side
           effects will be performed.

        -  After 2 cycles of treatment, the doctor will assess how the patient's disease is
           responding to the treatment. Additional tests such as bone marrow biopsy, x-rays or
           scans may be performed. If the disease is stable or getting better, patients will
           continue to receive repeated cycles of treatment. If the disease is getting worse,
           dexamethasone may be added to the treatment cycle.

        -  If dexamethasone is added, the dosing will start on days 1,2,4,5,8,9 and 11 of the
           21-day cycle. The disease will then be reassessed after 2 additional cycles. If the
           disease is getting worse, the patient will be removed from the study.

        -  Once 8 cycles of treatment have been performed, the disease will be fully assessed again
           by blood tests, bone marrow biopsy, x-rays or scans. Again, if it is determined that the
           disease is stable of getting better, additional treatment cycles can be performed. If
           the disease is getting worse, treatment will be stopped..

        -  A follow-up visit will be scheduled one month after the last dose of the study drug and
           will include: physical exam, vital signs, neurological examination, and review of
           symptoms.

        -  Patients will remain on this study as long as the side effects are not too severe and
           the disease has not progressed.
    
  