
    
      Three groups will be studied:

        1. Control group (CG)

        2. Group of moderate intensity continuous aerobic exercise (GMICT)

        3. High intensity interval aerobic exercise group (GHIIT)

      The CG will follow the usual protocol adopted by the hospital San Juan de Dios, Curicó,
      Chile. The protocol consists in delivering information about relevance of engage in regular
      physical exercise practice according to the World Health Organization (150 minutes of
      activity per week moderate physical or at least 75 minutes of intense physical activity), but
      do not include the patients in a supervised physical exercise program.

      The GMICT will undergo a physical exercise program in which the aerobic component will be a
      moderate-intensity continuous exercise training (60% of the heart rate reserve).

      The GHIIT will undergo the same exercise program of the GMICT, but the aerobic component will
      be a high-intensity interval exercise training (10 sets of 1 min at 90% of heart rate
      reserve, with 1 min of rest between sets).

      All groups will receive a nutritional diet plan prescribed by a specialist bariatric
      nutritionist blinded to the participants group assignment.

      At the end of the study, the CG will be invited to enjoy the exercise program showing to be
      more effective.

      Outcomes will be assessed at four time points: 1) one week before surgery; 2) 21 days after
      surgery (baseline before start exercise program); 3) 8 weeks after the beginning of the
      exercise program; and 4) one week after the end of intervention.

      Main outcomes are: 1) body composition; 2) heart rate variability; 3) six-minute walk test
      and 4) quality of life. Secondary outcomes will be: 1) maximal respiratory pressures; 2)
      flowmeter; 3) dynamometry of upper limb; and 4) squat test in 30 seconds.

      All procedures will be performed in the Hospital of Curicó, Chile, at the Department of
      Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Service.
    
  