
    
      Developing machine learning models that have a strong prediction power for diagnosis of
      appendicitis from physician entered free text input can improve diagnostic accuracy of
      doctors. It also offers the possibility of using prediction algorithms to improve routine
      clinical care. In the future, multiple machine learning models can be combined to increase
      prediction accuracy and prediction algorithms can be extended to other diagnoses.

      18,000 cases of emergency department presentations over 10 years were used as a training and
      validation dataset. To develop the appendicitis prediction model, deep learning neural
      networks with a customized medical ontology were used. The diagnostic accuracy of the model
      is expressed as sensitivity (recall), specificity and F1 score (harmonic mean). The developed
      diagnosis predictive model shows high sensitivity (86.3%), specificity (91.9%) and F1 score
      (88.8) in diagnosing appendicitis from patients presenting with abdominal pain.

      The predictive model algorithm will also highlight words in the free text (entered by the
      attending physician) that it assigns higher probability for predicting an outcome. The
      doctors will be instructed to provide a percentage likelihood of appendicitis based on the
      clinical presentation and any available laboratory investigations. The doctor is then shown
      the prediction of the algorithm as well as the highlighted words for the patient entered.
      He/she must then provide another prediction of the likelihood of appendicitis after seeing
      the algorithm generated prediction.

      The aim is to evaluate the performance of the algorithm and to assess if usage of the
      algorithm is able to help emergency doctors improve their diagnosis of appendicitis. The
      prediction results will be tabulated to assess accuracy of the algorithm, doctors before
      algorithm input and doctors after receiving algorithm input. The accuracy will be expressed
      as sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, positive prediction value, F1 score and F0.5 score.

      Approximately 100 emergency doctors will be recruited over the course of 1 year as
      participants in the study. The doctors will be split randomly assigned to two groups - the
      algorithm arm and the no algorithm arm. The randomization will be by time (weekly) using
      variable block randomization of 4 and 6. The patients will be followed up for the final
      discharge diagnoses.
    
  