
    
      Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are effective in controlling both
      post-operative pain and pain associated with orthopaedic injuries, particularly in the
      pediatric population. Additionally, use of NSAIDs for pain control in this setting avoids the
      use of narcotic pain medications, the adverse effects of which are well known.

      Recent research has suggested a possible association between use of NSAIDs and impaired
      fracture healing in the skeletally mature, or adult, population. Several adult mammal studies
      have demonstrated inhibition of bony repair with administration of NSAIDs. Yet, other adult
      animal studies have failed to find the same effect. Clinical data in the adult population is
      similarly conflicted, with some studies showing an inhibition of bone healing after posterior
      spinal fusion, while a larger study found no correlation. The data investigating the effects
      of NSAID use in adults after fracture or osteotomy is even less clear with some studies
      demonstrating higher rates of non-union with NSAID administration and others finding no
      significant effect on bone healing.

      The research investigating these outcomes in the skeletally immature population is limited;
      one study compared administration of ketorolac versus normal saline for 7, 14 and 21 days in
      a juvenile rat model with a stabilized tibia fracture. They found no significant difference
      in strength, stiffness or histological characteristics of fracture callus between the two
      groups. Clinical retrospective studies of the pediatric population with regard to use of
      NSAIDs after posterior spinal fusion have failed to reproduce findings of inhibitory effects
      on bone healing. Similarly, two retrospective studies found no cases of delayed union or
      non-union in pediatric patients who received perioperative ketorolac around the time of
      operative fixation of fractures, or osteotomy. Given these results, the way in which and the
      degree to which NSAIDs perturb the inflammatory mileu during the acute phase of healing is
      potentially distinct from the effects on bone healing in the skeletally mature.

      There have been no clinical prospective, randomized studies to evaluate the effect, if any,
      that NSAIDs have on bone healing in the skeletally immature patient population. The
      investigators hypothesize that NSAID administration in the acute phase of bone healing,
      whether it be a fracture or osteotomy, will not result in delayed union or non-union as
      compared to patients who take acetaminophen for pain control during this same time period.
    
  