
    
      This is a two-part, multicenter, open label, non-randomized, phase Ib/II study to assess the
      safety and tolerability, MTD and preliminary efficacy of Givinostat in patients with
      JAK2V617F positive PV.

      Part A is the dose escalation portion of the study and, once the MTD has been established,
      Part B will commence where the preliminary efficacy of Givinostat in PV patients will be
      established. Patients will be enrolled either in Part A or Part B and transition from one
      part to the other is not allowed. Only PV patients from Part A assigned to the dose selected
      for Part B (MTD) may be counted towards the efficacy assessment in Part B.

      Eligible patients for this study will have a confirmed diagnosis of PV according to the
      revised WHO criteria and the JAK2V617F positivity. Only if the enrolment in Part A is slow
      (i.e. < 5 patients enrolled in 3 months), eligibility for this part of the study may be
      expanded to all patients with cMPN.

      After providing informed written consent before undertaking any protocol-related procedure, a
      unique patient identification code (i.e. patient screening ID which will be a combination of
      his/her site ID, study part ID and patient screening number, e.g. IT01-A01) will be assigned
      to each patient and it will identify the patient within his/her enrolment confirmation by
      Italfarmaco S.p.A. or its designee and never be reused in case of screening failure. After
      the enrolment confirmation and the assignation of the dose level before the first drug
      intake, a unique patient identification code (i.e. patient ID which will be a combination of
      patient screening number ID and dose level ID, e.g. IT01-A01-DL1) will be assigned to each
      patient and it will identify the patient throughout his/her participation in the study and
      never be reused in case of premature drop-out.

      Study therapy will be administered in 28 day cycles. In fact, the "cycle" is defined as 4
      weeks of treatment.

      Disease response will be evaluated according to the clinico-haematological ELN criteria after
      3 and 6 cycles (i.e. at weeks 12 and 24, respectively) of treatment with Givinostat for both
      parts of the study. All phlebotomies performed in the first 3 weeks of treatment will not be
      counted to assess the clinico-haematological response.

      The study will last up to a maximum of 24 weeks of treatment. However, after completion of
      the trial, all patients achieving clinical benefit will be allowed to continue treatment with
      Givinostat (at the same dose and schedule) in a long-term study (Study N.: DSC/11/2357/44).

      Safety will be monitored at each visit throughout the entire duration of the study. Treatment
      will be administered on an outpatient basis and patients will be followed regularly with
      physical and laboratory tests, as specified in the protocol; in case of hospitalization, the
      treatment will be continued or interrupted according to the Investigators' decision.
    
  