
    
      This study tests whether therapy dog visits reduce distress, lower treatment-related anxiety,
      increase happiness, and improve satisfaction with hospital care, and whether these visits
      transmit pathogens.

      The first activity is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) in which patients will be
      randomized to either the intervention (therapy dog visits) or control (usual care). All
      patients will complete a baseline survey and hand sampling (i.e., removal of materials of
      hands via use of liquid inside a glove) and answer questions from study staff (e.g., about
      pets at home, which hand is dominant) before randomization. Parents will also complete a
      baseline survey. Patients in the intervention group will receive therapy dog visits. At the
      first therapy dog visit after enrollment, the research study team will collect visit-level
      psychosocial measures and perform hand sampling. Similar procedures will be performed on
      usual care patients. Patients in the intervention group will receive subsequent dog visits
      ~1x/week for up to 4 weeks if there sufficient dog team capacity. At hospital discharge, ~3
      days post-discharge and 9 weeks post-discharge, the research study team will administer
      surveys to patients and their parents in both groups.

      Informed consent/assent will be performed for patients who agree to participate in the study
      and preliminarily meet eligibility criteria. The parent/legal guardians of participants who
      are enrolled in will be approached for their informed consent to complete surveys. After
      informed consent/assent has been obtained, baseline surveys will be administered and hand
      samples will be collected. The study staff will then assess the patient's ability to tolerate
      and willingness to perform future psychological assessments and hand samplings. Patients
      willing to proceed with the study will be randomized to either the intervention arm (visits
      from a therapy dog) or the control arm (no visits from a therapy dog). Participants will be
      randomized (1:1) to each group and stratified by age (≥13 vs <13 years). Participants will
      maintain their randomization assignment during any subsequent hospitalizations that occur
      during their participation in the study.

      The second activity is an observational study of patients receiving therapy dog visits that
      will provide additional information on microbial levels. The observational study which
      involves a one-time therapy dog visit. Children will be instructed to touch the dog with both
      hands. Both hands will be sampled before the visit. A randomly selected hand will be sampled
      immediately after the visit (before hand sanitization). The other hand will be sampled after
      sanitization.
    
  