
    
      Life-long immunosuppressive therapy is typically required in the majority of liver allograft
      recipients. In the early years of liver transplantation (LT), the majority of deaths occurred
      secondary to graft loss from acute or chronic rejection despite immunosuppression (IS). With
      the advent of more powerful and specific IS agents, e.g. calcineurin-inhibitors (CNIs)
      cyclosporine (CyA) and tacrolimus (TAC), graft rejection rates significantly declined and
      short and long term graft/patient survival dramatically improved. However, along with the
      advance in survival rates came the adverse effects of long term immunosuppression (IS), e.g.
      morbidity and mortality from cardiovascular events, renal insufficiency, infectious
      complications, recurrent viral hepatitis and malignancy. These events are exacerbated by
      pre-existing conditions and an aging transplant population. Immunosuppression tapering or
      withdrawal could lower the incidence of these complications and improve long term graft and
      patient survival.

      Therefore, the study proposed is a laboratory investigation (using blood samples collected
      from the subjects) comparing immune tolerance and alloreactivity profiles in LT recipients on
      monotherapy IS or converted to rapamycin monotherapy, to determine tolerogenic properties of
      the different IS agents. Knowledge of these properties would support the need for specific IS
      therapy to promote immune tolerance and consider IS withdrawal.

      Monotherapy patients will be identified by the organ transplant database and medical charts
      at Northwestern. Patients will be invited to participate in the study and asked to undergo
      venipunctures for our analysis. Patient demographics, laboratories and other clinical data
      will be recorded. Patients on CNI monotherapy are continuously being identified for
      conversion to rapamycin monotherapy during clinic visits or chart reviews at Northwestern.
      Patients are selected for conversion due to significant CNI side effects, e.g. chronic kidney
      disease (creatinine clearance < 50 in the absence of significant proteinuria > 1g, poorly
      controlled diabetes mellitus/hypertension/hyperlipidemia, peripheral neuropathy). In general,
      patients are converted from CNIs to rapamycin over 2-3 weeks once therapeutic rapamycin
      levels are achieved.

      Study procedures will be carried out by the investigators and associated personnel. Patients
      will be assigned a number in numerical order, to remove patient identifiers from the data
      analysis. A separate screening/enrollment log will be kept separate from the data. Baseline
      characteristics of the patients will be recorded: age, sex, liver disease, past medical
      history, history of acute rejection or other graft dysfunction, other post-LT complications,
      previous and current IS regimens. Monotherapy patients (10 from CyA, Tacrolimus, and MMF; 5
      rapamycin) will be identified as above and asked to participate. Blood will be drawn at one
      time point for the following analysis:

        -  Dendritic cell assays: myeloid vs. lymphoid (CD11c; CD123); maturation and ability to
           process antigens (CD83; CD205); markers that have been shown to induce regulatory T
           cells (ILT3; ILT4).

        -  Regulatory/Suppressor Cells (CD4+CD25+FOXP3+CD127low; and CD8+ CD28- FOXP3+CD127low
           cells).

        -  HLA microchimerism & HLA G

      Ten patients who have been pre-selected for rapamycin conversion will have the above assays
      performed two weeks prior to conversion and 3-6 months following conversion. They will also
      have liver function and drug level tests.
    
  