
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Interleukin-7 is a homeostatic cytokine with a critical role in lymphoid homeostasis
           through which it exerts its immune-restorative effects, particularly re-expansion of the
           naive and memory T cell subsets.

        -  The clinical implications of the kinetics, nature and extent of immune reconstitution
           defects following standard or ablative chemotherapy in older adults with cancer (in
           particular the lack of reconstitution of large pools naive T cell with broad repertoire
           diversity and of memory T cells) are not fully appreciated.

        -  As chemotherapy often induces only temporary complete or partial disease responses but
           no cure, candidates for novel immunotherapy strategies may be significantly impeded in
           their responses to active immunotherapy attempts, the therapeutic potential of which may
           be misjudged or altogether overlooked.

        -  Recombinant human interleukin-7 (rhIL-7) may play a role in immune reconstitution and
           immune enhancement in various circumstances of immune insufficiency in older individuals
           following chemotherapy or in the context of enhancing cancer immunotherapy or during
           immune senescence.

      OBJECTIVES:

      - Evaluate and quantify the impact of interleukin-7 (CYT107) therapy on specific immune
      responses to each vaccine (in particular to neo antigens) in older subjects following
      chemotherapy.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Adults over the age of 60.

        -  Diagnosis of non metastatic breast, bladder or colorectal cancer following adjuvant /
           neo-adjuvant chemotherapy.

        -  Completed a treatment with chemotherapy a minimum of 4 weeks prior to entry.

        -  Reasonable expectation that no chemotherapy will be given in the subsequent 6 months.

      DESIGN:

        -  Subjects will be enrolled following the specific therapy for their respective diseases.

        -  Subjects will undergo immunizations with various antigens, randomized to be administered
           either before or after treatment with CYT107

        -  The vaccines, randomly assigned to be administered before CYT107 therapy are
           administered four weeks before the start of CYT107 therapy.

        -  CYT107 is administered once a week for 3 doses (20 microg/kg/dose) via intramuscular
           route (IM)

        -  The vaccines, randomly assigned to be administered after CYT107 therapy are administered
           17 days after the first dose of CYT107 therapy.
    
  