
    
      Extensive research has been done over the past two decades looking at the role of oxygen
      delivery (DO2) and oxygen utilization (VO2) in critical illness. VO2 depends on cardiac
      output, arterial oxygen content, and the body's ability to extract oxygen effectively from
      the blood. Oxygen demand rises in critical illness as the body goes into a catabolic state,
      and lower VO2 has been associated with higher lactate levels and with poorer outcomes.
      Although increasing DO2 was shown in past studies to raise VO2 in some patients, other
      investigators have found that many critically-ill patients failed to demonstrate a rise in
      VO2 in spite of achieving supranormal values of cardiac index (CI) and DO2. This group, in
      contrast to patients whose VO2 rose with the increase in CI and DO2, had exceedingly poor
      outcomes, suggesting that an inability to extract oxygen from the blood confers a poorer
      prognosis.

      Thiamine deficiency can manifest in several ways, but the syndrome of wet beriberi, caused by
      thiamine deficiency, includes lactic acidosis, cardiac decompensation and vasodilatory shock,
      similar to sepsis and other forms of critical illness. The mechanism by which thiamine
      deficiency causes dysfunction rests upon the vitamin's essential role in the Krebs cycle and
      Pentose Phosphate Pathway. Lack of adequate thiamine results in the failure of pyruvate to
      enter the Krebs Cycle, thus preventing aerobic metabolism. The resulting decrease in aerobic
      metabolism and increase in anaerobic metabolism leads to decreased oxygen consumption by the
      tissues and increased lactic acid production.

      Our group has found previously that upwards of 20% of critically ill patients with sepsis are
      thiamine deficient within 72 hours of presentation. In a dog model of septic shock,
      Lindenbaum et al have shown that, regardless of thiamine levels, supplementation with
      thiamine improved not only lactate clearance and mean arterial pressure, but increased VO2 as
      well. An increase in VO2 max after administration of thiamine to healthy volunteers has also
      been described. In our prior open-label study, we found that the administration of a single
      dose of 200mg of intravenous thiamine to critically ill patients led to a statistically
      significant increase in VO2 in those with normal or elevated cardiac output, suggesting that
      thiamine may increase the extraction component of VO2, even in the absence of absolute
      thiamine deficiency. This effect was not seen in patients with low cardiac output.

      VO2 is known to rise in inflammatory states, reflecting increased energy expenditure. Prior
      studies have shown that VO2 will decrease with interventions such as fever control. In spite
      of VO2 being higher than normal in critically-ill patients, however, the end-organ damage and
      lactic acidosis suggest that it is not high enough to meet the metabolic demands of the
      critically-ill body. If we are able to increase VO2 further in critically-ill patients, we
      could potentially help maintain aerobic metabolism and decrease tissue hypoxia and the
      resulting end-organ damage. Our hypothesis is that administering thiamine intravenously to
      critically-ill patients who do not have abnormally low cardiac index will increase VO2.

      We will use an anesthesia monitor with a gas exchange module to measure VO2 continuously over
      a 9 hour period. After 3 hours of baseline VO2 data are collected, baseline thiamine level,
      lactate, and central venous O2 saturation will be obtained. A single dose of 200mg of IV
      thiamine will then be given, and 6 hours of post-thiamine data will then be collected. We
      will screen all consenting patients for whom we do not know the cardiac index with a
      non-invasive cardiac index measurement using the Cheetah non-invasive cardiac output monitor
      (NICOM). We will not include patients with a cardiac index less than or equal to 2.4L/min/m2,
      due to our preliminary data showing these patients did not increase VO2 in response to
      thiamine. All patients enrolled will have cardiac index monitored continuously during the
      study by the NICOM, in order to assess whether or not there is any relationship between VO2
      and cardiac index. Patients will also have blood drawn for a metabolomic panel before and
      after thiamine or placebo to assess whether thiamine has an effect on the metabolome.
    
  