
    
      BACKGROUND Significant advances have been made in the treatment of congestive heart failure
      (CHF) in the past few years. Neurohumoral therapy with ACE-inhibitors, ß-blockers and
      aldosterone antagonists has been established to significantly reduce morbidity and mortality.
      However, despite the advances of modern therapy advanced CHF remains a syndrome with a poor
      prognosis. Additionally, this syndrome is associated with poor quality of life and leads to
      progressive debiliation and cardial cachexia. Repeat hospitalizations for acute heart failure
      are common among severe CHF patients. Besides the discomfort for the patients hospital
      admissions constitute the lion's share of the health expenditure for the heart failure
      syndrome.

      Inotropic support is provided to patients suffering acute heart failure refractory to
      neurohumoral therapy. This approach is performed according to the AHA/ACC- as well as to ESC
      Guidelines for therapy of CHF. Inotropic therapy is targeted on hemodynamic stabilization,
      improvement of functional status, and reduction of rehospitalization.

      Moreover, in many centres treatment with inotropes such as dobutamine and milrinone are an
      integral part of the applied bridge to transplant concept in severe heart failure patients.
      In fact, continuous or pulsed inotropic support in severe heart failure patients has been
      tested repeatedly in small clinical studies.

      Intermittent ambulatory low dose administration of dobutamine versus conventional therapy did
      not improve functional capacity in the DICE-Trial. By contrast, several case series with
      different dose regimens of dobutamine indicated improvement of functional status.

      TRIAL RATIONALE Based on its pharmacologic profile Levosimendan appears to be promising in
      the treatment of severe chronic heart failure functional NYHA class III/IV to improve quality
      of life and physical activity and to reduce hospital admissions for acute heart failure.

      Repeat drug administration may be superior over a single shot therapy to maintain beneficial
      long-term results.

      For economical reasons and for the sake of the patients comfort drug administration should
      ideally be managed on an outpatient basis rather than in the hospital. Therefore and for
      practical reasons, a time period of six hours for drug administration might be reasonable.

      Dosing of the drug will be based on the experiences in the Russlan Trial and on a small case
      report by Martys. In the latter study serial administration of levosimendan for 6 hours
      (bolus of 12 mcg/kg followed by a continuous infusion of 0,1 μg/kg/min for 50min and 0,2
      μg/kg/min for the next 5 hours) induced a significant fall of BNP.

      In an outpatient setting, however, a bolus should be not be given for safety reasons.
    
  