
    
      Endometrial carcinoma is the most common malignancy in the female reproductive tract. For the
      percentage of patients with advanced stage (III - IV) optimum adjuvant therapy status-post
      surgical staging and/or optimal cytoreductive surgery is not well defined and limited in the
      rates of response. Survival rates range from 18 - 49% with high levels of toxicity with the
      current treatment regimens.

      The Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) explored the use of chemotherapy in protocol #107
      comparing adriamycin with a combination of adriamycin and cisplatin. This trial boasted a 45%
      response rate for the combination arm compared to a 27% response rate in the adriamycin only
      arm. Although no difference was seen in overall survival, the combination arm showed an
      improvement in progression free survival from 3.8 to 5.7 months. Subsequently, GOG protocol
      #122 randomized patients to this chemotherapeutic regimen versus whole abdominal radiation
      therapy. This trial is now closed to accrual and results are pending.

      Ball et. al. reported on a phase II trial of paclitaxel in advanced or recurrent endometrial
      cancer done through the GOG.(3) At 250 mg/m2 (200mg/m2 for patients with previous radiation
      therapy) over 24 hours, every 21 days, 10/28 patients responded. There were 4 complete
      responders and 6 partial responders with an overall response rate of 35.7%. Toxicity was
      remarkably high with grade 3 and 4 neutropenia and neurotoxicity seen in 62% and 10.7%,
      respectively.

      Dimpoulos et. al. reported the use of paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 over 3 hours and cisplatin 75mg/m2
      every 21 days in advanced or recurrent endometrial carcinoma.(4) A 67% objective response
      rate was seen with 29% showing a complete response and 38% partial response. Toxicities
      included a 9% grade 3 and 4 peripheral neuropathy rate. These response rates changed the
      standard of care in the community setting from the more toxic regimen of adriamycin and
      cisplatin to paclitaxel and carboplatin.

      Hoskins et. al. substituted carboplatin for cisplatin in an effort to reduce the peripheral
      neuropathy seen in the Dimpoulos trial. This phase II combination of paclitaxel and
      carboplatin with radiation therapy in advanced endometrial cancer resulted in a 75% response
      rate. The median failure-free survival time was 23 months, with a 62% 3-year overall survival
      rate. Toxicities were primarily hematologic and reversible.

      The ongoing GOG protocol, #184, is exploring the combination of tumor directed radiation
      followed by a randomization to adriamycin and cisplatin versus adriamycin, cisplatin and
      paclitaxel with G-CSF support. Increased toxicity will be expected in the three-drug regimen.
      With a significant response rates to a combination of paclitaxel and carboplatin along with
      radiation therapy in the phase II setting it is hard to justify the added toxicity of this
      three-drug regimen.

      The SCOTROC phase III trial comparing docetaxel (75 mg/m2) over 1 hour plus carboplatin (AUC
      6) vs. paclitaxel (175 mg/m2) over 3 hours plus carboplatin (AUC 6) yielded equivalent
      overall response rates in 1,077 patients with ovarian cancer. The docetaxel arm resulted in
      significantly less overall grade 2 and 3 sensory and motor neurotoxicity. Only 4 patients
      withdrew from the trial due to neurotoxicity on the docetaxel arm vs. 32 patients on the
      paclitaxel arm. However, the docetaxel arm resulted in a higher incidence of neutropenia and
      associated complications without compromising treatment delivery of overall safety.

      Based on the information to date, it seems prudent to explore a phase II trial of docetaxel
      plus carboplatin every 3 weeks for 6 cycles followed by radiation therapy in the management
      of patients with advanced endometrial cancer. The proposed protocol design requires that
      chemotherapy be administered prior to radiation therapy in order to control distant
      metastatic disease before attempting to control for local-regional recurrences with
      radiation.
    
  