
    
      With the increased use of radiographic imaging for abdominal complaints the incidental
      finding of small asymptomatic renal masses has increased. Partial nephrectomy has become the
      gold standard therapy for treatment of kidney masses ≤7cm in size. Absolute indications for
      partial nephrectomy include bilateral renal tumors, systemic condition affecting renal
      function, chronic renal insufficiency and solitary kidney function. Elective indications
      include masses ≤7cm and normal contralateral kidney function. The procedure can be completed
      through either laparoscopic or open technique. Complication rates from open and partial
      nephrectomy have been reported to be about 16% with the most common being urinary leak,
      postoperative bleeding, renal insufficiency and the need for dialysis.

      A major predictor of postoperative complications is the warm ischemia time. This is the
      length of time the kidney is without blood flow at body temperature. It has been reported
      that renal and cellular damage of the nephron begins after 20-30 minutes of ischemia. As
      well, the volume of estimated blood loss has been shown to be a major predictor of
      postoperative complications. A threshold value of estimated blood loss >750 mL and warm
      ischemia time >45 minutes have been associated with significantly increased rates of
      postoperative complications. Recent advancements in laparoscopic technique have lead to the
      development of the early unclamping method of partial nephrectomy. In this method the renal
      pedicle is unclamped following the initial central running suture but before the defect has
      been entirely repaired with bolstering sutures. This method has been reported to decrease
      warm ischemia time by ≥50% in comparison to the traditional technique of unclamping after
      full closure of the defect.

      The investigators have demonstrated the safety of the "Quill" (Angiotech, Vancouver, BC)
      polydioxanone barbed self retaining sutures in a retrospective series. These sutures contain
      unidirectionally oriented barbs on the surface that switch direction at the half-way point.
      Laparoscopic partial nephrectomy is a technically demanding procedure and maintaining tension
      during intracorporeal suturing is particularly challenging. The barbs of the self retaining
      sutures lock into the tissue allowing the surgeon to preserve tissue approximation without
      needing to maintain tension. The investigators believe these sutures will allow the surgeon
      to obtain greater tissue approximation therefore decreasing postoperative urinary leakage and
      bleeding. These findings need to be validated postoperatively.

      The investigators believe that coupling the shorter warm ischemia time of the early
      unclamping method and the greater tissue approximation afforded by the self retaining sutures
      will result in fewer complications following partial nephrectomy.
    
  