
    
      1. Title of the Research Project： Study of regional Cerebral Oxygenation and Brain Blood
           Volume changes during Cardiac Surgery using the NeurOS system (COBBV-CS Trial)

        2. Background/Problem Statement: The use of regional cerebral oxygenation (rSO2) monitoring
           has grown clinically, even becoming the standard of care in some institutions.
           Monitoring of intracranial tissue oxygenation is fundamentally possible because light in
           the near infrared spectrum (700-900nm) penetrates bone, muscle, and other tissue.
           Oxyhemoglobin and deoxyhemoglobin have distinct peak absorption spectra, but there is an
           isobestic wavelength (i.e., wavelength for which the peak absorption of light is similar
           for oxyhemoglobin and deoxyhemoglobin, approximately 810nm) for absorption by total
           hemoglobin. Determination of rScO2 thus is possible with transmission of just 2
           wavelengths of near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) to determine the relative
           concentrations of oxyhemoglobin versus total hemoglobin. A decrease in rSO2 from
           baseline >20% or an absolute rSO2 value <50% often is reported in clinical investigation
           as representing a clinically meaningful reduction or "desaturation."

      The data is controversial on the benefits of NIRS to prevent or reduce stroke or delirium
      after cardiac surgery. However, it must be realized the inherent limitations of monitors
      alone to impact clinical outcomes without a standardized intervention algorithm. Although
      multiple NIRS monitors are approved in the United States and other countries primarily for
      assessing the adequacy of cerebral oxygenation during surgery, their approval is not based on
      the indication of detecting and/or lowering the frequency of neurological complications. In
      regard to the latter, strokes are believed widely to result primarily from cerebral embolism
      and/or cerebral hypoperfusion. Importantly, both etiologies can contribute to cerebral injury
      in the same patient insofar as hypoperfusion may delay washout of microembolism and/or
      compromise collateral perfusion to the ischemic penumbra. Many strokes, though, occur in
      subcortical brain areas or at sites remote from the area of NIRS monitoring, and many occur
      in the postoperative period after NIRS monitoring has concluded.

      In addition, technological advances with NIRS monitoring have continued and now include the
      ability to perform bedside cerebral autoregulation monitoring. Regional cerebral oxygenation
      provides a clinically acceptable surrogate of cerebral blood flow (CBF) for clinical
      autoregulation monitoring. Monitoring CBF autoregulation with rSO2 has many clinically
      attractive features, including the following: It is noninvasive, monitoring requires little
      caregiver intervention, and it has sufficient resolution to discriminate the lower
      autoregulatory threshold to prevent brain ischemia. On the other hand, simply raising mean
      blood pressure targets during CPB, however, may not necessarily be beneficial because for
      some individuals this may result in blood pressure above the upper limit of autoregulation,
      which potentially could lead to cerebral hyperperfusion, increasing cerebral embolic load
      and/or enhancing cerebral edema in the setting of systemic inflammatory response to cardiac
      surgery. Individualizing blood pressure during CPB based on physiological endpoints such as
      rSO2 monitoring, rather than empiric targets, may provide a means for modifying the risk for
      renal injury and major organ morbidity and possibly mortality.

      Problem Statement: Disposable rSO2 sensors are costly and is becoming a rate limiting factor
      hindering its widespread clinical use. Reusable sensors like NeurOS cerebral oximetry are
      only a fraction of cost with similar performances in healthy volunteers. The investigators
      will use NeurOS in accordance with its approved labeling and indications by FDA. Cardiac
      surgery has significant variations and great clinical importance of cerebral oxygenation
      during different stages of surgery. Blood volume changes before, during and after
      cardiopulmonary bypass have not been studied previously and could provide critical
      information to prevent postoperative cognitive changes. The NeurOS system calculates the sum
      of attenuation of two wavelengths to provide brain blood volume index (BVI) continuously.

      3. Objectives:

        1. To compare the performance of NeurOS with INVOS system during cardiac surgery

        2. To study the brain blood volume changes during cardiac surgery, which has never been
           studied before.

      4. Study Design/Methodology: All cardiac surgical patients are already receiving INVOS
      cerebral oximetry monitoring during surgery at Jewish Hospital. Both INVOS and NeurOS pads
      will be placed on the same patient. Continuous monitoring of both cerebral oximetry data for
      the whole length of cardiac surgery will be recorded and saved in a USB drive for retrieval
      and analysis. Key point left and right-side cerebral oximetry data include: Baseline,
      Anesthesia Induction, Incision, Initiation cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), Aortic Clamping,
      Coming off CPB and Skin Closure. These key points data will be extracted for comparison
      between NeurOS and INVOS in terms of percentage change from the baseline. In addition, a
      time-rSO2 graph will be plotted for each patient side by side with NeurOS and INVOS cerebral
      oxygenation for trend comparison.

        1. . Sample selection and size: 100 consecutive cardiac surgical patients at Jewish
           Hospital, Louisville, KY (2 months to recruit)

        2. . Describe the proposed intervention: Apply the single use NeurOS cerebral oximetry
           sensor adhesive onto patients' forehead who are going to have cardiac surgery in the
           operating room before anesthesia induction.

        3. . Data collection procedures, instruments used, and methods for data quality control:
           Anesthesia providers (attending anesthesiologists, residents and CRNAs) provide routine
           anesthesia care for cardiac surgery. NeurOS and INVOS rSO2 reading are automatically
           recorded in the VO200-NeurOS Cerebral Oximetry Monitor and the INOVS Monitor
           respectively. Significant events (Baseline, Anesthesia Induction, Incision, Initiation
           cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), Aortic Clamping, Coming off CPB and Skin Closure) will be
           marked manually by the anesthesia providers in individual systems. Brain blood volume
           index will be automatically recorded and retracted from the NeurOS system once surgery
           is over. All data will be downloaded from the system into an encrypted USB drive for
           storage and analysis. Data quality control will be ensured by the individual system
           alarms for poor signals and be corrected by anesthesia providers.

        4. . Unit of analysis and observation: Cerebral Oxygenation in percentage of oxyhemoglobin.
           Brain blood volume index in the sum of attenuation of two wavelengths.

      5. Subject Recruitment Methods: All patients presenting to Jewish Hospital for cardiac
      surgery will be contacted for potential recruitment on the day of surgery in the preoperative
      area.

      6. Informed Consent Process/Complete Waiver Process: Informed consent will be provided to all
      participants.

      7. Research Procedures:

      In all consented patients, baseline cerebral oxygenation and brain blood volume index will be
      obtained at room air or baseline oxygen requirement level in NeurOS and INVOS systems. Both
      NeurOS and INVOS rSO2 and brain blood volume indexes will be continuously recorded and saved
      in the respective system throughout the whole cardiac surgery. General anesthesia will be
      induced by using O2 administered via face mask and IV fentanyl 1μg/ kg, propofol 2-3mg/kg and
      rocuronium 1mg/kg. Maintenance of anesthesia was achieved with inhaled isoflurane in
      air/oxygen mixture and muscle relaxation using intermittent boluses of rocuronium. Fentanyl
      will be used as supplemental analgesia. Normocapnic ventilation was maintained. Upon
      completion of surgery and weaning from cardio pulmonary bypass, titrated doses of protamine
      will be administered to reverse the anticoagulant action of heparin, targeting to achieve
      baseline preoperative Activated clotting Time.

      After the surgery, all rSO2 and brain blood volume index data are downloaded into an
      encrypted USB drive for analysis and storage.

      8. Minimizing Risks:

        1. All HIPPA related information will be stored in a private computer in a password
           protected computer.

        2. Cleaning of cables, monitors and reusable equipment are performed after each use.

        3. Standard electrical precautions will be followed to prevent electrical shock to
           providers and patients.

      9. Plan for Analysis of Results:

        -  Trend graphs of INVOS and NeurOS cerebral oximetry will be plotted together to compare
           whether they follow a similar trend. Cerebral oxygenation deviation from the baseline
           will be compared through statistical analysis to identify whether NeurOS performs as
           well as INVOS at these critical moments during cardiac surgery.

        -  Trend graphs of NeurOS brain blood volume, arterial blood pressure, central venous
           pressure and cerebral oxygenation will be plotted together to identify correlations
           among these parameters. Each key point brain blood volume index deviation from the
           baseline will be analyzed to identify whether above mentioned critical moments during
           cardiac surgery will affect the brain blood volume. Clinical outcomes data will be
           collected on 30-day mortality and strokes to identify whether the brain blood volume
           index directly affects clinical outcomes.

        -  Programs to be used for data analysis: Software R

           10. Research Materials, Records, and Privacy: Identify the sources of research material
           obtained from individually identifiable living human subjects: Prospective noninvasive
           data on cerebral oxygenation and brain blood volume during cardiac surgery. Please see
           data collection form.

      Indicate what information (records, data, etc.) will be recorded and whether use will be made
      of existing records or data: Cerebral oxygenation and brain blood volume. They will be
      recorded in the medical charts.

      Explain why this information is needed to conduct the study: These data are necessary to
      identify outcomes for these patients.

      Specify how the data will be de-identified (if applicable), who has access to the data, where
      the data will be stored and how the researcher will protect both the data with respect to
      privacy and confidentiality. Address physical security measures (e.g., locked facility,
      limited access); data security (e.g., password-protection, data encryption); safeguards to
      protect identifiable research information (e.g., coding or links): Once required information
      is collected, HIPPA information will be deleted. All HIPPA related information will be stored
      in a private computer in a password protected computer. No links will be provided to the
      public.

      11. References

      1. Lewis C, Parulkar SD, Bebawy J, Sherwani S, Hogue CW. Cerebral Neuromonitoring During
      Cardiac Surgery: A Critical Appraisal With an Emphasis on Near-Infrared Spectroscopy. Journal
      of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Anesthesia. 2018;32:2313-2322
    
  