
    
      The therapy that you will receive involves you being given an infusion of CD34 positive stem
      cells.

      Below is a detailed explanation of the therapeutic procedures that will be performed.

      CD34 positive stem cells infusion:

      The CD34 positive stem cells are collected from a donor's blood. The blood cells go through
      CD34 (stem cell) selection process that collects the stem cells that are needed for the
      infusion. This process collects the early immune cells your body will need to regrow your
      immune system, and makes sure that other cells will not be infused. This process will
      decrease (but not eliminate completely) the other types of cells. If you agree to receive
      this treatment, the CD34 cells will then be infused into your body.

      The CD34 positive cells will be given by vein in either an inpatient or outpatient treatment
      area. The infusion will last about 10-30 minutes.

      Before the infusion, you will receive Tylenol (acetaminophen) by mouth and Benadryl
      (diphenhydramine hydrochloride) by mouth or vein about 30-60 minutes before the infusion.
      These drugs will be used to help lower the risk of side effects. If side effects occur during
      the infusion, the doses of the drugs may be adjusted (up or down) until the symptoms are
      gone. Also, if you have side effects during the infusion, you will be observed for 2 hours
      after it is given or until the symptoms have stopped completely (whichever is later). During
      this time, your blood pressure, heart rate, breathing rate, temperature, and the level of
      oxygen in your blood will be checked every 15-30 minutes.

      About 4-6 weeks after the first infusion, you may receive an additional infusion, if your
      doctor thinks it is needed.

      Clinic Visits:

      One (1) time a week after the infusion, until your doctor thinks it is no longer clinically
      needed, you will have the following tests:

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will be checked for signs of graft versus host disease (GVHD). Symptoms of GVHD
           include skin rash, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abnormal liver function.

      This is an investigational study. The CD34 positive stem cell infusion to help boost cell
      counts is not FDA approved.

      Up to 30 patients will be enrolled on this treatment.
    
  