
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To test whether outcomes of patients of age 60 or older with previously untreated non-M3
      acute myeloid leukemia treated with azacitidine plus gemtuzumab ozogamicin are sufficient to
      warrant phase III investigation.

      II. To estimate the frequency and severity of toxicities of this regimen in the good- and
      poor-risk groups of patients.

      III. To investigate in a preliminary manner the disease-free survival of patients who achieve
      complete remission and receive post-remission therapy on this study.

      IV. To investigate in a preliminary manner the cytogenetic response rates of patients treated
      with this regimen.

      V. To investigate in a preliminary manner the effects of cytogenetic abnormalities, promoter
      and global methylation changes, and multidrug resistance on overall survival and response to
      azacitidine plus gemtuzumab ozogamicin therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to risk status (good [60-69 years of age OR Zubrod
      performance status [PS] 0-1] vs poor [>= 70 years of age AND Zubrod PS 2-3]).

      REMISSION INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive azacitidine intravenously (IV) over 10-40
      minutes or subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD) on days 1-7 and gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over
      2 hours on day 8. Patients with residual leukemia (blast count >= 5%) receive a second course
      of induction therapy beginning between days 15-29. Patients achieving complete remission (CR)
      or morphologic complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) go on to receive
      consolidation therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive one course of azacitidine and gemtuzumab ozogamicin
      as in induction therapy (with azacitidine given SC only).

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive azacitidine SC on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      undergo bone marrow biopsies for cytogenetic studies at baseline, remission, and relapse or
      progression (and at completion of treatment if it does not correspond to one of these time
      points). Marrow and blood samples are submitted to correlatives studies and submitted to
      Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)/chronic lymphocytic
      leukemia (CLL)/chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) Repository in Seattle, WA.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 2 months for 2 years, every 3
      months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  