
    
      Treatment of ischemic myocardium with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in addition to
      optimal medical therapy reduces major adverse cardiac events. However, less than half of
      patients have a noninvasive ischemic evaluation before revascularization. Fractional flow
      reserve (FFR) can determine the hemodynamic significance of a coronary lesion by measuring
      the distal mean coronary and aortic pressures during maximal hyperemia. Previous studies
      conducted principally in stable coronary artery disease (CAD) patients have demonstrated that
      FFR-guided revascularization improves clinical outcomes, quality of life, and
      cost-efficiency. However, the reliability and safety of FFR assessment in different setting
      than stable CAD is unclear. In addition, the majority of studies are performed with the only
      one device. No data are available from other clinically used devices.

      The HALE BOPP registry is an investigator-initiated observational study, designed to
      prospectively include all patients referred for coronary angiography in which at least 1
      lesion was evaluated by FFR.

      All centers capable of performing FFR were invited to participate and there were no
      predefined exclusion criteria, other than the patient's unwillingness to provide written
      informed consent.

      The decision to perform FFR was left to the operator in each case. The study primary purpose
      was to evaluate, in the routine daily practice, the long-term clinical outcome of coronary
      lesions where the treatment was deferred based on FFR result.

      An independent corelab will review all angiograms to perform quantitative coronary analysis,
      calculation of syntax score, residual syntax score, functional syntax score and, in ACS
      patients, discrimination between culprit and non culprit lesions An indipendent committee
      will assess and adjudicate all adverse events.
    
  