
    
      Most cancer patients experience weight loss at some time as their disease progresses. The
      resulting malnutrition increases risk of treatment complication and may lead to poor
      treatment response and/or tolerance, reduced quality of life and poor survival. The
      prevalence of malnutrition in cancer patients is thought to be as high as 80%, but reports
      vary with cancer location and stage, treatment history, clinical setting and assessment
      criteria.

      Weight loss with cachexia is a common presenting sign in NSCLC, representing a great concern
      for many patients and their families. At this regard, NSCLC cachexia is worth of particular
      investigation because of the prevalence of the disease, the frequency with which it is
      associated with weight loss and the prognostic implications of weight loss for these
      patients.

      Weight stabilization may be the most optimistic outcome to be expected in patients with
      cachexia and is still beneficial, as weight-losing patients with cancer cachexia who
      stabilize their weight have a greater quality of life and survival then those who continue to
      lose weight.

      It is, in fact, well-known that cachexia increases cancer-related mortality and has
      devastating effects on quality of life.Randomized controlled trial data indicate that early
      palliative care improves quality of life and depressive symptoms and may extend survival in
      advanced NSCLC compared with standard care.

      In particular, it has been observed that conventional nutritional supplements are not or only
      partly successful in inducing protein accretion in advanced cancer, suggesting an attenuated
      anabolic response. To prevent muscle wasting and its deleterious consequences, generating an
      anabolic response is crucial. Dietary essential amino acids (EAA) have anabolic properties in
      other wasting diseases, however data in advanced cancer are lacking.

      Previous studies have analyzed patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with
      cachexia or skeletal muscle dysfunction and have demonstrated quadriceps weakness in
      one-third of COPD patients attending hospital respiratory outpatient services.

      An accurate and rapid evaluation of muscle strength which may identify patients with muscle
      weakness could be of crucial importance in a prompt and specific intervention in prescribing
      an adequate support therapy.

      Starting from these assumptions, the main objectives of this study are to evaluate the
      effects of an amino acids mixture (Amixea) on the body composition by dual-energy x-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA), a bone mineral densitometer, and on quadriceps maximal voluntary
      contraction force (QMVC) in advanced NSCLC patients, compared to placebo, after 10 weeks of
      treatment.
    
  