
    
      Retinal edema is an abnormal accumulation of fluids in the retina, is a complication of
      certain eye diseases such as diabetic retinopathy, exudative macular degeneration, surgical
      or para - surgical practices and trauma. The main factors involved in the formation of
      retinal edema are due to structural alterations of blood vessels, formation of neovessels and
      phlogistic phenomena. INTRAVIT® is a product based on extracts of Artemisia, Turmeric,
      Pineapple and Black Pepper, formulated in a targeted way to support the treatment of retinal
      edema and treatments with intravitreal injections. Artemisia (artemisinin and its
      derivatives) has proven to be able to counteract the activity of VEGF, VEGFR, metal protein
      (MM2 and MMP9) and integrins αvβ3, all factors involved in the angiogenetic process. Turmeric
      (curcumin) has been shown to be able to counteract the phlogistic processes in various
      districts in addition to acting on the reduction of angiogenesis. The Pineapple (Bromelain)
      for its proteolytic activity has been able to favor the resorption of the edema and the
      reduction of the phlogistic phenomena. Black pepper (piperine) has proven to be able to
      counteract the phlogistic processes and encourage the bioavailability of some natural
      extracts such as curcumin.

      The purpose of the study is to evaluate the effect of a therapy with INTRAVIT® tablets, on
      retinal edema considering also the central retinal sensitivity (Microperimetry) and visual
      acuity in the course of diabetic retinopathy. Diabetic patients with mild non-proliferant
      diabetic retinopathy (at an early stage) with macular edema will be enlisted. 40 patients, of
      which 20 will be treated with INTRAVIT® tablets (2 tablets per day morning and evening before
      meals), and 20 who will not take any medical therapy to overlap with the activity described
      for INTRAVIT® (control group). Patients covered by the inclusion criteria will undergo,
      before the start of treatment, a full eye examination and OCT (optical coherence tomography)
      for the measurement of foveal thickness. Based on the preordered randomization scheme they
      will be assigned to Group 1 or Group 2 (control group). Patients will undergo a first
      examination at the time of recruitment (T0), and subsequent visits (T1-T2) will fall to 3 and
      6 months.The data collection sheet will report all adverse effects potentially attributable
      to the administration of the food supplement INTRAVIT® tablets.
    
  