
    
      Aim-

        1. To compare the pain scores during rest and movement with continuous epidural infusion
           (CEI) vs. patient controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA)

        2. To compare the incidence of side effects between 2 groups

        3. Comparison of local anaesthetic and opioids requirement by PCA attempts and also rescue
           analgesia requirement.

        4. To compare patient satisfaction with the two different modalities of pain management

      Sample size- Based on our hospital data for postoperative pain management after
      thoraco-abdominal surgeries, it was found that 69.7 % patients experience moderate to severe
      pain (pain score 4-10) on first day postoperatively.

      Considering a 50% reduction as meaningful, group sample size of 62 with 31 in each group was
      calculated using a chi square test. Assuming a 10% loss to follow up or drop outs from study
      we require 35 in each group with total sample size of 70.

      Variables- age, sex, demographic factors, surgery, duration of surgery, pain score, nausea
      score, hypotension episode, pruritis, Vomiting episode, patients satisfaction score,
      requirement of rescue analgesia.

      Analysis of variables:

      Descriptive statistics will be used for data representation. The χ2 and Fisher's exact
      probability tests will be used to analyze the differences between qualitative data.
      Comparisons of two groups will be analyzed using the Independent sample t test or
      Mann-Whitney U test as per the distribution of data. A P-value less than 0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant. Patient satisfaction using verbal rating scale will be
      analysed using Mann-Whitney U test.

      Methodology- Patient meeting inclusion criteria, 4 hours after surgery will be reassessed in
      absence of any post-operative exclusion criteria, patient will be randomized into either
      group as per a computer generated chart and study will start from this time.

      Postoperative group A will receive continuous epidural infusion at rate of 5-8 ml /hr based
      on maximum allowable safe dose as per body weight[10]. The Patient Controlled Analgesia
      settings will be set at 0.1 ml per bolus with lockout interval of 20 minutes.

      Group B will receive patient controlled epidural analgesia in form of Patient Controlled
      analgesia pumps with continuous rate of 5-8ml/hour & demand dose of 2-3 ml p.r.n with a lock
      out interval of 20 minutes based on maximum allowable safe dose as per body weight . Both the
      groups will have a cross over at 36 hours postop.
    
  