
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of a mindfulness meditation mobile
      application on sleep in individuals reporting sleep disturbances.

      The investigator's guiding hypothesis is that the combined elements of a consumer-based
      mobile meditation app, Calm (e.g., daily mindfulness meditation, sleep stories and behavioral
      components), will be feasible, accepted and associated with sustained improvement in sleep
      among individuals who self-identify as having sleep disturbances. Calm provides daily,
      10-minute, guided meditations grounded in mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) and
      Vipassana meditation. Uniquely, Calm also offers "Sleep Stories", developed using techniques
      from Cognitive Behavioral Therapy and Relaxation Technique.

      This is a randomized control feasibility study with an intervention and waitlist control.

      Aim 1: Examine the feasibility of using a consumer-based mindful meditation app for >10
      mins/day over eight weeks for 100 adults who self-identify as sleep disturbed.

      Aim 2: Explore the preliminary effects of Calm on sleep disturbance and emotional symptoms
      associated with sleep disturbance (i.e. stress, anxiety, depressive symptoms) as compared to
      those in a wait-list control group.

      Recruitment: Participants will be recruited nationally via Internet-based strategies
      including social media (e.g. Facebook, Twitter, Instagram), social networking sites and email
      listservs. Recruitment flyers will be posted on social media websites. ResearchMatch.org will
      be also be utilized as a recruitment tool for this protocol.

      Eligibility: Inclusion criteria are: (1) self-identify as sleep disturbed (i.e., score >10 on
      the Insomnia Severity Index), (2) >18 years of age, (3) English speaking, (4) willing to
      download the Calm app to their smartphone, and (5) have not practiced meditation more than 60
      minutes a month in the past six months (6) willing to be randomized. Participants will report
      use of medication for sleep at baseline, mid-intervention and post-intervention and not
      excluded for medication.

      Enrollment: Interested participants will complete a brief (5-10 minute) eligibility screener
      via Qualtrics. Participants will not be made know of sponsor name before randomization
      assignment to avoid disclosing the app that they will be using. Eligible participants will be
      asked to sign an electronic informed consent prior to the start of the intervention. After
      informed consents have been completed, participants (N=100) will be identified. Once eligible
      participants have been identified, they will be emailed instructions. Ineligible participants
      will be notified by email.

      Tracking: Intervention participants (n=50) usage will be continuously tracked throughout the
      intervention by Calm.

      Post-intervention: Post-intervention questionnaire will be emailed to intervention and
      control participants via a link from Qualtrics. All participants will have access to Calm
      after the 8-week study period, but will not be asked to meditate.
    
  