
    
      This study aims to assess two delivery models of PGx testing (physician-initiated and
      pharmacist-initiated) for commonly prescribed drugs in primary care practices and evaluate
      the delivery of testing from three perspectives: physician, patient, and practice setting. We
      hypothesize that greater utilization will be influenced by increased physician knowledge and
      awareness of drugs with PGx testing, comfort in discussing PGx testing with patients and
      applying results to therapeutic decision-making and positive attitudes towards the testing
      process. We hypothesize that the pharmacist-initiated approach will result in the most
      effective use and rapid uptake of PGx testing given the hands-on educational approach with
      the pharmacist providing expert guidance. We also hypothesize that having a pharmacist with
      PGx testing expertise as part of the medical team will result in greater physician comfort
      with test ordering and application of results as compared with the physician-initiated model.
      In addition, an economic analysis will be conducted to evaluate and compare the costs of each
      model.

      We will also examine patient perspectives about PGx testing and their utilization of test
      results. We hypothesize that patients who have experienced adverse responses or a poor drug
      outcome (no response) in the past, are taking chronic medications, and those who are older
      will be more likely to consent to PGx testing. We hypothesize that patients' increased
      awareness about their genetic predisposition to adverse responses will result in greater
      discussion with prescribing physicians and pharmacists about the PGx results when new
      treatments are prescribed, with greater attention to adverse effects of new drugs and
      potentially greater medication compliance.

      We will implement and evaluate two delivery models of PGx testing into primary care
      practices: physician-initiated testing and pharmacist-initiated testing. Each practice will
      be provided an educational intervention and will be surveyed prior to the seminar and
      following the intervention period to assess primary care practitioner (PCP) knowledge and
      attitudes about PGx testing. These surveys will take about 10-15 minutes to complete and will
      be available through an online system like SurveyMonkey.

      In the pharmacist-initiated group, a pharmacist based within the practice will identify
      prescribed drugs with available PGx testing through chart review and provide specific
      information and recommendations about PGx testing to the ordering physician. In the
      physician-initiated group, physicians will order testing as they deem necessary, but will
      also have on-call pharmacist support to consult.

      Patients who are offered PGx testing will also be surveyed: once after deciding whether or
      not to pursue PGx testing and then, if they consent to testing, after they receive their test
      results. These surveys will take about 10-15 minutes to complete and will be on paper
      (pretest) and online through a system like SurveyMonkey (post-test). The pretest survey will
      have 3 sections: demographics, perceived risks and benefits of PGx testing, and satisfaction
      with test results. The post-test will assess information-seeking behavior, medication
      adherence, and knowledge of adverse drug reactions.

      Chart reviews will be conducted throughout the study to collect various data-points. All
      extracted data-points will be coded; the key will be stored in a separate file to minimize
      any breach of privacy. In summary, the medical records of patients scheduled to be seen at
      either clinic during the first or second phase of the study (see Figure 1) will be reviewed
      to identify those patients that were prescribed a drug from Table 1. A post-intervention (the
      third and final phase of the study) chart review will be conducted to monitor the number of
      new prescriptions for drugs listed in Table 1, the frequency with which PGx testing is
      ordered, by which physicians, and for which drugs.

      We will conduct chart reviews at the end of each phase of the study (pre-intervention period,
      intervention period, and post intervention period) of patients prescribed targeted
      medications. No HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) identifiers will
      be recorded.

      All PCPs practicing at the two clinics involved in the study are eligible to participate. All
      physicians who participate in the educational intervention in either arm will be invited to
      participate in the pre and post-intervention surveys.

      The patient survey population will include patients who were offered and consented or
      declined testing. All patients 18 years and older who were prescribed a drug for which PGx
      testing is available and offered a PGx test by their physician during the intervention period
      will be asked to participate in the initial survey. Patients must be English-speaking and
      able to complete the survey without assistance.

      Chart review will include all patients who were scheduled an appointment at either of the
      clinics within the designed study period. Data abstracted (full chart review) will be limited
      to those patients who were prescribed a target drug during the designated period.
    
  