
    
      Participants will complete 4 testing sessions that will be held on 4 separate days (Baseline,
      Eccentric Exercise day, 48 hours post exercise, and 72 hours post exercise). All sessions
      will take place in the National Institute of Fitness and Sport, where the Department of
      Kinesiology laboratories are located.

      During the first session (Baseline), the purpose and procedures of the research will be
      explained by the investigator, co-investigator, or a research assistant in more detail.
      Participants will read and sign the informed consent form and then undergo an
      exclusion/inclusion criteria assessment which includes the Physical Activity Readiness
      Questionnaire (PAR-Q), and brief questionnaire. All study personnel/staff obtaining informed
      consent will be trained in the responsible conduct of research. All participants will be
      asked if they have a known allergy to Kinesio Tape (KT) or if they have sensitive skin. Those
      with sensitive skin will be administered an allergy test. After screening and enrollment,
      participants will complete baseline assessments of muscle pain and function, pain
      sensitivity, and psychological risk factors (See outcome measures).

      During Session 2, strength of the non-dominant bicep will be measured first. Participants
      will then perform an eccentric exercise protocol designed to induce delayed onset muscle
      soreness (DOMS) on the non-dominant arm. Strength of the non-dominant bicep will be measured
      immediately post the eccentric exercise protocol. At the end of this session, subjects will
      be randomly assigned to one of two intervention groups (experimental KT group, placebo KT
      group) or a control group (i.e., no intervention performed). The experimental group will
      receive KT with proper technique and tension (10-20%), while the placebo group will receive
      KT without technique and tension.

      Sessions 3 and 4 will occur approximately 48 and 72 hours post Session 2, respectively. All
      the outcome variables will be measured during these sessions. For participants in the KT
      groups, the tape will be removed at the end of session 4, as described below.
    
  