
    
      Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SCC) of the anus and the anal canal represents a major concern for
      the HIV infected population, with incidence rates in the different sub populations (women,
      men, MSM) that are grater than those observed for other common neoplasms in the same HIV
      negative sub-populations. Nowadays, screening for anal precancerous dysplasia has been
      included in most national and international HIV management guidelines; in particular, italian
      guidelines suggest to screen for the presence of HPV related dysplasia:

        -  HIV+ MSM

        -  All individuals with previous or current evidence of ant-genital condyloma

        -  Women with cytology abnormalities on cervical Pap-smear Since no direct anti-HPV drug is
           currently available and control or clearance of the infection is possible only trough
           the effect of immune response, interest is addressed to find strategies to promote
           spontaneous clearance of infection.

      In published studies, oral bacterio-therapy demonstrated the ability to promote HPV clearance
      and HPV related dysplasia regression in HIV negative women.

      In the present randomized, double blind, placebo controlled trial, 40 HIV infected
      individuals with HPV related anal dysplasia will be enrolled.

      At baseline participants will undergo:

        -  anal HPV research and identification

        -  anal cytology

        -  anal brushing for evaluation of local inflammatory milieu and microbiota

      Subjects with identified HPV anal infection and anal dysplasia will undergo High Resolution
      Anoscopy (HRA).

      During HRA, extra biopsies of identified abnormal areas and biopsies of normal mucosa will be
      obtained. Extra biopsies will be used to investigate the distribution of intra-epithelial
      immune cells populations.

      Participants will then undergo 6 months of oral supplementation with probiotics (Vivomixx®)
      or placebo.

      At the end of the supplementation period (Vivomixx or placebo), participants will undergo:

        -  anal HPV research and identification

        -  anal cytology

        -  anal brushing for evaluation of local inflammatory milieu and microbiota

        -  HRA

      During HRA, extra biopsies of identified abnormal areas and biopsies of normal mucosa will be
      obtained. Extra biopsies will be used to investigate the distribution of intra-epithelial
      immune cells populations.
    
  