
    
      Physical activity is increasingly recognized to play a role in maintenance of brain health
      and attenuation of physical decline associated with aging. While physical activity has been
      shown to gradually decline with increasing age, initiation of an exercise protocol attenuates
      declines in cognition associated with advancing age, including impaired neurogenesis as well
      as decreased attention and learning. These benefits may be attributed, at least in part, to
      physical activity's role in maintaining an anti-inflammatory phenotype, and several clinical
      observational studies performed in older adults have shown an inverse relationship between
      self-reported physical activity and inflammatory biomarkers. Pre-clinical studies have also
      revealed that exposing aged animals to circulating factors derived from young animal
      counterparts significantly improves cognitive function and promotes neurogenesis.

      A major limitation of clinical studies investigating the effect of physical activity on
      cognitive function is that subjects display considerable variability in their responses to
      the intervention. There are likely to be multiple biological pathways by which physical
      activity influences brain structure and function, and the type of physical activity that may
      be effective for influencing these pathways is likely to vary greatly. A better mechanistic
      understanding of how different modes of physical activity may target varying regions of the
      brain and other aspects of aging is therefore warranted.

      This study examines the behavioral, molecular, and structural biomarkers of brain health that
      will allow for the stratification of individuals according to their "cognitive signature" and
      function. This study will randomize older adults into one of four interventions for a period
      of 12 months: 1) Aerobic Exercise, 2) Resistance Exercise, 3) Yoga Exercise, 4) Health
      Education (involves stretching and range of motion activities).

      This aims of this study will examine whether and how these different types of training
      interventions exert differential effects on potential pathways of cognition and function in
      aged individuals, and the role of baseline subject characteristics in mediating these
      responses. The specific aims are:

        1. To compare changes in cognitive function in response to three different types of
           physical activity (aerobic activity, resistance training activity, yoga) versus health
           education control.

        2. To compare changes in brain structure in response to three different types of physical
           activity (aerobic activity, resistance training activity, yoga) versus health education
           control.

        3. To compare biomarkers of brain health and cognition in response to three different types
           of physical activity (aerobic activity, resistance training activity, yoga) versus
           health education control.

        4. To examine changes in physical function in response to three different types of physical
           activity (aerobic activity, resistance training activity, yoga) versus health education
           control.

        5. To conduct post-hoc analyses to examine whether baseline measures of cognitive function,
           brain structure, biomarkers, or physical function influence responsiveness to any of the
           three different types of physical activity (aerobic activity, resistance training
           activity, yoga) versus health education control.
    
  