
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS The appropriate interplay of cognitive and reward systems is essential for
      adaptive human behavior, allowing a homeostatic balance between immediate basic pleasures and
      long-term planned rewards. Deficits in inhibitory control from cortical cognitive systems
      over subcortical reward circuits is a key pathophysiological feature of addictive behavior
      that has not been studied satisfactorily in gambling disorder (GD). The clinical phenotype of
      this population is characterized by unsuccessful efforts to reduce or stop gambling despite
      negative outcomes, suggestive of faulty inhibitory control of gambling impulses that sustain
      the chronicity and comorbidities of this clinical syndrome. Deficits in behavioral and
      cognitive control constitute a symptom dimension associated with diminished response
      inhibition in experimental tasks such as the Stop Signal Task (SST). The pre-supplementary
      motor area (pre-SMA) is a key node of the cognitive control network responsible for response
      inhibition. Pre-SMA activation has been associated to response inhibition performance in fMRI
      studies using the SST and recent evidence also suggests that its activity represents a
      motivational signal for movement. In fact, pre-SMA seems to have a dominant role in bridging
      the delay between expected reward and specific actions rather than determining whether an
      action is made. Although the pathophysiology of GD is not well understood, studies have shown
      altered brain activity in prefrontal regions (including pre-SMA) of GD patients during
      response inhibition tasks in addition to functional connectivity abnormalities of SMA during
      rest. These circuit-level abnormalities represent a potential therapeutic target that could
      be modulated by brain stimulation therapies such as transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS).
      Theta burst stimulation (TBS), is a particularly brief and effective form of TMS that can be
      inhibitory (continuous or cTBS) or excitatory (intermittent or iTBS). Although pre-SMA has
      been successfully targeted with traditional TMS and TBS for impulse-control disorders like
      OCD, this approach has never been tested for GD in therapeutic or mechanistic studies.
      Despite the significant morbidity and mortality of GD, there is a dramatic shortage of
      effective treatment options for these patients, partly due to the lack of valid
      pathophysiological models for target discovery and experimental therapeutics. In this project
      the investigators propose a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled design in which 40
      patients with GD will receive active or sham cTBS to the pre-SMA for 2 weeks. The
      investigators will combine TMS, multimodal structural and functional MRI and behavioral
      measures in order to identify circuit-level mechanisms of action and therapeutic targets
      (connectivity changes that explain clinical improvement) and assess the efficacy of TMS in
      modulating inhibitory control and symptom severity in this population.

      Aim 1 (ACUTE MECHANISM OF ACTION): To assess circuit-level effects of a single session of
      cTBS to the pre-SMA in GD patients. Hypothesis 1.1: cTBS will lead to increase in functional
      connectivity between cortical inhibitory nodes (pre-SMA) and reward subcortical structures
      (Nucleus Accumbens, NAc), and these changes will correlate with improvement in reaction time
      in SST. Hypothesis 1.2: cTBS will not lead to acute changes in FA, RD or AD in the
      mesocorticolimbic pathway. Hypothesis 1.3: cTBS will lead to increased cognitive control
      network and decreased NAc activation during SST. Exploratory analyses will test the
      predictive value of acute circuit changes for clinical improvement after 2 weeks and 1 month
      follow up.

      Aim 2 (CHRONIC MECHANISM OF ACTION): To assess circuit-level effects of 10 session of cTBS to
      the pre-SMA in GD patients Hypothesis 2.1: cTBS will lead to increases in functional
      connectivity between preSMA and NAc, and these will correlate with behavioral and clinical
      improvement. Hypothesis 2.2: cTBS will lead to increased FA and decreased RD and AD in the
      mesocorticolimbic pathway, and these will correlate with clinical improvement. Hypothesis
      2.3: cTBS will lead to further increased cognitive control network and decreased NAc
      activation during SST, and these will correlate with clinical improvement.

      Aim 3 (BEHAVIORAL/CLINICAL): To determine the behavioral and clinical changes of cTBS to the
      preSMA in GD. Hypothesis 3.1: A single session of cTBS will lead to improvement in reaction
      time in the SST, but not in symptom severity measured with clinical scales. Hypothesis 3.2:
      10 sessions of cTBS will lead to improvement in reaction time in the behavioral inhibition
      task, in addition to a reduction in clinical severity (including craving/urges) as measured
      by clinical scales.
    
  