
    
      Advance care planning is a process that supports adults at any age or stage of health in
      understanding and sharing their personal values, life goals, and preferences regarding future
      medical care. The goal of advance care planning is to help ensure that people receive medical
      care that is consistent with their values, goals and preferences during serious and chronic
      illness.

      The Advance Care Planning Group Visit intervention is a new intervention that uses the
      strengths of group visits to promote advance care planning conversations and documentation.
      However, the Advance Care Planning Group Visit intervention was initially designed for
      individuals without cognitive impairment. This study will specifically investigate ways to
      adapt the Advance Care Planning Group Visit intervention for individuals with amnestic Mild
      Cognitive Impairment.

      Aim 1: The first part of this study will focus on refining and adapting the Advance Care
      Planning Group Visit intervention so that it meets the needs of persons with amnestic
      cognitive impairment and a study partner who participates with them.

      This aim will include a longitudinal focus group with three meetings over a 12 month period.
      Participants of the focus group will provide input and feedback on how to adapt the ENgaging
      in Advance Care planning Talks (ENACT) Group Visit to meet the needs of individuals with
      amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment. Once the Aim 2 ENACT Memory Group Visits prototypes have
      been conducted, the longitudinal focus group will provide additional feedback on what worked
      well and what needs to be modified. Individuals in Aim 1 will have the opportunity to
      participate in Aim 2 as well, allowing them to better able assess the ENACT Memory Group
      Visits.

      Aim 2: The second part of the study will pilot test the Advance Care Planning Group Visit
      intervention adaptations, called ENgaging in Advance Care planning Talks Group Visit
      intervention (ENACT Memory Group Visits), to see if it is feasible, acceptable and improves
      the number of people with amnestic mild cognitive impairment who complete an advance
      directive (a legal form that describes someone's wishes for future medical care if they are
      unable to make their own decisions). It will also see how ready individuals are to
      participate in advance care planning. The overall goal is to improve opportunities for older
      adults with amnestic mild cognitive impairment to receive medical care that is consistent
      with their values, goals, and preferences.

      This aim will use rapid-cycle prototyping (n-of-1 interventions) to conduct the ENgaging in
      Advance Care planning Talks (ENACT) Memory Group Visits, adapting them for individuals with
      amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment. Each n-of-1 prototype will include up to 10 patient-study
      partner dyads meeting in up to two 2-hour group medical visit sessions, one month apart. Four
      cohorts will be conducted so that approximately 40 participants are involved in the n-of-1
      prototypes of the ENACT Memory Group Visit intervention. The intervention will be conducted
      based on an intervention manual that will be refined and adapted with input from patients,
      study partners, and the research team of multidisciplinary clinicians. Participants will
      receive the Colorado Medical Durable Power of Attorney form and other appropriate advance
      care planning resources for individuals with aMCI. Four ENACT Memory Group Visit intervention
      cohorts will be scheduled within the 12 month study period.
    
  