
    
      Turner Syndrome (TS) is characterized by ovarian dysgenesis and short stature resulting from
      the partial or complete deletion of one X-chromosome. Adults with TS have excessive rates of
      osteoporosis, hypertension, dyslipidemia and diabetes mellitus and may have increased
      morbidity and mortality as a result. These problems of adults with TS may be secondary to
      deficiency of ovarian hormones or may result from halpo-insufficiency for as yet unknown
      X-chromosome genes. There have been no prospective, controlled studies of the effects of
      hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in TS, but available data suggest that conventional oral
      HRT designed for postmenopausal women may not prevent osteoporosis and may aggravate
      hypertension in this disorder. Of note, girls and women with TS are deficient in ovarian
      androgens as well as estrogen, and have reduced muscle mass, which may contribute to
      osteoporosis and insulin resistance. In addition, reduced androgens may contribute to the
      impairment of self esteem and social interactions suffered by many with TS. In this study,
      two different hormone regimens for TS will be compared in a randomized, placebo-controlled,
      double-blind design. Both groups will receive transdermal estradiol (E2, 100 mcg/day) with
      cyclic progesterone; one group will receive a physiological dose of testosterone (T) by
      transdermal patch while the other group will receive a placebo patch. The treatment duration
      is 2 years. Major outcome parameters include predicted improvements in bone mineral density,
      body composition and psychosocial well-being. Essential information will be collected on the
      effects of hormone treatments on insulin sensitivity and blood pressure in TS. This study
      will help to optimize hormone replacement treatment for women with TS, and to clarify which
      of the metabolic problems of TS are secondary to ovarian hormone deficiency, and which are
      due to genetic factors.
    
  