
    
      The high-altitude pulmonary edema (HAPE) is the leading cause of death from high altitude
      sickness. At moderate altitude (2500-4500m) the incidence (0.2-6%) may be underestimated
      because only clinical HAPE leads to symptoms and motivates the patient to seek medical
      advice. Cremona et al. [Cremona et al. Pulmonary extravascular fluid accumulation in
      recreational climbers: a prospective study. Lancet 2002;359:303-09] suggested that a silent
      interstitial pulmonary edema arises in most recreational climbers at moderate altitude.
      Recently, chest sonography has been shown to effectively detect pulmonary edema and quantify
      extravascular lung water through the sign of "ultrasound lung comets" (ULCs) originating from
      water-thickened interlobular septa [Lichtenstein D et al. The comet-tail artifact. An
      ultrasound sign of alveolar-interstitial syndrome. Am J Respir Crit Care Med;156:1640-46].
      The technique requires only basic twodimensional technology and has been applied in extreme,
      out-of-hospital setting, showing in recreational climbers a high prevalence of clinically
      silent interstitial pulmonary edema at high-altitude [Pratali L et al. Frequent subclinical
      high-altitude pulmonary edema detected by chest sonography as ultrasound lung comets in
      recreational climbers. Crit Care Med 2010;38:1818-23]. However, data for moderate altitude
      remain scarce, despite that mountaineers are increasing in age and comorbidities and could be
      more prone to high altitude emergencies.

      Prospective, non-randomised, observational study. Study participants are recruited from a
      scientific research group lead by the Ohio State University during a glaciology study on the
      Ortles Glacier in South Tyrol (3905m).

      Patients are tested for a baseline measure, during a permanent stay on the glacier camp (3h,
      9h, 24h, 48h, 72h, 7d ). Parameters include chest ultrasound, Lake Louise score, cerebral
      sensitive score, non-invasive haemodynamic parameters (i.e. US) and markers of hypoxia
      responses, endothelial damage and inflammation.
    
  