
    
      The polio epidemics demonstrated the safety and efficacy of non-invasive ventilation (NIV) to
      decrease mortality. Since then, this therapeutic approach has been shown to reduce hospital
      admissions, impact favourably on health-related quality of life (HRQL), improve sleep quality
      and reduce mortality in patients with diverse chronic pathologies. This success has driven
      the increase in prevalence of patients using home NIV in Europe, ranging from 4.5 to 20 per
      100,000 adults.

      The use of NIV at home has been proven to be cost-effective, but patients' adherence to
      therapy has still potential to improve which should further enhance healthcare efficiencies
      of the intervention. Optimization of physiological settings and monitoring can contribute to
      enhance adherence by improving timely detection of problems such as mask leaks,
      patient-ventilator asynchronies, etc. However, improvement of behavioural aspects such as
      patient motivation and empowerment for self-management are also important factors to consider
      when addressing adherence to respiratory therapies.

      The current protocol seeks to explore the transfer of previous positive experiences on
      behavioural interventions in other fields (i.e. physical activity into home-based NIV and, in
      general, into respiratory therapies. Specifically, we will explore the concept of
      self-efficacy. It is defined as the individual's perceived capability to perform the
      particular behaviour. A person who does not believe in her or his own capability to perform a
      desired action will fail to adopt, initiate, and maintain it. Self-efficacy is therefore seen
      as the most influential motivational factor and the strongest predictor of behavioural
      intentions.

      The application of self-efficacy to the problem of identifying predictors of BIPAP use
      derives from the social cognitive theory concept of Bandura (Bandura's model). This model has
      been widely applied in studies of the adoption, initiation, and maintenance of
      health-promoting behaviors and consists of the concepts of perception of the risk to health,
      expectations regarding treatment outcome (outcome expectancies), and the confidence or
      volition to engage in the behavior (treatment self-efficacy).

      Alongside this well-defined behavioural concept, we also identify the role of information and
      communication technologies (ICT) as a promising scenario to generate efficiencies by
      enhancing coordination between stakeholders and contributing to improve health outcomes.

      Nonetheless, it is acknowledged that the scenario is not still mature. Mainly, because of
      lacking evidence in real-world scenarios for the capacity of ICT to escort behavioural
      changes in chronic complex patients. It is widely accepted that, despite current limitations,
      chronic complex patients are an ideal population where care coordination, patient and medical
      staff satisfaction alongside patient empowerment are of utmost importance to produce health
      benefits.

      The study protocol intends to produce evidence on the capacity of a behavioural intervention
      to increase patient empowerment for self-management and adherence to therapy accompanied by
      an ICT tool interoperable with the information system of the healthcare provider. Moreover,
      the intervention should generate high acceptability/satisfaction among patients, carers and
      professionals. We fully acknowledge that if the expected results are achieved, the proposed
      study shall be followed by long-term assessment of the impact of the intervention.
    
  