
    
      Heart attacks are a leading cause of death for both men and women in the United States. A
      heart attack occurs when blood flow to the heart is restricted, commonly due to a blood clot
      that has formed in one of the coronary arteries. If the clot becomes large enough, blood flow
      to the heart can be blocked almost completely and the heart muscle in that area can suffer
      permanent injury or death. Although a PCI can be used to open up the blocked artery and
      restore blood flow to the heart muscle, there may be a significant amount of heart tissue
      that has been irreversibly damaged. Recent studies have shown that adult stem cells from bone
      marrow may be able to improve heart function after a heart attack. These specialized cells
      may have the ability to promote blood vessel growth, prevent cell death, and transform
      themselves into a number of tissues, including muscle. After an acute heart attack, a
      remodeling process is initiated in the heart in an attempt to compensate for damaged areas.
      Consequently, the condition of the heart muscle several weeks after a heart attack may differ
      considerably from the heart's condition during the acute setting. For some patients, delaying
      the delivery of the stem cells until 2 to 3 weeks after a heart attack may be better than
      initiating treatment during the acute phase. This study will evaluate the safety and
      effectiveness of placing adult stem cells into injured heart muscle 2 to 3 weeks after a
      heart attack for improving heart function in people who have had a recent heart attack and a
      PCI.

      Participation in this study will last 24 months. All participants will first undergo baseline
      assessments that will include a medical history, a physical exam, an electrocardiogram (ECG),
      blood draws, an echocardiogram, and a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) test. Participants
      will then be assigned randomly to receive stem cells or placebo between 2 and 3 weeks after
      their heart attack. The morning of the stem cell or placebo infusion, participants will
      undergo a blood draw and a bone marrow aspiration procedure of the hip bone to collect the
      stem cells. Later the same day, either stem cells or placebo will be infused through a
      catheter and into the damaged area of the heart.

      For the first 24 hours after the infusion, participants will be asked to wear a small ECG
      machine called a Holter monitor. Participants will also be asked to record their temperature
      twice a day for a month after the infusion. Participants will return for follow-up visits at
      Months 1, 3, 6, 12, and 24 and will repeat many of the baseline assessments.
    
  