
    
      Our institution registers on an average 670 cases of cancer cervix in a year and almost 75%
      are treated with curative intent, therefore around 500 patients a year would be treated with
      curative intent. Assuming that 75% of patients registered in a year would be receiving
      treatment at our institute, 375 patients a year would be completing treatment, of whom the
      investigator expect 80-85% ,i.e 300 patients to have a complete response. The list of
      patients who have completed radio(chemotherapy) in 2015 &2016 can be obtained from the
      Radiation Oncology Department records. Patients identified for a follow up visit will be
      telephonically contacted between one and two weeks before the planned clinic visit and verbal
      telephonic consent taken prior to the nurse-led interview. This study should be able to
      accrue 300 patients in 6 months.

      Patients of locally advanced cervical cancer or vault cancer who have been treated with
      radiotherapy with or without concurrent chemotherapy and have a clinical complete response at
      3 months post treatment and are within the first 2 years post treatment completion will be
      eligible to participate in this study.

      Screening: Patients will be screened from the list of patients treated in the radiotherapy
      department over the last 2 years (2015-2016), available from the Radiation Oncology
      Information System (ROIS). All patients with a diagnosis of cervical cancer or vault cancer
      will be screened using the hospital Electronic Medical Record (EMR) to check stage of
      disease, schedule of treatment received, response at 3 months post treatment and expected
      date of next follow up.

      If patient fulfils all inclusion criteria, she will be called by the research nurse,
      approximately 1-2 weeks prior to her expected date of follow up, for a preliminary
      conversation and invited to participate in the study.

      After verbal telephonic consent is obtained, she will be interviewed by the clinical research
      nurse using the format of the prepared proforma (Form A) regarding symptoms suggestive of
      disease recurrence as well as treatment induced toxicity. At the end of the interview, the
      research nurse records her impression of whether the patient has worrisome symptoms of
      disease or not and has symptoms of treatment toxicity or not for which she should visit the
      hospital.

      When the patient reports to the OPD the next week for scheduled physical follow up, the nurse
      completes the consenting process by taking a short written informed consent. The examining
      physician then takes a complete history and in addition, performs a physical examination and
      any investigations he/she deems necessary. Following this he/she notes down final impression
      of disease status and toxicity which are taken as the gold standard (Form B). Each patient
      will be interviewed only once during their follow up schedule.

      In addition at the physical visit, information regarding the acceptability of nurse-led
      telephonic follow-up to the patient and the financial impact of physical follow- up will be
      collected using a structured format (Form C).

      Study participant drop-out/ Lost-to-follow up: Patients may withdraw their consent at any
      point during the telephonic interview or the subsequent follow up visit.

        -  A patient who does not attend the scheduled follow up visit within 1-2 weeks of the
           telephonic interview will be called a second time to remind her of the follow up
           appointment and enquire about reasons for non-attendance in the clinic, which will be
           recorded. If patient does not report to the clinic within the next 2 weeks, she will be
           considered to have dropped out from the study.

        -  Those patients in whom the interval between telephonic interview and the physician's
           assessment is more than 4 weeks, will be considered drop outs and follow up telephone
           call will go out to enquire about reasons for non-attendance in the clinic, which will
           be recorded.
    
  