
    
      There were four specific aims:

        1. Refine a Collaborative Assessment and Management of Suicidality (or CAMS) e-learning
           course that covers the same material and meets the same learning objectives of CAMS
           in-person training.

        2. Test the effectiveness of the CAMS e-learning modality compared to the CAMS in-person
           modality and a concurrent non-intervention control in terms of provider evaluation and
           behavior.

           HO: Providers in each of the two CAMS arms will demonstrate higher levels of content
           mastery and confidence in acquired skills than providers in the no CAMS arm.

           H2: In the 12 months post-training, suicidal patients of providers in each of the two
           CAMS arms will receive higher rates of CAMS guideline concordant treatment, compared
           with providers in the no CAMS arm.

        3. Test the effectiveness of the CAMS e-Learning delivery compared to the CAMS in-person
           delivery and a concurrent non-intervention control in terms of patient outcomes.

           H3, 4, 5: In the 12 months post-training, suicidal patients of CAMS e-learning providers
           and CAMS in-person providers will be similar for health services use patterns, duration
           of high risk episodes, and number of high risk episodes per patient.

           H6: In the 12 months post training, suicidal patients of providers in the no CAMS arm
           will have higher rates of emergency room use and inpatient mental health admissions,
           have a longer average duration of high risk episodes, and have more high risk episodes
           per patient.

        4. Assess factors that facilitate or inhibit adoption of CAMS through e-Learning or
           In-person.

      Of the 309 providers who met eligibility criteria, 230 consented and 212 completed the
      baseline assessments and were randomized. A total of 261 patients met eligibility criteria
      and information was abstracted on them.

      We developed the CAMS-e, conducted a pilot, revised the e-CAMS, delivered the training in the
      first site, and again revised it. There is little difference in satisfaction ratings between
      the two types of training deliveries on the VA Evaluation of Training. Findings show that
      there were some modest immediate improvements due to the two training conditions; however,
      the effects were only sustainable at three months for one question related to hospitalization
      beliefs.

      To date, the project has had the following impacts:

        1. success in obtaining 6.5 continuing education units (CEUs) for the e-learning version

        2. invitations to place e-CAMS on the Department of Defense learning platforms

        3. VA Central Office has purchased a license to use the Suicide Status Form (SSF) as a
           clinical tool and template in the computerized electronic patient record system
           throughout the national VA. The template is in the developmental process.

        4. Efforts are underway to move the CAMS e-learning on to the VA Training Management System
           (TMS) which will facilitate system wide dissemination and has the potential to increase
           adoption in VAMC's or by providers.

      Additional impacts may be evident with regard to improved care once we complete analysis of
      the patient outcomes and provider adherence data. We have also considered a short manuscript
      on economic analysis
    
  