
    
      Along with data collection, complete arch polyvinyl siloxane impressions are made to obtain
      accurate diagnostic casts. The occlusal relationship is recorded either at the maximum
      intercuspal position or centric relation (in cases occlusal space is needed for the
      restoration of the palatal of upper anterior teeth). An additive waxing is carried out for
      the eroded teeth. The waxed cast is then duplicated and poured with scannable stone.

      An average occlusal clearance of 0.4 to 0.6 mm (central groove) to 1.0 to 1.3 mm (cusp tips)
      is generated by means of rotary diamond burs for the ultrathin occlusal veneers. A rubber dam
      is placed, and all areas of dentin exposure are ground with a coarse diamond rotary
      instrument at low speed (1500 rpm) and immediately sealed using a 3-step etch-and-rinse
      dentin bonding agent. The additive wax replica is scanned first for correlation (Cerec
      Bluecam; Sirona Dental Systems). The prepared teeth are then scanned in the same way.

      The teeth are restored using Cerec AC with the Bluecam/MCXL CAD/CAM system (Sirona Dental
      Systems). By using the design tools of the software set in Biogeneric Copy, the restorations
      are designed by correlating the preparations with the anatomy of the additive waxing. The
      ultrathin occlusal veneers are milled either from composite resin blocks (LAVA Ultimate; 3M
      ESPE) or ceramic blocks (e.max CAD; Ivoclar Vivadent) and polished mechanically with silicon
      carbide-impregnated brushes.

      Restorations are then adhesively cemented. After being air-dried, the intaglio surfaces are
      silanated and heat dried at 68 oC for 5 minutes (Calset; AdDent Inc). The tooth preparations
      are airborne-particle abraded and etched for 30 seconds with 37.5% phosphoric acid, rinsed,
      and dried. Adhesive resin (Optibond FL, bottle 2; Kerr Corp) is applied to both fitting
      surfaces of the restoration. After the luting material (Filtek Z100; 3M ESPE), preheated to
      68oC (in Calset; AdDent), is applied to the tooth, the restorations were individually seated,
      followed by the elimination of excess composite resin and initial light polymerization. Each
      surface is exposed at 1000 mW/cm2 for 1 minute (20 seconds per surface, repeated 3 times).
      Margins are then covered with an air barrier and light polymerized for an additional 20
      seconds. Margins are finished and polished at the following appointment with diamond ceramic
      polishers and silicon impregnated rubber polishers.

      Patients are called for a base line evaluation followed by additional evaluations after 1
      year, 2 years and 4 years.

      Patients Registries:

      Patients' registries are made in paper forms and immediately digitalized for safety. The form
      is stored inside an identified folder containing other patient's documents related to the
      treatment.

      Upon completion of the registry all data is verified by a third person to check for
      completeness, calibration and accuracy.

      Two researchers linked to the project perform patient recruitment (not the evaluators).
      Patients are interviewed and seen for data collection. If eligibility criteria are meet, the
      patient receives a comprehensive explanation (accessible language) about the protocol and an
      invitation to participate.

      Despite evaluators were previously calibrated; detailed description of the criteria (based on
      USPHS) is available to the evaluator at every data collection (follow-up appointments).

      Patients are seen at clinic of the Department of Prosthodontics and Dental Materials of the
      Dental School of UFRJ. During the follow-up appointments data is collected in sequence by two
      calibrated evaluators. In case of divergence, a consensus is achieved. Intraoral evaluation
      is performed with dental explorer and mouth mirror assisted by dental operatory light as well
      as well as a LED transilluminator for crack chasing. In case of failure (cracks longer than 2
      mm, lost fragments or bulk debondings) patients are assigned for repair or change of
      restoration.

      The sample of 5 patients for each group was based on the following formula: n = (Zα/2+Zβ)2 *
      (p1(1-p1)+p2(1-p2)) / (p1-p2)2, with a confidence level of 95%, power of 80% and the survival
      rates of 90% and 20% for composite and ceramic restorations, respectively (based on previous
      published data of in vitro fatigue tests).
    
  