
    
      Functional Bowel disorders (FBD) including Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) are characterized
      by a variable combination of chronic or recurrent gastrointestinal symptoms not explained by
      structural or biochemical abnormalities. IBS is the most common functional gastrointestinal
      disorder, affecting 8% to 23% of adults in the western world and accounts for 12% of primary
      care and 28% of gastroenterological practice visits yearly. The pathophysiology of IBS is not
      completely understood and currently available drug treatments for IBS are very limited (1-2).
      The apparent success of the use of probiotics in several gut disorders (e.g., IBD) together
      with the greater understanding of the role of inflammation and intestinal microflora in the
      pathophysiology of IBS has led to increased interest in use of probiotics in patients with
      IBS (3). The data on the use of probiotic in IBS is limited. However, few reported studies
      show encouraging results and suggests some symptomatic response and parallel improvement in
      quality of life (3-4). A controlled, double-blind study, randomized 20 patients with IBS to
      L. plantarum 299v or placebo for 4 weeks concluded that L. plantarum decreased abdominal pain
      and tended to normalize stool frequency in constipated patients (5). On the other hand,
      Lactobacillus casei GG, was found to improve stool consistency in patients with IBS and
      diarrhea (6). A recent randomized controlled trial using the probiotic formulation VSL#3
      improved abdominal bloating in patients with diarrhea-predominant IBS. However, no
      differences in gastrointestinal transit measurement, bowel function scores or satisfactory
      global symptom relief were shown (7). The inconsistent findings of these clinical studies may
      be accounted to the differences in probiotics composition and the heterogeneous and
      multifactorial nature of the disorder. However, these studies indicate a potential
      relationship between probiotics therapy and functional abdominal symptoms and suggesting that
      the possible role of probiotics in the treatment of IBS deserves further study.
    
  