
    
      Tooth extraction is one of the most frequent dental surgical procedures. Following tooth
      extraction, dimensional changes of the alveolus are inevitable, which consequently decrease
      the height and width of alveolar bone and impair ideal implant placement and conventional
      prosthetic treatment. In order to reduce the bone resorption after tooth extraction, the use
      of platelet concentrates has been proposed. Platelet rich fibrin (PRF) is a second generation
      of platelet concentrates consisting of platelets, leukocyte and growth factors harvested from
      blood. PRF not only supports hemostasis but also favors the natural wound healing process.
      Over the past decade, PRF has gained tremendous momentum having been utilized for a variety
      of dental and medical procedures including the management of post-extraction sockets. To
      date, several studies have assessed the efficacy of the use of PRF in promoting
      postextraction sockets healing. However, results remain contradictory and mainly focus on the
      clinical and radiological hard and soft tissue healing, aesthetics and postoperative
      discomfort. The mechanistic hypothesis is that growth factors released by PRF preparations
      modulate the wound healing process but the effect of local PRF application on the kinetics of
      release of wound healing modulators has not been studied so far. There is also a lack of
      information in the literature regarding the biological evaluation during postextraction
      sockets healing to understand the potential mechanisms. In order to assess the presence or
      follow dynamics of biomarkers, in this study wound fluid (WF) will be collected from the
      post-extraction sockets and utilized for multiplex immunoassay. Multiplex immunoassay allows
      simultaneous quantification of multiple markers providing unique information for a more
      complete understanding of the potential mechanism of PRF and spontaneous extraction socket
      healing. Therefore, the aim of this randomized clinical trial is to evaluate the effects of
      PRF on biomarkers response during post-extraction sockets healing.
    
  