
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Lymphomatoid granulomatosis (LYG) is an angiocentric destructive proliferation of
           lymphoid cells predominantly involving the lungs, skin, kidneys, and central nervous
           system.

        -  It is divided into three grades, depending on the degree of necrosis and cellular
           atypia. The grades of disease are histologically-based and do not necessarily correlate
           with clinical outcome. However, like other EBV related LPD's, LYG can transform into an
           aggressive large B-cell lymphoma, which would be included within the grade 3 category.
           It is important to note that not all grade 3 lesions are a large B-cell lymphoma.

        -  Current evidence shows that LYG is a disease of B cells.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the response and long-term efficacy of alpha-Interferon in patients with
           lymphomatoid granulomatosis (LYG).

        -  To determine the response and long-term efficacy of dose-adjusted (DA)-EPOCH-R
           chemotherapy in patients with grade 3 LYG or in patients who have failed interferon.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Patients must have a tissue diagnosis of grade 1, 2 and/or 3 LYG (or a diagnosis
           consistent with LYG) confirmed by the Laboratory of Pathology, NCI.

        -  Patients with any stage of disease will be eligible.

        -  Previously untreated and treated patients are eligible.

        -  Patients age 12 or older will be eligible.

      DESIGN:

        -  Interferon is used as initial treatment in patients with grades 1 and 2 LYG . Patients
           will receive interferon for one year past CR.

        -  Patients who progress after or during interferon, and patients with grade 3 LYG will
           receive aggressive combination chemotherapy with DA-EPOCH-R (rituximab, etoposide,
           doxorubicin, vincristine, cyclophosphamide and prednisone).

        -  Patients who fail one treatment approach may be crossed over to the other.

        -  A total of 105 patients will be enrolled at this single institution.
    
  