
    
      Before the research starts (screening): After signing the consent form, the participant will
      be asked to undergo some screening tests or procedures to find out if they can be in the
      research study. Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer
      care and may be done even if it turns out that the participant does not take part in the
      research study. If the participant has had some of these tests or procedures recently, they
      may or may not have to be repeated.

        -  A medical history, which includes questions about the participant's health, current
           medications, and any allergies.

        -  Physical Exam including measuring the participant's height, weight, and vital signs

        -  Performance status, which evaluates how the participant is able to carry on with your
           usual activities.

        -  Blood tests.

        -  Blood pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential

        -  Urine test.

      If these tests show that the participant is eligible to participate in the research study,
      the participant will begin the study treatment. If the participant does not meet the
      eligibility criteria, the participant will not be able to participate in this research study.

      After the screening procedures confirm that the participant is eligible to participate in the
      research study:

      Please note that this study does not add any additional treatment to participants with your
      type of cancer. There will be no change in your treatment with bevacizumab and daily
      temozolomide based on the results of any procedures or tests carried out as a part of the
      study.

      Before each set of scans the participant will have the following tests and procedures:

        -  Routine blood tests to check the participant's overall health

        -  Creatinine clearance blood test to check for proper kidney function

        -  Blood pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential

      After the participant have been taking oral TMZ for 7-13 days, the participant will have:

      - An assessment of their tumor by DCE-MRI (Dynamic Contrast Enhanced-Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging) scans and PET (Positron Emission Tomography) scan

      MRI-PET Scan Procedure:

      The participant will have their scans performed in Charlestown, MA at the Martinos Center.
      The participant will be injected with two separate intravenous (IV) lines for:

        -  [11C] temozolomide for PET scan and a contrast dye for the MRI scan

        -  Drawing blood to assess the radioactivity of [11C] temozolomide [11C] temozolomide PET
           Scans (TMZ PET Scan):

        -  The PET scan will take approximately 90 minutes. The participant will receive one
           injection of [11C] temozolomide. Following the injection of the radioactive substance,
           blood samples will be taken from the second IV line.

      MRI Scan:

      - MRI scans will last about 60-75 minutes. This will occur at the same time as the PET scan.
      The participant will be injected with contrast dye twice during the MRI scan.

      The MR-PET scan(s) will be performed again on Day 1 after initiation of bevacizumab (or Day
      15 after initiation of temozolomide) and Day 30 after initiation of bevacizumab (on Day 45
      after initiation of temozolomide).

      Blood samples will be collected during both scans in order to measure how your blood vessels
      are processing the radiotracer [11C] temozolomide and how well it is being delivered to the
      tumor tissue. Blood samples will be drawn 2.5, 5, 10, 20, 40, 60, 75, and 90 minutes after
      the [11C] temozolomide injection.

      The participant will be assessed for side effects via clinic visit or phone call about 24
      hours after each of the visits above.

      - Planned Follow-up: The investigators would like to call the participant every 3 months for
      three years after their second MR-PET scan to see how they are doing and if the participant
      is experiencing any side effects. If the participant was removed from the study due to an
      unacceptable side effect, the participant will be followed until it has been resolved.
    
  