
    
      Research design: Prospective intervention study to investigate the impact of food/nutrients
      on urine production and fluid distribution in the body.

      Study sample: The sample size was calculated for a power of 80% and for control vs. treatment
      using a paired-sample t-test at the 5% significance level. Thus 30 young healthy volunteers
      for each food group (total 300 subjects for 10 food/nutrients groups as; leek, asparagus,
      onion, garlic, cranberry, barley, parsley, cardamom, coffee and salt) with no acute or
      chronic disease, no use of medication (except contraception), not being pregnant or
      menstruating at the time of the study, no any food allergies and age between 20-35 years with
      BMI 18.5-25 kg/m2 will be included. Volunteers with an implanted electronic device (e.g.
      Pacemaker) will not be included.

      Methodology: The subjects will be tested in fasted and sober state in the morning. No
      food/drink 6hrs prior to the test. The subjects will be asked to take 2 different dosages of
      testing nutrient and along with 500ml of water and only 500ml water for the control, on 3
      different test days. Nutrients will prepared in 1g capsules. The test will last for 4 hrs
      after taking of the capsules.

      Analyses: 3-Days food diary: Once only. For salt, caffeine and energy intake Anthropometric
      measurements: at the beginning of each test day 2 Blood samples at the beginning and end of
      the test: Haptoglobin phenotyping (serum), Haptoglobin concentration (μmol/l) (serum), Sodium
      (mmol/l) (serum), Osmolality (mOsm/kg) (serum), Urea (g/l) (serum), Creatinine (g/dl) (serum)
      3 Urine samples at the beginning, after 2 hrs and at the end of the test: Total voided
      volume, Osmolality (mOsm/kg), Creatinine (g/dl), Sodium (mmol/l), Potassium (mmol/l), Urea
      (g/l) Bio-impedance measurement (BIA): for every 30 min for 4 hours

      Sample analysis and storage: Half of the urine samples and blood samples are sent immediately
      after collection to the university hospital Gent clinical laboratory. The other half of the
      samples will be stored for a certain time in a freezer at -80 °C and will be processed and
      examined for a second time. The other urine samples and blood samples that are not used for
      the research are stored as a bio-bank.
    
  