
    
      Many studies of pain after root canal treatment experience were taken into consideration.

      Pain after endodontic treatment is still one of the major problems of patients. The
      prevalence that widely studied as 6/10% to 9.82% have been reported.

      One of the important strategies in endodontic treatment, prevention and control of pain after
      treatment. This multi-factorial disorder resulting in a complex process occurs, which affects
      the patient's intrinsic factors, the tooth and the dentist's skill.

      Mechanical factors include channel instrumentation techniques, over instrumentation or
      filling material extrusion channels associated with the presence of pain after treatment were
      considered.

      Apical extrusion of infected debris during instrumentation channel can create or exacerbate
      inflammatory process. Channel shaping the apical debris extrusion process can increase even
      if the preparation is limited to the channel. Leaving debris in both methods of preparation,
      either manually with stainless steel files and rotary technique with nickel titanium files
      happen.

      The use of rotary technique among dentists has increased. developing of NITI files and rotary
      instrumentation system, reduce apical extrusion of debris, so can be expected to reduce the
      incidence of inflammation and pain after treatment, achieved by these means.

      Recent studies have shown that reciprocal shaping techniques, compared with full-rotation
      techniques, significantly increased the amount of debris extruded from the apical region of
      the root are causing increasing pain after treatment.

      Two rotary system available on the market are:

      1) Neolix (france Neolix SAS) recently introduced the file NITI, single file, with full
      rotation movements, with square and rectangular cross-section, with a non-uniform shape along
      the blade, tip sizes, 25 and Tipper 0 / 08, and a system, Wave one, (DENTSPLY Maillefer),
      which is a file NITI, Single file and Single use, and the reciprocation movements, and
      cross-Convex triangular Modified and in three sizes: small, primary (tip size 25 and Tipper
      0/08), large is contained, which according to the size of the canal, one of them is selected.

      In a study by Ana Arias et al., Patients in the experimental group by the Rotary Files roots
      were treated and patients in control group were treated by the step-back technique, the
      results showed that more patients in the control group, experienced pain after root canal
      therapy. While the duration of the pain in the control group comparison to the experimental
      group, less has been reported.

      In a study by Aqrabawi, teeth with vital pulp were divided into two groups. Root canal
      therapy in the first group, was done by manual file, and the second group, by Protaper rotary
      files were performed.

      And no significant difference in pain after root canal treatment has not been detected.

      Gambarini was shown in the study, patients treated by waveone system they have done,
      significantly more pain after treatment compared to TF and TF adaptive experienced.

      Today, dentists tend to use rotary systems. Despite the increasing diversity of these systems
      as well as a few studies on the prevalence of pain after root canal treatment by rotary
      systems, And in particular, comparing the amount of pain after treatment, between systems
      RECIPROCAL AND FULL ROTATION single-file, the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of
      applying canal preparation by the system, Neolix and WaveOne, on the prevalence of pain after
      endodontic treatments.
    
  