
    
      The current front-line treatment regimen using gemcitabine in combination with cisplatin has
      a significant survival benefit (11.7 versus 8.1 months, P < 0.001) in patients with biliary
      tract cancer when compare to single agent gemcitabine. However, there is urgent need for
      effective second-line regimens with minimal toxicity.

      Capecitabine (Xeloda) is an oral pro-drug of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). The conversion to active
      drug is dependent on thymidine phosphorylase, which is expressed at a higher level in tumor
      cells than in normal tissue. There are no reports on prospective clinical trials using
      capecitabine in cholangiocarcinoma. However, case reports of successful stabilization of
      disease with single agent capecitabine are available. Since 5-FU has been the main
      chemotherapy agent for biliary tract cancer for more than 40 years, it is reasonable to
      presume that the overall effectiveness of capecitabine will be very similar to infusional
      5-FU.

      Several clinical trials have shown that irinotecan can be a good agent for
      cholangiocarcinoma. Of the five patients that had a partial response in one phase I trial of
      the combination of irinotecan and docetaxel in advanced solid tumors, one had
      cholangiocarcinoma. Two of the 11 patients that had a partial response from another phase I
      trial using a combination of irinotecan, oxaliplatin and 5-FU in advanced tumors had
      cholangiocarcinoma. A case report indicated that single agent irinotecan given at a low
      weekly dose could produce a long-lasting response in metastatic cholangiocarcinoma.

      Based on the above data, our experience, and other early phase studies of this combination,
      this phase II trial was proposed to determine the progression free survival, response rate,
      overall survival, and toxicity in biliary tract cancer patients who are administered
      irinotecan and capecitabine as a second-line treatment.
    
  