
    
      The link between micronutrient deficiencies and advanced HIV disease has been reported.
      Micronutrient deficiencies in people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) have been linked to reduced
      antioxidant levels and oxidative stress. In turn oxidative stress is believed to promote HIV
      disease progression. The use of multivitamins in PLWHA therefore has the potential to cut off
      the interconnections between micronutrient deficiencies and HIV disease progression. If
      beneficial, multivitamin use in PLWHA could result in improved health outcomes.

      A number of studies have explored this possibility with different results. Differences in
      multivitamin strength and composition could have been responsible for the different results.
      Therefore, it is likely that increasing the strength and composition of the intervention
      multivitamin could possibly produce a single result of improved health outcomes across board.
      Hence this study will determine if multivitamins at higher strength can cause better health
      outcomes in study participants compared to lower strength multivitamins.

      Multivitamin A is composed of 7 vitamins at recommended daily allowance (RDA), multivitamin B
      is made up of 22 micronutrients at RDA and multivitamin C is made up of 22 micronutrients at
      3 times the RDA. These multivitamins were administered to the 190 study participants in a
      double blind randomized controlled study to determine if there would be any significant
      differences in health outcome of participants after 6 months of multivitamin use. All
      multivitamins regardless of their composition were manufactured to look identical and
      packaged in identical containers.

      This double blind randomized controlled study is being conducted at the HIV treatment centers
      of the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research and the Lagos State University Teaching
      Hospital, both in Lagos Nigeria. At the design stage of the study, a feasibility study was
      carried out at both HIV treatment centers to assess the practicability and potential of
      success for this study. Following a successful feasibility study, ethical approval was
      applied for and obtained from each institution.
    
  