
    
      Contrast medium-induced nephropathy (CIN) is a recognized complication in coronary diagnostic
      and interventional procedures, and is associated with prolonged hospitalization and adverse
      clinical outcomes. The frequency of CIN ranges from 2% in low-risk patients to 50% in
      high-risk patients. The most important risk factors for CIN development are pre-existing
      renal failure, diabetes, age, volume and type of contrast medium. There are two main
      pathogenetic mechanisms postulated to cause CIN:

        1. a direct toxic action of contrast medium on kidney tubule cells, causing a disruption of
           mitochondrial function, the generation of reactive oxygen species, and subsequent cell
           injury and apoptosis;

        2. vasoconstriction, reducing the blood flow through the renal medulla and causing ischemia
           with cell damage The treatment of CIN is exclusively supportive. Treatment is
           particularly recommended in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD - mild, moderate
           or severe, according to estimated glomerular filtration rate - eGFR). Several approaches
           have been tested in the prevention of CIN with variable success. Adequate hydration is
           widely accepted as the best method for prevention of CIN, and is today the only strategy
           generally accepted by international guidelines (class of recommendation I, level of
           evidence A). The use of N-acetyl cysteine, recommended even in the recent past, is not
           supported by a recent randomized trial14 and a meta-analysis. Hemodialysis and
           hemofiltration may be effective in preventive CIN, but are reserved to high-risk
           patients. Attempts at preventing CIN with various medications, such as furosemide,
           vitamin C, statins and numerous other, have been largely unsuccessful. The efficacy of
           bicarbonate in the prevention of CIN has been extensively tested; the rationale is here
           that urine alkalinization suppresses the formation of free radicals. Actually, studies
           on bicarbonate have been controversial, varying from beneficial to toxic effects; this
           could bring into question the role of alkalinizing procedures in preventing CIN.
           Nevertheless, favorable results of prevention protocols using bicarbonate have been
           noted in studies also documenting a significant alkalinization of urines; while a
           similar protocol did not prove to be effective when the dose of bicarbonate was
           insufficient to such aim. Moreover, Markota et al., in a recent study on patients with
           estimated eGFR >15 mL/min/1.73 m2 and scheduled for coronary angiography, after
           documenting that Na/K citrate significantly reduced the incidence of CIN when compared
           with hydration alone, have shown that patients having a urine pH <6 had a more than
           ten-fold higher incidence of CIN compared with patients whose urine pH was >6.28 These
           results confirm the potential role of urine alkalinization in preventing CIN and place
           the oral administration of alkalinizing drugs as an attractive method compared to the
           more complex, and not always effective, i.v. infusion of bicarbonate. Finally, oral
           doses of bicarbonate may be sufficient to alkalinize the urine and thus to prevent CIN.
           In a study recently published, an oral dose of 4 g was sufficient to obtain, two hours
           after administration, an adequate urinary alkalinization with a pH >7 in all
           participants without side effects. This value was maintained and even magnified nearly 8
           hours after the last dose. Interestingly, the Authors observed an additive effect after
           the second dose, showing a nondepleting urine pH, despite the reported short half-life
           of sodium bicarbonate.

      Against this background, the investigators will here test the hypothesis that both oral and
      i.v. bicarbonate are adequate strategies for CIN prevention in patients after coronary
      angiography. Comparing the incidence of CIN according to urine pH achieved immediately before
      angiography, the investigators aim at demonstrating that urine alkalinization is the real
      goal, and that results are here largely independent from the strategy adopted to achieve it.
      The investigators will therefore compare the efficacy in alkalinizing urine and preventing
      CIN of three different strategies: hydration alone; hydration plus i.v. sodium bicarbonate;
      and hydration plus oral bicarbonate. Favorable results of the bicarbonate groups compared to
      the control group could increase the evidence supporting the use of alkalinizing strategies
      to prevent CIN; at the same time, non-inferiority results of the oral group compared to i.v.
      bicarbonate group could suggest the more practical oral administration as the preferred
      prevention strategy.
    
  