
    
      Stage 1:

      Stage one will be a single-dose, dose-escalation study in cohorts of 2 patients with
      Hurler-Scheie or Scheie syndrome age 18 or greater who have not had ERT for at least 7 days
      prior to starting treatment. Approximately 3 cohorts will be enrolled sequentially, with
      safety data from the previous cohort being reviewed prior to escalation to the next higher
      dose cohort. Patients will be assigned to cohorts on the basis of their order of entry into
      the study.

      The first cohort will be administered a single intravenous infusion of 0.3 mg/kg AGT-181
      diluted in D5 normal saline over 4 hours. All patients will be observed for safety for 28
      days after dosing. For dose escalation, the decision to proceed to a higher dose of AGT-181
      will be made by the Sponsor and the investigator(s) after review of the available safety and
      tolerability data on or after 7 days post dose from patients who received the previous dose.

      Dose escalation to a higher dose cohort can occur providing there are no dose limiting
      toxicities (DLT), defined as Grade 3 (severe or medically significant but not immediately
      life threatening) or higher adverse event according to the Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03

      Stage 2:

      Assuming safety and tolerability in Stage 1, a second stage will be initiated using a
      multi-dose, safety, tolerability and proof of concept effect design in children (age 2 or
      older) with Hurler or Hurler-Scheie with CNS involvement who are either ERT naïve or will
      have not received ERT for at least 7 days prior to first dose of AGT-181.

      This second stage of the study will be conducted in dose groups of up to 5 patients per group
      who will receive AGT-181; it is planned that up to 10 patients will be enrolled (2 dose
      cohorts). Additional patients or cohorts may be enrolled in order to evaluate specific safety
      or PK issues or if it is felt that an active dose has not yet been reached. If an active dose
      is not achieved, an additional cohort of 5 patients will be enrolled at a higher dose of
      AGT-181, A maximum of 15 patients will be enrolled in stage 2. These cohorts will be studied
      in staggered fashion with safety and efficacy data from the previous cohort being reviewed as
      part of the decision to commence treatment in additional cohorts. Patients will be assigned
      to cohorts on the basis of their order of entry into the study.

      The first cohort will be administered a dose one level below the maximum tolerated (MTD) or
      maximum administered dose (MAD) from the single dose stage 1 (ie. if the MTD is 3.0 mg/kg
      from Stage 1 than the starting dose in this stage will be 1.0 mg/kg). AGT-181 will be
      administered as a once weekly intravenous infusion in D5 normal saline over 4 hours for the
      first eight infusions. Depending upon tolerability, the rate may be increased to be
      administered over 1-4 hours. Investigators are permitted to use their clinical judgment and
      standard protocols in determining whether to administer pre-infusion medications such as
      antihistamines and antipyretics. In cases where the patient has had a previous infusion
      reaction(s) to ERT, then premedication should be given prior to each infusion per clinical
      site standard protocol.

      For dose escalation, the decision to proceed to a higher dose of AGT-181 will be made by the
      Sponsor and the investigator(s) after review of the available safety and tolerability data
      from patients who received the previous dose.

      Dose escalation to a higher dose cohort can occur providing there is no dose limiting
      toxicity (DLT) in the first 3 patients treated for 28 days or more. If one patient of 3
      develops a DLT, then dose escalation may not occur until the remaining 2 patients have
      completed 28 days of dosing and there have been no further DLTs. A DLT is defined as a Grade
      3 (severe or medically significant but not immediately life threatening) or higher adverse
      event according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03.

      If a Grade 3 or worse event is clearly attributable to a non-treatment event and therefore
      not a suspected adverse reaction: [21CFR312.32(a)] (for example, trauma secondary to an
      accident, or spurious lab value not confirmed on repeat) the event will not be considered a
      DLT for dose escalation purposes after review and agreement by both the Sponsor's Medical
      Monitor and Principal Investigator.

      In addition to adverse events occurring during the first 28 days, late and chronic toxicities
      will be evaluated and taken into account in determining the safety of each dose level for
      future studies and the need for additional cohorts in this study.
    
  