
    
      The new BIOTRONIK ICD family Lumax 540 is capable of measuring the intrathoracic impedance on
      a daily basis and transmission of impedance trend data via the Home Monitoring technology. In
      future, this will allow for automatic early detection of imminent decompensation at a
      presymptomatic stage and immediate initialization of clinical meaningful therapeutic
      interventions preventing heart failure related hospitalizations. The aim of this
      investigation is to record long-term impedance trends in heart failure patients with and
      without HF related events (hospitalizations due to acute decompensation) in order to develop
      algorithms for device-based early detection and warning of HF deterioration accompanied by
      pulmonary congestion.

      Lumax is the name of a family of implantable ICDs. The primary objective of the therapy is
      the prevention of sudden cardiac death. The aim is to automatically detect and terminate
      cardiac arrest caused by ventricular tachyarrhythmia. All major therapeutical approaches from
      the field of cardiology and electrophysiology are contained within the Lumax family.

      Furthermore, the device is capable of treating bradycardia arrhythmias and congestive heart
      failure. Congestive heart failure is treated with cardiac resynchronization therapy with
      multisite ventricular pacing known as cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT).

      The integrated Home Monitoring component can provide information about occurring rhythm
      disturbances and delivered therapies close to real time as well as by intracardiac
      electrogram (IEGM) Online HD®. Furthermore, statistical data about the patient's condition as
      well as information about the integrity status of the implant itself are sent.

      The implantation of an ICD is a symptomatic therapy with the following objectives:

      Termination of spontaneous ventricular fibrillation (VF) through shock delivery Termination
      of spontaneous ventricular tachycardia (VT) by means of antitachycardia pacing (ATP); in case
      of ineffective ATP or hemodynamically not tolerated VT with shock delivery Cardiac
      resynchronization by multisite ventricular pacing (triple-chamber implant) Compensation of
      bradycardia through ventricular (single-chamber implant) or atrioventricular sequential
      pacing (dual- and triple-chamber implant)
    
  