
    
      Hyperglycemia is one of the most frequently encountered complications of enteral nutrition
      therapy in the hospital setting. However, there is no standardized approach directed towards
      the identification and management of patients who develop hyperglycemia while receiving
      enteral nutrition. The primary aim of the study is to determine if the early initiation of
      subcutaneous glargine insulin with supplemental doses of sliding scale human regular (SSR)
      insulin in hospitalized subjects with diabetes receiving enteral nutrition reduces the
      frequency of hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia when compared to use of SSR insulin alone.

      In this proposal, we plan to investigate a strategy of early insulin therapy in the
      management of hospitalized subjects with diabetes mellitus who develop hyperglycemia defined
      as two blood glucose (BG) measurements greater than 130 mg/dl within 48 hours prior to or
      within a 48 hour period during enteral nutrition therapy.

      The study is a phase IV, investigator initiated randomized, parallel group clinical trial.
      Potential subjects will include those subjects with written orders for initiation of enteral
      feedings using a formula containing carbohydrates. Consented subjects will have bedside
      glucose monitoring performed every 6 hours for the first 48 hours following initiation of
      enteral nutrition to determine if hyperglycemia occurs. To determine a difference in mean
      plasma glucose of 25 mg/dl and hospital LOS of 4 days between the two groups with an of 0.01
      with power of 0.9, 25 subjects will be randomized to each group (total of 50 subjects).
      Baseline and outcome variables between the two groups will be compared using Student's
      t-testing, chi-square analysis, and the Mann-Whitney U test.

      Group 1 will receiving a single daily dose of glargine insulin along with sliding scale
      regular human (SSR) insulin titrated according to blood glucose results. Group 2 will receive
      only sliding scale human regular (SSR) insulin titrated according to an algorithm. Both
      groups will be followed daily until enteral feedings are discontinued or for a maximum of
      three weeks.
    
  