
    
      Sixty-six participants (22 per year) will be recruited, consented, and complete remote
      assessments. The assessments consist of the BOSA, Vineland, the Short Play and Communication
      Evaluation (SPACE), and Caregiver Child Interaction (CCX). The SPACE and CCX will be done
      throughout the study. The JASPER introduction and information consist of a self-guided module
      introducing caregivers to the developmental concepts of joint engagement, social
      communication, and play. They will receive online handouts and strategies as well. A
      demographic form and Caregiver Expectancies Belief form wlll also be completed at this point.
      After assessments and this JASPER introduction meeting, participants will be randomized to
      receive self guided JASPER intervention materials with remote JASPER coaching intervention or
      self guided materials only. Both conditions, JASPER materials plus coaching or JASPER
      materials only, will last for 12 weeks. The caregivers randomized to intervention, will do
      JASPER 30-40 minutes per day (Monday through Friday). They will record one of these days and
      share it with the UCLA research staff via a secure network, such as UCLA box. Each week one
      of the UCLA research staff will meet via Zoom or Skype to discuss the video. During these 12
      weeks, parents will fill out Caregiver Involvement Scale, and Caregiver Diary forms weekly.
      After the 12 weeks, the participants will all do a remote SPACE and CCX. The Vineland and
      Ages and Stages Questionnaire (Gross and Fine Motors sections only), which was done during
      the screening will also be done at this time point over the phone or through Zoom.
      Participants will have a follow up SPACE and CCX, 3 months after entry (24 weeks of study) as
      well. The Vineland and Ages and Stages Questionnaire (Gross and Fine Motors sections only)
      will also be done at this time point over the phone or through Zoom as well.The Caregiver
      Expectancies/Belief forms will also be completed at week 1, after the 12 weeks of
      intervention (exit), and at the 3 month follow up.
    
  