
    
      History will be taken from all patients. Age and then American Society of Anaesthesiologists'
      (ASA) score will be recorded.

      Preoperatively patients' pain score, laboratory investigations as complete blood picture,
      coagulation profile, liver and renal functions will be recorded. General examination will be
      carried out with examination of the back to exclude infection at the injection site and
      anatomical deformities.

      Baseline vital signs will be recorded including non-invasive measurement of systolic, mean,
      diastolic arterial pressures, and heart rate and oxygen saturation.

      After inserting an intravenous (IV) access, the patient will be pre-medicated with midazolam
      in a dose 0.1 mg/kg and metoclopramide in a dose 0.1-0.2 mg/kg.

      Upon arrival to the operating room, appropriate monitors (continuous pulse oximetry,
      electrocardiography and non-invasive blood pressure) will be placed. Then, general
      anaesthesia will be induced. 1.5 μg/kg fentanyl and 2 mg/kg propofol will be given. Tracheal
      intubation will be facilitated with 0.5 mg/kg atracurium. Anaesthesia will be maintained
      using isoflurane in oxygen and air. Additional doses of 0.1 mg/kg atracurium will be
      administrated every 30 minutes. A urinary catheter will be placed for control of diuresis.
      the patient will receive either lumber epidural or erector spinae analgesia according to the
      group randomization.

      The surgical intervention will be then allowed 20 minutes after finishing the block
      procedure.

      Failed block is defined as increase in heart rate (HR) and mean arterial blood pressure
      (MABP)>20% from base line with skin incision. This will be treated by 1ug /kg of fentanyl as
      top-up doses and increasing isoflurane concentration in case of inadequate response to
      fentanyl.

      In case of decrease in MABP>20% from base line, the patient will receive a 500 ml ringer
      infusion with 5 mg ephedrine. If HR decrease to 45 beats/minute, atropine 0.5 mg will be
      given.

      postoperative nausea and vomiting will be managed with 0.1 mg/kg ondansetron
    
  