
    
      If endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreaticography fails to achieve biliary drainage, more
      invasive options are usually considered. These include percutaneous trans-hepatic biliary
      drainage and surgical intervention but they have been associated with a higher risk of
      complications and prolonged hospital stay.

      Some disadvantages with the percutaneous approach include the need to traverse the liver, a
      decreased quality of life due to the presence of external drainage and a significant
      morbidity and mortality, 7% and 5% respectively.

      The external drainage of percutaneous trans-hepatic biliary drainage may add to the patient's
      burden owing to the cosmetic problem, skin inflammation or pain, or bile leakage,
      compromising the quality of life. From this point, the internal drainage of endoscopic
      ultrasonography-guided biliary drainage eliminates several issues.

      Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided biliary drainage using a metal stent, particularly a
      lumen-apposing metal stent, can also be performed in patients with a large amount of ascites,
      which is often contraindicated in percutaneous trans-hepatic biliary drainage. Endoscopic
      ultrasonography-guided biliary drainage performed in the same session of the failed
      endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreaticography, in the same room and under the same
      sedation.

      On the other hand, the endoscopic ultrasonography-guided biliary drainage, has major
      limitation due to fewer cases reported till date and lack of long term data. Because of, the
      technical difficulty encountered during re-intervention and problem of stent migration, the
      expertise needed for such procedure is a major limitation of the techniques.

      Furthermore, comparative studies of endoscopic ultrasonography-guided biliary drainage versus
      percutaneous trans-hepatic biliary drainage are required to select the optimal candidates and
      to best evaluate the technical and treatment outcomes also in terms of quality of life and
      costs. Recently, Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided biliary drainage has been introduced as an
      alternative for patients who had failed endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreaticography.

      Indications for endoscopic ultrasonography-guided biliary drainage:

        1. Failed conventional endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreaticography.

        2. Altered anatomy

        3. Tumor preventing access into the biliary tree

        4. Prior surgical procedure

        5. Biliary sphincter stenosis

        6. Contra-indication to percutaneous access
    
  