
    
      This proposal aims to pilot test a cognitive remediation therapy (CRT) combined with work
      therapy (WT) as an adjunct to the initial phase of outpatient substance abuse treatment.
      There is ample research evidence of cognitive impairment across substance abuse disorders,
      particularly in the early phase of recovery. Cognitive impairment has been associated with
      poorer substance abuse treatment outcomes and may be remediated through programs of exercises
      that target these impairments. The investigators have previously reported on a model of
      providing CRT with work therapy (WT) in an outpatient context for people with psychotic
      disorders, which showed significant improvements in executive function and working memory,
      and in important functional outcomes such as work performance and sustained work activity.
      The investigators propose to apply this same approach to a sample of participants recruited
      from a 30-day residential program for substance abusers who are beginning their recovery.
      When they are discharged, they will be able to continue WT, which may encourage their
      engagement in CRT and in substance abuse outpatient services.

      Our Specific Aims are: 1. Test the feasibility and tolerability of CRT & WT in the early
      phase of substance abuse treatment. 2. Obtain effect size for CRT & WT compared to WT alone
      on a primary substance abuse outcome measure (Days of Use) for a future R01 RCT submission.
      3. Obtain effect sizes for secondary outcomes (e.g. neurocognition).

      The investigators propose to accomplish these aims by randomizing 50 participants who wish to
      receive WT services into two conditions: 25 will be assigned to 15 hours of WT plus 5 hours
      of CRT each week (CRT+WT) and 25 will be assigned to an active control of 20 hours of WT. The
      active intervention will be for 13 weeks. CRT will be comprised of a repetitive training on a
      hierarchy of progressive visual and auditory exercise from Positscience. WT will involve paid
      work activity in a placement of their choosing on the medical center campus. Participants
      will be paid the same hourly rate (half federal minimum wage) for their time in CRT and WT.
      Comprehensive assessments will be performed at intake, 3 months and 6 months. These will
      include substance abuse, cognitive, and psychosocial outcomes as well as adherence to
      treatment. During the 3 months of active intervention participants will have weekly observed
      urine toxicology screens, breathalyzer tests and PDA assessments, as well as monthly work
      performance evaluations. Data analyses will include random effects regression models, as well
      as models of moderator and mediator effects on the primary outcome of PDA. If meaningful
      effects are found, these results will guide a subsequent R01 submission.
    
  