
    
      Background

      Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), commonly known as Coronavirus
      Disease-19 (COVID-19), is a global pandemic with 7,410,000 confirmed cases and 418,000 deaths
      as of 13th June 2020. It is believed that SARS-CoV-2 shares 79.6% of its sequence identity
      with SARS-CoV and resembles some clinical outcomes like viral pneumonia. However, it causes
      milder symptoms in majority of people infected, and can be an asymptomatic infection in some
      individuals. Just in the 21st century, we have seen three major coronavirus (CoV) outbreaks:
      SARS-CoV, Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS)-CoV, and the novel SARS-CoV-2, which have
      resulted in many deaths and have posed a real threat to public health. In fact, during SARS
      more pregnant women required intensive care and ventilation, and the number of deaths was
      higher when compared to non-pregnant adults. This is partly because in pregnancy, the risk of
      viral pneumonia is greater compared to the general population.

      Understanding T and B cell mediated immunity in COVID-19 participants may hold the key to
      developing better vaccines and efficient treatment plans. To date there is only one study
      that has investigated circulatory T follicular helper cells (cTFH), which like there germinal
      centre counterparts are a specialised effector cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) T cell that
      induces B cell activation, and differentiation into class-switched and antibody secreting
      long-lasting plasmablasts. This study observed an increase in cTFH during pregnancy. However,
      studies in older patients, which comprise another high risk group, have shown mixed results
      with cTFH showing lower levels of activation. This will impact on long term antibody
      production following infection or vaccination. We propose that circulatory cTFH, and B cells
      may not be as activated in both pregnant women and patients with severe to critical patients
      when compared with mild to moderate patients resulting in less or poorly functioning
      anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. Therefore, we expect in infected pregnant individuals the
      development of long-term immunity may be worse when compared to non-pregnant people with
      similar disease severity, making them more susceptible to re-infection. Compared to
      influenza, which is another respiratory illness with significant morbidity in pregnancy and
      has a current vaccination program, we expect that the same measures of immunity will be less
      pronounced post COVID-19 infection. Furthermore, the development of long-term immunity will
      be less effective in patients with severe illness, who for the most part, comprise a
      particularly high-risk group including the elderly and patients with multiple comorbidities.
      It is vital that we expand our knowledge of long-lasting immunity in individuals who have
      recovered from COVID-19 to see how long these individuals are protected against re-infection
      and whether they develop long lasting immunity. Moreover, there is no current research
      establishing the parameters of seroprotective immunity. Previous research has suggested that
      SARS-CoV specific Immunoglobin G (IgG) declines significantly within 2 years with some
      reports showing a complete loss within 6 years in most SARS-CoV recovered patients. This may
      equate to a loss of long-term protection. The investigators of this study propose measuring
      SARS-CoV-2 specific IgG levels by doing memory B cell (Enzyme-Linked ImmunoSpot) ELISpots and
      comparing the data with cTFH and B cell flow cytometry panels. The research team will be able
      to profile the generation and persistence of protective antibodies produced by infected
      individuals who go on to recover. The findings from this study will generate hypotheses to be
      tested in larger studies of COVID-19 recovered pregnant patients, and also assist researchers
      working trying to understand the effectiveness of the vaccines in pregnancy once these become
      commercially available.

      Research Question

      In pregnant individuals who have recovered from COVID-19:

      A. How long will their SARS-CoV-2 specific Immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels remain in peripheral
      blood, what is the rate of decline and how does this compare to non-pregnant individuals?

      B. How did their T cell mediated immune function differ from non-pregnant patients during the
      infection?

      C. How do their SARS-CoV-2 specific memory T cell differ when compared to severe to
      non-pregnant patients' post-recovery?

      D. How does antibody production, and B and T cell function post COVID-19 infection in
      pregnancy compare with influenza infection and vaccination?

      Hypothesis

      The investigators hypothesise that pregnant patients with COVID-19 will develop a less robust
      and measurable B-cell response when compared to influenza infected/vaccinated women and
      non-pregnant individuals, and that their seroprotective antibody responses will decline by 12
      months post infection.

      Study Aims

      A. Establish robust assays to measure SARS-CoV-2-specific IgG from individuals who have
      recovered from COVID-19 infection and track these levels over a 12-month period to measure
      any decline. In pregnancy, compare this to influenza antibodies produced after infection and
      vaccination.

      B. Measure frequency of activated cTFH, and antigen-secreting cells (ASCs) at days 7-14 of
      symptom onset in pregnant patients with COVID-19 and compare with non-pregnant groups, and
      pregnant influenza infected and influenza vaccinated. In addition, compare between
      non-pregnant groups with mild to moderate symptoms when compared to severe to critical
      patients.

      C. Measure frequency of activated memory B cells at day 28 in pregnant patients with COVID-19
      and compare with non-pregnant groups, and pregnant influenza infected and influenza
      vaccinated. In addition, compare between non-pregnant groups with mild to moderate symptoms
      when compared to severe to critical patients.

      D. Measure frequency of CD4 and cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8) T cells in pregnant
      patients with COVID-19 and compare with non-pregnant groups, and pregnant influenza infected
      and influenza vaccinated. In addition, compare between non-pregnant groups with mild to
      moderate symptoms when compared to severe to critical patients.

      E. Quantify antigen-specific memory T cells and measure frequency of activated T cells in all
      patient groups.

      F. Quantification of SARS-CoV-2 viral load from infected participants.

      Study Design

      This study will be a prospective observational project to investigate the potential decline
      of protective immunity in pregnancy after participants have recovered from SARS-CoV-2. The
      research team will compare these findings with non-pregnant patients who have had COVID-19
      and developed mild to moderate symptoms or severe to critical participants. Patients who go
      on to join a SARS-CoV-2 vaccine trial will not be excluded but the vaccination date will be
      recorded, and their results interpreted accordingly. In order to compare COVID-19 infection
      with another respiratory infection and assess long term protective immunity with an
      intervention already in place in this patient group designed to provide seroprotective
      antibodies, the investigators will investigate influenza and influenza vaccine. Therefore,
      data from pregnant patients will also be compared with influenza infected pregnant women and
      those who have received the influenza vaccination.
    
  