
    
      Brachial plexus block (BPB) is frequently used as the sole anesthetic technique for upper
      extremity surgery. The choice of technique often depends on the site of surgery because the
      extent of sensory-motor blockade after a BPB varies with the technique used. The investigator
      is not aware of any single BPB technique described to date that can consistently produce
      surgical anesthesia of the whole ipsilateral upper extremity (shoulder to fingers). However,
      occasionally surgery entails that the whole upper extremity is anesthetized, i.e. from the
      shoulder to the elbow, or even the forearm, wrist or hands. This clinical challenge has been
      addressed previously using a combination of BPB (hybrid) techniques. The investigator has
      recently demonstrated that it is feasible to accurately identify majority of the individual
      components of the brachial plexus above the clavicle, including the three trunks, using
      ultrasound imaging. Since majority of the innervation of the upper extremity, i.e. shoulder,
      arm, elbow, forearm, wrist and hand, originates from or pass through the three trunks of the
      brachial plexus, the investigator hypothesized that selectively blocking the upper, middle,
      and inferior trunks of the brachial plexus will produce surgical anesthesia of the whole
      ipsilateral upper extremity, except for the area innervated by the intercostobrachial nerve
      (T2 - medial aspect of the upper arm). The investigator refers this novel technique as
      "selective trunk block" (SeTB). Currently there are no published data on block dynamics,
      safety or efficacy of SeTB. In addition, there may be a potential advantage that phrenic
      nerve can be spared, so this blockade will not affect the respiratory function as it is
      common to see phrenic nerve palsy after interscalene BPB (100%) and supraclavicular BPB
      (50-67%). The aim of the study is to assess a novel brachial plexus block technique, the
      selective trunk block (SeTB), and provide preliminary clinical evidence of its effectiveness
      in producing surgical anesthesia of the whole ipsilateral upper extremity.
    
  