
    
      Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) is tuberculosis that is resistant to at least
      isoniazid and rifampicin, the two most important anti-TB drugs. WHO has estimated that over
      480,000 new cases of MDR-TB occurred in 127 countries in 2014, causing 150,000 deaths; this
      represents a 70% increase in the number of cases since 2000. MDR-TB cure rates are
      substantially lower than the 85+% cure expected in drug-susceptible TB. The MDR-TB treatment
      regimen currently recommended by WHO includes at least 4 second-line drugs plus PZA for 18-24
      months, including an injectable agent for the induction phase of 6-8 month. However, the
      average global success rate of such treatment among patients treated in TB programs is only
      50%. More recently, an alternative treatment regimen, known as the "Bangladesh" regimen, has
      become available.This regimen uses 7 drugs given for 9 months but still includes an
      injectable agent, which is the cause of the most common and severe toxicities seen when
      treating MDR-TB. In selected patients this regimen has been able to achieve over 80% cures,
      but use has been restricted to geographic areas where previous use of second-line drugs is
      rare. Alternatives will be necessary for other settings and patients with prior second-line
      drug exposure.

      Treatment-limiting side effects are common when using second-line drugs for long periods of
      time. Overall, 69-73% of patients with MDR-TB treated with the WHO standard regimen are
      reported to have experienced at least one side effect, and 29%-55% discontinued one or more
      study drugs because of inability to tolerate a drug. The Bangladesh regimen also has
      substantial toxicity, with 63% of participants experiencing adverse drug reactions in one
      report. Thus, while this regimen is shorter and slightly better tolerated than the WHO
      standard regimen, it still does not provide an easily tolerated alternative, largely because
      it contains an injectable agent.

      The 20-24 month regimen currently in use exposes patients to drug toxicity over prolonged
      periods of time and demands substantial human resources. Patients receiving these regimens
      require two years of directly observed therapy with careful monitoring for drug toxicity.
      Reduction in the duration of treatment would free up program staff to treat additional MDR-TB
      patients. Development of a shorter treatment regimen will greatly enhance the ability of
      programs to keep up with the anticipated increase in patients needing treatment.

      This application proposes a study to determine whether the 9-month oral regime that uses
      Delaminid, Linezolid, Levofloxacin and Pyrazinamide is as good as the current WHO standard of
      care regimen.

      The study proposes to randomize approximately 300 adults in Peru, Moldova and Phillipines
      where MDR-TB is common.
    
  