
    
      Cancer tissue harbours a multitude of genetic alterations, and it is well-established that
      when certain key alterations develop, they are powerful determinants of tumour behaviour
      (growth rate, potential to spread). One of the most sinister and well-recognized alterations
      is in a gene called TP53. Another feature of tumours that results in resistance to treatment
      and poor outcome is a low oxygen level within tumour tissue. However, whether alterations in
      TP53 are driven by low oxygen levels is not established.

      Endometrial cancer is a good model to study the relationship between low tumour oxygen levels
      and alterations in TP53 within tumour. Firstly, it is a common gynaecological malignancy,
      (9,300 new cases annually in the UK) with two recognized types based on the appearance and
      behaviour of the tumour. In type I (endometrioid and mucinous carcinomas), alterations in
      TP53 are uncommon (15%), while in type II (serous and clear cell carcinomas) they are common
      (88%). In-line with this, the survival of patients with Type 2 cancer is worse. Secondly,
      endometrial cancer is routinely assessed at diagnosis using Magnetic Resonance Imaging. This
      non-invasive scanning technique can be manipulated to derive additional information about the
      oxygen status of the whole tumour and regions within it. Finally, the primary management of
      endometrial cancer is surgical and involves hysterectomy. This means it is possible to obtain
      fresh tumour tissue at the time of surgery from regions that have been identified on imaging
      as having low vs.high levels of oxygen and to establish their TP53 status. In this study,
      therefore, the investigator will establish the regional oxygen distribution within
      endometrial cancers at diagnosis, and relate them to the alterations in TP53 from fresh
      tissue samples from selected regions using gene sequencing. Understanding how highly
      deleterious mutations arise in cancer might provide new avenues for intervention and control.
    
  