
    
      This is a phase II, observer-blinded, multi-center, randomized and active-controlled study
      enrolling healthy infants 0-6 days of age or 6-8 weeks of age. The study will enroll infants
      in six arms divided into two cohorts enrolling infants at birth (0-6 days) and approximately
      6 weeks of age. Within each cohort, the enrolled infants will be randomized to the three arms
      in a ratio of 6:6:5. Participants in Cohort A will receive: RV3-BB/TV P2-VP8 boost (arm 1);
      RV3-BB/TV P2-VP8 co-administered (arm 2); RV3-BB primed TV P2-VP8 (arm 3), while participants
      in Cohort B will receive: Rotarix速/TV P2-VP8 Boost (arm 4); Rotarix速/TV P2-VP8
      co-administered (arm 5); or TV P2-VP8 alone (arm 6). Rotarix速 and RV3-BB will be administered
      orally whereas TV P2-VP8 will be administered intramuscularly. The study will be conducted as
      an observer-blinded study wherein the treatment assignment within a cohort will be blinded,
      although allocation to a cohort will be unblinded due to the difference in age at enrolment
      between the two cohorts. Participants will receive a dose of injectable or oral placebo to
      maintain blinding.

      A blood sample will be obtained from all the participating infants pre-vaccination and
      post-vaccination at week 14 and week 18 in both cohorts. All serum samples will be tested for
      serum IgA binding antibody by ELISA using virus lysates prepared from RV3-BB and 89-12
      strains. Additionally, anti-P2-VP8 IgG binding and serum neutralizing antibody levels to each
      of the 3 strains of rotavirus from which TV P2-VP8 is derived will be determined.

      Vaccine safety will be evaluated by 1) recording the immediate adverse events for 30 minutes
      after immunization, 2) solicited adverse events for 7 days after each study vaccination, 3)
      unsolicited events for 28 days after each dose, and 4) serious adverse events 28 days after
      last dose of study vaccination.

      All participants in all the study arms will receive a challenge dose of Rotarix速 at visit
      5following completion of primary series of vaccinations. Stool sample will be collected to
      evaluate vaccine viral shedding.

      The primary objective of the study is to compare the immunogenicity in participants receiving
      LORV co-administration with TV P2- VP8 or those receiving the TV P2-VP8 booster after
      receiving a standalone LORV primary series with the standalone LORV. A comparison of immune
      responses to birth dose of RV3-BB boosted with TV P2-VP8 to TV P2-VP8 administered alone will
      also be conducted. All primary immunogenicity analysis will be based on LORV specific serum
      anti-rotavirus IgA antibody concentration. Placebo administration (oral and parenteral) were
      appropriately placed to facilitate blinding.

      The secondary objective were to compare the different treatment regimens within a cohort
      using serum anti-P2-VP8 IgG antibodies and neutralizing antibodies to each of the 3 strains
      of rotavirus from which TV P2-VP8 is derived.
    
  