
    
      Excessive tortuosity of the coronary arteries (TCA) is a somewhat common finding in patients
      referred for coronary angiography, reported in 14-40% of patients referred for angiography.
      The presence of TCA has been associated with chest pain and myocardial perfusion
      abnormalities during stress in the absence of obstructive coronary artery disease. Fluid
      dynamic modeling suggests that stress-induced ischemia may be attributable to a reduction in
      distal coronary artery perfusion pressure from viscous and turbulence energy losses. The
      physiologic reasons for TCA are unclear. Pre-clinical studies where elastases and
      collagenases were used to alter arterial morphology together with genetic and pathologic
      analysis of rare clinical disorders such as arterial tortuosity syndrome have indicated that
      arterial tortuosity arises from abnormalities in arterial elastin fibers and extracellular
      matrix. Apart from inherited disorders, some but not all studies have linked TCA with
      hypertension and female sex, and with increased left ventricular (LV) mass from pressure but
      not volume overload and smaller heart size.

      Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is associated with an increased left ventricular (LV) wall
      thickness. HCM is the most common genetic heart disease, characterized by marked clinical and
      morphologic heterogeneity. Diagnosis is usually based on the echocardiographic finding of
      unexplained left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy, defined by increased wall thickness in 1 or
      more LV segments. LV mass is generally assumed to be increased in patients with
      phenotypically expressed HCM, based largely on early pathological studies. TCA among HCM
      patients have not been studied.

      Disruption of the ordered arrangement of myofibers alters normal cardiac mechanical function,
      resulting in temporal and spatial heterogeneity in regional myocardial contractility.
      Although global LV function is generally unaltered, asynchrony and asynergy in regional
      function lead to delayed diastolic relaxation and impaired diastolic filling. Whilst LV
      ejection fraction is frequently normal in both, LV strain assessment could differentiate,
      compared to normal person. Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR), by virtue of its
      high-resolution volumetric reconstruction of the LV chamber, currently affords a highly
      accurate and reproducible quantitative assessment of mass . We sought to establish if
      cardiovascular magnetic resonance myocardial feature tracking (CMR-FT), an emerging method
      allowing accurate assessment of myocardial deformation, differentiates between HCM with or
      without TCA. Additionally, CMR assessment of fibrosis and LV hypertrophy allowed association
      analyses and comparison of diagnostic capacities.

      This is a single-center, retrospective, case control study that will evaluate the difference
      of TCA between HCM and control in the first part. In the second part, we will use CMR-FT to
      compare the myocardial strain between HCM with or without TCA and analyze the relationship of
      strain and TCA.
    
  