
    
      -  Selection and enrolment of participants: Enrolment of patients will commence after
           completion of Wolbachia releases in the early zones. Study processes for enrolling
           patients presenting with febrile illness will be established at a network of primary
           health care facilities that serve the population who reside in the study area. Trained
           research staff will be employed to assist with study processes in each site.
           Participants will be enrolled from within the population of patients (aged ≥3 years old)
           presenting with undifferentiated fever of 1-4 days' duration. All patients meeting the
           inclusion criteria will be eligible for enrolment and will be asked to provide written
           informed consent before participating in the study.

        -  Recruitment procedures: All eligible participants meeting study inclusion criteria will
           be invited to enroll continuously throughout the study period. Recruitment will occur
           during normal clinic hours. Participants will be managed according to standard clinical
           practice by the attending physicians. Recruitment rates in each clinic and across the
           study site as a whole will be monitored weekly, including a review of the screening logs
           to identify the proportion of eligible participants who did not consent to participate.
           The field coordinator will make regular visits to low-enrolling clinics to identify
           clinic-based, patient-based or other causes for low recruitment, and put measures in
           place to address these.

        -  Screening: All patients presenting with febrile illness will be screened against the
           study inclusion criteria by trained staff. All eligible febrile individuals will be
           recorded in a screening log and invited to participate. Participation status
           (consent/decline) will be recorded against each participant in the log.

        -  Informed consent: Written informed consent will be sought from participants (or their
           guardian where the participant is a minor) by trained local staff, after explaining the
           study objectives, processes, data, and sample collection, and the participant has had an
           opportunity to ask questions. A verbal explanation of the written Explanatory Statement
           will be provided to all participants in the local language. In addition, participants
           aged between 7 and 17 years will be invited to sign an assent form indicating they
           understand the research and agree to participate. Data and sample collection procedures

        -  Data collection: A unique identifier will be assigned to each participant at enrollment.
           Basic demographic details, eligibility against the inclusion criteria and illness onset
           date will be recorded in a standardized case report form.
    
  