
    
      Lung transplantation aims to extend survival, reduce disability, and improve health-related
      quality of life for persons suffering from advanced lung diseases. Despite rigorous candidacy
      screening practices, improvements in surgical and medical management, and iterative
      advancements in organ allocation policies, nearly 20% of adults awaiting lung transplantation
      die or are removed from the waiting list due to disease progression prior to receiving a
      suitable donor offer1. After lung transplantation, nearly the same proportion of patients
      dies within the first post-operative year2. Notably, serious morbidity after transplantation
      is increasing, with resultant disability and associated decrements in health-related quality
      of life3,4. Although known risk factors for death are already incorporated into lung
      allocation in the United States (Lung Allocation Score [LAS]), persistently high mortality
      and increasing morbidity underscore the need to identify novel risk factors for poor outcomes
      in order to maximize the individual and societal benefit of lung transplantation5.

      Frailty- measured by simple, non-invasive clinic based instruments- is an independent risk
      factor for disability, perioperative complications, and mortality in older medical6-9 and
      surgical populations10-13. Conceptualized first in the field of geriatrics, frailty is
      defined as a generalized vulnerability to stressors resulting from an accumulation of
      physiologic deficits across multiple interrelated systems14. These deficits, in turn, deplete
      the body's physiologic reserves, resulting in a "state-of-risk" for disproportionate declines
      in health status following exposure to an additional stressor such as major surgery. Drawing
      from the geriatrics experience, frailty has become recognized more recently as a risk factor
      for poor outcomes in solid organ transplantation. Specifically, frailty has been found to be
      associated with delayed graft function and mortality in kidney transplant recipients and
      waitlist mortality in liver transplant candidates15-17.

      The evaluation of geriatric derived measures is particularly important in contemporary lung
      transplantation. Indeed, older patients are the fastest growing group of lung transplant
      candidates in the U.S18. Compared to 8% in 2004, patients aged 65 now account for 30% of
      annual new recipients, outnumbering those aged 50; those aged 60 account for over half of all
      new transplants19. This rapid trend has outpaced the evidence base, risk stratification
      tools, and society guidelines needed to identify which older candidates will do well after
      lung transplantation. Absent better information, transplant programs have resorted to either
      ad hoc and admittedly arbitrary chronological age cutoffs or "eyeball tests" of fitness for
      transplant.

      The investigators recently identified frailty as prevalent in lung transplant candidates and
      independently associated with delisting or death on the waitlist18. Very recently, studies in
      other populations suggest frailty may be reversible through targeted exercise and nutrition
      programs. While pulmonary rehabilitation programs may achieve similar goals, a substantial
      proportion of patients cannot access these programs due to geography or insurance
      limitations. The investigator's overarching hypothesis is that treating frailty with a
      home-based intervention before transplant may 1) reduce the risk of death or delisting for
      becoming too debilitated before transplant and 2) may reduce complications, disability, and
      possibly mortality after lung transplantation. This proposal seeks to generate critical pilot
      data needed to inform a larger intervention to treat frailty in lung transplant candidates.
    
  