
    
      Once cancer treatment has concluded (a phase called "extended survivorship") some cancer
      survivors continue to experience physical and psychosocial morbidities, and short-term and
      late effects of treatment, all of which can impact survivors' mental health, quality of life,
      and occupational and social functioning. Continued deficits in post-treatment health and
      function are termed survivorship unmet needs. Survivors of head and neck cancer (HNC; defined
      as cancer of the oral cavity, pharynx, larynx, sinuses, nasal cavity, and salivary glands)
      suffer numerous and often life-altering unmet needs including lingering pain, altered speech
      and eating, and facial disfigurement. Few interventions exist to connect HNC survivors with
      resources to address physical and psychosocial sequelae, and accordingly HNC survivors have
      high unmet needs. Rural survivors are even less likely to have their post-treatment needs
      met. The University of Virginia (UVa) Emily Couric Clinical Cancer Center (EC4) serves a
      largely rural catchment area where patients travel up to 6 hours to receive treatment. The
      EC4 offer a range of supportive care resources to assist HNC survivors during treatment, but
      once treatment is over, rural survivors are less likely to know of, let alone make use of
      these resources. Using resources of the well-established UVa Center for Telehealth (CFT) our
      intervention connects rural survivors with a nurse-led supportive care visit using
      telemedicine videoconferencing.

      Preliminary data from Comprehensive Assistance: Rural Intervention, Nursing, and Guidance
      (CARING), a nurse-led, protocol-driven visit delivered over telemedicine videoconferencing
      suggests that supplementing medical follow-up with a face-to-face nursing visit over
      telemedicine works to overcome access barriers for rural survivors, and may reduce unmet
      needs, all without the need for the patient to travel to the EC4. Importantly, because of the
      extensive network and capabilities of the CFT we are able to offer the intervention either in
      patient's own home or through one of UVa's active telemedicine sites throughout the state.
      During the pilot intervention 35% (7/20) of participants were successfully referred to and
      connected with a supportive care provider. Pilot data suggests that a nurse-led proactive
      unmet needs intervention may overcome the stigma associated with asking for or accepting
      psychosocial help among rural residents, which can further complicate the provision of
      supportive care to this population.

      Identifying the optimal approach to address rural survivors' unmet needs, we next need to
      determine if the nurse protocol or the telemedicine modality (or both) are driving
      intervention success. Health systems and policy makers considering adopting this model of
      care need understand to incremental costs and cost-effectiveness of providing a nurse-led
      protocol delivered via telemedicine. Rural and older populations may experience more
      difficulties adopting health technology; thus we need to determine patients' perspectives on
      the use and usefulness of the intervention.

      Aim 1. Test the efficacy of CARING, delivered with and without telemedicine, compared to a
      control group. Hypothesis 1: HNC survivors who receive the CARING intervention will have a
      significantly larger reduction in unmet needs. Preliminary data revealed that HNC survivors
      of later cancer stage, longer distance to care, and receiving a home intervention, were more
      likely to accept a referral to address their unmet needs. We will determine the impact of
      those factors, as well as rurality, home broadband access, SES, race, ethnicity, and sex, on
      reduction in survivorship unmet needs. Hypothesis 2: Rural HNC survivors will be more likely
      to attend a home-based telemedicine intervention than an in-person visit. We will compare
      attendance rates of rural HNC survivors between those who receive a telemedicine home-based
      intervention and an in-person visit.

      Aim 2. Conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of a nurse-led telemedicine visit. We will
      calculate the ratio of incremental costs of delivering the intervention compared to the
      improvement in quality of life. Compare the relative costs of survivorship care delivered 1)
      with or without the CARING telemedicine intervention and 2) with or without the CARING
      intervention (without telemedicine) from both societal and health system perspectives.
      Analyze cost-effectiveness models for early and late stage cancers, and rural/non-rural
      survivors.

      Aim 3. Evaluate patient perceptions of a telemedicine intervention. Hypothesis 3:
      Participants will report both the nurse interaction and minimizing travel as benefits of the
      intervention and technology use a barrier. Survey participants to determine intervention
      patient-centeredness, barriers, seamlessness of transition between program elements, access,
      and burden of participation in the intervention.
    
  