
    
      Cryptococcosis is an invasive fungal infection caused by an encapsulated yeast.
      Cryptococcosis in humans is almost always caused by Cryptococcus neoformans. The advent of
      the HIV epidemic has lead to a profound increase in the number of reported cases of
      cryptococcal meningoencephalitis throughout the world, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. In
      Zimbabwe an analysis of the case reports at one of the major tertiary care hospitals showed
      an increase in the admission rate from meningitis between 1985-1995 from 78 to 523 cases per
      100000 admissions with an increase in the number of those cases due to cryptococcosis from 5%
      to 46.2%.

      Cryptococcosis typically develops at a CD4 count of less than 50 cells/ mm3, and is the
      initial AIDS defining illness in up to 50-60% of patients.

      Prior to the introduction of amphotericin B, flucytosine and azoles, mortality from C
      neoformans meningoencephalitis was close to 100%. The introduction of amphotericin B led to a
      significant decrease in mortality with 60-70% of patients being successfully treated. The
      introduction of fluconazole prophylaxis in the 1990s lead to a significant decrease in the
      incidence of cryptococcosis. The use of antiretroviral therapy has also caused a significant
      decrease in the incidence of cryptococcal meningitis.

      Due to the prohibitive cost of amphotericin B and flucytosine, in many developing countries
      such as Zimbabwe, the mainstay of the treatment of CM is fluconazole. The current standard
      treatment is with fluconazole 400mg/day for 8-10 weeks, may be too low to result in adequate
      CNS concentration of the drug to achieve adequate killing of C. neoformans. Clinically some
      physicians in Zimbabwe have noted that patients are not responding adequately to this regimen
      and have started to treat patients with higher doses of fluconazole. Previous studies have
      shown that higher doses of fluconazole can be used for the treatment of CM and are well
      tolerated. In our proposed study, patients will be treated with high dose oral fluconazole at
      800mg/day for a total 10 week period.

      The advent of the increased access to ART in sub-Saharan Africa provides an additional
      opportunity to improve morbidity and mortality in all AIDS patients. There are as yet no
      definitive studies to indicate if there is an advantage to immediate ART therapy in the
      setting of acute CM compared to deferring therapy after the first 10 weeks of intensive CM
      therapy. This study is designed to address this question and provide physicians in
      sub-Saharan Africa with evidence based guidelines for the appropriate management of HIV
      positive patients with acute presentation of CM.
    
  