
    
      This is a Phase IIa, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, intra-individual
      left-right limb comparison trial to investigate the efficacy, local irritation, safety,
      tolerability and pharmacokinetics of multiple topical applications of ImCOOH cream. The trial
      population will consist of 25 patients with moderate atopic dermatitis. Twenty patients will
      receive a hydrophilic cream containing 10% ImCOOH and a placebo cream randomized over both
      limbs twice daily for 14 days with an additional morning application on Day 15. Five patients
      will receive placebo cream on both limbs twice daily for 14 days with an additional morning
      application on Day 15. The creams will be applied on 2 comparative target areas (minimum 0.1%
      and maximum 2% of the total body surface area per target area), with one site at the left
      limb and one site at the right limb. The applied creams needs to be prevented from wiping
      off. Efficacy will be assessed until Day 15 and safety and tolerability will be monitored
      until 14 days after the last application.

      Efficacy will be assessed by determining the Topical Atopic Dermatitis Severity Index
      (toADSI) score, and the Visual Analogue Scale for Pruritis (VAS) score for both target areas
      at screening, predose on Day 1 of treatment and on Days 2, 7, 9, 12 and 15 of treatment. In
      addition, color pictures of the target areas will be taken predose on Day 1 of treatment and
      on Days 7 and 15 of treatment. Finally the Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI) score will
      be determined for both target areas, predose on Day 1 of treatment and on Days 7 and 15 of
      treatment.

      Safety will be assessed by monitoring (S)AEs, performing clinical laboratory tests
      (hematology, biochemistry, urinalysis) and physical exams and by taking vital signs and
      recording ECGs on a regular basis.

      For pharmacokinetic analysis, plasma concentrations of ImCOOH will be determined on Days 1
      and 15 up to 12 hours postdose. In addition, the morning predose plasma concentration of
      ImCOOH will be determined on Days 2, 4, 7, 9, and 12. Full urinary output will be collected
      on Day 15 up to 12 hours postdose to determine the amount of unchanged ImCOOH excreted in
      urine. In the patients who received the placebo cream only, the endogenous ImCOOH
      concentrations in plasma and urine will be measured.
    
  