
    
      Despite advance in the diagnosis and treatment of colorectal cancer (CRC), it remains the
      second most common cause of cancer-related death in the US and the UK. The majority of deaths
      from CRC are related to distant metastases, predominantly to the liver.

      There are observational and laboratory data supporting the notion that the omega-3
      polyunsaturated fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) has anti-CRC activity. These include a
      phase 2 'window of opportunity' randomised, placebo-controlled trial of EPA provided before
      surgery for resection of CRC liver metastasis (called the EMT study). A signal that EPA
      improved progression-free and overall survival after liver surgery provided the rationale for
      the EMT2 trial, which is a randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled phase 3 trial of the
      effect of EPA (started before surgery but continued post-operatively) on CRC recurrence and
      survival after surgery for resectable liver metastases [ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03428477 and
      EudraCT Number: 2016-000628-24].

      The mechanism(s) by which EPA might influence post-operative survival are not well
      understood. Recent data support the idea that the anti-CRC benefit of EPA may be mediated by
      modulating the intestinal microbiota and ameliorating tumour-permissive immunosuppressive
      mechanisms, including inhibition of the activity of regulatory T cells (Tregs) and
      myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), as well as reduced synthesis of inflammatory
      mediators such as prostaglandin (PG) E2 and chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2 (CCL2). Mice fed
      with a high-EPA-containing diet demonstrate 1) increased abundance of gut bacteria, such as
      Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus genera that support the host anti-tumour immune response
      and improve the efficacy of cancer immunotherapy, and 2) decreased abundance of
      lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-producing bacteria that trigger chronic inflammation and can promote
      CRC. These data support a hypothesis that a prebiotic effect of EPA abrogates intra-tumoural
      immunosuppression and ameliorates systemic inflammation to improve survival of CRCLM
      patients.

      EMT2 trial participants are ideally placed to provide biospecimens that can be analysed in
      order to understand the mechanism(s) of action of EPA given that the laboratory data can
      eventually be linked to the clinical outcomes from the trial. Biospecimens can be obtained
      without interference with the EMT2 trial protocol. Stool, urine, and blood samples will be
      obtained 1) after EMT2 trial randomization, before starting EPA or placebo, 2) just before
      surgery, and 3) at 6-monthly intervals thereafter, plus liver metastases tumour tissue during
      surgery. Using these biospecimens, the microbiome and immune pathways altered by EPA will be
      investigated in relation to participant survival. Mechanistic insights about the anti-CRC
      activity of EPA from the biospecimen collection project will maximize the knowledge and
      insights gained from the EMT2 trial and its participants, thereby leading to personalized use
      of EPA, which will be targeted at those most likely to benefit.
    
  