
    
      Most patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) are entered delirium during hospitalization.
      Delirium; has been reported that it is associated with significant side effects such as
      prolonged stay in hospital and intensive care unit, increased morbidity and mortality and
      high costs. For evaluating delirium in intensive care units; There are several assessment
      tools such as the Intensive Care Delirium Screening Checklist(ICDSC) etc. The ICDSC checklist
      is an eight-item screening tool that is based on DSM criteria and applied with data that can
      be collected through medical records. Its validity has been confirmed by several studies.
      Assessment tools such as ICDSC; can diagnose after patient is entered the delirium and
      therefore cannot provide early treatment and preventive measures. Prevention of delirium is
      more important than the correct treatment of delirium. For preventing delirium; early
      diagnosis and treatment are necessary. Pre-deliric (DELIRIUM PREDICTION MODEL FOR INTENSIVE
      CARE PATIENTS) and E-pre-deliric (EARLY PREDICTION MODEL FOR DELIRIUM IN ICU PATIENTS)
      prediction models; are developed and approved for delirium estimation in intensive care unit
      patients.

      Data of the patient in the first 24 hours of admission to the intensive care unit are
      collected and the delirium prediction score is found by the pre-deliric model. In the
      e-pre-deliric model, delirium prediction score is determined by inputting the data of the
      patient in admission to the intensive care unit.

      In this study; the definition of delirium was done by ICDSC scoring. Patients with an ICDSC
      score of 4 and over were diagnosed with delirium.

      The aim of this study; To determine the sensitivity and specificity of E-pre-deliric and
      Pre-deliric scores by comparing the effectiveness of ICDSC, E-pre-deliric, Pre-deliric
      version-1 and Pre-deliric version-2 assessment tools in the prediction of delirium.
    
  