
    
      Hemiparesis and other impairments are a frequent and disabling consequence of stroke and can
      lead to asymmetric and inefficient walking patterns. Training on a split-belt treadmill,
      which has two separate treads driving each leg at a different speed, can correct gait
      asymmetries post-stroke (Reisman et al. 2005, Reisman et al. 2007). However, the effects of
      split-belt treadmill training only partially transfer to everyday walking over ground and
      extended training sessions are required to achieve long-lasting effects (Reisman et al.
      2009). Our previous studies suggest that the iStride device that has been developed in our
      laboratory can be used as an alternative gait training device for people with stroke
      (Handzic, Reed, and colleagues 2011, 2011, 2012, 2013). The iStride device mimics the actions
      of the split-belt treadmill, but can be used during over-ground walking and in one's own
      home, thus enabling long-term training. The iStride device does not require any external
      power and is completely passive; all necessary forces are redirected from the natural forces
      present during walking since it utilizes the wearer's weight to generate its movements. While
      the movements of the iStride device are similar to the split belt treadmill, and the iStride
      device generates a similar aftereffect, the efficacy of this shoe in modifying the gait of an
      individual with stroke is not yet verified.

      In this study, we will test the efficacy of the iStride device on individuals with stroke in
      the clinic. Efficacy will be evaluated based on the change in gait coordination and also
      based on subjects' self-reported comfort on the device. We predict that the iStride device
      will result in changes to interlimb coordination of gait that could be a safe and effective
      device to be used in ones' home.

      The asymmetric nature of hemiparetic gait can have a large impact on functional walking
      ability. For example, swing phase asymmetry is a significant predictor of hemiparetic walking
      performance because it strongly correlates with stages of motor recovery, walking speed, and
      falls (Brandstater et al. 1983; Titianova and Tarkka 1995). Another measure of temporal
      asymmetry - double support duration - is similarly correlated with walking speed (Olney et
      al. 1994). In addition, spatial (e.g. step length) asymmetry is associated with decreased
      propulsive force on the paretic leg (Balasubramanian et al. 2007; Bowden et al. 2006), which
      limits forward motion of the body and reduces gait efficiency (Brouwer et al. 2009; Kahn and
      Hornby 2009). The importance of gait efficiency should not be understated - the elevated
      energy demands of hemiparetic gait combined with physical deconditioning post-stroke can
      greatly limit performance of activities of daily living, contributing to poor cardiovascular
      fitness and metabolic syndrome. In turn, this can increase the risks of a second stroke or
      cardiovascular event and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality rates (Ivey et
      al., 2005). Therefore, improving gait symmetry should be an important goal for therapy, to
      not only improve functional mobility and reduce injury, but also to enhance general health
      and well-being post-stroke.

      Practicing walking on a split-belt treadmill can correct abnormal interlimb coordination of
      gait in individuals with hemiparesis following stroke or other central nervous system lesions
      (Reisman et al. 2005, Reisman et al. 2007). Asymmetric gait can manifest as a spatial
      asymmetry, in which steps taken on one side are longer than those on the other. It can also
      manifest as a temporal asymmetry, where the timing is uneven on the paretic and non-paretic
      sides. Temporal asymmetries are often measured as differences in the duration of double
      support periods, which are the amount of time both feet are simultaneously contacting the
      ground and are measured separately for the paretic and non-paretic sides. The iStride device
      is designed to cause changes in both spatial and temporal gait symmetry. We predict that the
      iStride device would cause the steps on the side with the iStride device to be larger since
      individuals would compensate for the backward rolling motion by placing their foot farther
      forward in stance, thus increasing the distance between the two feet. Similarly, since the
      stride is longer, it may also shorten the duration of stance relative to the other side. With
      shortened stance duration, the amount of time spent in double-support at the end of stance
      would likely decrease as well.

      Although the original idea of the iStride device is derived from the motion of the
      split-belt-treadmill, there are distinct differences between walking on the device and
      walking on a split-belt treadmill with asymmetric belt velocities (Handzic and Reed, 2013).
      While the body's velocity relative to ground is zero on a split-belt treadmill, the relative
      velocity of the iStride device is non-zero and forward. The device forces the wearer's foot
      forward or backward whereas the treadmill moves both feet backward, but at different speeds.
      For both the split-belt treadmill and the iStride device, the relative velocity between both
      feet is similar and the backward-moving iStride device takes the place of the faster tread.

      We hypothesize that training over ground will lead to a change in the interlimb coordination
      in individuals with asymmetric gait and allow individuals to develop a more persistent
      symmetric gait. There are several differences between training on ground and a treadmill,
      such as visual flow and vestibular information signaling forward movement that likely limit
      the expression of learning in the over-ground context when trained on a treadmill. Visual
      cues appear to be particularly important for context awareness (Keamey, 2003). Visual cues,
      coupled with prior experience, are so powerful that predictive postural responses cause an
      individual to stumble when stepping onto an escalator that is not moving (Reynolds and
      Bronstein 2003; Bronstein et al. 2009). The body has learned an internal model that expects
      an acceleration when stepping onto an escalator, but when that acceleration does not occur,
      the person stumbles. A study of split-belt walking showed that transfer to over-ground
      walking is enhanced when subjects are blindfolded during training on the treadmill and tested
      over ground (Torres-Oviedo and Bastian, 2010). Since blindfolding eliminates visual cues
      about the environment, this also suggests that vision is a key factor in determining the
      context-dependence of learning. Since it is not realistic to blindfold stroke patients during
      gait training, we designed the iStride device so that training could occur during over-ground
      walking, thus visual cues during training and later walking over ground would be the same.

      Data from control subjects using an earlier version of the iStride device (referred to as
      GEMS at the time) has been published (Handzic et al. 2011) and a video of this previous
      version can be found at http://reedlab.eng.usf.edu/publications/handzic2011GEMS.mp4. In this
      study, we found that this earlier version of the device was capable of changing step length
      as predicted, however the previous design was too heavy and too tall to be considered
      practical for testing in stroke populations. The current version of the iStride device
      produces similar motion to the previous version, but it weighs less (under 1 kg) and is
      shorter (~4.4 cm). We will test the efficacy of wearing the current iStride device on gait
      coordination during walking over ground on individuals with stroke in the clinic. All walking
      will be performed while subjects are closely guarded by an experienced physical therapist to
      prevent falling. The effects of the iStride device on gait coordination will be compared to
      those induced on a split-belt treadmill.

      The proposed project represents one of the first attempts to build a device that corrects
      walking symmetry while walking over ground. Not only would this allow people to experience
      gait corrections while performing normal movements, but the simplicity and relative low cost
      of these devices would also open up potential opportunities to train at home (for
      high-functioning individuals with supervision) and in clinics where a split-belt treadmill is
      not available. The studies outlined here will establish whether the iStride device is capable
      of changing interlimb coordination of gait, and whether individuals with stroke can use these
      devices for rehabilitation purposes. This work will thus build the foundation for future
      training studies examining the effectiveness of long-term use of the iStride device for
      improving symmetric walking patterns.

      The question that this study targets is the modification of human walking patterns for use in
      stroke rehabilitation. It is our ultimate objective to show that the iStride device can
      change a person's temporal and spatial gait asymmetry into a symmetric gait. Our points of
      reference are results obtained by previous studies with split-belt treadmills. We are also
      interested in how altering the interface between a foot and the ground influences the
      adaptation to new walking patterns.
    
  