
    
      100 consecutive adults patients with an expected stay of 24 hours or more admitted to the
      Sacré-Coeur Hospital ICU between November 2005 and March 2006 were eligible for enrollment.
      Our hospital is a 28 beds ICU tertiary center affiliated with the University of Montreal. We
      have a mixed medical and surgical ICU units treating patients with a variety of conditions
      including sepsis, respiratory failure, circulatory insufficiency, trauma, as well as cardiac,
      thoracic and vascular surgery. We excluded patients with a previous diagnosis of diabetes or
      pre-diabetes. Patients admitted for diabetic ketoacidosis or hyperglycemic hyperosmolar
      states, treated with chronic corticosteroid therapy at supraphysiological doses or enrolled
      in another exclusive study were also excluded.

      Data collection

      At time of admission, demographic data were collected and classical risk factors for
      diabetes, including high blood pressure, dyslipidemia, coronary artery disease, vascular
      disease and family history of type 2 diabetes were assessed. Corticosteroid exposure in the
      72 hours preceding admission was noted. Physiology and laboratory data were collected for
      calculation of the Acute Physiologic and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE-II) score of
      illness severity. For each patient, body mass index (BMI) was calculated and waist
      circumference was measured according to standard technique .

      All patients had strict glycemic control according to local regular insulin protocol. Bedside
      glucose measurements were made every two to four hours using a calibrated plasma glucometer
      (EliteTM by Bayer). We calculated the daily and cumulative insulin dose administered during
      the first 72 hours in the ICU in order to maintain a blood glucose level between 72 and 126
      mg per deciliter. Co-treatment with other forms of insulin and oral hypoglycaemic agents was
      prohibited during the study. The daily caloric intake, including feeding, dextrose solution,
      medication diluent and propofol, as well as the corticosteroids and vasopressors received
      during that period of time were also calculated.

      Random plasma glucose level and glycated hemoglobin (A1C, Homogenous Immunoturbimetric Assay)
      were measured at baseline. Three months after ICU admission, a second value of A1C was
      obtained and a standard 75g Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) was performed. Based on the
      OGTT results, patients were classified as having normal or abnormal glucose metabolism
      according to the criteria published by the American Diabetes Association.
    
  