
    
      Diet-related diseases, such as diabetes and obesity, have become pervasive global health
      challenges, so much so that they are being called epidemics. The problem is particularly
      acute in the United States where two-thirds of adults and one-third of children are
      overweight or obese. A key contributor to increased dietary intake is the increased
      consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages.

      Sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs), also known as soft drinks, are beverages that are sweetened
      with sugar, high fructose corn syrup, or any other caloric sweetener; this excludes
      noncaloric (diet) drinks. The average American consumes approximately 47 gallons of SSBs per
      year. Americans consume about 278 calories more each day than they did 30 years ago and
      nearly half of this increase is attributable to increased consumption of SSBs. The
      consumption of SSBs has been cited as a key contributor to obesity and has been linked to
      other negative health problems, such as diabetes, heart disease, and dental cavities.
      Therefore, the increase in SSB consumption and the concurrent increase in diet-related
      diseases pose significant direct and indirect costs to society.

      In response to these problems, health experts, laypeople and legislators alike advocate
      policies to reduce the consumption of SSBs. Several municipalities and states have proposed
      policies such as taxes, warning labels, and calorie labeling and a few have passed such
      policies. For example, Berkeley, CA recently adopted a SSB excise tax which charges an
      additional cent for each ounce of SSB sold. In June 2016, Philadelphia passed a 1.5 cent per
      ounce tax on sugary drinks and diet sodas.

      The investigators believe it is critical to further test the effectiveness of taxes in the
      field. In this study, the investigators conduct a field experiment that tests different
      framing of taxes, namely whether the money is earmarked for a particular cause.
    
  