
    
      This is a multi-centre, double blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study of multiple
      applications of a single concentration of XF-73 nasal gel to assess the microbiological
      effect of XF-73 on commensal S. aureus nasal carriage in patients scheduled for surgical
      procedures deemed to be at high risk of post-operative S. aureus infection. The study is
      divided in 4 periods: screening (days -14 to -1) randomization (days -10 to -1), treatment
      (days -1 and 0) and follow-up (post-last study dose to day 30 or day 90 if an implant is
      inserted during surgery). Day 0 is the calendar day in which surgery takes place. Only
      patients who test positive to S. aureus by a centrally-performed rapid diagnostic test will
      be enrolled in the study. Approximately 125 patients will be randomly allocated in a 1:1
      ratio to 0.2% w/w XF-73 nasal gel treatment OR placebo to match XF-73 nasal gel.

      The study drug, 0.2% w/w XF-73, or matched placebo will be administered 4 times into each
      nostril over 24 hours prior to surgery and then a single application immediately upon closure
      of surgical wound. Additionally, patients may undergo chlorhexidine skin decolonisation ahead
      of surgery and receive perioperative prophylactic systemic antibiotics in accordance with
      local practice.

      Efficacy will be assessed by S. aureus colonisation from screening to 7 days after surgery as
      well as by incidence of post-operative staphylococcal infections and use of
      anti-staphylococcal antibiotics post-surgery. Safety will be assessed by reported adverse
      events (AEs) from screening up to Day 7 as well as vital signs, physical examination (ENT),
      clinical laboratory assessments (haematology, clinical chemistry, and urinalysis) and Smell
      Identification Tests at different time points throughout the study.

      The maximum study duration will be 45 or 105 days for each individual (from screening to
      post-study follow-up visit) depending on whether a foreign implant was inserted during
      surgery.

      An independent data monitoring committee (IDMC) will be set up which will review the safety
      information from the study, the incidence of post-operative staphylococcal infections and to
      ensure that the balance of benefits and risks of participating in the study does not change.
    
  