
    
      Nitric oxide (NO) has been recognized for its multifaceted roles in many physiological
      processes (e.g., vasodilatation, host defense, neurotransmission, bronchodilatation, and
      inflammation.) NO is produced by a family of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isoforms in a
      reaction that converts L-arginine to L-citrulline. NO metabolites in vivo include nitrite
      (NO2) and nitrate (NO3). Plasma NO2/NO3 concentrations have been used extensively as a marker
      for NOS activity and NO radical production. Studies have shown that dietary intake of
      nitrate, estrogen, atmospheric pollution, and heavy exercise can influence NO2/NO3 levels in
      blood. NO can also be detected in exhaled air. NO levels vary with disease, and in some cases
      (e.g., asthma) respond to treatment (e.g., steroid).

      This pilot study is designed to determine whether or not dietary intake influences exhaled NO
      levels. To use plasma metabolite measurements to monitor NOS activity, subjects must adhere
      to a strict low NO2/NO3 diet before and during the study where measurements of exhaled NO can
      be performed quickly and easily in an inpatient setting. Subjects will be studied as
      inpatients consuming standardized high and low nitrite/nitrate (NO2/NO3) diets each for a
      period of three days. Since L-arginine is a NOS substrate and can affect the generation of
      NO, diets will also be monitored by protein intake. Blood samples will be collected four
      times during the study, pre- and post-diet for each diet, for the quantification of NO2/NO3
      concentration. Exhaled NO will be measured daily. In addition, blood pressure, pulmonary
      function testing, and blood plasma levels of L-arginine, cyclic guanosine monophosphate
      (cGMP), and S-thiolation may be monitored. Results of this study should allow us to determine
      the most effective method of monitoring NOS activity, and potentially identify activities
      responsible for maintaining nitric oxide levels.
    
  