
    
      This study will evaluate the impact of aromatherapy on the administration of opioid pain
      medication administration among the inpatient Surgical Services population. Patients from
      multiple units (burns, trauma, plastics, general surgery, and orthopedics) will be included.
      The study duration will be six months.

      The Lavender-Sandalwood scented aromatherapy sticker has been selected for this study because
      it helps promote relaxation, comfort, and sleep. After introducing the patient to the study
      and obtaining informed consent for participation, the sticker will be placed on the patient
      gown. The sticker aroma last for twelve (12) hours and can be replaced upon patient request.
      The sticker will be used for 72 hours after the surgical procedure and initiated during
      patient's hospital stay. After use of aromatherapy sticker, the patient will participate in a
      survey to evaluate their experience with the sticker. In addition, opioid pain medication
      administration will be collected along with demographic and relevant clinical information.

      The historical control group will be comprised of hospitalized patients from the previous
      year with the dame time period, demographic characteristics, service line, and relevant
      clinical information. Other methods for establishing a control group (a randomized controlled
      trial or concurrent case control study) are not feasible due to the potential impact of the
      aromatherapy on all patients in close proximity to the enrolled patient. The historical
      control cohort will also allow to collect non-COVID time period data to avoid any bias due to
      the pandemic.

      The primary endpoint for this study is a decrease in the percentage of study patients who are
      in the pain scale threshold from 7-10 requiring opioid pain medication administration 72
      hours after surgery/intervention. The pain score will be recorded for each patient before
      opioid pain medication administration within the time period. The historical control group
      will be from the same precious year time frame to control for any seasonal bias. The first
      dose or baseline pain score will be collected for each group and other relevant pain scores
      within the 72-hour time period after surgery. Demographic and other clinically relevant
      information will be compared between study and historical control group to account for any
      differences in the primary and secondary outcomes.

      Outcomes will be collected from the electronic medical record (pain scores, opioid pain
      medication administration, and length of stay by service line. Qualitative measures of
      aromatherapy effectiveness will be obtained through patient surveys.

      Data to be extracted for the active current group and the historical matched control group
      include the following:

        -  Patient demographics (matching variable list)

             -  Age (18-29, 30-39, 40-49, 50-59, 60-69, >70.

             -  Gender

             -  Race/ethnicity

        -  Other demographic variables not proposed in matching

             -  Diabetes

             -  High blood pressure

             -  Other clinical co-morbidities

        -  Clinical history

             -  Opioid pain medication administration given for 72 hours after surgery or
                intervention

             -  Surgical Service Units: burns, trauma, plastics, general surgery, orthopedics

             -  Dates of admission and discharge

             -  Length of stay

             -  Date and type of surgery/intervention

             -  All Pain scores within 72 hours after surgery or intervention.

      Data to be extracted for the current active group:

        -  Dates of aromatherapy application (possible 6 doses within 72-hour time period)

        -  Patient survey forms
    
  