
    
      1.0. Rationale

      In contrast to the well-established cytotoxicity of NK cells against AML cells, their
      capacity to lyse ALL cells is generally low and difficult to predict. We sought to overcome
      this intrinsic resistance by transducing CD56+ CD3- NK cells with chimeric receptors directed
      against CD19, a molecule widely expressed by malignant B cells. Expression of anti-CD19
      receptors linked to CD3zeta overcame NK resistance and markedly enhanced NK cell-mediated
      killing of leukemic cells. This result was significantly improved by adding the 4-1BB
      costimulatory molecule to the chimeric anti-CD19-CD3zeta receptor: the cytotoxicity produced
      by NK cells expressing this construct uniformly exceeded that of NK cells whose signaling
      receptors lacked 4-1BB, even when natural cytotoxicity was apparent (Imai et al., Blood
      2005). NK cells expressing anti-CD19 receptors also exerted vigorous anti-ALL activity in a
      murine model of leukemia (Shimasaki et al., Cytotherapy 2012). Our findings indicate that
      enforced expression of signaling receptors by NK cells might circumvent inhibitory signals,
      providing a novel means to enhance the effectiveness of anti-ALL NK cell therapy.

      The great anti-leukemic efficacy of genetically modified NK cells shown in our preclinical
      studies, together with the demonstrated feasibility of infusing durable haploidentical NK
      cells in a non-HSCT setting and the established expertise by the NUH team in cell therapy
      (the only center in Asia accredited by Foundation for the Accreditation of Cellular Therapy,
      FACT), form a compelling rationale for the clinical testing of these NK cells.

      The preparation of the key reagent (anti-CD19-BB-zeta mRNA) is finalized in the Tissue
      Engineering & Cell Therapy (TECT) Laboratory at NUH, where the GMP-compliant MaxCyte
      electroporator is located. The feasibility of large-scale expansion of NK cells has been
      demonstrated (Shimasaki et al. Cytotherapy 2012), and the feasibility of large-scale
      electroporation validated in the TECT laboratory.

      We will use flow cytometric and MRD technologies, to determine the presence of persistent
      disease , and will include in this study only patients with a limited amount of residual
      disease (<1% leukemic lymphoblasts among normal bone marrow cells). We will use the same MRD
      methods to monitor the effects of treatment infusions. We do not expect that the conditioning
      regimen will have much effect by itself on leukemic cell counts, as the patients eligible for
      the study will have disease that is resistant to many anti-leukemic drugs. Nevertheless,
      because the conditioning regimen itself may have some salutary effects, it will be important
      to screen the peripheral blood and/or bone marrow for the presence of leukemic blast cells
      through all stages of the procedure, i.e., before, during, and after conditioning and after
      the NK cell infusion. The presence of leukemic cells in will be closely monitored by flow
      cytometry or PCR amplification of antigen-receptor genes (sensitivity for either method: 1
      leukemic cell in 10,000) to shed some light on the relative effect of each intervention.

      2.0. Hypothesis and Objectives

      The main hypothesis to be tested in this study is that infusion of NK cells expressing
      anti-CD19-BB-zeta receptors by electroporation can produce measurable clinical responses in
      patients with resistant B-lineage ALL.

      3.0. Primary Objectives

        -  To determine the feasibility and safety of redirecting NK cells with an anti-CD19
           chimeric antigen receptor by mRNA electroporation in a clinical setting.

        -  To determine the efficacy of anti-CD19 redirected NK cells in research participants with
           B-lineage ALL who have persistent disease as determined by MRD methods after intensive
           chemotherapy.

      4.0. Secondary Objectives

        -  To study the persistence and phenotype of redirected NK cells in research participants
           with B-lineage ALL who have residual disease after intensive chemotherapy.

      5.0. Endpoints

      In this study, treatment response will be measured by comparing MRD levels before and at
      several intervals after NK cell infusion.Achievement of MRD negativity in bone marrow, i.e.,
      < 0.01% blasts by flow cytometry or PCR, will be regarded as a complete response. Partial
      response will be defined as ≥ 1 log decrease in MRD levels, while < 1 log decrease in MRD
      levels will be regarded as a no response.

      Based on previous studies, donor NK cells will be eliminated in most cases by the resurgent
      cellular immunity of the haploidentical recipient after the effects of the transient
      immunosuppression caused by the conditioning regimen have ceased (typically within 1 month of
      infusion). Conceivably, however, NK cell engraftment may persist for a longer period with the
      possible risk of prolonged pancytopenia owing to NK cell killing on normal hematopoietic
      cells. Because of this possibility, we will plan for HSCT rescue in patients receiving
      redirected NK cell infusions. Indeed, for most of the patients eligible for this study, HSCT
      would be the treatment intervention regardless of whether they receive NK cell infusions or
      not. Because of these considerations, the potential benefits of NK cell therapy should
      outweigh its risks for those patients eligible for this study, i.e., patients with persistent
      leukemia for whom no other proven effective treatment is available.

      Because CD19 is universally expressed on B cells including early B cell precursors, normal
      recipient B cell will also be a target for the donor NK cells transduced with the anti-CD19
      chimeric receptors. Therefore, transient B-cell lymphopenia and hypogammaglobinemia are
      expected. We will monitor the CD19+ blood cell count and measure the Ig levels once a month
      and will give the participants intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIG) if their IgG level is lower
      than age-specific ranges.

      6.0. Summary of Study Design

      Peripheral blood cell will be collected by apheresis from donors. After ex vivo expansion for
      10 days by coculture with irradiated K562-mb15-41BBL cells (Fujisaki et al, Cancer Res 2009;
      Lapteva et al. Cytotherapy 2012) and T-cell depletion, haploidentical NK cells will be
      electroporated with anti-CD19-BB-zeta mRNA. Before infusion, patients will receive
      immunosuppressive therapy to promote temporary engraftment of NK cells. After infusion, they
      will receive IL-2 to support NK cell viability and expansion in vivo. The effects of NK cell
      infusion will be determine by comparing MRD levels before and after treatment.

      Receptor expression after electroporation is transient and typically declines after 48 hours
      becoming undetectable after 96 hours. Because the aim of NK cell therapy is not to induce
      durable immunity but to rapidly reduce tumor cell burden, and the infused NK cells are
      rejected by the host immune system after approximately 2 weeks of infusion, the transient
      nature of the expression should not significantly affect anti-tumor potential. Moreover, by
      using this strategy, safety concerns regarding insertional mutagenesis and long-term
      persistence of transduced residual T cells do not apply. In any case, we will minimize the
      number of residual T cells in the final product as much as possible by depleting the expanded
      product of T cells by using the CliniMACS device, and by limiting the number of T cells in
      the graft to <0.05 x 10^6/kg.
    
  