
    
      Participants will be asked to review the informed consent and consent to the study prior to
      any study procedure.

      There are six phases of this study: 1. a telephone interview, 2. an in-home single night
      sleep recording, 3. a two-week baseline period, 4. an 8-week treatment period, 5. a two-week
      follow-up period, and 6. another two week follow-up period 6-months after the treatment
      period.

      During the telephone interview, participants will be asked question about their sleep and
      pain history. Participants with poor sleep will visit the University of Florida for a medical
      history and will be connected to a machine which will monitor their sleep. Participants will
      return home to sleep while still connected to the machine and will return the machine to the
      University of Florida the next day. A third visit will consist of completing questionnaires
      and measuring response to a range of temperatures. Participants will complete brief daily
      questionnaires and wear an actigraph (wristwatch-like device) that measures arm movements for
      two weeks.

      Participants will then be randomized to one of three groups: a pain treatment group, an
      insomnia treatment group or a waitlist control group. Both treatments consist of weekly
      therapy sessions for 8 consecutive weeks. Participants assigned to waitlist control will be
      offered therapy at no cost at the end of the study. Throughout these 8 weeks, participants in
      all three groups will be asked to complete daily sleep diaries.

      The study consists of two follow-up periods consisting of two weeks, during which
      participants will wear the actigraph and complete daily sleep diaries. Participants will
      travel to the University two times during each follow-up period. One follow-up period will
      occur immediately following treatment, and the other will occur approximately 6 months
      following treatment. During each follow-up period, the first visits will involve being
      connected to the machine that monitors their sleep. Participants will then return home with
      the machine to sleep in their own beds. The second of these visits will occur the following
      day and will involve the return of the machine, completion of questionnaires, and measurement
      of participants' responses to a range of temperatures applied to their arm.
    
  