
    
      The local authorized clinical trials ethics committee approved the study and this study was
      performed following the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Detailed information was
      given to patients about clinical applications and tests, and signed informed consent forms
      were also obtained from all patients. 32 right eyes of 32 men with diagnosis of BPH initiated
      on AH (Xatral®) (10 mg/day) and 31 right eyes of 31 men with diagnosis of BPH initiated on TH
      (Flomax®) (0.4 mg/day) were included in this self-controlled prospective clinical trial.
      Urologists in the urology clinic made diagnosis of BPH, and 63 men diagnosis of BPH were
      directed towards eye clinic. AH or TH treatments were randomly recommended for previously
      untreated patients with newly diagnosis of BPH by urologists. After providing information to
      patients about the disease and treatment, patients predicted to show adherence to treatment,
      were enrolled in the study.

      Ophthalmological examinations were performed in all cases. Choroidal thicknesses (CTs) were
      measured under the fovea, 3 mm nasal to the fovea and 3 mm temporal to the fovea, and they
      were recorded as submacular (SCT), nasal (NCT) and temporal (TCT) choroidal thicknesses. CTs
      were measured and recorded by using EDI-OCT imaging (Cirrus HD 4000, Carl Zeis Meditec, CA,
      USA). Mesopic, scotopic and photopic pupil diameter sizes were measured and recorded by using
      Scheimpflug/Placido photography-based topography system in the pupillometer mode (Sirius,
      Italy). CTs, scotopic, mesopic and photopic pupil diameter sizes were measured and recorded
      at baseline, 1st and 3rd months.

      Data obtained from cases were encoded and they were transferred to the computer program. SPSS
      20.0 software (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA) was used for statistical evaluation. Data
      distribution was tested using Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Baseline values and 1st, 3rd month
      values were compared by using the repeated measure of ANOVA in intra-group evaluation and
      independent samples t-test in inter-group evaluation, and the significance level of p-value
      was accepted as 0,05 (P ≤ 0, 05). Progressions were evaluated by using repeated measures
      analyses of variance-ANOVA (with the Bonferroni correction) and the correlation between
      parameters were evaluated by using bivariate (Pearson's) correlation analysis. Positive
      values and negative values were considered to be correlated in the same direction and
      opposite direction, respectively in correlation analysis. Correlation coefficient values r ≥
      |± 0.3| were accepted as correlation; and the significance level of P value that was below
      0,05 was evaluated as the significant correlation.
    
  