
    
      BISTIS builds on hospital-based surveillance for Influenza virus infection, which is ongoing
      in hospitals around Bangladesh, as part of the Hospital-based Influenza Surveillance (HBIS)
      and Surveillance for the Epidemiology of Influenza in Bangladesh (SEIB) projects. We intend
      to recruit patients identified at the Jahurul Islam Medical College Hospital in Kishoregonj,
      Bangladesh, where both HBIS and SEIB are in place. In this hospital 80% of all the patients
      who present with influenza-like illness (ILI) to the outpatient departments of Medicine and
      Pediatrics are from three upazillas of Kishorgonj district: Bajitpur, Kuliar char and
      Kotiadi. The distances of these three upazillas are within 30 minutes travel time from
      Jahurul Islam Medical College Hospital (one way) and hence these upazillas will serve as the
      primary catchment areas for BISTIS. The table below illustrates the number of ILI cases
      identified through HBIS and SEIB study at Jahurul Islam Medical College Hospital in 2008 and
      also the number and proportion among them who were tested PCR positive for influenza virus.

      n.b., most influenza-positive specimens were collected between May and September in 2007 and
      2008

      We will also enroll patients who present to two local upazilla health complexes (UHCs), one
      in Bajitpur and one in Kuliar Char. These local health complexes see numerous patients a day
      from the rural areas surrounding the clinic. Patients who present to these clinics are more
      likely to have symptom onset within 24 hours of presentation then those patients who seek
      care at JIMCH, since patients may only want to go to the hospital if their illness has been
      severe and prolonged over several days. Some studies on the impact of handwashing promotion
      have found that the intervention is effective if delivered within 36 hours of the index
      case-patient's symptom onset; therefore, the UHC sites are appropriate for enrollment of
      patients for BISTIS in addition to enrollment at JIMCH.

      Lastly, we will recruit patients from pharmacies within the catchment areas mentioned above.
      By collaborating with local pharmacists, we intend on further increasing our enrollment
      numbers. Patients who present to local pharmacists are likely to have symptom onset within 24
      hours of their visit to the pharmacist and are also more likely to be the primary case within
      their bari.

      Specific Aim 1: To measure the secondary attack ratio (SAR) of influenza viruses among
      household contacts of index cases with influenza, in a rural setting in Bangladesh

      Methods for Specific Aim 1

      Specimen collection and processing A trained study physician will procure a nasal swab and an
      oropharyngeal swab from consenting index case-patients meeting the inclusion criteria above
      using a standardized method. At the Jahurul Islam Medical College Hospital, the nasal and
      oropharyngeal swabs will both be placed into a single tube containing viral transport media
      (VTM). An aliquot of the VTM will then be tested for Influenza A and B by the trained
      physician or nurse using a rapid antigen detection test (QuickVue® Influenza A + B). If the
      QuickVue® result is positive for Influenza A or Influenza B, the remaining VTM will be kept
      at 4°C. All VTM will be transported to the ICDDR,B virology laboratory in Dhaka on a weekly
      basis. At the ICDDR,B virology laboratory, RT-PCR testing for Influenza A (H1N1), Influenza A
      ( H3N2), and Influenza B will be carried out. If Influenza A H1N1 and A H3N2 are both
      negative, RT-PCR testing for Influenza A H5N1 will be performed. If the QuickVue® result is
      negative for both Influenza A and Influenza B, the patient will be informed of the result and
      thanked for participating in the study. The VTM will be discarded using appropriate infection
      control procedures, unless the patient is also participating in the ongoing HBIS or SEIB (in
      which case the remaining specimen will be processed like other surveillance specimens).

      Enumeration of bari contacts and questionnaire administration Illness tracking among bari
      contacts Illness tracking will be carried out on each day for 10 days until after resolution
      of the index case-patient's illness. Resolution will be defined as the lack of fever, cough,
      and sore throat for at least 24 hours preceding the FRA's daily illness tracking visit. Thus,
      if the index case-patient's illness resolves on day 4 after enrollment, illness tracking will
      continue until day 14 after enrollment. The FRA will visit the patient's home and record
      information regarding the presence or absence of ILI and SARI symptoms in each household
      contact using an individual illness tracking form (appendix 9a8a and 9b8b - illness tracking
      form, ages ≥ 5 and < 5). For the purposes of screening household contacts for influenza, we
      will alter the age-specific case definition for children, based on data from urban
      Bangladesh, which demonstrates that fever and rhinorrhea are the most predictive factors for
      influenza in children < 5 years old (WA Brooks, ICDDR,B, personal communication).

      If a household contact meets the age-specific case definition and does NOT have any danger
      signs, the FRA will obtain written informed consent for specimen collection (appendix 2-
      specimen collection from household contact for adult > 18 years old, (appendix 3 - specimen
      collection from household contact for child < 18 years old). The FRA will alert the medical
      officer, who will visit the home with the FRA no later than the following day in order to
      collect nasal and oropharyngeal swabs from the ill household contact. She will immediately
      place both swabs into VTM, which will then be placed into a cool box, containing ice and a
      thermometer to ensure temperatures < 40 C.

      All specimens collected in the field will be placed in a cool box and transported to the
      ICDDR,B laboratory within 72 hours. At the ICDDR,B virology laboratory, all specimens for
      household contacts will be tested using RT-PCR for Influenza A (H1N1), A (H3N2), and
      Influenza B (and A (H5N1) if appropriate).

      Illness tracking among household contacts will continue in each household until the 10th full
      day following the resolution of the index case-patient's symptoms, irrespective of whether
      any household contact develops illness or not.

      Specific Aim 2: To test the efficacy of a handwashing promotion intervention for prevention
      of intrahousehold transmission of influenza virus

      Methods for Specific Aim 2

      To address this specific aim, we will conduct a randomized controlled trial. Households of
      index case-patients with influenza-like illness who are recruited at Jahurul Islam Medical
      College Hospital the UHCs or the local pharmacies will be randomized to the intervention
      group or the routine practices group.

      The two groups will be defined as:

        -  Intervention Households: intensive promotion of handwashing with soap, and provision of
           facilitating tools, to the index-case-patient and all available household contacts

        -  Routine practices Households: continuation of the household's usual handwashing and
           respiratory hygiene practices group.

      For promotion of handwashing with soap to intervention households, Field Intervention
      Specialists (FIS) will be trained to carry out a structured intervention that will follow
      constructs of Social Cognitive Theory (SCT). SCT addresses the reciprocal interaction between
      individuals, their environment, and health behaviors. Given that intervention will occur at
      the bari level, group-mediated constructs such as observational learning and reinforcements
      are highly relevant. FISs will visit the intervention households on a daily basis for 10 days
      after the resolution of the index case-patient's illness in order to encourage handwashing
      with soap at the recommended times. Routine practices households will also be exposed to the
      intervention, but only upon completion of the study. As noted above, under Specific Aim 1, an
      FRA will visit the home of the index case-patient daily for 10 days after the resolution of
      the index case-patient's symptoms in order to record age-specific case defining symptoms.

      Specific aim 3: To identify risk factors, other than handwashing with soap, for
      intrahousehold transmission of influenza in a rural setting in Bangladesh.

      Methods for Specific Aim 3

      To address Specific Aim 3, we will conduct a nested cohort study to assess risk factors for
      intrahousehold transmission of influenza viruses. Here, the cohort under investigation is the
      routine practices group, as defined under Specific Aim 2. All data required to address this
      Specific Aim 3 will have been collected as part of the data collection described above under
      Specific Aim 1.

      A case will be defined as: RT-PCR confirmed Influenza virus infection (A or B) in a household
      contact of an RT-PCR confirmed Influenza virus infection (A or B) index case-patient during
      10 days of follow-up after resolution of the index case-patient's symptoms.

      Specific aim 4: To assess whether exposure to the BISTIS intervention results in sustained
      improvements in handwashing behavior.

      Methods for Specific Aim 4

      To address Specific Aim 4, we will visit each bari that was enrolled in the intervention
      study 4 - 7 months after illness tracking is complete. The FRA will measure handwashing
      behavior at the bari. We will complete a structured observation of the bari's common
      handwashing behaviors. One or two months after the initial follow-up visit, the FRA will
      return to the bari and once again collect the same information on the handwashing behavior
      but will also provide soap to the bari. The FRA will collect the soap two days later. Data
      from the soap will be used to calculate the number of soap use events in the bari. In total
      an FRA will visit the household a total of three times, two visits for data collection and
      one visit to collect the soap.

      Specific aim 5: To assess if exposure to the BISTIS intervention results in a reduced risk of
      respiratory infections, diarrhea, and influenza.

      Methods for Specific Aim 5

      The measurements of the health outcomes will be done in two different ways. At the first
      visit, after the handwashing behavior information is collected, the FRA will record whether
      each member of the bari has had symptoms of fever, cough, sore throat, difficulty breathing,
      respiratory illness or diarrhea in the previous 48 hours. At the third visit, in April 2010,
      the FRA will record mobile phone numbers of two or three bari members. The FRA will identify
      a key informant, who will be able to provide information regarding fever in any bari member.
      The FRA will phone the bari once each week during the influenza season and speak with the key
      informant once per week to assess whether any bari member has had fever during the previous
      24 hours. If any member is reported to have a fever, we will dispatch an MO or lab/medical
      technician to the bari to obtain nasopharyngeal swab from that member for flu testing by PCR.
      A case will be defined as: RT-PCR confirmed Influenza virus infection (A or B).
    
  