
    
      Methods

      Design. The present study is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      study of the effect of taking three times daily doses of cranberry extract in capsule form on
      the incidence of infection in burn patients.

      Participants. Eighty patients suffering from burns and admitted to the Saint Elizabeth
      Regional Medical Center Burn Center, Lincoln, NE will take place in the proposed study.

      Inclusion Criteria. Patients will be asked to participate in the study if the following
      criteria are met:

        -  Patients are admitted to the Saint Elizabeth Regional Medical Center Burn Unit.

        -  Age 19 and older.

        -  Patients have an expected hospital stay of 7 days or more.

        -  Patients are able to consume oral medication capsules.

      Exclusion Criteria. Patients will not be asked to participate in the study if any of the
      following are present:

        -  Patients have a known infection.

        -  Patients are not able to consume oral medication capsules.

        -  Patients have any known allergies to cranberry or placebo components.

        -  Patients have known allergy to aspirin (cranberries may contain salicylic acid).

        -  Patients are pregnant or breast-feeding.

        -  Patients are taking warfarin

        -  Patients with known nephrolithiasis.

        -  Patients with renal impairment as evidenced by a creatinine clearance that is less than
           predicted by Cockroft-Gault formula.

      A cranberry extract standardized by Ocean Spray Cranberries, Inc. will be placed into
      capsules in the Saint Elizabeth Regional Medical Center pharmacy. Each cranberry capsule will
      contain 500mg of cranberry extract. Placebo capsules will be made to look identical to
      cranberry capsules and will also be made at the Saint Elizabeth Regional Medical Center
      pharmacy. A staff pharmacist will separate the capsules into a cranberry extract group and a
      placebo group. A staff pharmacist will randomly assign patients to either the cranberry
      extract group or the placebo group. The patient, physicians, and research staff involved in
      data collection will be blinded to patient group assignment.

      Procedure. After admission to the burn unit and after the physician has deemed that the
      patient is able to consume medication capsules orally, patients meeting all other selection
      criteria will be asked to participate in the study. Study rationale and procedures will be
      described to patients and informed consent will be obtained if patients indicate a
      willingness to participate. Basic demographic data, burn/wound related information and
      information pertaining to any other infections will be obtained. Participants will be
      randomly assigned to either the placebo or the cranberry group. Participants will be given
      one capsule as soon as possible after hospital admission (or as soon as they have been deemed
      capable of consuming medication capsules orally) and then as close as possible to 8 hours
      after the first dose. Patients will then be placed on an 8 hour dosing schedule (i.e., one
      capsule every 8 hours). Burn wounds will be examined for any clinical signs of infection as
      judged by attending physician on a daily basis. The determination as to whether an infection
      is present vs. absent will be made by a physician utilizing specific criteria. If signs of
      infection are present, cultures of the wound site will be taken and bacterial type will be
      recorded. After initial infection, wound sites will be observed to determine if infections
      resolve with treatment. If treatment does not seem to eradicate the infection, another
      bacterial culture will be taken and bacterial analysis will be performed and recorded. Data
      pertaining to wound infection and wound appearance will be taken on a daily basis throughout
      the duration of the patient's hospital stay. In addition, information pertaining to all
      infections present in each patient will be recorded on a daily basis throughout the patient's
      entire hospital stay. The determination as to whether other infections are present vs. absent
      will be made by a physician utilizing specific criteria.
    
  