
    
      1.1. Ticagrelor versus Clopidogrel

        1. In spite of timely and successful reperfusion with primary percutaneous coronary
           intervention (PCI), the mortality rate still remains high1 and substantial numbers of
           patients suffer from subsequent left ventricular dysfunction or heart failure after
           ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).

        2. One of limitations of primary PCI is distal embolization and effective antiplatelet
           therapy is needed in patients with STEMI.

        3. Clopidogrel is a representative P2Y12 receptor antagonist and has shown consistent
           efficacy in patients with acute coronary syndromes. However, clopidogrel is a prodrug
           and has to be converted to an active metabolite to inhibit P2Y12 receptor. Therefore,
           onset of effect is relatively slow, antiplatelet effect is moderate, and response to
           clopidogrel shows wide individual variability.

        4. Ticagrelor is a new, direct, reversible P2Y12 receptor antagonist, which has rapid and
           potent antiplatelet effect. In patients who have an acute coronary syndrome with or
           without ST-segment elevation, treatment with ticagrelor as compared with clopidogrel
           significantly reduced the rate of death from vascular causes, myocardial infarction, or
           stroke without an increase in the rate of overall major bleeding.

        5. However, there has been no data whether ticagrelor can reduce infarct size compared with
           clopidogrel in patients undergoing primary PCI.

      1.2. Intracoronary morphine administration

        1. Lethal reperfusion injury accounts for up to 50% of the final size of a myocardial
           infarct.5,6 Therefore, adjunctive therapy that is effective in preventing lethal
           reperfusion injury is needed to potentiate the benefits of primary PCI.

        2. During the past few decades, a large number of animal studies demonstrated that commonly
           used opioids could provide cardioprotection against ischemia-reperfusion injury.
           Opioid-induced preconditioning or postconditioning mimics ischemic preconditioning or
           ischemic postconditioning.

        3. Recent small clinical trial demonstrated the cardioprotective effect of remote ischemic
           preconditioning and morphine during primary PCI. But this study was small and did not
           demonstrate the separate effect of morphine-induced cardioprotection.

      2. Study Objective

        1. To investigate the effects of ticagrelor on myocardial infarct size in patients with
           STEMI undergoing primary PCI compared with clopidogrel

        2. To investigate the effects of morphine-induced cardioprotection during primary PCI in
           patients with STEMI
    
  