
    
      Participants will be recruited either through clinics at the functional gut clinic or through
      interest shown to advertising for the study. If the patient is deemed eligible they will be
      given atleast 24 hours to review the patient information sheet. If they would like to proceed
      with participation they will be given the chance to ask the study team any questions. If they
      would still like to proceed the participant will be asked to sign three copies of the
      informed consent form.

      The participants will be required to visit the clinic twice during the study. The day before
      visit 1 the patient will be required to follow a low residue diet as part of preparation for
      the hydrogen methane breath. On the day of the first visit participants will complete a
      hydrogen methane breath test as per the functional gut clinics test protocol, the patient
      will also be asked to fill two questionnaires about their symptoms. Participants will then be
      provided with a 10 day bowel and symptom diary and a 10 day supply of blinded the intestinal
      adsorbent . Participants will be provided with instructions on how to take the the study
      product and training on completing their daily diary. They will be required to take the study
      product for 10 consecutive days according to manufacturers instructions.

      Participants will return for the second and final visit on the final day of consuming the
      study product. The day before visit 2 the patient will be required to follow a low residue
      diet as part of preparation for the hydrogen methane breath. On the day of the second visit
      participants will complete a hydrogen methane breath test as per the functional gut clinics
      test protocol, the patient will also be asked to fill two questionnaires about their
      symptoms. Once these study procedures are complete the participants will have finished their
      participation in the study.
    
  