
    
      GARLIT is an independent, multicenter, prospective, cohort, real-life study. All consecutive
      patients aged 18 or older with a diagnosis of HFEM (8-14 migraine days per month) or CM (1.3
      ICHD-3), who had failed at least three migraine preventive treatments and not previously
      involved in any CGRP mAbs trial, are considered for enrolment. Patients are assessed at
      baseline by a headache expert neurologist with a face-to-face interview using a
      semi-structured questionnaire addressing socio-demographic factors, clinical migraine
      features, previous and current acute and preventive migraine treatments, comorbidities and
      concomitant medications. Headache-related dopaminergic and autonomic symptoms, temporal
      artery turgidity/hyperpulsatility, and allodynia during or between attacks are also
      investigated. Patients are also requested to rate the overall efficacy of triptans in most
      attacks as none/poor (0) or fair/excellent (1).

      Enrolled patients will carefully fill in a headache diary during a run-in month period
      (baseline) and the entire duration of the study, to report monthly migraine days (MMDs) for
      HFEM patients, all monthly headache days (MHDs) of at least moderate intensity for CM
      subjects, and monthly painkillers intake (MPI). Patients were also asked to rate pain
      severity (using the 0-10 Numerical Rating Scale, NRS) of the worst painful attack and fill in
      migraine disability questionnaires (Headache Impact Test, HIT-623, monthly, and the MIgraine
      Disability Assessing Scale24, MIDAS, quarterly).

      Patients will be treated with galcanezumab subcutaneous injection with the first loading dose
      of 240mg and then every month with 120mg as recommended, according to real life clinical
      indication (www.europa.ema.eu).

      The above-reported variables and any adverse event (AE) are recorded at baseline and monthly
      at every in-office visits. Telephone/email contacts are allowed when in-office visits are not
      possible. All AEs are reported to Eudravigilance and classified as gastrointestinal (e.g.
      nausea, constipation), cutaneous (e.g. injection-site reactions: rash/erythema, pruritus,
      urticaria, oedema/induration), arthralgia, Raynaud phenomenon, dizziness and other (<1% of
      patients: i.e. somnolence, alopecia, anxiety).

      Patients will provide written informed consent.
    
  