
    
      GIVINOSTAT oral suspension (10 mg/mL) has to be administered orally as 2 oral doses daily
      while the subject is in a fed state. The starting dose of GIVINOSTAT in the present long term
      study will be the same that the subject was receiving at the end of the previous DMD
      GIVINOSTAT study.

      As weight affects GIVINOSTAT exposures, the dosage will be modified based on subject weight
      according the rules detailed in the study protocol section 11.2.2.1.

      In addition, in case a subject will have a consistent (e.g., at least 2 consecutive
      evaluations) platelets count ≤150 x 10^9/L and not meet the stopping criteria for platelets,
      the Investigator will have to reduce the dose of 1/3 or 20% less of the current dose as
      described in the study protocol section 10.5.1.3. During the first month of treatment,
      platelets count assessment will be performed weekly, while during the second month it will be
      performed every 2 weeks, in order to strictly monitor this parameter for safety reasons, with
      the exclusion of subjects coming from study DSC/11/2357/43 for which the first visit will be
      4 months after the Visit 1/baseline visit.

      Study drug should be permanently interrupted if any of the following occurs:

        -  severe drug-related diarrhoea (i.e., increase of ≥7 stools per day);

        -  any drug-related SAE;

        -  QTcF >500 msec;

        -  platelets count ≤50 x 10^9/L;

        -  white blood cells ≤2.0 x 10^9/L;

        -  hemoglobin ≤8.0 g/dL; To avoid laboratory errors and anomalous values, test must be
           confirmed with a repeated test performed on the next working day. The treatment should
           be stopped until the retest result becomes available. If the repeated test is still
           under the stopping limit value, study drug must be permanently discontinued. If the
           repeated test is acceptable, the subject can resume treatment.

      The Investigator will follow up the patient until resolution or acceptable stabilization of
      the event occurs and document all the relevant information, as applicable. After the
      resolution/stabilization of the event, the subject will be withdrawn from the study and the
      EOS Visit (see Section 12.1.10) will be performed.

      Any decision relevant to the dose adjustment and/or modification of schedule of assessments
      can be discussed with the Medical Monitor, but the final decision remains with the
      Investigator only or its authorized designee.
    
  