
    
      Our objective is to develop a community-based cohort and novel genomic science resource for
      defining the biological significance of ancestry-related genomic variation in
      African-Americans within the GENE-FORECAST :GENomics, Environmental FactORs and the Social
      DEterminants of Cardiovascular Disease in African Americans STudy. This resource will enable
      our team to test the working hypothesis that race-ancestry differences in the burden of
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) reflects the influence of a unique interplay between the
      distinct genomic variation characteristic of African-Americans (AA) and the exposome of
      social determinants and environmental factors that influence the pathogenesis of CVD in AA.
      The specific aims are:

      AIM I. To examine the associations between common or ancestry-related DNA variants and CVD
      risk factors (e.g. hypertension) and phenotypes (e.g. coronary artery calcification) in
      African-Americans (AA).

      AIM II. To examine the associations between health behaviors or social-environmental factors
      and CVD risk factors and phenotypes in AA.

      The study is designed to create a cohort amenable to nested case-control analyses based on a
      community-based sampling frame with a target size of approximately 1800 self-identified, US
      -born, African-American (AA) men and women (ages 21-65) to be recruited over the next 5-6
      years from the metropolitan Washington DC, Montgomery County (MC) and Prince George s County
      (PG) areas to be recruited to the NIH Clinical Center. The initial participant recruitment
      strategy involved two approaches: 1) a random-digit telephone screening survey targeting
      study-eligible AA that will be consented and invited to an evaluation visit in the NIH
      Clinical Center which we contracted with a well-established survey group (Southern Research
      Group [SRG]); and 2) a community outreach effort to recruit participants into the Clinical
      Center by leveraging marketing and the engagement of community-based leaders, organizations
      and faith-based institutions in the area. We are no longer contracting with SRG but rather
      focusing on community outreach and marketing for recruitment to the Clinical Center. The
      contract with SRG was terminated after the first two years of the protocol due to low yield
      of recruitment to the Clinical Center compared to community outreach.

      Given the high burden of CVD among AA, this approach will yield a sample with normal
      individuals as well as a high proportion of AA with CVD risk factors such as obesity and
      hypertension that predispose to the eventual clinical signs and symptoms of CVD (e.g. heart
      attack and stroke). Based on previous epidemiology studies, this protocol s participant
      ascertainment approach and the target demographic profile; it is anticipated that the
      prevalence of clinically manifest CVD (history of angina, heart attack or stroke) will be
      less than 10-15% of the sample. All participants will undergo extensive evaluation in the
      Clinical Center that includes: medical evaluation (e.g. anthropometrics, blood pressure),
      laboratory tests (e.g. lipid levels, kidney function), social determinants profiles (e.g.
      socioeconomic status (SES), perceived stress, discrimination, depression, perceived
      neighborhood characteristics), blood/urine collection for deep-sequencing based omic analyses
      (e.g. whole exome sequencing, and RNA-Seq), as well as testing for pre-clinical , biomarkers
      of the pathobiological processes of CVD or CVD phenotypes (e.g. coronary artery
      calcification, microalbuminuria, leukocyte telomeres, or vascular dysfunction). It is
      anticipated that these deep sequencing efforts will yield novel ancestry-related DNA variants
      associated with the CVD phenotypes; yet with unclear biological significance in elucidating
      racial disparities in CVD. Accordingly, our protocol also includes a Genotype-to-Phenotype
      (G2P) component that re- contacts subsets of the cohort based on their genotype (e.g. APOL1
      chronic kidney disease risk alleles) for a call-back visit for more in-depth phenotyping and
      characterization of the potential effect of the DNA variant of interest on human systems
      biology. In some cases family members of the proband may also be invited to participate in
      these G2P studies to further characterize the biological significance of these putative
      functional DNA variants of interest.

      The primary outcome variables involve well established CVD phenotypes: 1) CVD risk factors
      (e.g. hypertension, dyslipidemia), 2) markers of pre-clinical CVD (i.e. coronary artery
      calcification, coronary plaque burden by cardiac CT angiography (CTA), carotid plaque burden
      by 3D ultrasound, vascular dysfunction, microalbuminuria, C-reactive protein, Vitamin D
      levels). The protocol will assess exposures associated with CVD and relevant covariates
      including: 1) social determinants (e.g. socioeconomic status (SES), perceived stress,
      discrimination, and depression); 2) environmental factors such as neighborhood
      characteristics (geospatial features of healthy lifestyles [e.g. walkability]) and 3)
      behavioral factors (e.g. diet, physical activity). The G2P callback visit protocol will
      involve additional measures of in-depth phenotyping that include: 1) peripheral immune cell
      phenotyping (e.g. T-cell, monocyte subsets); 2) blood/immune cell RNAseq; 3) iPSC cell line
      generation (endothelial; vascular smooth muscle cells) and analysis of cardiovascular cell
      systems biology; 4) HDL proteome analysis, 5) FDG PET/CT and/or PET/MRI scan (vascular
      inflammation) 6) echocardiography, 7) bisulfite sequencing for identifying sites of DNA
      methylation, and 8) chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (Chip-Seq) for
      identifying sites of histone modification. It is anticipated that this multi-level,
      multi-dimensional analysis of genomic and phenotypic characteristics of AA will advance our
      understanding of the bio-social determinants of the intragroup variance and the increased
      overall burden of CVD observed among AA.
    
  