
    
      This prospective randomized double-blind study will be carried out on adult patients who will
      be presented for strabismus surgery in Ophthalmology Department in Tanta university hospitals
      over the 6-month duration, an informed written consent will be obtained from all the
      participants, all patients data will be confidential and will be used for the current study
      only.

      The patients will be randomly allocated into two groups with the aid of computer-generated
      software of randomization. All the local anesthetic mixtures will be prepared under complete
      aseptic precautions by an anesthesia resident who will not participate in the study and will
      be blinded to its groups in to: - Group C (Control group) (20 Patients): Patients in this
      group will receive peribulbar anesthesia with a 10 ml local anesthetic mixture composed of 4
      ml of plain bupivacaine 0.5%, 4 ml of lidocaine 2% containing 50 IU, and 2 ml normal saline.

      Group R (rocuronium group) (20 patients): Patients in this group will receive peribulbar
      anesthesia with 10 ml local anesthetic mixture composed of 4 ml of plain bupivacaine 0.5%, 4
      ml of lidocaine 2% containing 50 IU, and 0.06 mg/kg of rocuronium in 2 ml normal saline.

      Anesthetic technique On arrival of patients to the pre-anesthesia preparation room, we will
      allow them to rest in a supine position with the connection of monitors that consist of 5
      leads ECG, non-invasive blood pressure, pulse oximeter, and temperature. Also, intravascular
      access will be obtained.

      Once the patient will be admitted to the operating theatre, all monitors will be applied. A
      nasal cannula was used at a flow rate of 2-4 l/min to supply oxygen to patients. The
      peribulbar block will be performed by the same anesthesiologist under aseptic precautions.

      The technique of peribulbar block Disposable needles in a size of 25 gauge and 16mm bevels
      will be used to perform the peribulbar injection. The injection site will be limited by the
      lateral nasal margin laterally, inferior orbital margin inferiorly, and the lower lacrimal
      punctum superiorly. Once the needle introduced, the patient will be asked to look in the four
      cardinal directions of the gaze, superior, inferior, nasal, and temporal to ensure that the
      needle is not penetrating the eye globe, then negative aspiration will be done to exclude
      intravascular position of the needle, then, the peribulbar injection of the previously
      prepared local anesthetic mixture will be performed over 30 seconds and followed by the
      fullness of the eyelids.

      The eyelids will be closed and covered by eye pads carefully with an application of 20 mmHg
      pressure through an intermittent application of Honan ball for 10 min. The intermittent eye
      compression will be relieved after 1 min, 3 min, 5 min, 7 min, 9 min, and 10 min to assess
      the onset and the quality of sensory and motor blockade. The sensory block will be assessed
      by the abolishment of corneal reflex to the installation of physiological drops on the cornea
      or conjunctiva. The onset of anesthesia will be determined by the time interval from local
      anesthetics injection and loss of corneal reflex. The motor block will be evaluated by asking
      the patient to open, close, and squeeze his eye (Lid Akinesia) and to move his eye globe in
      the four directions of the gaze (globe akinesia). The quality of akinesia will be assessed
      through the use of akinesia score where 0=inability to move (total akinesia), 1=partial
      movement (partial akinesia), and 2=full movements (no akinesia). This score was used to
      assess both lid akinesia and globe akinesia in the four directions with an overall score of
      10.

      The onset of lid akinesia will be calculated from peribulbar injection to the partial loss of
      ability to open or squeeze eyelids, while the onset of globe akinesia will be estimated from
      the injection of the local anesthetic mixture and partial loss of movement of the eye globe
      in the four cardinal directions. The surgery will be considered to be optimal to be started
      when the patient had corneal anesthesia together with partial lid and globe akinesia. The
      optimal time to start the surgery will be considered as the elapsed time between local
      anesthetics injection and satisfying the goals to start the surgery. The intraocular pressure
      will be measured preoperatively and immediately before initiating the surgery with detection
      of a number of patients with an increase in the intraocular tension (increase intraocular
      pressure more than 25 mmHg or by more than 10 mmHg than the preoperative value).

      The duration of the sensory block will be estimated to be the time interval from the
      peribulbar injection till regaining corneal sensation, while, the duration of lid or globe
      akinesia will be determined by the time elapsed between performing the peribulbar injection
      and the full regaining of lid or globe movement respectively.

      The primary outcome will be the duration of globe akinesia. Secondary outcomes will include
      the onset and duration of sensory block.
    
  