
    
      Hospital acquired or nosocomial infections continue to be an important cause of morbidity and
      mortality. The critically ill patient is at particular risk of developing intensive care unit
      acquired infection, with the lungs being especially vulnerable. Nosocomial bacterial
      pneumonia occurring after two days of mechanical ventilation is referred to as ventilator
      associated pneumonia, and is the most common nosocomial infection seen in the intensive care
      unit. Intubation of the trachea and mechanical ventilation is associated with a 7-fold to
      21-fold increase in the incidence of pneumonia and up to 28% of patients receiving mechanical
      ventilation will develop this complication. Its development is associated with an
      attributable increase in morbidity and mortality. Ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) is
      defined as nosocomial pneumonia occurring in a patient after 48 hours of mechanical
      ventilation via a tracheal or tracheostomy tube. It is commonly classified as either early
      onset (occurring within 96 hours of start of mechanical ventilation) or late onset (.96 hours
      after start of mechanical ventilation). It is a common condition, difficult to diagnose
      accurately, and expensive to treat. Its development prolongs a patient's stay in the
      intensive care unit (ICU), and is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Most
      cases seem to result from aspiration of pathogenic material that commonly colonises the
      oropharyngeal airways of the critically ill. Simple measures to decrease the incidence of
      aspiration or reduce the burden of colonisation of the oropharynx may aid in the prevention
      of ventilator associated pneumonia. VAP is the infection that occurs 48 hours after
      intubation, which was not incubated during the period of the patient's admission, and 72
      hours after extubation.

      The gastrointestinal tract is believed to play an important role in ventilator-associated
      pneumonia (VAP), because during critical illness the stomach often is colonized with enteric
      Gram-negative bacteria. These are the same bacteria that frequently are isolated from the
      sputum of patients with VAP.

      This is known as the "gastropulmonary hypothesis" and it postulates the following sequence.
      First, the stomach is colonized by potentially pathogenic microorganisms, either from an
      exogenous source (contaminated liquid injected into a nasogastric tube), or from an
      endogenous source (Detection of gastrointestinal complications in mechanically ventilated
      critically ill patients and its relation to oropharyngeal and respiratory infections in
      relation to oropharyngeal and gastric PH duodenogastric reflux). This is followed by
      retrograde colonization of the oropharynx . Finally, the lower respiratory tract is colonized
      from sustained microaspiration of contaminated oropharyngeal (or gastric) secretions around
      the endotracheal tube cuff.

      The Role of Gastric pH on the Incidence of VAP

      Under fasting conditions, gastric sterility is maintained by an acidic pH. Clinical evidence
      suggests that a gastric pH of 3.5 prevents bacterial colonization, whereas a pH 4.0 is
      associated with clinically important bacterial colonization and a higher incidence of
      nosocomial pneumonia.

      Critically-ill patients with either respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation or
      coagulopathy are at increased risk for clinically important, stress-related GI bleeding .This
      has been associated with a significantly higher mortality rate, compared to patients without
      evidence of bleeding (48.5 vs 9.1%, p _ 0.001).

      Giving that such patients show an increasing risk of important gastrointestinal (GI)
      bleeding, stress-ulcer prophylaxis (SUP) has been recommended for the prevention of upper GI
      hemorrhage. SUP strategy rely on drugs that block the secretion of gastric acid and increase
      the gastric pH (histamine-2-receptor antagonists - H2RA, and proton pump inhibitor - PPI) and
      those that does not alter gastric pH (sucralfate). The increase of gastric pH leads to
      bacterial overgrowth and potential colonization of trachea determining a higher risk of VAP.
    
  