
    
      The study is a randomized interventional comparative Phase IIII trial. 1000 adult male and
      female patients with positive COVID-19 diagnosis and fulfilling the below outlined inclusion
      criteria will be enrolled into the study.

      After searching PubMed, MEDLINE, Google Scholar, preprints and Controlled Trials until
      September , 2020 we found that the best and appropriate drug which can be combined with
      testosterone replacement therapy is aerosolized 13 cis retinoic acid owing to its impact on
      DHT and thrombin in addition it can be given in the form of aerosol for targeting pulmonary
      cells with minimal systemic side effects . As previous study found that testosterone therapy
      (TTh) administration using both topical and injectable formulations yielded transient and
      concomitant rises in both DHT and T, with higher Hct elevations in men with higher DHT and T
      levels[38]. As Testosterone is converted to DHT by the action of 5 alpha-reductase enzyme at
      these target tissues.[39]. DHT is a potent activator of TMPRSS2[31,4] and this will be
      followed by the activation of COVID-2019 spike protein to bind to its ACE2 receptors in lung
      which in turn makes it more vulnerable to covid-19. A study demonstrated that 13- cis
      -Retinoic acid competitively and reversibly inhibits dihydrotestosterone.[40] on contrary to
      other selective inhibitor of serum DHT which led to sexual adverse effects because it usually
      given systemically which increases the chance of systemic serious side effects . But 13- cis
      -Retinoic acid will be given in the form of aerosol to avoid these systemic side effects.
      Therefore, we suggest that 13- cis -Retinoic acid will downregulate TMPRSS2 expression
      thorough temporary preventing the effect of dihydrotestosterone (DHT) on the activation of
      TMPRSS2 gene expression. Furthermore, 13- cis -Retinoic acid Found to exert potential effect
      on thrombin as high testosterone levels can lead to thrombosis which is also one of the fatal
      manifestations in COVID-19 patients .A study in vitro found that Retinoic acid showed the
      highest inhibition of both the forms of thrombin [41].

      Moreover, we hypothesize that any drug which downregulates TMPRSS2 expression through
      targeting AR, AR co-regulatory factors, or AR downstream transcription factors might be
      potentially effective against COVID-19 and is worth investigating under a clinical trial.
    
  