
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will have a CT scan of your
      chest to look for signs of lung cancer. You will receive the results 0-4 days after the scan.
      If there are any abnormal areas, you will be referred to your regular doctor for follow-up.
      No matter what the results are, you will be advised to quit smoking. If you have previously
      had a low dose CT scan for lung cancer screening in the last 30 days, you may still be
      eligible to participate in this study. You will be asked to provide documentation of the CT
      scan results.

      You will receive a referral for counseling to help you reduce/quit smoking. You may also
      discuss medications you can take to reduce smoking.

      As part of your counseling treatment, you may be prescribed an FDA-approved and commercially
      available anti-smoking drug. This may be either nicotine replacement therapy (such as a
      patch, gum, or lozenge) or an oral drug (such as varenicline or buproprion). The provider
      will tell you when and how much of your anti-smoking drug you should take each time, based on
      a discussion between you and your provider. Receiving anti-smoking medication will be done
      through your counseling treatment and not as part of your participation in this study.

      You will have at least 5, but no more than 8, smoking cessation counseling sessions over the
      next 12 weeks. Each session will last between 30 - 60 minutes, in which you will set a quit
      date, prepare for your quit date, and discuss coping skills for dealing with smoking
      "triggers" after your quit date. You will also discuss challenges you may have with quitting.

      Study Visits:

      You will have 3 additional study visits, at around 6 weeks, 12 weeks, and 6 months after the
      screening visit, as well as 1 follow-up phone call. At all study visits:

        -  You will complete questionnaires about several topics, including depression, suicide,
           and your smoking behavior. These questionnaires should take about 30-45 minutes in total
           to complete.

        -  Your CO level will be measured.

        -  Urine and/or saliva may be collected (at 12 weeks and 6 months only) for a routine test
           to check your cotinine and nicotine. Cotinine is a chemical released in your body when
           it breaks down nicotine and will show whether and how much you have recently smoked.

      Follow-Up:

      About 5 months after you start receiving counseling sessions, you will be called by a member
      of the study staff and asked about your recent smoking behaviors and habits. This call should
      last about 5-10 minutes.
    
  