
    
      The MedPAC Hotline Service will be promoted to high-risk and drug-abusing youth and young
      adults through a variety of platforms, namely schools and youth service organizations,
      industries, community, mass media and internet, social media, posters and snowball approach.

      The hotline service will operate from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. on weekday and from 2 p.m. to 8 p.m.
      on weekend. A peer counsellor or a research assistant will answer the telephone inquiries
      from 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays.

      About 50 university students will be trained as peer counsellors through a structured
      training programme. The students will be invited to complete the pre, post and 6-month
      self-administered questionnaire before, immediately and 6-month after the training programme
      to examine their changes of knowledge of and attitudes towards addiction counselling. A
      satisfaction survey will also be conducted to measure their perception on the quality of
      training programme.

      Peer counsellors will use telephone-based, Peer-led Brief Motivational Interviewing (BMI)
      counselling to motivate and encourage drug-abusing or high-risk youth and young adults to
      rehabilitate from drug abuse, assist them to manage the withdrawal symptoms, and help
      identify barriers and facilitators to rehabilitate from drug abuse in the telephone
      counselling. The peer counsellors will give referral advices if the youth and young adult
      needs appropriated treatment and rehabilitation services.

      The drug-abusing youth and young adults will be counselled and invited to complete the
      follow-up questionnaires over the telephone after joining the MedPAC Hotline Service
      programme for 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 1 year. Self-reported
      quitters at 6-month and 1-year follow-ups were invited to have urine test to validate the
      drug abuse abstinence status.
    
  