
    
      Patients suffering from depression with melancholic symptoms (i.e., anhedonia, flat affect,
      diurnal mood variation, terminal insomnia, psychomotor disturbances, decreased
      weight/appetite, and excessive guilt) respond better to certain antidepressants. Melancholic
      symptoms also occur in bipolar depression, although they have received less research.
      Lamotrigine has been shown to alter some of the biological processes that are known to occur
      in melancholic depression. The purpose of this study is to determine if patients with
      melancholic bipolar II depression are more responsive to lamotrigine than patients with
      non-melancholic bipolar II depression.

      This study will re-analyze data from a previous 8-week, randomized, placebo-controlled trial
      that evaluated lamotrigine as a treatment for bipolar II depression (GSK-SCA100223;
      NCT00274677). The original study data was made available by GlaxoSmithKline as part of an
      initiative to make clinical trials data available for research use. Access was applied for
      via https://www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com.

      The analysis strategy will be comparable to the original study, although the investigators
      will first classify participants as suffering from either melancholic or non-melancholic
      depression. The diagnosis of melancholic depression was established according to baseline
      responses to the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD-17) and the Montgomery-Åsberg
      Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), according to the DSM-IV-TR diagnostic criteria. HAMD-17 and
      MADRS change scores will be compared between the treatment and placebo groups using Analysis
      of Variance (ANOVA). Both ANOVA models will include a test for an interaction between
      treatment group (lamotrigine vs. placebo) and melancholic depression (melancholic depression
      vs. non-melancholic depression). To handle missing data, each ANOVA model will be computed
      with only complete-case data first and subsequently using inverse probability weights that
      account for the probability of drop out. Inverse probability weights will be created based on
      covariates that predict missing responses. HAMD-17 and MADRS response rates between the
      treatment and placebo groups will be evaluated with a Cox proportional hazard regression
      analysis. There will be two separate analyses, one including participants with melancholic
      depression, and one including participants with non-melancholic depression. Statistical
      models will also adjust for baseline depression severity, if participants with melancholic
      depression are found to have more severe depressive symptoms at baseline.

      Given the delay between antidepressant initiation and response, trial-and-error prescribing
      is an inevitably lengthy process. The investigators hope the results of this study will
      enable more timely and effective treatment for patients with bipolar depression.
    
  