
    
      The study consists of two phases:

        -  Pilot phase: the first 189 patients will be randomized in three groups to receive OKZ,
           RPH-104 (63 patients per group). Early safety and efficacy analysis will be performed
           based on the results obtained in the pilot period to adjust sample size.

        -  Core phase: further enrollment of patients and performing all study procedures as per
           protocol.

      After analyzing the data of the first 189 randomized patients, a decision will be made about
      the final sample size, so the minimal sample size will be 189 randomized patients, the
      maximal - 372 randomized patients.

      The study will include the following periods:

        -  Screening period lasting up to 48 hours until the beginning of the Day 1. During this
           period patient's eligibility assessment will be performed;

        -  Treatment period lasting from the end of the screening (considered as the beginning of
           the Day 1) to 23:59 of the Day 1 will include randomization of the patients in the
           treatment groups following by administration of a single dose of the study drug;

        -  Follow-up period lasting from 00:00 of the Day 2 to 23:59 of the Day 29 will include
           efficacy and safety assessments after study drug administration.

      Eligible patients will be randomized to one of three treatment groups to receive a single
      subcutaneous injection: RPH-104 80 mg, OKZ 64 mg or placebo in addition to standard care for
      patients with COVID-19 as per the routine practice in participating facilities. Further,
      during the term of hospitalization, the clinical observation will be performed (Day 1 - Day
      15 of the Last Hospitalization Day (LHD), whichever comes first). Then there will be
      follow-up period, lasting from Day 15 or LHD (whichever comes first) to Day 29.

      Standard COVID-19 therapy, as per the institution routine practice, is permitted during the
      study, except the prohibited protocol medication (during the whole period of the study) and
      tocilizumab and sarilumab (during the first 24 hours after the study treatment
      administration).

      In the absence of positive dynamics in the patient's condition (as per Investigator's
      judgement), it is possible to administrate a single dose of tocilizumab or sarilumab (in
      accordance with the actual recommendations), after the 24 hours from one of the study drug's
      administration.

      At Day 15 primary endpoint of patient's clinical status (response to the study therapy) will
      be assessed. The response to the therapy will be considered as improvement of the patient's
      clinical status by at least 1 point on a 6-point COVID-19 scale in the absence of tocilizumab
      or sarilumab administration.

      The last patient's visit in the study will be the visit on Day 29. If the patient is
      discharged from the hospital earlier than Day 15 or Day 29, patient's clinical status at
      these visits will be assessed by phone call.

      Expected study duration for each patient will be 31 days, including 48 hours of screening, 1
      day of study drug administration, and 28 days of follow-up.
    
  