
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma is a serious chronic condition affecting over 14 million Americans, but the prevalence
      rates are higher in certain populations (e.g. 10% in inner-cities and 30% among the homeless
      versus 5% in a general population of whites). African Americans and Hispanics from the
      Northeast are twice as likely to die from asthma as whites. African Americans are four times
      as likely to be hospitalized for asthma and are five times more likely than whites to seek
      care for asthma at an emergency department. Reasons for these higher rates are not certain,
      and most likely result from an interaction of risk factors, such as environmental exposures,
      genetic predisposition, access to appropriate medical care, socioeconomic status, and
      cultural health practices. The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute supports a variety
      of activities to address the pressing public health problems posed by asthma. However,
      progress in reducing disparities has been disappointingly slow. Separate, independent
      research projects have generated important clues for understanding the nature and scope of
      the problem. A more coordinated, interdisciplinary and comprehensive approach to research is
      needed to take advantage of these clues, move the science further and faster, and increase
      our capacity to improve health outcomes among minority and economically disadvantaged
      populations. Cooperative centers of research that foster partnerships among minority medical
      centers, research intensive institutions, and the communities in which asthma patients live
      will promote such advancement.

      The Request for Applications for the Centers for Reducing Asthma Disparities was released in
      October 2001. The objective of the program is to promote partnerships (called centers)
      between a minority serving institution (MSI) that may not have a strong research program and
      a research intensive institution (RII) that has a track record of NIH-supported research and
      patient care. The purpose of the partnership is to conduct collaborative research on asthma
      disparities (i.e., greater prevalence of asthma, higher rates of morbidity due to asthma, and
      lesser access or use of quality medical care among minorities and poor).

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The project will develop a collaborative research program between Northwestern University
      Feinberg School of Medicine and Cook County Hospital to fully characterize the relationship
      of social stress, coping, and self-regulatory health behaviors in the context of asthma
      disparities among African American and low income populations. Once characterized, the
      project will then develop and test an intervention strategy to reduce asthma disparities in
      high-risk populations based on evidence-based models that have demonstrated success in social
      work, nursing, and community interventions.

      There are four research aims for the center: (1) To develop and validate culturally
      appropriate psychosocial instruments related to the underlying causes of disparity in asthma
      morbidity; (2) To identify the structural relationships of psychosocial factors to other
      known influential factors related to disparities in asthma outcomes; (3) To study the changes
      in structural relationship among influential factors in asthma disparity over time, as
      related to changes in health status; (4) To develop, pilot test, and field test a
      community-based asthma team (peer coach, asthma nurse, and social worker) intervention to
      enhance individuals ability to cope with chronic illness and improve asthma-related
      behaviors. A second major goal of the Center will be to train and mentor new clinical
      investigators and social scientists to be able to conduct research in this field of interest.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "Project End Date"
      entered in the Query View Report (QRV) record.
    
  