
    
      Overall study duration: 2 years. Planned inclusion period: 12 months. Study duration for
      individual patients: 7 months (2 weeks between screening and randomization, 6 months of
      double-blind treatment and then a 2-week wash-out period).

      Primary objective (V1 and V6):

      To assess efficacy of anticholinesterasic treatment (trans-dermal patch of rivastigmine ,
      Exelon®) on parkinsonian apathy assessed by the Lille Apathy Rating Scale in patients with
      advanced Parkinson's disease without dementia or depression

      Additional Efficacy Endpoints (V1 and V6):

        -  the NeuroPsychiatric Inventory, the apathy/retardation subscore of the MADRS
           (tri-dimensional analysis, the Activity of Daily Living scale, the simple and complex
           reaction times (selective attention), the quality of life (PDQ-39), the "Zarit" scale
           and the Clinical Global Impression of Change, Independence Scale, Mattis score, MMSE

        -  Gait: time and number of steps and freezing at the Stand Walk Sit test, the Tinetti
           scale, the UPDRS I, II, III et IV, the self questionnaire of Giladi

        -  Sleep quality: during two successive polysomnography recordings (sleep pattern, measures
           of the rapid eye movement (REM) sleep time, daytime sleepiness (PDSS and Epworth), and
           Sleep Latency Test

        -  Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy on the measures of the choline/creatine and
           glutamate/creatine peaks (medial frontal cortex, limbic cortex, caudate nucleus,
           putamen, pedunculopontine nucleus) on 3 Tesla MRI

      Safety and Tolerability Endpoints (V1, V3 and V6):

      Safety and tolerability will be evaluated with reference to the following:

        1. Tolerability :

           Number of subjects (%) who discontinue the study, Number of subjects (%) who discontinue
           the study due to AEs.

        2. Safety Measures :

      AE incidence, Safety laboratory values, Vital signs, Blood pressure monitoring, ECG, Physical
      and neurological examination.

      Study Design

      Multicentric pilot study: 36-week double blind, placebo-controlled phase. After being found
      eligible to participate in the study, subjects will be allocated in a 1:1 ratio into one of
      the following two treatment groups based on a randomization scheme with blocks stratified:

        1. one patch of 4.6 mg/day during 1 month, then one patch of 9.5 mg/day during 5 months

        2. one patch of placebo during 6 months

      Schedule: 7 visits

        -  Four consultations: screening (V0), randomisation (V1, 15 days after V0), (V3) visit
           after 3 months and termination (V7, 6 months after randomisation)

        -  Two phone calls (V2, V4)

      Patients :

      60 subjects with Parkinson's disease duration of more than 5 years, without dementia (Mattis
      Dementia Rating Scale ≥ 130, MMSE ≥ 27 and DSM IV), without major depression (MADRS < 18) who
      have developed apathy (defined by a score of - 16 or more at the LARS) despite an optimal
      dopaminergic treatment No additional therapy will be permitted during the study.

      Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) & Dosage:

      Rivastigmine, or matching placebo, administered by transdermal patch a day in the morning:

      4.6 mg a day during one month, 9.5 mg a day during five months

      Centres :

      Lille :

        -  Department of Neurology, University Hospital, Lille : Pr L. Defebvre, Pr K. Dujardin, Dr
           D. Devos, Pr Destee, Mme Delliaux. Dr A Kreisler, Dr C Simonin, Dr C. Moreau

        -  Department of Pharmacology, Faculté de Médecine, Lille II : R. Bordet

        -  Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, sleep laboratory : Pr P. Derambure, Dr C. Monaca

        -  Department of Neuroradiology : Pr J. Pruvo Dr C. Delmaire Dr P. Jissendi, Dr G. Soto
           Ares, Pr X. Leclerc

        -  Department of Statistics, CERIM, Faculté de Médecine Lille II : Dr P. Devos, Dr A.
           Duamel

        -  Lille III University : Dr P. Sockeel Méthodologiste

      Amiens :

      - Department of Neurology, University Hospital, Amiens : Pr P. Krystkowiak, Pr O. Godefroy,
      Dr Gérard, Dr Dupuy, Pr Deramon, Pr JM Macron, Dr Rose

      Rouen :

      - Department of Neurology, University Hospital, Rouen, . Dr D. Maltête, Pr. D. Hannequin, Dr.
      O. Martinaud, Dr E. Gérardin, Pr. B. Mihout, Mmes C. Aubier-Girard, S Bioux, E. Bliaux, D.
      Pouliquen

      Caen :

      - Department of Neurology, University Hospital,Caen, : Pr G. Defer, Pr F. Viader, Dr Guillamo
      Dr Marié, Dr Carluer, Mme Lebrun
    
  