
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the objective response rate (complete and partial response) in pediatric
           patients with malignant gliomas treated with temozolomide and cisplatin.

      Secondary

        -  Identify genetic, metabolic, and proteomic profiles that will provide an insight into
           the molecular pathways involved in the pathogenesis of these tumors.

        -  Link genetic changes with clinical details, histopathology, and patient outcome, thereby
           developing a biological basis for diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment monitoring.

        -  Evaluate relapse-free survival at 1 and 2 years in patients treated at diagnosis.

        -  Evaluate the duration of clinical response in patients treated at relapse.

        -  Study the health status and quality of life of these patients.

        -  Evaluate long-term toxicity of this therapeutic combination.

        -  Evaluate the ability of magnetic resonance spectroscopy vs CT scan to predict response
           in patients with high-grade astrocytomas.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label, nonrandomized, parallel-group study. Patients are
      stratified according to disease status (newly diagnosed vs relapsed). Patients with newly
      diagnosed disease are further stratified according to spread of disease (localized and
      measurable vs diffuse unmeasurable).

        -  Stratum I (newly diagnosed disease): Patients receive CISTEM chemotherapy comprising
           cisplatin IV over 3 hours on day 1 and oral temozolomide once daily on days 2-6.
           Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 7 courses. Patients who achieve responsive or
           stable disease after 2 courses receive 2 more courses of CISTEM chemotherapy and then
           undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks. After completion of radiotherapy,
           patients may receive up to 3 more courses of CISTEM chemotherapy for a total of 7
           courses.

        -  Stratum II (relapsed disease): Patients receive CISTEM chemotherapy for up to 7 courses
           as in stratum I. Patients who reach the maximum dose allowed for cisplatin may receive
           oral temozolomide alone indefinitely.

      Tissue and blood samples are obtained at baseline and examined by immunohistochemistry,
      fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), and loss of heterozygosity. The tumor tissue is
      analyzed for p53, MSH2, MLH1, and MGMT.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 87 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  