
    
      Hypertension affects approximately 50 million individuals in the United States. As the
      population ages, the prevalence of hypertension will continue to increase if broad and
      effective preventive measures are not implemented. According to the World Health
      Organization, hypertension is the most common attributable cause of preventable death in
      developed nations, as uncontrolled hypertension greatly increases the risk of cardiovascular
      disease, cerebrovascular disease, and renal failure. Despite the availability of
      antihypertensive treatments, hypertension remains inadequately controlled; only about
      one-third of patients continue to maintain control successfully.

      TAK-491 (azilsartan medoxomil) is an angiotensin II receptor blocker that was shown to be a
      orally active antihypertensive agent with a prolonged duration of activity and good safety
      tolerability in a recent clinical study. Chlorthalidone is a thiazide-like diuretic that
      reduces blood pressure by decreasing intravascular volume through urinary salt and water
      excretion. By combining this action with azilsartan medoxomil, a greater reduction in blood
      pressure is expected than with either agent alone. For subjects requiring combination
      therapy, azilsartan medoxomil plus chlorthalidone offers a novel combination that may provide
      a more potent and safe combination for blood pressure reduction.

      This study is being conducted to determine whether administration of azilsartan medoxomil in
      combination with chlorthalidone to subjects with uncontrolled hypertension is more effective
      in reducing blood pressure than chlorthalidone alone. This study is also being conducted to
      evaluate the safety and tolerability of azilsartan medoxomil combined with chlorthalidone.

      Individuals who want to participate in this study will be required to provide written
      informed consent. Study participation is anticipated to be about 10 Weeks. Multiple
      procedures will occur at each visit which may include fasting, blood collection, urine
      collection, vital signs including sitting and standing blood pressure and pulse, body height
      and weight, physical examinations, electrocardiogram. Outside of the study center,
      participants will be required to wear an ambulatory blood pressure monitoring device at 24
      hour intervals.
    
  