
    
      The primary objectives of this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-escalation
      study are to evaluate the safety and tolerability of 3 dose levels of cidofovir when
      administered to renal transplant recipients with BK virus nephropathy and to identify the
      maximum tolerated doses (MTD) among the 3 dose levels of cidofovir in renal transplant
      recipients with BK virus nephropathy. The secondary study objectives are to evaluate the
      antiviral effect of cidofovir at each of 3 dose levels; to evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK)
      of cidofovir in renal transplant recipients with underlying renal impairment; to evaluate the
      pharmacodynamics (PD) of cidofovir in this setting; to evaluate allograft function at the
      completion of the study; and to assess allograft rejection at the completion of the study.
      Patients with BKVN (virus nephropathy) diagnosed by positive plasma polymerase chain reaction
      (PCR) or renal allograft biopsy will be randomized to receive study drug within 60 days of
      the date of the renal biopsy or plasma PCR assay that established the diagnosis of BKVN. The
      study consists of three dose cohorts (0.25 mg/kg, 0.5 mg/kg and 1.0 mg/kg); each cohort will
      consist of approximately 12 subjects randomized 2:1 to receive either cidofovir or placebo
      (0.9% normal saline) to define the MTD among the three specified doses of cidofovir. Once the
      MTD is established, approximately 12 additional patients will be enrolled at that dose. The
      MTD is defined as the dose in which no more than 2 of the 8 cidofovir treated subjects
      experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT). The target enrollment is 48 subjects if all dose
      cohorts are fully enrolled. A 25% over-enrollment may be tolerated to allow for continued
      enrollment of subjects in the lower dose cohort if data are under concomitant review by the
      Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) or to replace non-evaluable study participants. Study
      participants who have been randomized and have received cidofovir/placebo (in any cohort)
      will be considered non-evaluable if they discontinue from the study or die for any reason
      except toxicities definitely related to study treatment, including DLTs. These subjects may
      be replaced. There will be a 5-week drug administration period (4 doses) followed by a 2 week
      end-of-study observation and evaluation period for each cohort. At about 3 months after last
      dose of study infusion, a member of the research staff will assess the study participant and
      counsel on pregnancy status via a phone call. The study will be overseen by a DSMB who will
      review the data after each dose cohort is completed. The primary endpoint of the study will
      assess the safety and tolerability of cidofovir in kidney transplant recipients this will be
      assessed by enumeration of adverse events (AEs) reported by the subjects and/or investigator,
      and changes observed in the physical examination (including vital signs) and laboratory
      evaluations during the drug administration and end-of-treatment observation and evaluation
      periods. The severity and relationship of AEs to receipt of study drug will be determined
      because the primary endpoint is focusing on the safety. The secondary endpoints are the
      effect of cidofovir on BK virus as determined by: percentage of subjects who achieve an
      undetectable BK virus urine and plasma PCR between baseline and end of treatment; rate of
      reduction in urine and plasma BK virus load by quantitative PCR between baseline and end of
      treatment; and time to reduction in BK virus urine and plasma PCR; the detailed PK of
      cidofovir will be evaluated in subjects at the MTD; the PD of cidofovir will be assessed by
      quantitating the change in BK virus deoxyribonucleic aci
    
  