
    
      The "G4MER" Program aims to perform a series of randomised control trials on different groups
      at Sydney Children's Hospital:

        1. Study 1A (Formerly titled "Serious Games in Medical Education - a Randomised Control
           Trial") is already underway and involves Phase 3 medical students at UNSW having 8 weeks
           access to the game, an Online Package (OP) or NSW State Guidelines on Asthma and Seizure
           management. Students are then assessed using multiple choice questions (MCQ) and two
           observed structure clinical examination (OSCE) stations (detailed below).

        2. Study 1B is also a randomised control trial similar in design to Study 1A, however it
           will involve doctors and nurses employed at Sydney Children's Hospital. PlayMed will be
           compared against the HETI Learning Path Paediatric Clinical Practice Guidelines (Online
           Package for staff).

        3. Studies 2A and 2B are identical to Studies 1A and 1B respectively except participants
           will have 2 hours access to their educational tool. Participants will then immediately
           undergo the same assessment using multiple choice questions (MCQ) and two observed
           structure clinical examination (OSCE) stations The proposed study designs are all
           blinded randomised control trials. Participants may only be involved in Study 1 or Study
           2, not both.

      Administration

      Studies 1A and 1B Participants allocated to the game and to the OP will be given the
      appropriate access for 8 weeks (instructions provided in the study envelope). Participants
      allocated to the guidelines will receive a print-out of the guidelines. Participants will be
      encouraged to engage with their additional educational tool as often as they wish during
      their eight weeks. In the 8th last week participants will have their knowledge and clinical
      performance assessed as outlined below.

      Studies 2A and 2B Participants allocated to the game, OP and guidelines will be given 2 hours
      to utilise their assigned teaching tool. Two hours was selected as an appropriate time-frame
      in which participants would be able complete all cases of the game or online package, or read
      through the guidelines. Furthermore, it was chosen as it is more pragmatic and better at
      assessing short-term retention. Computers will be provided for participants to access the
      game and OP. The guidelines will be printed for participants to read. Participants will then
      immediately have their knowledge and clinical performance assess as outlined below.

      Assessment

      Studies 1A, 1B, 2A and 2B Participants will be assessed for knowledge acquisition and
      clinical performance. Participant knowledge will be assessed using 10 multiple choice
      questions (MCQ). Participant clinical skills will be assessed via an observed structured
      clinical examination (OSCE) administered in the simulation laboratory (immediately after the
      knowledge test); participants will be tested across two clinical scenarios. Strict marking
      criteria will be used to ensure standardisation.
    
  