
    
      Balance and stability are important components for daily activities. Individuals need
      appropriate posture and coordination of various body parts for them to perform basic
      movements needed when doing various activities. The body requires a strong balance to perform
      day-to-day activities such as walking up and downstairs, bending, as well as lifting things
      from the ground. Lack of this balance, which can occur because of ear infections, accidents,
      and aging, generally can result in decreased quality of life. Nichols-Larsen et al., (2016)
      mentioned that vestibular neuritis is the second most common cause of vertigo and patients
      are complained of balance disturbance after head movements. Most healthcare facilities as
      well as health fitness centers use exercises to improve balance and stability in patients
      with balance problems. Examples of such balance exercises include gaze stability exercises.
      This literature reviews the effectiveness of gaze stability with balance exercises in
      enhancing balance, activities of daily living and reducing the risk of falling among patients
      suffering from vertigo due to vestibular neuritis in Riyadh.

      2.1. Overview of Gaze Stability Exercises Gaze stability exercises are part of vestibular
      rehabilitation therapy exercises. The exercises have become part of healthcare plans for
      patients with vestibular dysfunction . The exercises aim at improving vestibular ocular
      reflex (VOR), visual acuity during head movements, as well as reducing vertigo and dizziness.
      The therapy also improves postural stability, hence improving the quality of life among those
      affected. This, in turn, helps the patients achieve their activities of daily living.
      Gaikward mentions that the therapy works by promoting and stimulating vestibular adaptation
      and substitution to various stimuli provided during the exercises. Horizontal and vertical
      head movements with a fixed vision on a certain target induce retinal slip, which in turn
      increases the gain of vestibular response. However, achieving sustained vestibular response
      requires repeated exercises. Thus, most gaze stability exercises are prescribed for a long
      duration to achieve this response. Commonly used prescription is about four to five exercises
      in a day. The total exercises should last for an average of thirty minutes.

      2.2. Effectiveness of Gaze Stability Exercises There are several studies and researches on
      vestibular rehabilitation therapy. A systematic analysis of most of these studies shows gaze
      stability exercises to be effective in achieving balance and postural stability. A recent
      study by Roh and Lee (2019) found a positive correlation between vestibular rehabilitation
      therapy and the improvement of balance and stability. According to their results, dynamic
      postural stability among patients with balance problems significantly improved after
      providing gaze stability exercises twice per week for four weeks. The researchers used
      various forms of gaze stability exercises, including, eyeball, pursuit, saccadic, and
      vergence eye movements as well as vestibular ocular reflex exercise. Thus, these exercises
      proved effective in reducing vertigo, dizziness, and achieving balance among those affected.

      Vestibular rehabilitation therapy also improves the overall health status of affected
      individuals as well as increasing the quality of their life. Tsukamoto et al., (2015) found
      an improvement in the quality of life among twenty patients diagnosed with vestibular
      disease. The intensity of dizziness also improved among these patients, with postural
      stability and balance improving in more than eight percent of the patients. Thus, the
      negative impacts of various vestibular diseases, including vestibular neuritis, can be
      minimized by prescribing well-coordinated and supervised gaze stability exercises.

      Khanna and Singh (2014) saw related findings in another study. However, according to their
      results, improvement in postural stability and balance requires repeated exposure to
      interventions for a significant duration. The duo provided gaze stability exercises for two
      consecutive days per week for a duration of six weeks. The patients conducted the exercises
      three times per day with each session lasting for forty to sixty minutes. Moreover,
      vestibular rehabilitation therapy to be more effective if two or more types of exercises can
      be combined during the interventions. Those who were receiving balance training in addition
      to gaze stability exercises had a significant improvement in their balance and stability
      compared to those receiving either of the two therapies alone.

      Although vestibular rehabilitation therapy is generally effective, some studies have shown a
      negative side of them. According to Luth et al., (2019), the therapy is only effective for a
      short term, hence making them less effective than conservative as well as medical therapy.
      According to the researchers, vestibular rehabilitation therapy works only for a maximum of
      three weeks. The findings in this study can limit the use of vestibular rehabilitation
      therapy, including gaze stability exercises in those with long-term disabilities. However,
      combining various forms of exercises may remove this weakness, hence making vestibular
      rehabilitation therapy an interesting area for future researches.

      2.3. Vestibular Rehabilitation in Saudi Arabia There is a consensus among scholars over a
      recently published study that presents concise and well-researched investigations on
      vestibular rehabilitation therapy. The study discusses vestibular rehabilitation therapy and
      its positive effects on vestibular dysfunction patients. Furthermore, this study stresses
      Vestibular rehabilitation as an effective form of therapy in alleviating the symptoms of
      various vestibular diseases such as vestibular neuritis. The therapeutic exercises are
      beneficial in attaining post stability and improving balance in patients with balance issues.

      However, studying the application of the combination of gaze stability and balance exercises
      to improve daily living activities in patients suffering from vertigo with vestibular
      neuritis in Saudi Arabia poses challenges since there is a lack of published data in the
      department of Saudi Arabia. There are a few qualified specialists in Saudi Arabia practicing
      VRT besides it is not commonly used in local physiotherapy departments. The pandemic of Covid
      19- has made it difficult for patients to receive physical therapy services that enhance
      telerehabilitation role. Therefore, this research designs need to look for ways to overcome
      those limitations by integrating other forms of exercises such as gaze stability and balance
      exercises with vestibular neuritis patients through telerehabilitation.

      According to the existing literature, vestibular rehabilitation therapy is effective in
      alleviating the symptoms of various vestibular diseases such as vestibular neuritis. The
      exercises are useful in achieving postural stability and improving balance among patients
      with balance issues. However, the studies have some limitations since most of the researchers
      did not follow up on their participants for long enough to ensure they had long-term
      remissions. Thus, there is an opportunity to conduct more studies to ascertain the
      effectiveness of gaze stability exercises including the quality of patients' life among Saudi
      population. This literature aims to assess whether conducting gaze stability with balance
      exercises has an improvement influence on balance and reducing falling incidence. Moreover,
      to study the impact of applying combination of gaze stability and balance exercises to
      improve activities of daily living in patients suffering from vertigo with vestibular
      neuritis in Saudi Arabia.

      3 Methods

      3.1. Study design This research is experimental with Pre-post cohort design, Pilot clinical
      trial, by using telerehabilitation.

      3.2. Participants Adults of 25-59 years old suffering vertigo due to vestibular neuritis.
      Through the following criteria, all participants will be eligible to attend the study.

      3.2.1. Inclusion/exclusion criteria A convenience volunteers of adults of 25-59 years old are
      diagnosed with vestibular neuritis and vertigo. Participants should not be either with a
      previous history of neurological diseases or brain surgery affecting equilibrium. Both male
      and female are cognitively intact. Subjects with medical issues, e.g., hypertension and
      diabetes, are undertaking medication regularly. Independent participants or those requiring
      reasonable assistance, but with balance disturbance in daily living activities and
      transferring, having Berg Balance Scale between 21-56 are included in the study.

      However, subjects with the inability to follow instructions or completely dependent on the
      assistive device during mobility have been eliminated from the study. Participants with
      chronic dizziness diagnosed specifically with benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), or
      Meniere's disease are excluded. The research will be applied locally in Saudi Arabia, and all
      participants will sign a consent form approved by the Ethics Committee of King Saud
      University.

      3.3. Sample size Twenty convenient volunteers of adults of 25-59 years old (n=20) are
      diagnose with vestibular neuritis and vertigo. The sample size is the same as previous
      studies.

      3.4. Intervention The gaze stability exercises (GSEs) and balance exercises (BE) are
      described by Roh& Lee (2019) and Khanna& Singh (2014), respectively. This research is
      reconstructed by combining two forms of exercises (GSEs)& (BE). Participants with vestibular
      neuritis and vertigo will be practicing a combination of gaze stability exercise (GSEs) and
      balance exercises (BE).

      Gaze stability exercises are included in five phases: eyeball movement, saccadic eye
      movement, pursuit eye movement, vengeance eye movement, and vestibular-ocular reflex
      exercise. The eyeball exercise moves the eyes to a different direction slowly while they are
      closed to the left and right, up and down, rotation movements. The saccadic eye movement
      exercise moves the eyes as quickly as possible between the stationary points with a fixed
      head. The pursuit eye movement exercise by tracking slowly moving target with the eyes
      without moving head. The vergence eye movement exercise includes tracking the moving target
      from 5 cm close to eye level to as far as possible, both backward and forward. The
      vestibular-ocular reflex exercise keeps the eyes on the fixed point while moving the head
      from left to right. Gaze stability exercises will be performed while patients are seated, and
      each exercise lasts for 30 seconds.

      Balance exercises, both static and dynamic with or without closing eyes, are recommended to
      improve postural stability. In the first two weeks, patients will perform balance exercises
      with opening eyes, and then in the next couple of weeks, participants will do the same
      exercises with closing eyes. It involves standing on a firm surface with feet apart, heel
      stand, toe stand, marching on a firm surface, semi tandem stand, walking forward and backward
      with a normal support base.

      This intervention of gaze stability with balance exercises will be given as scheduled in the
      treatment plan. It will be applied twice each alternative day with ten repetitions for a
      total treatment period of four weeks. Each session will last for 45-60 minutes. Rest interval
      is between two groups of exercises for five minutes. Warm-up and cool down for five minutes
      is applicable before and after completing the treatment session. The patients will be
      followed up weekly through tele rehabilitation under the supervision of the researcher.

      3.5. Outcome measures The following outcome measures for each participant will be evaluated
      before the commencement of treatment and at the end of four weeks of training. They include;
      Arabic version of Activities-Specific Balance Confidence Scale (A-ABC scale) to measure
      patient self-confidence for performing activities of daily living without losing balance.
      Permission has been granted from original author Dr. Alia Alghwiri by email to use the Arabic
      version of the ABC scale. It has proved its good reliability and validity and can be used
      with the Arab population's vestibular disorders.

      Moreover, Arabic version of the dizziness handicap inventory questionnaire is used to assess
      the impact of dizziness on activity of participants.

      In addition, Berg Balance Scale (BBS) to evaluate static balance and fall risk in adult. It
      has shown good reliability and validity with vestibular patients too.

      Moreover, Katz Index of Independence in Activities of Daily Living (Katz ADL) to define
      problems in performing ADLs. It has demonstrated excellent validity and reliability to assess
      the ability to perform daily living activities independently in adult and older
      community-dwelling populations.

      3.6. Data analysis Data will be collected, tabulated, and analyzed using SPSS version 25. The
      descriptive data will be represented as mean (M) and standard deviation (SD) or frequency and
      percent. Paired t-test will be run to compare pre-intervention and post-intervention scores
      of A-ABC, BBS& Katz-ADL for each participant. Pearson's r regression will be used to detect
      the linear association between variables. Results will be statistically significant at p
      <0.05.
    
  