
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      The study has 2 study cycles. Cycle 1 is 8 weeks, followed by a 4-8 week break, and then
      Cycle 2 is 4 weeks.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive blinatumomab by
      a central venous catheter (CVC) continuously (non-stop) for 1-2 cycles, depending on how you
      are responding to the study drug. A CVC is a sterile flexible tube that will be placed into a
      large vein while you are under local anesthesia. Your doctor will explain this to you in more
      detail, and you will be required to sign a separate consent form for this procedure.

      During Cycle 1, the blinatumomab infusion will be started in the hospital. You will be in the
      hospital for up to at least 16 nights/17 days so that you can be checked for side effects.
      During Cycle 2, the blinatumomab infusion will also be started in the hospital. You will be
      in the hospital for at least 2 nights/3 days. Your doctor will decide when you can leave the
      hospital. Also, if treatment is interrupted for more than 4 hours, for any reason, you will
      need to be admitted to the hospital to restart the treatment.

      Blinatumomab will be delivered by a small pump, which you will carry with you for the whole
      time you receive the drug. You will be given a shoulder or belt bag to hold the pump and
      infusion bag. You will be able to wear regular clothes, walk around, and perform daily living
      activities. You will be given instructions for taking a shower and other activities. There
      will be some things that you should not do, such as go swimming. The study staff will give
      you more information on activities you should not do while receiving the drug.

      You will need to come to MD Anderson to have the infusion bags changed every 48 hours. The
      study staff will let you know when you need to return to the clinic.

      You will be given standard drugs, such as dexamethasone, to help decrease the risk of side
      effects. You may ask the study staff for information about how the drugs are given and their
      risks.

      If you have severe side effects, your study doctor may decide to stop treatment permanently
      or temporarily. If you recover or if the symptoms have improved, the treatment may be
      continued. If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have an MRI and possibly also a spinal
      tap (lumbar puncture) to test the fluid around the brain, before you restart treatment.

      Length of Study:

      You may receive blinatumomab for up to 2 cycles. You will no longer be able to take the study
      drug if the disease gets worse, if serious side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow
      study directions. Additionally, if your doctor feels it is in your best interests to receive
      an alternative treatment for your Richter Transformation, such as allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation, you will no longer be able to receive blinatumomab.

      Your participation on this study will be over after you have completed follow-up.

      Study Visits:

      At any time the doctor thinks it is needed, you may have a neurological exam.

      Based on the results of the below tests after Cycle 1, the study doctor will decide if you
      will continue to receive the study drug during Cycle 2. If you do not receive the drug during
      Cycle 2, you will have an end-of-study visit (described below).

      On Days 1-17 of Cycle 1 (the time you are in the hospital), every week during Cycle 1, Days
      1-3 of Cycle 2, and every week of Cycle 2:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      About 2-4 weeks after Cycles 1 and 2:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a bone marrow biopsy/aspiration to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have a PET/CT or CT scan.

      About 24 weeks after the first dose of study drug and then every 12 weeks after that for up
      to 96 weeks:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a PET/CT or CT scan to check the status of the disease.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      After the last dose of study drug, you will continue to receive routine medical care as part
      of your standard care. However, if the disease comes back or worsens while you are receiving
      the study drug:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a bone marrow biopsy/aspiration

        -  You will have a PET/CT scan to check the status of the disease.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you may have a lymph node biopsy to confirm that the
           disease has come back.

        -  If you can become pregnant, blood (about 1 teaspoon) or urine will be collected for a
           pregnancy test.

      Long-Term Follow-up:

      After you have completed your participation in this study, you will be asked to participate
      in a separate leukemia department protocol (DR09-0223). The purpose of this protocol is to
      determine how long patients live after receiving leukemia treatment. On this study, if you
      are not having follow-up at MD Anderson, study staff will contact you via phone, email, or
      MyMDAnderson every 6-12 months, to see how you are doing. Phone calls will take approximately
      5-10 minutes. If you agree, you will sign a separate consent form for this study.
    
  