
    
      Methods Design and Setting In this randomized controlled intervention study, the participants
      of intervention group attended a one day multifaceted supportive leadership workshop,
      designed for head nurses, working in academic hospitals of Tehran University of Medical
      Sciences (TUMS).

      Supportive leadership behaviors were assessed, by the use of a new developed and validated
      instrument. The subordinates' points of view were assessed in both control and intervention
      groups before the intervention and three months after it. Head and subordinate nurses from
      the sixteen main metropolitan academic hospitals of TUMS were included. This study was
      performed from July 2010 to April 2011. (Figure1).

      Participants A number of 110 head nurses were selected by the use of stratified randomized
      sampling among 235 head nurses in 16 metropolitan academic hospitals. Moreover, six
      subordinates were considered for each head nurse (660 subordinates) with different levels of
      nursing education such as Registered Nurse and Nurse Aids. Therefore, the total number of
      participants was 770. The sampling processes were conducted with the help of 16 nurse
      managers (matrons) in these 16 hospitals. Individuals were included into the study based on
      inclusion criteria. In order to avoid bias, these 16 nurse managers were excluded from the
      study population (Figure 2). The response rate was 95% in baseline phase as a result of face
      to face visit. The inclusion criteria was for nurses having more than two month work
      experience in the same ward and the intention of staying in that position for an additional
      three month.

      The head nurses and their related subordinates (660 subordinates) were randomized into an
      intervention and a control group. The researchers were blinded during randomization. The head
      nurses in the intervention group (n=55) participated in a multifaceted course of supportive
      leadership style, and the head nurses in the control group (n=55) did not receive any
      training. All 770 participants were blinded about their group and completed the
      questionnaires in baseline and after the intervention. Up to 39 subordinate participants were
      excluded from the study due to a change in their hospital work place; and the rest of the
      participants (n= 731) filled out the questionnaires in the post -test. The variables
      consisted of supportive leadership behavior (SLB), age, sex, marital status and employment
      background.

      Ethical statement This study was approved by the University Ethical Committee and registered
      as a clinical trial in Clinical Trial.gov (NCT 01169623) and all the participants in the
      study signed the informed consent. .

      Intervention Intervention was performed based on a multifaceted learning and teaching style
      in the intervention group. The intervention consisted of a one day eight hour workshop held
      at the Educational Development Center (EDC) of TUMS, twice with 25 to 27 head nurses
      participating in each workshop. The contents and expected outcomes of the workshop were
      emerged from the concepts of different leadership styles, including fundamentals of
      supportive leadership behavior, and some parts of a similar workshop held in Canada (Toronto
      University (2008) entitled:" Practical Approach To Giving Recognition").

      To increase the effectiveness of the workshops, we used an interactive multifaceted approach.
      The teaching methods included role playing, mini-lectures, and modified gold fish bowl.
      First, the workshop began with the ice breaking method introducing workshop's participants
      and facilitatorsto each other. Then, a 30 minute mini lecture was presented regarding current
      terminology of leadership and its' difference with managing by an expert in the field.
      Following that, the participants were encouraged to discuss about the "subject., Then the
      session continued with a 15 minute lecture regarding different types of leadership (task
      oriented leader, behaviorist leader,…) and their strengths and weaknesses. During the
      workshop, we had conducted three role playing relay on three different scenarios based on
      different leadership styles and managerial dilemma in hospitals performed by our simulated
      nurse managers and nursing staffs. . They were carried out through the goldfish bowl
      technique, known as a small group technique in medical education. This method had previously
      been used in changing behaviors such as communication skills, problem solving through
      creative and indirect approach and alternative approaches to practice dilemma (Mohanna et
      al., 2003, p 81; Thistlethwaite & Ridgway, 2006, p 23), Then participants discussed the role
      playing, reflected on the actors' roles and talked about their points of view. Also,
      participants were expected to distinguish between different leadership behaviors and styles
      and select one based on the workshop program. Finally the facilitators of the workshop
      summarized the discussions and gave the participants a feedback regarding each role playing
      and focused on the important learning objectives based on the leadership style. The workshop
      targeted to introduce supportive leadership in comparison with other leadership styles and
      its strong points.

      Questionnaires The main instrument in this study was the SLB questionnaire. Since there was
      no valid and reliable instrument to assess specifically SLB, and none of them were adapted or
      developed in nursing context, the provisional questions of this instrument were extracted by
      experts from SLB questions of three different questionnaires: Ohio State (OSQ) (Larsson
      2006), Developmental Leadership (DL) (Hersey & Blanchard 1979), and Hersey and Blanchard's
      Situational theory (HBS) (Halpin 1962) are three valid and common generic scales related to
      leadership styles. Some of their items which were related to SLB were extracted from these
      questionnaires. Those items were translated into Farsi and also back translated to English by
      two separate bilingual English language experts. Moreover, some new questions were developed
      and added to the first draft, which led to a 50-item questionnaire in total. The content and
      face validity of the instrument was ensured through discussion and consensus within the group
      of experts. The reliability of the questionnaire was assessed using a test-retest approach in
      pilot study, conducted among 30 of nurses, and then they were excluded from main population.
      Kappa coefficient were used for assessing the correlation between test and retest results.
      All the items with Kappa less than 0.7 were excluded from the final version. The second
      version of questionnaire was comprised of forty items, and the mean Kappa for all
      questionnaires was 0.86. The internal consistency of SLB scale as measured by Cronbach's
      alpha was 0.84. The second version of instrument,comprised of 40 items in four dimension of
      supportive leadership: support for development (18 items of 40-item questionnaire), integrity
      (a 7 item subscale that reflect trustworthiness, encouragement and good interpersonal
      communication skill), sincerity (8 items which showed high quality loading on demonstrating
      friendly and approachable behaviors) and recognition (a 7 item subscale that asked about
      supportive environment which everyone is recognized and appreciated). An exploratory factor
      analysis was conducted based on principle axis factoring and Varimax rotation to evaluate the
      construct validity of scale. The Cronbach's alpha for each factors were above 0.3(range
      0.3-0.9).
    
  