
    
      During the treatment we will performed a analysis in three different times (3, 6 and 12
      month)for obtain a vision of tolerability and efficacy for Lacosamide in usual clinical
      practice. We intended describe the differences when we add Lacosamide to an antiepileptic
      drug, sodium channel blocker or no-sodium channel blocker in usual clinical practice.

      Clinical data obtained through post-hoc analysis for registered pivotal studies made in
      highly refractory epileptic patients show that adjuvant treatment with Lacosamide has an
      extra efficacy compared with placebo. It is self-depended to the treatment with or without
      sodium channel blockers.

      This study will allow us to obtain information about real existing most population where do
      not exist as high refractoriness as the pivotal studies.

      The population of study is:

      Patients with epilepsy, with plus that 18 years old patients, with initial partial crisis
      treated with Lacosamide according to usual clinical practice in Spain.

      Lacosamide must has been used for epilepsy treatment at least during 12 month.

      The data record is collection in 5 months.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Adults (+18).

        2. Patients with epilepsy partial crisis diagnostic that had been treated with Lacosamide
           according to usual clinical practice.

        3. The patient had at least one partial crisis during the year before to the initiation of
           treatment with Lacosamide.

        4. The patient or their legal agent is reliable and is be able to adhere to the protocol
           according to the investigation criteria.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Patient is in an other study of medical protocol or medical implant.

        2. Patients with other kind of epilepsy.

        3. patients with chronic alcoholism or abuse drug recording in the last year.

        4. patients who don't be in possession of their faculties in the moment to sign Informed
           Consent.
    
  