
    
      Nephrolithiasis is one of the most common urological diseases, it is a widespread and
      challenging issue for both patients and healthcare systems. It is responsible for a
      significant financial and psychological burden, with an increased incidence of disease. The
      EAU (European Association of Urology) Guidelines recommend percutaneous nephrolithotomy in
      patients with kidney stones >2 cm.

      The most crucial step of the procedure is the precise puncture of the caliceal system. This
      can be accomplished by the use of fluoroscopy, ultrasound, or the combination of both and new
      other imaging modalities techniques. Among them, Fluoroscopy is the most common method for
      conducting the percutaneous puncture by urologists worldwide using multiple mono-planar or
      bi-planar fluoroscopic techniques.

      However, all fluoroscopic approaches face the same limitation, which is the difficult
      interpretation of the three-dimensional renal anatomy based on the two-dimensional X-ray
      information. Another disadvantage is the amount of fluoroscopic radiation used. Surgeons,
      assistants, nurses and patients, however, all have to accept various levels of radiation
      exposure. Numerous researches have revealed that it is still harmful to the human body who is
      exposed to radiation frequently, although under the aegis of protective aprons and thyroid
      shields, thus the application is affected to varying degrees.

      Fluoroscopic bi-planar techniques provide better information about the depth and direction of
      the collecting system than mono-planar methods. The most popular bi-planar methods described
      in the literature are the triangulation (0-30º), the "bull´s eye" technique and the less
      known bi-planar technique (The 0-90º technique) described by Dr. Paul Escovar. A newly
      published (0-90º) technique by Braulio O Manzo et al to increase the accuracy of calculating
      the needle path to the exact calyx depth and decreases its radiation exposure.

      In the current study, the investigator aimed to compare two different renal access
      techniques; fluoroscopic 0-30 and modified 0-90 technique regarding success rate, fluoroscopy
      time and intraoperative puncture complications.
    
  