
    
      Introduction

      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a common respiratory disease characterized by
      irreversible expiratory airflow limitation with bronchial hyperinflation and air trapping,
      causing a reduction of pulmonary and thoracic compliance, characterized by chronic
      inflammation with emphysematous destruction of the lungs (GOLD Guidelines 2019; Singh P et al
      2019; Bagdonas E et al 2015).

      In the last decade, bedside lung ultrasonography (LUS) has rapidly gained popularity for the
      differential diagnosis of respiratory diseases, especially in the acute setting, for its
      accuracy, repeatability, rapidity and versatility that make it the ideal diagnostic tool in
      the internal medicine and geriatric setting (Ticinesi A et al 2019).

      COPD is not associated with any specific sign at LUS, so that, in a context of acute
      exacerbation with respiratory failure, it remains a diagnosis of exclusion (Lichtenstein D
      2015). Instead, lung function tests (i.e., spirometry) is considered the gold standard test
      for COPD detection (GOLD Guidelines 2019).

      However, spirometry suffers from some limits, the major being its dependence on the
      cooperation of the subject, because during the test it is necessary to perform a correct
      expiratory forced manoeuvre with restricted acceptability standards (American Thoracic
      Society 1991; American Toracic Society 1995). As such, it can not be perfomed in patients
      with severe cognitive and physical impairment. Furthermore, spirometry is contraindicated in
      many conditions which may be aggravated by the effort (i.e. unstable cardiovascular status,
      recent myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism and other) (American Association for
      Respiratory Care 1996). Alternative methods of identification of COPD and stratification of
      its risk in clinical practice are thus highly desirable, but unavailable to date.

      Interstitial lung disease (ILD) represents a wide range of lung pathologies characterized by
      connective tissue deposition and fibrous remodeling of the lungs, causing a severe and
      progressive loss of respiratory function (Meyer KC 2017). High-resolution computed tomography
      (HRCT) is currently considered the gold standard in diagnosing and monitoring ILD, but, in
      its use, it is necessary to consider the ionizing radiation exposure (the cumulative dose for
      each exam is estimated around 7mSv, equivalent to two years of sunlight exposure), which may
      affect the repeatability of the exam, the high cost and the unavailability in many hospitals.

      Moreover, because of main alveolar involvement in ILD, LUS can show a variable number of
      B-lines, even if this is a non-specific artifact common to other pathologic lung conditions
      (i.e. heart failure with pulmonary oedema and acute respiratory distress syndrome), and a
      thickening of pleural line greater than 3 mm (Wohlgenannt S et al 2001).

      Pathophysiological basis of COPD and ILD allow to assume that lung parenchyma of these
      patients is stiffer than the normal one, but easy tools for measuring lung parenchyma
      stiffness in vivo are still lacking in clinical practice.

      Elastography is a noninvasive diagnostic tool, complementary to ultrasonography, that assess
      in real-time the parenchymal elasticity degree, evaluating tissue mechanical properties
      (Gennisson JL et al 2013). Currently, this technique is widely used to study liver fibrosis
      and characterize suspect nodules and lesions of breast, thyroid, kidney and prostate
      (Gennisson JL et al 2013).

      At present, only one study (Zhang X et al 2019) has considered the role of surface wave
      elastography in measuring the elastic properties of superficial lung tissue in patients with
      ILD, but there are not studies concerning its application in COPD for diagnostic purposes or
      for stratifying the risk of onset of the disease in smokers.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the applicability of strain elastography, integrated
      with LUS, in the assessment of the risk and the diagnosis of COPD and ILD.

      Study hypothesis

      The main hypothesis of the study is that the use of surface wave strain elastography during
      execution of a chest ultrasound examination is able to differentiate subjects suffering by
      COPD or ILD and subjects who have not respiratory diseases, documenting different stiffness
      properties of lungs. Another hypothesis is that the lungs of active smokers or ex-smokers
      with a long exposure to smoke exhibit a different stiffness pattern than that of the lungs of
      healthy non-smokers at elastosonographic examinations. Finally, another hyothesis is that the
      anatomical damage detected by lung ultrasonography is significantly correlated with
      parameters of lung function tests.

      Objectives

        1. To compare the stiffness properties of lung parenchyma, measured in vivo by lung
           ultrasound integrated with surface wave strain elastography, across three different
           groups of subjects: one group with established diagnosis of COPD or fibrosis, one group
           with no chronic lung diseases but high risk of developing COPD (i.e., active smokers or
           ex-smokers), and one group of healthy non-smokers.

        2. To verify the possible correlations of stiffness properties of lung parenchyma, as
           measured by surface wave strain elastography, with lung function tests.

      Study design

      Single-center experimental diagnostic study, no profit and not involving drugs.

      Setting

      The study will be performed and completed at the Internal Medicine and Critical Subacute Care
      Unit of Parma University-Hospital, Italy. The unit is a large internal medicine area (100
      beds for inpatients) dedicated to the care of older patients. It also includes an outpatient
      area where ultrasound and spirometry diagnostic resources are available. Both inpatients and
      outpatients will be involved in the study.

      Study population

      One-hundred thirty-eight participants will be enrolled (46 per group). The COPD/fibrosis
      group must have anamnestic record of chronic respiratory disease (COPD or ILD), confirmed by
      recent imaging and/or spirometric findings. The "high risk" group must be composed of active
      smokers or ex-smokers with significant exposure dating back to no more than 5 years and high
      risk of COPD according to the GOLD Guidelines 2019. The "healthy" group must have never
      smoked and have no record of chronic respiratory diseases. Excluded will be all subjects with
      acute respiratory failure not allowing to undergo study procedures, cognitive impairment or
      dementia, severe mobility disability, severe neuromuscular diseases, severe heart failure,
      severe kidney or liver disease, cancer or lack of compliance to study procedures (exclusion
      criteria common to all groups).

      The sample size is set at 138 participants (46 per group) basing on a temptative calculation
      supposing the non-inferiority of lung elastography as compared with spirometry (sensitivity
      not lower than 10%) in detecting COPD or ILD (alpha=0.05, precision 5%). However, a precise
      sample size calculation is not possible due to the complete absence of clinical data on the
      diagnostic relevance of elastography in COPD.

      Study procedures

      Participants will be enrolled either on an inpatient or outpatient basis, provided that they
      fulfil all inclusion criteria for the respective group and that they do not have any of the
      exclusion criteria. The enrolment of volunteers will be also supported by the use of flyers
      and public notices.

      After obtaining written informed consent and consent to personal data management (according
      to the European Union GDPR Regulation 2016/679), all participants will be evaluated by a
      staff physician collecting personal history and basic clinical data, if available. Collected
      data will include age, presence or absence of respiratory diseases (especially COPD and ILD),
      comorbidities, chronic drug treatments, most recent laboratory tests, reports of most recent
      chest imaging examinations, reports of most recent lung function tests. Smoking habits will
      be carefully assessed, with special attention on timing of the habit and quantity of
      cigarettes.

      Lung function tests will be then performed following standard and internationally recognized
      protocols (American Association for Respiratory Care 1996), by using a Carefusion MSC Body
      spirometer. FEV1 and Tiffeneau Index (FEV1/FVC) will be particularly assessed.

      Lung ultrasound will then be performed by a staff physician, by means of a Esaote Mylab Seven
      ultrasound system (Esaote, Genova, Italy), equipped with the strain elastography module
      ElaXto©. The examinations will be all performed using a convex 3.5-5 mHz probe, with the
      participant in sitting position and the examiner behind him or her.

      First, the physician will perform a routine B-mode lung ultrasound, exploring both lungs in
      order to rule out other diseases which could influence pulmonary and thoracic compliance and
      lung parenchyma elasticity. Then, the physician will activate the elastography module and
      performe little compressions on the convex probe with the wrist, according to ultrasound
      detector, to obtain elastography images suitable for color analysis. Elastography images are
      in fact composed of a mix of red, green and blue colors, whose combination is an expression
      of the stiffness of the examined parenchyma. The examiner will perform a systematic bilateral
      scan, beginning from posterior lung areas, two intercostal spaces above diaphragm, and
      acquiring two images for each side, a basal one and an apical one. The examiner will then
      move to lung lateral regions, to the base of safety triangle, acquiring other two images, a
      basal one and an apical one, and finally to lung anterior regions, at the third intercostal
      space on the mid-clavicular line on the right side and at the second intercostal space on the
      mid-clavicular line on the left side (to avoid the cardiac area), acquiring other two images,
      a basal one and an apical one, for a total of 12 scans per participant.

      Elastography images will be archived on ultrasound system and subsequently analysed in
      post-processing on the specific ultrasound software ElaXto©. Through this software, it is
      possible to measure qualitatively the percentage of tissue elasticity and stiffness.

      For each image, the percentage of stiffness, with a stiffness threshold set at 20%, will
      measured in three areas of interest, by using the manual trace:

        -  The total area of lung parenchyma explored (excluding subcutaneous and muscular tissue
           located above the pleural line);

        -  The superficial half of lung parenchyma explored area (until approximately 3-4 cm under
           the pleural line);

        -  The deep half of lung parenchyma explored area (from 3-4 cm of depth until the lower
           limit of the image).

      The use of three different stiffness measures for each image assures to highlight the overall
      stiffness of the explored lung parenchyma, as well as potential regional differences between
      the superficial and the deep lung plans. In fact, COPD is expected to mainly involve deeper
      portions of lung parenchyma, being basically a disease of small airways, while ILD is
      expected to mainly involve superficial plans of lung parenchyma (subpleural fibrosis). For
      each image, a qualitative index of elasticity and a quantitative index of stiffness will be
      obtained.

      All the examinations on participants will be performed during the same day.

      Statistical analysis

      Data will be expressed as median and interquartile range or mean plus/minus standard
      deviation, according to variable distribution. Elastography parameters will be compared
      across the three study groups by means of ANCOVA and Bonferroni test. The correlations
      between spirometric and elastographic parameters will be assessed by Pearson correlation
      index.

      Ethical issues

      Spirometry and elastosonography are two safe examinations not implying any specific risk for
      participants. All procedures will follow the Good Clinical Practice and Declaration of
      Helsinki principles. Data will be handled in compliance with the current European Union
      legislation.
    
  