
    
      Summary

      Background Transanal Endoscopic Microsurgery (TEM) is an advanced minimally invasive
      endoluminal technique used to remove rectal tumours. In the open transanal excision era,
      there is evidence that outcomes in unsutured rectal defects are similar to those in patients
      whose defect is closed. However, the evidence for this approach is minimal and technical
      differences in TEM (e.g. rectal insufflation) may mean that leaving defects unsutured is not
      a safe approach. Further, there is anecdotal evidence that unsutured defects lead to more
      postoperative pain and delay recovery.

      Objective The purpose of this study is to determine if postoperative pain (primary) and early
      postoperative complications (secondary) are worse in patients undergoing TEM and do not have
      the defect closed when compare to similar patients who have endoluminal suture closure of the
      defect.

      Methods This is a multicentre, double blind randomized controlled trial of suture closure
      versus no closure in patients treated by TEM for rectal lesions. The study will include
      patients 18 years and older with rectal lesions within 12cm of the anal verge treated with
      TEM. The primary outcome is postoperative pain as measured by validated visual analogue scale
      (VAS). Secondary outcomes include analgesic use and early (<30 day) complications. Based on
      anticipated VAS scores, a sample size of 38 patients will be enrolled (power 0.80, α=0.05).
      Statistical analysis will be performed using student's T test for continuous data and
      Fischer's exact test for dichotomous variables.

      Impact Currently, only 3 centres in Canada have experience with TEM: Vancouver, Winnipeg and
      Ottawa. This study represents the first trial of a Canadian TEM Collaborative and will
      determine if there is an advantage to suture closure of the rectal defect in TEM surgery.
      This is important, as suture technique is challenging and if there are important advantages
      to this approach, there would be a mandate to perfect suturing technique before employing the
      TEM approach to rectal tumours. Conversely, if there is an advantage to leaving the defect
      unsutured, this may reduce operative time and facilitate better use of OR time. Further, it
      will inform all TEM surgeons of the best approach to the rectal defect and optimize patient
      care. Finally, this study will serve as a starting point for further trials by the Canadian
      TEM Collaborative that will expand to include new sites and become a world leader in TEM
      clinical trials.
    
  