
    
      Cognitive-behavioral theories posit that panic attacks and panic disorder are the product of
      inaccurate beliefs about the dangerousness of arousal-related body sensations such as heart
      palpitations, dizziness, and shortness of breath. Individuals with panic disorder often
      misinterpret these anxiety symptoms as likely to lead to health catastrophes such as a heart
      attack, stroke, suffocation, or insanity. Effective psychological treatment aims to correct
      such misinterpretations by helping individuals learn that their anxiety-related body
      sensations are not dangerous.

      One treatment procedure used to accomplish this goal is "interoceptive exposure," or the
      deliberate evocation of anxiety-related body sensations via exercises such as
      hyperventilation, spinning in a swivel chair, or running in place. By demonstrating that the
      experience of anxiety-related body sensations does not lead to physical catastrophes,
      interoceptive exposure exercises help individuals learn not to fear their own anxiety
      symptoms. Indeed, this procedure is considered an essential ingredient in evidence-based
      psychological treatment of panic disorder.

      Despite the established therapeutic value of interoceptive exposure, little is known about
      how to optimally deliver this procedure. In the most clinically tested panic disorder
      treatment package, individuals engage in three, minute-long trials of interoceptive exposure
      exercises such as hyperventilation, with each trial followed by the use of diaphragmatic
      breathing and a rest period until all anxiety-related body sensations have subsided. However,
      there are theoretical reasons to question the effectiveness of this method. For example,
      encouraging individuals to use controlled breathing to "manage" their sensations appears
      incompatible with the notion that anxiety-related body sensations are harmless. Similarly,
      the instruction to wait until one's body sensations have subsided to begin the next
      interoceptive exposure trial suggests that intense body sensations are to be avoided. For
      these reasons, many practitioners conduct interoceptive exposure in a more intensive manner
      in which individuals experience feared body sensations in a prolonged fashion, without
      attempting to suppress or avoid them, until they learn that the sensations are harmless.
      Despite the theoretical appeal of this latter approach, no studies have examined the effects
      of delivering interoceptive exposure in this manner. Indeed, very little is known about the
      effects of different methods of delivering interoceptive exposure on fear of arousal-related
      body sensations. Accordingly, the present study aims to test the effectiveness of different
      methods of delivering interoceptive exposure with the goal of generating recommendations for
      the optimal treatment of panic disorder and other clinical problems associated with the fear
      of anxiety-related body sensations.
    
  