
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility of submyeloablative HLA-identical allogeneic peripheral blood
           stem cell transplantation in patients with metastatic or recurrent renal cell carcinoma.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen, in terms of incidence and severity of graft
           rejection, acute graft-vs-host disease (GVHD), chronic GVHD, adverse effects from the
           preparative regimen and thalidomide, and infection and bleeding, in these patients.

        -  Determine the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of objective partial and complete
           response rates, in these patients.

        -  Determine the engraftment rates and extent of chimerism in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the overall survival and time to treatment failure rate in patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Determine the impact of thalidomide on the treatment of chronic GVHD in patients treated
           with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to risk (low vs high).

      Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes once daily on days -4 to -2 followed by total
      body irradiation on day -1. Patients receive tacrolimus IV over 24 hours or orally daily on
      days -3 to 35 and oral mycophenolate mofetil twice daily on days -3 to 28 as graft-vs-host
      disease (GVHD) prophylaxis. Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell
      transplantation over 1-2 hours on day 0.

      Patients maintaining a mixed chimerism with no evidence of grade III or IV GVHD receive donor
      lymphocyte infusions (DLI) on days 60, 90, and 120. Patients may receive additional DLI as
      needed. Patients with limited chronic GVHD receive oral thalidomide daily beginning after day
      80 and continuing for 1 year or until disease progression or resolution of chronic GVHD.

      Patients are followed at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 20-40 patients (10-20 per stratum) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  