
    
      We propose to randomize 200 patients with at-risk drinking from four primary care clinics at
      the PVAMC and three Community Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs). Patients will be identified
      for participation by 1. referrals from primary care clinicians based on existing screening
      and clinical exams or 2. from the screening of a random subset of patients with an
      appointment in the primary care clinic. A baseline assessment will establish eligibility for
      participation in the study. The baseline assessment will also allow identification of those
      patients who screen positive but do not have a definable behavioral health problem and those
      with severe symptoms who may need more intensive help than provided by the study.

      Consenting eligible patients will be randomly assigned to TDM or the lower intensity
      intervention of usual care. For those patients assigned to usual care, the physician will
      administer further evaluations and treatment as he/she sees fit. For those assigned to TDM,
      the primary care provider remains the agent of treatment, but a Behavioral Health Specialist
      (BHS) is made available to: maintain regularly scheduled telephone contact, develop a
      treatment plan, monitor treatment effectiveness, assess and encourage treatment adherence,
      and offer support and education. The role of the health specialist is defined by a treatment
      manual that adheres to the recommendations of VA practice guidelines. TDM is based on a
      chronic care model of treatment and includes a minimum of three BAI sessions. The health
      specialist will communicate assessment information with the PCP in order to coordinate
      treatment decisions.

      The principal outcomes of the study relate to reduction in alcohol use within recommended
      guidelines as well as access and utilization of behavioral health services over the course of
      12 months. Results favoring TDM may provide a low-cost, highly efficient mechanism for
      integrating behavioral health with primary care for these patients. This project thus meets
      several of the priority areas for HSR&D funding including improving access to care, the
      implementation of practice guidelines, use of telemedicine, and patient-centered care.
    
  