
    
      Disseminated infection with Mycobacteria avium complex (MAC) is one of the most common
      systemic bacterial infections in advanced stages of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
      (AIDS). Current therapy for disseminated MAC infection in HIV patients consists of multidrug
      chemotherapy regimens are often accompanied by toxicities, and many patients become
      intolerant of one or more agents. Macrolides are the essential component of successful
      therapy, yet macrolide resistant strains are being recognized with increasing frequency.
      Thus, there is an interest in identifying additional therapeutic interventions for
      disseminated MAC in HIV-infected patients. Interleukin-12 (IL-12) is a central, regulatory
      cytokine in cell-mediated immunity. IL-12 enhances the cytolytic activity of cytotoxic T and
      NK cells, and induces interferon-gamma (IFN gamma) production from T and NK cells. This
      open-label Phase I study is designed to evaluate the safety and immunologic/microbiologic
      effects of interleukin-12 administration in HIV-infected patients with concomitant
      disseminated Mycobacterium avium (MAC) infection or localized MAC infection. Fifteen patients
      with documented disseminated MAC will be randomized to receive double-blinded placebo or
      escalating doses of IL-12 in addition to anti-MAC chemotherapy and standard anti-retroviral
      therapy for six weeks. IL-12 will be administered subcutaneously, with escalating doses every
      month over the dose range of 30 ng/kg, 100 ng/kg, and 300 ng/kg, or until an individual
      maximum tolerated dose (IMTD) is reached. Should a patient receive 2 consecutive blood
      cultures negative for MAC during the course of the study at a lower dose, then he/she will
      not be further dose escalated. Likewise, patients with localized disease will not be further
      dose escalated if symptoms/evidence of localized infection resolve as assessed by the
      principal investigator. Those patients receiving placebo after 6 weeks will be crossed over
      to receive the full treatment course of IL-12. Each new dose or dose escalation will take
      place on an inpatient basis. Once a patient is clinically stable at a dose, the patient will
      be maintained at that dose as an outpatient for the remainder of the month. Total IL-12
      administration will not exceed 12 weeks, or 24 total doses.
    
  