
    
      For this study, families of subjects will fill out a Canavan Patient Survey which asks
      questions about disease development, symptoms and progression. Patients will be seen in Dr.
      Eichler's Leukodystrophy clinic for standard of care appointments. These appointments will be
      scheduled every 6 months.

      The investigators will also collect MRI images and reports that have already been done or
      which will be done during participation in the study on a clinical basis.

      GLOBAL UNIQUE IDENTIFIERS (GUID):

      A patient Global Unique Identifier (GUID) will be used as the identifier for individuals
      participating in the study in NeuroBANK™. The GUID is an 11-character string that is
      generated using encryption technology and algorithms licensed by the NCRI from the National
      Institutes of Health (NIH).

      The GUID is generated on a secure website that utilizes 128-bit Secure Socket Layer (SSL). Of
      note, this website is not linked to NeuroBANK™. The GUID is generated using an irreversible
      encryption algorithm - it accepts twelve identifying data elements, (e.g. last name at birth,
      first name at birth, gender at birth, day, month and year of birth, city and country of
      birth, etc.), and produces a unique random-generated character string, or GUID. No
      identifying information is stored in the system; it is simply used to generate the GUID. If
      the same information is entered again, the same GUID will be returned.

      The GUID is entered into NeuroBANK™ when the patient is being created in the system. As the
      same patient may participate in multiple studies, NeuroBANK™ will also allow capturing a
      study-specific ID for the patient. For more information about NeuroBANK™ or the GUID, please
      go to: www.neurobank.org.

      Data Management:

      The NCRI Data Management Team is trained and knowledgeable regarding confidentiality and
      integrity of data. They will be responsible for all aspects of data procedures. Alex Sherman
      is the ALD Connect network strategist and member of the NEALS ALS consortium. He is the
      director of Strategic Development and Systems of NCRI, serves on the Executive Committee of
      the ALS Research Group, and is one of the leaders of the NEALS ALS Consortium.

      Data Quality Checks, Logic Checks and Queries:

      The Data Manager (DM) at the Neurological Clinical Research Institute (NCRI) at the
      Massachusetts General Hospital will conduct monthly Data Quality Checks, Logic Checks, and
      internal data quality audits. Data field queries will be resolved in an established workflow
      according to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). The queries may be created either at
      the point of entry during the data entry process, manually by the NCRI DM, or as the result
      of executing monthly Logic Checks.

      Study-Specific Database Backup and Maintenance:

      The NCRI personnel will be responsible for the database backups that will be conducted daily.
      Simultaneously, a separate copy of the backup in the encrypted compressed format will be
      maintained and saved by the System Analysts. The backups will be saved on a separate computer
      partition in a password-protected compressed format and also will be burnt into DVD medium
      and stored in a secure location.
    
  