
    
      Stroke is a disease which occurs when the blood flow to the brain is cut off due to
      hemorrhage or ischemia in the blood vessels.Stroke is the second leading cause of death and a
      major cause of disability worldwide. Its incidence is increasing because the population ages
      . The quantity of individuals influenced by stroke will unavoidably ascend as global life
      expectancy increases. The frequency of motor deficits following a stroke can be up to 80% in
      a defined elderly population. Only a small percentage of this group (approximately 20%) will
      partially recover from impaired motor ability, leaving approximately 50-60% who are left with
      some form of chronic motor deficiency the burden of stroke seems to be high in Pakistan as in
      other south Asian countries. Not only the mean age of patients with stroke is less compared
      to patients in the developed world, approximately 20% of patients are under the age of 45
      years. Hypertension is by far the most common risk factor also in young stroke patients.
      Hypertension and other conventional risk factors are highly prevalent in the country.To
      function in daily life, an individual must be able to maintain and adopt various postures,
      react to external disturbances, and use automatic postural responses that precede voluntary
      movements. A major focus of rehabilitation programs, therefore, is to improve balance and
      optimize function and mobility.Balance is the ability to maintain the body's center of mass
      over its base of support. Balance is a term used to describe the ability of a person to
      maintain or move within a weight-bearing posture without falling.Stroke patients experience
      various symptoms such as sensory disorder ,mobility defects and cognitive disorder which
      negatively affect functions for carrying out activities of daily living.The inability of
      stroke survivors to swing the involved leg rapidly might be the most critical factor adding
      to the enormous number of falls to the paretic side.balance and gait ability revival is a
      critical goal in stroke rehabilitation. A variety of interventions, such as virtual reality,
      robotics and mental practice with motor imagery, have been studied to improve the gait
      ability of stroke patients.Cognitive-motor and motor dual tasks assume significant role in
      day by day life: strolling while at the same time talking, utilizing a cell phone, carrying a
      pack or watching traffic.The dual-task program is effective in improving dual-task mobility,
      reducing falls and fall-related injuries in ambulatory chronic stroke patients with intact
      cognition. During dual-tasking, individuals with stroke have shown more pronounced
      performance decreasing in either the cognitive, mobility, or both tasks, compared with
      healthy older adults (ie, cognitive-motor interference) Mental practice is a new
      rehabilitation method that refers to the mental rehearsal of motor imagery content with the
      goal of improving motor performance.Motor imagery training is a helpful elective methodology
      for physical recovery following stroke, and offers protected, accessible, and cheap treatment
      strategy that is the utilization at home without specific equipments. Motor imagery training
      is free from physical execution of a disabled limb, and takes into account utilization of the
      mind to in restoring the circuitry that mediates voluntary movement. The preparation can make
      cortical plasticity changes like those made after physical action, in this way, these systems
      point to the capability of utilizing motor imagery practice in the neurological recovery of
      people following stroke.Hui yang cho et al concluded that Gait training with motor imagery
      training improves the balance and gait abilities of chronic stroke patients significantly
      better than gait training alone . According to recent study, conducted by Young Hyeon Bae et
      al. concluded that specific balance training with motor imagery is much beneficial and
      improve both balance and gait. Gye Yeop Kim et al found that dual-task training improves
      cognitive and walking abilities of patients with stroke.In another study conducted by Gui Bin
      Song et al reported that dual task training is more effective for increasing balance ability.
    
  