
    
      This study is an experimental design, having three phases. The study looks at children, aged
      8 to 9, in remedial units or LSEN classes, in and around Durban, Kzn, SA; who have been
      diagnosed with ADHD/ADD.

      Phase 1: Teachers of the children identified with ADHD/ADD, will be asked to complete a
      modified teacher Conner's rating, to confirm the diagnosis of ADHD/ADD. The parent will then
      be asked to complete a DCD questionnaire (DCDQ) to give the PI an idea of whether
      co-ordination difficulties exist. The PI will then administer a Motor Assessment Battery for
      Children (MABC) to confirm the diagnosis of DCD. From the scores derived from the 3 above
      tests, co-morbidity will be diagnosed. The prevalence figures of co-morbidity will be
      calculated and presented. Demographics of prevalence figures will be given: Gender,
      Population group, average age.

      Phase 2: The exercise intervention will be designed, drawing from the literature and similar
      interventions already used in various publications.

      This programme will be validated by experts (Physiotherapists and O.Ts from special needs
      schools) and when 70% consensus is reached on all aspects of the programme, the final version
      will be drafted.

      Phase 3: The children found to have both conditions, in co-morbidity, will be assigned to one
      of 4 groups, according to parental choice, medical advice from paediatricians, GPs etc and an
      intervention a child is already on.

      The four groups will be: medication, exercises, medication plus exercises and a control
      group. The intervention designed in phase 2 will be administered to the two groups opting for
      the exercise intervention, for a minimum of 8 sessions. The 3 pre intervention scores
      (Conner's, DCDQ and MABC) will be derived from phase 1, post intervention scores will be done
      6 months after completion of the intervention, as it is stipulated by the rules of the MABC
      that the test may not be repeated sooner. The pre and post intervention scores will be
      compared to calculate improvement and average improvement within each group, will be
      calculated, to establish which intervention or combination of interventions, is the most
      effective.
    
  