
    
      Lipoprotein lipase deficiency (LPLD) is a rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused
      by loss-of-function mutations in the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) gene. It is the most common
      genetic cause of hyperchylomicronaemia, a condition which results in continuous and
      excessively high levels of plasma chylomicrons (CM) and severe hypertriglyceridaemia.
      Lipoprotein lipase normally mediates the hydrolysis of triglycerides (TG) in CMs and very
      low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) and thereby aids in the clearance of TG-rich lipoproteins and
      reduction of TGs in the circulation.

      Alipogene tiparvovec (Glybera®) is in development for the therapy of LPLD. In summary,
      alipogene tiparvovec contains the human lipoprotein (LPL) gene variant LPLS447X in a
      non-replicating vector in solution administered in a one-time series of intramuscular
      injections in the arms/legs.The aim of alipogene tiparvovec (Glybera®) administration is to
      provide LPL activity and to stimulate CM metabolism in LPLD patients.

      To test the activity of LPL in subjects previously treated with alipogene tiparvovec in this
      study LPLD subjects will be given a radiolabeled meal supplemented with a labeled tracer,
      3H-palmitate. Since dietary palmitate is incorporated into CMs as they are formed in the
      enterocytes of the gut, this enables monitoring of the appearance and subsequent clearance of
      newly formed CMs from the circulation over time, the so-called "postprandial test". The
      radiolabeled meal will be provided in a liquid form similar to a milkshake. After ingestion
      of the radiolabeled meal, level of radiolabel in the CM fraction at different time points
      prior to and during the postprandial phase will be measured and thus determine the appearance
      and clearance of CMs within the circulation.

      The principal aim of the study is to increase the understanding of how long alipogene
      tiparvovec may be effective in the treatment of LPLD. To understand this, 3 cohorts of
      subjects will be studied: 1) Subjects with LPLD who have previously been treated with
      alipogene tiparvovec; 2) Subjects with LPLD who have not been treated with alipogene
      tiparvovec; and 3) Subjects who do not have LPLD (healthy volunteers). The subject's general
      state of health will also be monitored during the clinical study, and the possible
      disadvantages associated with the postprandial test will be assessed.
    
  