
    
      The FloRite™ product is a disposable urine flow meter. The patient needs to urinate into the
      device and at the end of urination the patient needs to disconnect a USB drive from the
      device, dispose the device's container and keep the USB drive that contains the test data.

      Primary objectives:

      • Usability evaluation of the FloRite™ system with LUTS patients.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Comparison of uroflowmetric parameters obtained using home disposable digital
           uroflowmetry device with standard clinic-based uroflowmetry.

        -  Evaluation of diurnal variations in uroflowmetric parameters obtained using home
           uroflowmetry

      Primary outcome measures

      • Successful use of FloRite™ system in LUTS patients, defined as:

        -  Successful unpacking and installation

        -  Successful understanding of the user manual

        -  Ability of the patients to operate the device as define by a successful test completion
           and data transmission

        -  Successful retrieval of the DOK

        -  Absence of:

        -  Device dropping down

        -  Urination outside the container

        -  Urination on the electronic unit

      Secondary outcome measures:

      • Comparison of uroflowmetric parameters as measured by

      FloRite™ system and standard clinical uroflowmetry as defined by [Time Frame: Days 0, 1, 6
      and 7]:

        -  Qmax - Max Flow Rate

           • Evaluation of diurnal variations in uroflowmetric parameters obtained using home
           uroflowmetry as defined by [Time Frame: Days 1, 6]:

        -  Urine flow graph

        -  Tdelay - Delay time

        -  T100 - Voiding Time

        -  TQ - Flow Time

        -  Tqmax - Time to max Flow

        -  Qmax - Max Flow Rate

        -  Qave - Average Flow Rate

        -  Vcomp - Voided Volume Up to 30 completed patients

      Inclusion criteria

        -  LUTS patients

        -  Male 18<Age <65

        -  Ability to speak, read and understand instructions

        -  Patient willing to sign an Informed Consent Exclusion criteria

        -  Mentally disabled patients

        -  Infectious diseases

        -  Catheterized patients

        -  Buried penis due to obesity The patients will be consented if found eligible.
           Prospective, self- controlled, interventional, clinical study

      On the baseline visit, after eligibility is confirmed and after consenting the patients, the
      following steps will be taken:

        -  Standard clinical uroflowmetry

        -  Training how to use the system

        -  Unpacking and setting up the device (supervised by an observer)

      The following day, the patient will perform home test with the FloRite™ system. Similar test
      will be conducted on Day 6 of the study.

      The test results will be transferred either by e- mailing the data stored on the DOK or by
      bringing the DOK itself to the clinic on the 7th day.

      On Day 7 of the study, the patients will be asked to return to the clinic for standard
      clinical uroflowmetry. In addition, the patient will fill a satisfaction questionnaire.

      All the measurements must be standard and performed at around the same time.
    
  