
    
      The purpose of this research is to assist laser treatment of skin conditions by imaging the
      skin to obtain information about lesional skin. This is a pilot study that will explore the
      utility of skin imaging in guiding the laser treatment of skin lesions. This study will
      utilize Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT). Data acquisition of the skin will guide laser
      treatment by providing information on skin lesion characteristics.

      There have been shown to be many applications for OCT. This imaging modality has been used to
      examine normal skin, burn scars, hemangiomas, nevus flammeus, fibrosarcomas, rosacea, and
      telangiectasias. Skin conditions to be studied include vascular lesions, scars, and
      inflammatory conditions. Normal and lesional skin will be assessed.

      Currently, laser settings are selected without the assistance of imaging. Imaging with OCT
      provides more information about the characteristics of the skin lesion (such as lesion depth,
      depth of the most superficial part of the lesion, and the size and density of blood vessels),
      which could allow for more informed selection of laser settings to treat individual skin
      lesions. OCT has been used to examine laser treatments as well, but the proposed protocol
      would include the use of OCT to examine the stated skin lesions above before and after laser
      treatment in order to compare to historical/prospective controls that did not undergo OCT
      imaging. The goal of this study is to optimize laser treatment with the assistance of OCT and
      guide future laser treatments.

      OCT is an imaging modality that uses light to image turbid media such as living tissues, and
      has been successfully used to generate high resolution (~10 micron) cross-sectional images of
      tissue microstructure in the human retina, skin, gastrointestinal tract, and genitourinary
      tract. OCT systems are now commercially available for ophthalmic and dermatologic use, and
      there are several clinical reports on the use of OCT in the vascular system and aero
      digestive tract, Ophthalmology, Pleural disorder, Neural tissue, Aneurysm healing, and Oral
      Pathology. This device focuses low power non-laser broad band infrared light onto tissue and
      does not involve input of significant amounts of energy into the subject; no temperature rise
      occurs. Because the wavelength of light used for imaging does not have adverse tissue
      effects, there is no risk.

      Imaging with OCT provides information about the characteristics of the skin lesion (such as
      lesion depth, depth of the most superficial part of the lesion, and the size and density of
      blood vessels). OCT poses no known risks to the patients.

      A multitude of studies have been conducted that validate the utility of OCT in imaging many
      types of skin lesions. Vascular lesions formulate a good portion of skin diseases studied by
      OCT, which includes rosacea, port-wine stain, hemangiomas, fibrosarcomas, cherry angiomas,
      and telangiectasias. Other studies have examined imaging of burn scars, the micro-circulation
      of the skin, and vascular changes with topical medical application. In all of these studies,
      OCT imaging aided treatment as well as provided a method to assess treatment outcome.

      For port-wine stains, OCT has provided information such as vessel diameter and depth, which
      was discovered to be quite variable in port-wine stains, indicating that tailored laser
      treatments are likely to improve result. Byers et al. noted that OCT was a robust and
      non-invasive method for observing longitudinal dynamics of the subcutaneous microcirculation
      of tumors. Telangiectasias are a prominent feature of rosacea, and OCT has elucidated
      information about their treatment with intense-pulsed light to simply examine the effect of
      the treatment on the targeted lesions.
    
  