
    
      A recently funded large pragmatic PA trial, Women's Health Initiative Strong and Healthy
      (WHISH) trial based upon two decades of PA intervention experience using enhanced
      communication and behavioral techniques, has randomized 49,936 elderly women (average age 79)
      and will evaluate its intervention effect on the risk of atherosclerotic CVD. This
      translational intervention is aimed at reducing sedentary time and achieving or maintaining
      aerobic and strength enhancing PA levels currently recommended for cardiovascular benefit.
      The WHISH-2-Prevent HF, represents the first and largest primary prevention exercise trial
      ever performed focusing on HF and will examine the intervention effect of PA , on both
      incident HF and HF burden (recurrent HF and CVD death in those with HF) in a cost effective
      manner in elderly women. In addition, it will allow a dose-finding analysis to better
      understand the type, intensity and frequency of PA that leads to a reduced risk and burden of
      HF.

      Aim 1: Test whether older women who are initially free of HF and randomized to a
      translational PA intervention will reduce the rate of incident HF compared to those not
      randomized to the translational PA intervention.

      H1: Women free of HF randomized to the PA intervention will have reduced rates of incident HF
      compared to those not randomized.

      Aim 2: Test whether older women with and without HF at baseline randomized to a translational
      PA intervention will reduce the HF burden (number of acute HF hospitalizations and CVD death
      in those with antecedent HF) compared to those not randomized to the translational PA
      intervention. H2: Women randomized to the PA intervention will have reduced HF Burden
      compared to those not randomized

      Exploratory Aim 3: Analyze the type, intensity and frequency of physical activity including
      skeletal muscle strengthening associated with a reduced risk of HF and HF burden in elderly
      women. H3: Women who have low levels of sedentary behavior by either increasing or
      maintaining light intensity or moderate intensity physical activity will have reduced rates
      of HF compared to women who remain sedentary. Those that add skeletal muscle strengthening
      will have additional benefits.
    
  