
    
      Asthma is a long-term lung disease that affects more than 22 million people in the United
      States. Symptoms include wheezing, chest tightness, shortness of breath, and coughing.
      Inhaled corticosteroids are a common medication used to treat asthma. NHLBI has established
      guidelines for doctors to reference when treating people with asthma. Study researchers
      previously evaluated a distance learning program aimed to educate doctors on the NHLBI
      guidelines and to improve pediatrician adherence to the guideline recommendations for the use
      of daily inhaled corticosteroids for persistent asthma in pediatric patients. This pilot
      study will evaluate a new version of the distance learning program. By using a distance
      learning program rather than a traditional face-to-face educational program, participants
      will be able to complete the program on their own schedule, and this flexibility may result
      in increased interest in the program. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of the new distance learning program on changing pediatricians' behavior,
      attitudes, and knowledge regarding the NHLBI guidelines for the use of inhaled
      corticosteroids to treat pediatric patients with asthma.

      This study will enroll pediatricians. Participants will be randomly assigned to either the
      distance learning group or a control group. At baseline, all participants will complete
      questionnaires. Participants in the control group will not take part in any of the
      educational activities. Participants in the distance learning group will take part in a
      1-hour Webinar, or teleconference, that will provide an orientation to the program and
      discuss the importance of the NHLBI guidelines. At any time between the first Webinar and a
      6-week follow-up Webinar, participants will log into the study Web site and complete a
      training module that aims to educate participants on common barriers to prescribing daily
      inhaled corticosteroids. As an alternative to the Web site, participants may choose to view
      the training module on a CD-ROM. Six weeks after the first Webinar, participants will take
      part in a follow-up Webinar. At this time, study researchers will answer participants'
      questions and provide a program review. The Web site and study materials will remain
      available to participants in the distance learning group for 6 months after the follow-up
      Webinar; a list serve will also be made available to participants. At 1 and 6 months after
      the follow-up Webinar, all participants will complete questionnaires.
    
  