
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the quality of life of patients with invasive stage II, III, or IV
      carcinoma of the urothelium treated with conservative surgery plus cisplatin, fluorouracil,
      and radiotherapy. II. Determine the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of local control, in
      these patients. III. Determine survival of patients treated with this regimen. IV. Determine
      the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to tumor type (T2-4a,
      N0, M0; potentially resectable; no contraindication to surgery vs T2-4b, N0 or N1 or pN1, M0;
      refused surgery or medical contraindications to surgery). (Accrual for stratum I was
      completed as of 10/23/2001.) Stratum I (resectable disease): Regimen A: Patients undergo
      radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5 weeks. Patients also receive fluorouracil IV continuously
      and cisplatin IV continuously on days 1-4 during weeks 1 and 4. If complete response is
      achieved by week 5, patients proceed to regimen B. If partial response or progression is
      observed, patients undergo cystectomy. If cystectomy is refused, patients proceed to regimen
      B. Regimen B: Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 2 weeks. Patients also receive
      fluorouracil and cisplatin as in regimen A on weeks 2 and 5. (Accrual for stratum I was
      completed as of 10/23/2001.) Stratum II (unresectable disease): Patients undergo radiotherapy
      5 days a week for 7 weeks. Patients also receive fluorouracil and cisplatin as in regimen A
      on weeks 1, 4, and 7. Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at 6 months, and then at 1
      year. Patients are followed at 6-8 weeks, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 75 patients (35 for stratum I and 40 for stratum II) will be
      accrued for this study. (Accrual for stratum I was completed as of 10/23/2001.)
    
  