
    
      Low cardiac output syndrome (LCOS) is a common complication in cardiac surgery after weaning
      from cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) associated with high morbidity and mortality. Its prompt
      recognition and management may mitigate the effect of LCOS on the outcome. To date, advanced
      age, prolonged CPB, urgent surgery and impaired left ventricular function assessed by left
      ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) are commonly considered strong predictors of
      postoperative LCOS. Nevertheless, LVEF has several limitations including image quality,
      operator experience, limited reproducibility, inter- and intra-observer discrepancy and
      load/volume dependency. Global Longitudinal Strain (GLS), with automated speckle-tracking
      echocardiography (STE) may overcome several of the LVEF limitations. In fact, while the LVEF
      detects changes in left ventricular chamber volume, GLS reflects myocardial longitudinal
      deformation due to contraction. The rate of myocardial deformation over time (expressed as
      1/s) is called GLS Rate. Global Longitudinal Strain, mostly evaluated from transthoracic
      echocardiography (TTE), has shown lower inter- and intra-observer variability, a better
      reproducibility and prognostic value compared to LVEF in a generic cardiac population. In
      addition the results of the GLS with TTE (GLS-TTE) may not be shifted in cardiac surgery due
      to the effect of the general anesthesia (GA) and positive pressure ventilation. Thus, these
      factors should be considered when the global longitudinal strain, evaluated from
      transesophageal echocardiography (GLS-TEE) is used as predictor of early outcome. Amabili et
      al. have shown that GLS-TEE is better than LVEF in predicting LCOS in a general cardiac
      surgery population. Similarly Sonny et al. in patients undergoing aortic valve surgery for
      stenosis have reported that a GLS-TEE and GLS-TEE Rate are superior to standard
      echocardiographic parameters in predicting a complicated course. To the best of our
      knowledge, there are no studies investigating the role of intraoperative evaluation of
      GLS-TEE and GLS-TEE Rate as predictors of LCOS in mitral valve surgery. In this setting LVEF
      is not a reliable marker of cardiac function due to a systematic overestimation of the
      ejection fraction. Moreover these patients are at high risk of postoperative cardiac
      dysfunction and LCOS owing to the afterload mismatch after mitral surgery. For the reasons
      mentioned above, more effective predictors are advocated. In the present study we try to fill
      the gap. Thus, aim of present study is to assess the role of GLS-TEE, GLS-TEE Rate and
      standard echocardiographic parameters in predicting LCOS in on-pump mitral surgery. In doing
      so, the best cut-off for each echocardiographic parameter will be provided. Finally to detect
      the effect of the GA, the echocardiographic parameters calculated after the induction of GA
      will be compared with those collected preoperatively.

      A telephonic follow-up will be performed at 30 days and 12-months investigating mortality and
      rehospitalization due to heart failure.
    
  