
    
      After hospital discharge, many people experience difficulty in managing their medication
      regimens. This can be due to medication dosing changes, challenges in adjusting new
      medications with those that were taken previously, inadequate discharge instructions from
      hospital personnel, and inadequate follow-up. Difficulty with medication management can lead
      to medication errors that result in harmful side effects, poor disease control, hospital
      readmission, or even death. People with low health literacy often have greater difficulty
      with understanding and managing their medication regimens and as a result they experience
      more medication use errors. Although research shows that many medication errors could be
      prevented or lessened through improved doctor communication and patient-centered treatment
      programs, little research has been done on the effectiveness of such programs among
      low-literacy patients or of such programs during key transition times like hospital
      discharge. Getting pharmacists involved with patient care before hospital discharge may
      prevent unnecessary and dangerous medication errors from occurring once patients leave the
      hospital. Because of the severity of heart conditions and the likelihood of serious adverse
      effects from non-compliance with heart medications, this study will evaluate people admitted
      to the hospital for acute coronary syndromes or heart failure. The purpose of this study is
      to evaluate the effectiveness of a health literacy-focused, pharmacist-delivered program at
      reducing medication errors in heart patients during the first month after hospital discharge.

      This study will enroll people admitted to the hospital who have acute coronary syndromes or
      heart failure. Participants will be randomly assigned to either the pharmacist-delivered
      program or usual care. Participants assigned to the intervention group will receive a
      pharmacist-assisted medication review while in the hospital, counseling from a pharmacist at
      the time of hospital discharge, a low-literacy education tool that details the discharge
      medications, a follow-up phone call 1 to 4 days after discharge, and additional phone calls
      as needed. Participants receiving usual care will receive a doctor-assisted medication review
      and nurse-provided guidance on medication usage at the time of hospital discharge.
      Approximately 30 days after hospital discharge, study researchers will call all participants
      to collect information on serious medication errors, health care utilization, and
      disease-specific quality of life.
    
  