
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare patients' perception of physicians' compassion after they watch the first
      scripted-video vignettes of physicians: one portraying a physician using a standard
      electronic health record (EHR) and the other one portraying a physician using an integrated
      model of EHR during communication.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare patients' perception of physicians' compassion after they watch the second
      scripted-video vignettes of physicians: one portraying a physician using a standard
      electronic health record (EHR) and the other one portraying a physician using an integrated
      model of EHR during communication.

      II. To compare patients' perception of physicians' communication skills after they watch each
      scripted-video vignettes of physicians: one portraying a physician using a standard EHR and
      the other one portraying a physician using an integrated model of EHR during communication.

      III. To compare patients' perception of physicians' professionalism after they watch each
      scripted-video vignettes of physicians: one portraying a physician using a standard EHR and
      the other one portraying a physician using an integrated model of EHR during communication.

      IV. To compare patients' perception of physicians' compassion, communication skills and
      professionalism after they watch two scripted-video vignettes of physicians: one portraying a
      physician using a standard electronic health record (EHR) and the other one portraying a
      physician using an integrated model of EHR during communication.

      V. To compare patients' preference after they watch two scripted-video vignettes of
      physicians sequentially: one portraying a physician using a standard EHR and the other one
      portraying a physician using an integrated model of EHR during communication.

      VI. To examine patients' perception of EHR in healthcare delivery. VII. To establish
      demographic and clinical factors of patients preference for the physician.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients complete questionnaires and watch a video portraying a physician using a
      standard electronic health record (EHR) and then another portraying a physician using an
      integrated model of EHR during communication over 35 minutes.

      GROUP II: Patients complete questionnaires and watch a video portraying a physician using an
      integrated model of EHR and then another portraying a physician using a standard EHR during
      communication over 35 minutes.
    
  