
    
      Methods:

      Desing: Cluster randomized trial including and quantitative component, a qualitative
      component (in-deep interviews)and a time and cost estimation component in the antenatal care
      setting.

      Population: Primary health facilities (n=12) in Bogotá and Cali, Colombia. Eligibility
      criteria: Inclusion Criteria: Pregnant women attending first ANC visit at the study sites, or
      women not previously tested in this pregnancy,Women aged 14 years old or above, Any woman who
      has tested positive for HIV and/or syphilis in the past (will be permitted to enrol), Women
      providing a written informed consent.Exclusion Criteria: Women who have already been enrolled
      in this study, Women < 14 years of age, Women unable to provide informed consent.

      Test to be evaluated: Each of the 12 institutions participating in the trial were assigned in
      a random way to rapid single test for HIV and Syphilis or dual rapid test HIV/syphilis. The
      brand of the rapid test selected for the study, passed throw a process of selection by the
      National Health Institute in Colombia, in order to choose the best test according to
      desirable performance and operational characteristics. The brand Standard Diagnostics the
      Bioline was donated to do the rapid test in the present study with pregnant women.

      Analysis:

        -  CONSORT diagram for the cluster randomized trial will be shown.

        -  Primary analysis will be based on intention-to-treat principle, with no facility
           excluded from analysis after the random assignment.

        -  Baseline characteristics of clusters (facilities) and of the women enrolled in each arm
           will be provided.

        -  For qualitative variables frequencies and percentages will be reported. For quantitative
           normally distributed variables, the number of subjects, means and standard errors will
           be provided, while medians, interquartile range, minima and maxima will be reported for
           skewed non-normal quantitative variables.

        -  Because of the clustered nature of outcomes due to randomization to interventions based
           on clusters (facilities), the Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) modelling, with
           binomial distribution and logit link, will be used to estimate the risk difference (RD)
           and odds ratio (OR) of Syphilis testing, Syphilis treatment and HIV testing uptake, with
           95% Confidence Interval, adjusted for clustering, between interventions arms A and B.
           This model will adjust for any important baseline factors, including whether any testing
           in Syphilis or HIV was ever done previously.

        -  Intra-cluster correlations (ICC) for overall, as well as ICCs stratified for important
           baseline factors of interest, will be estimated.

        -  Two-sided tests and 5% significance levels will be used, and 95% confidence intervals
           for all relevant parameters. SAS statistical packages will be used for the statistical
           analyses.

      Expected results: The results of the study will be used in the design of strategies of
      policies/national o local guidelines or even screening antenatal programs for HIV and
      syphilis, the development of the best practice to the adoption of the rapid test for HIV and
      Syphilis. The information collected will be used to share the experience and the lessons
      learned to other countries in order to development guidelines of global, regional and
      national policies to implement in order to impact the transmission of maternal-child HIV and
      syphilis.
    
  