
    
      Low Vitamin D levels can cause faster bone loss and increase the risk of having a fracture.
      Patients who experience a hip fracture have low levels of Vitamin D. It is not clear how much
      Vitamin D must be taken in order to reach this optimal level.

      Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25-OHD) concentrations are the recognized functional status
      indicator for vitamin D. Although there is no clear consensus, vitamin D 'insufficiency' has
      been considered in the range of 25- 75/80 nmol/L. Patients with acute hip fracture are at
      high risk for a recurrent hip fracture or other fragility fractures (and falls) and are a
      group who should be targeted for osteoporosis treatment (i.e. Bisphosphonate or other
      antiresorptive). Before fracture patients start on a bisphosphonate, however, an important
      consideration is whether 25-OHD levels are at a therapeutic level (>75 nmol/l and less than
      150-200 nmol/L). Case-control studies indicate that older people who experience a hip
      fracture have lower serum concentrations of 25-OHD than do those without a fracture. In
      cross-sectional studies, the majority of patients with hip fracture are considered to have
      insufficient vitamin D levels. Although the benefits of supplementing patients with at least
      800 to 1000 IU/day Vitamin D3 may be recognized, there is little information available to
      guide physicians regarding the appropriate management of hip fracture patients who may be
      severely Vitamin D deficient, particularly in acute hip fracture patients. Few studies have
      examined whether high dose vitamin D (i.e. 50,000 IU or greater/week) offers an advantage
      over smaller, routinely prescribed doses (i.e. 800 or 1000 IU), particularly in hip fracture
      patients.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the number of hip fracture patients reaching an
      optimal level of vitamin D comparing between three different Vitamin D dose strategies:

      A. 50,000 D2 oral bolus followed by 800 IU D3 daily B. 100,000 D2 oral bolus followed by 800
      IU D3 daily C. 800 IU D3 daily

      The Vitamin D strategies will be administered over 3-months in acute hip fracture patients.
      The proportion of patients reaching an optimal level of 25-OHD (>75 nmol/L) will be
      determined.

      Secondary measures include the Timed Up and Go test, and 2 Minute Walk Test to compare the
      effects of the Vitamin D supplementation strategies on functional and muscle strength scales.
    
  