
    
      This is multi-center randomized controlled trial designed according to the CONSORT Statement
      recommendations. A total of 68 patients will be recruited in the two centers. This sample
      size was a-priori calculated as capable to detect a clinically important between-group
      difference of 5.7 points in the primary endpoint Action Research Arm Test, considering a
      standard deviation of 12.5, a type I error of 5%, and a power of 80%. More technical details
      on the RETRAINER platform for the rehabilitation of the arm are here reported. The
      experimental setup consists of: a passive forearm-hand orthosis; a current controlled
      stimulator with one stimulation channel multiplexed to 48 active sites, developed by "Hasomed
      GmbH"; 4-by-4 electrode arrays used for transcutaneous NeuroMuscular Electrical Stimulation
      (NMES), developed by Translational Neural Engineering Laboratory - École Polytechnique
      Fédérale De Lausanne (TNE-EPFL); and interactive objects, which are daily life objects
      equipped with Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tags used to identify the target
      positions so as to drive the execution of the rehabilitation exercises. A suitable reader is
      embedded in the exoskeleton with the antenna on the wrist joint. The control system is shared
      between an Embedded Control System (ECS), running on a BeagleBoneBlackTM, for real-time
      operation, and a Windows-based table (Microsoft Surface 3 running Windows 8), which provides
      a graphical user interface (GUI) for the therapist and the patient. The Orthosis is
      characterized by a thermoplastic bar, shaped to conform to the dorsal hand-forearm aspect,
      and aimed at hand-wrist stabilization; thermoelastic clasps aimed at selective fingers
      constraining and grasp movement facilitation; the motion of hand, wrist, and fingers is
      monitored with three inertial sensors ("Invensense MPU-9250"). To allow the use on patients
      within the 5-th and 95-th percentile, the thermoplastic bar hosts are available in 5 sizes,
      and the elastic clasps are available in 11 sizes. The stimulation is provided through
      stimulation maps with one or more active virtual electrodes, selected by the therapist based
      on the subject specific needs. Depending on the task, stimulation on extensors and flexors is
      applied to match the desired kinematic hand configuration. In case the desired extension (or
      flexion) is reached though stimulation or residual volitional control, stimulation intensity
      is reduced accordingly.

      The stimulation frequency is set at 25 Hz, the pulse width is fixed at 300μs, while the
      stimulation intensity is set at the beginning of the training session on each muscle
      individually at a value tolerated by the subject and able to induce a functional movement.

      Custom electrode arrays are placed over forearm muscle belly. A fast and automatic
      calibration procedure is required before the beginning of each session. This procedure aims
      at setting the current amplitude values for each Virtual Electrode in use.

      The control interface of the system, implemented in .Net 4.6, provides a GUI including
      multiple software tools to organize rehabilitation exercises and monitor rehabilitation
      progress. The heart of the control interface is a State Machine, which drives both the
      parameterization and the execution of the exercises. Each exercise is divided into single
      tasks: the State Machine drives the exercise execution throughout the tasks, while the
      execution of each single task is controlled by the ECS. The ECS controls all the modules
      requiring real time constraints, such as the stimulator, the FES controller and the orthosis
      sensors. To keep the control interface and the ECS synchronized, a strict master slave
      concept using a custom made communication protocol was implemented, meaning that the ECS must
      not act independently, but only reacts to commands sent by the high level control.
      Transitions between states of the state machine and thus tasks of the exercise are triggered
      by angle sensors data, RFID data or a timer (depending on the task). Transitions have to
      fulfill certain conditions, so called guards. These guards are predefined for each task and
      have to be parameterized as described in the Section D. The GUI guides the user through the
      training by providing visual instructions and feedback. The workflow of a typical training
      session consists of four main phases: the setting, donning and parameterization of the
      system, and the training following a pre-defined sequence of exercises. The control interface
      supports the therapist and the patient throughout all the phases via the GUI. The setting
      starts with the therapist creating a new user, or selecting an existent one, calibrating the
      inertial sensors, and selecting the exercises. Afterwards, the donning phase starts with the
      placement of the electrode arrays for stimulation. Once the Virtual Electrodes placement and
      intensity is checked, the therapist should don the orthosis of appropriate size on the
      patient, and position the inertial sensors on the orthosis and on the fingers clasps. The
      following step is the calibration of the FES controller by means of the automatic procedure
      previously described. On the following training days, the setting and donning procedure is
      partly simplified since the therapist can load the settings of the previous day and
      eventually adjust them, and use the pre-identified orthoses that best fit the subject. A
      parameterization step is designed to set the guards of the State Machine. In this process the
      GUI guides the patient and the therapist through each task of the selected exercises with
      stimulation. The patient-specific parameters for each task, such as the target positions, the
      desired time for the execution of each task, and the time of the relax phases, are
      determined. At the end of the parameterization phase, all the parameters are stored and the
      training session can start. The training consists of the execution of a series of exercises
      involving the hand during daily life activities. Typical exercises are grasping an object,
      flexing and extending fingers, flexing and extending the wrist, anterior reaching on a plane
      or in the space, moving an object on a plane or in the space, with or without an object in
      the hand. The execution of the exercises is controlled by the control interface which leads
      the patient throughout the single tasks by means of both visual and audio messages via the
      GUI.
    
  