
    
      Stroke patients often suffer from persistent physical, psychological, and motor dysfunction,
      which severely affect their independence in daily life. Therefore, restoration of independent
      ambulatory ability is one of the most important goals in stroke rehabilitation. To achieve
      such a goal, ambulation aids are important and necessary devices to assist their ambulatory
      ability or ambulation training. Whereas the use of ambulation assistive devices promotes
      early mobility and facilitates early restoration of function for these patients, improper or
      prolonged use of these devices may inevitably cause negative training effects, such as
      patients may become over-dependent upon the assistance offered by these devices. The
      formation of such dependence would hinder the progress of stroke patients to achieve the
      ultimate goal of independent walking without any assistive devices. To assess the influences
      of using ambulation assistive devices, it is therefore imperative that clinicians closely and
      subjectively evaluate the gait pattern and force production pattern of patients when they
      walk with ambulation aids. In addition, ambulation assistive devices equipped with device
      pressure feedback function can be used not only to assist in ambulating but also to monitor
      patient's level of dependence on devices. The device pressure feedback information can be
      used to train patients to gradually reduce their dependence on devices. To date, due to the
      limitations of conventional laboratory methods of gait analysis, the "multi-footed" gait
      patterns presented by stroke patients, when they are walking with ambulation aids, have not
      yet been studied with biomechanical analysis. Moreover, whether the use of ambulation
      assistive devices equipped with feedback function can effectively improve stroke patients'
      gait patterns or their ability to achieve independent walking remains unknown. Answers to
      both questions would provide important knowledge for clinicians to base upon in evaluating
      weight bearing symmetry between the two lower extremities in stroke patients and the training
      effects of using ambulation aids for these patients.
    
  