
    
      The objective of this study is to determine if serial intravitreal aflibercept injections
      (IAI) improve single surgery anatomic success rate and reduce development of clinically
      apparent proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) following surgical repair of primary, macula
      involving rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (RRD).

      This will be a randomized clinical trial, with participant enrollment lasting ~120 days. 150
      eyes will be randomized 1:1 to intervention (serial IAI) versus sham control (standard of
      care). Adult eyes with macula involving primary RRD deemed at high risk for PVR development
      as determined by pre-specified clinical features are eligible for enrollment.

      The study, Aflibercept group will receive intravitreal aflibercept injection (2mg/0.05mL) at
      the conclusion of RRD repair surgery, at post-operative day 30 (plus/minus 7 days), and at
      post-operative day 60 (plus/minus 7 days). Patients enrolled in the control group will
      undergo a sham procedure at post-operative day 30 (plus/minus 7 days) and at post-operative
      day 60 (plus/minus 7 days).

      The primary outcome will be single surgery anatomic success (retinal re-attachment) rate.
      Additional outcomes will include: systemic and ocular safety of IAI in setting of RRD;
      epiretinal membrane formation; presence of grade C PVR or worse; post-operative complication
      profile; OCT-measured central macular thickness; change from baseline in visual acuity
      (Snellen) wearing habitual correction.

      All eyes will undergo pars plana vitrectomy with or without scleral buckling and gas
      tamponade. Post-operative exams (slit lamp biomicroscopy and indirect ophthalmoscopy) will
      include the following time-points: Day 30, Day 60, Day 90, Day 120. All time points will have
      a window of plus/minus 7 days, except the Day 120 visit which will be a window of plus/minus
      14 days.
    
  