
    
      In the Ebola outbreak in Guinea up to 90% of patients tested negative but were rarely
      diagnosed for differentials and Malaria and other diseases went under-diagnosed, which most
      likely lead to more deaths from these infectious agents. Another important aspect is that,
      the fear of the patients of having Ebola, while they are suffering from other disease must be
      overcome by providing the correct diagnosis of the type of the pathogen timely. [Dunbar NK et
      al.].

      The RPA assay is six times faster than conventional real-time PCR while yielding the same
      analytical sensitivity and specificity. In addition, the RPA format (equipment size,
      cold-chain independent reagents) makes rapid on-site testing feasible and affordable. We
      developed a mobile laboratory, which consists of a hard plastic glovebox a
      Diagnostics-in-a-Suitcase (DiaS), and a solar panel and power pack set. The disassembled
      glovebox is kept in a metal box (80 × 60 × 41 cm) with other necessary materials
      (disinfectant solution, extraction kits, filter tips, racks, vortex, heat block, autoclavable
      plastic bags and personal protective equipment (PPE). The total weight is 28 kg for the box
      and 16 kg for the DiaS. Sample inactivation and RNA extraction using the SE kit so far were
      done in the glovebox. This allowed handling of hazard group 4 samples. The RT-RPA assay was
      performed in the DiaS containing the ESEQuant TS2 device with integrated touchscreen to
      operate the device and display the results without the need of a laptop, which is not easy to
      disinfect (Figure 1).The mobile lab was successfully deployed in Conakry when an increasing
      number of cases, due mainly to non-reporting, reticence, and infection transmission chains
      during burials developed towards the end of 2014. To provide quick results for the safe and
      dignified burial (SDB) programme two mobile laboratories were set up in the Matoto Gbessia
      Port II district. Altogether 928 post-mortem swab samples were tested. Overall, 120 samples
      (12.9%) scored positive. Positive results were obtained within 30-40 min and reported
      directly to the SDB teams [Faye O et al.].

      APPROACH

      Objective:

      To assess the performances and operational characteristics of the differential RPA we will
      use i) a panel of well characterized EBOV sera from samples collected in Guinea and DRC ii)
      sera from EVD suspect cases, and iii) sera from routine diagnostics at IPD and NIBR.

      Study population:

      The study will be carried out on material from EVD suspected persons, archived and
      prospective EBOV negative samples and selected routine diagnostic samples.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria: All subjects (male, female, adults and children) meeting
      the WHO case definition of "suspected" and "probable" EVD case eligible for real time RT-PCR
      assay, according to the currently used case definition in DRC. For the prospective
      evaluation, oral informed consent from the patient/legal guardian will be requested for
      eligibility to participate in the study and exclusion criteria will be inability to provide
      consent, samples or condition that could jeopardize the subject's safety.

      Sample size:

      A panel of 50-100 RT-PCR positive samples for each differential pathogen, and 50-100 RT-PCR
      negative samples will be assembled and used. With an expected RPA assay sensitivity and
      specificity of 98% (confidence interval of 95%), a minimum of 30 positive and negative cases
      for each parameter shall be included in the study. Based on our experience in Guinea, 10% of
      RT-PCR tests on samples from suspect cases are EBOV positive. Consequently 300 suspected EVD
      cases need to be screened to obtain at least 30 EVD positive samples. A prevalence gradient
      of P. falciparum > S.typhi > DENV > YFV would be expected in the remaining 270 samples. The
      minimum number of positives and negatives to be tested for each parameter will be calculated
      according to their prevalence.

      Samples collection and processing:

      For the prospective study in febrile patients and potential new EVD outbreaks, saliva and
      serum will be collected via oral swabbing and venepuncture as per SOP performed in the EVD
      outbreak in Guinea harmonized with SOPs used in DRC for patients with EVD symptoms complying
      to the protocol inclusion criteria. EBOV-RPA and real time RT-PCR will be performed and
      results will be classified as concordant negative or positive or discordant. Patients with
      EBOV negative and positive results will respectively be discharged or hospitalized according
      to criteria established locally. Discordant results will be retested on the same sample and a
      supplemental one collected 24 hours later. If discrepancy cannot be resolved, results will be
      discussed with the clinician to take the best decision for the patient and communities
      regarding the context. Archived samples will be tested directly from aliquots stored in the
      freezer.

      Sample extraction protocol:

      Initially all collected sample will be subjected to inactivation step using lysis buffer in
      BSL-3 portable Glove box (Figure 2). Two rapid extraction protocols will be validated and
      compared for their suitability for field use, (i) a NaoH based alkaline lysis protocol
      provided by TwistDX which can be used directly on whole blood and serum [Osmundson TW et
      al.], (ii) a filter paper based nucleic acid extraction method allowing total nucleic acid
      extraction from crude samples [Zou Y et al.].

      Both protocols require a maximum 10 minutes. Extracts will be sent to the BSL-4 laboratory in
      Winnipeg, Canada (NML), to confirm inactivation of Ebola virus in the sample extract by
      inoculation on cell culture. The RPA will be operated from the suitcase laboratory, which
      contains all equipment and reagents needed (Figure 1)

      .

      Data collection and storage:

      Clinical data and results will be recorded via an existing questionnaire used in Guinea,
      harmonized to procedures in DRC and entered into a database. Data include but are not limited
      to age, sex, date of admission, date of onset, date of sampling, detailed symptoms, results
      of testing, final classification of the patient, disease outcome.

      Appropriate quality control measures will be implemented to monitor the reliability of the
      process for data collection, entry general management compliance, and for the quality of data
      generated. At the end of the study all data collected, will be controlled for quality and
      locked for data analysis.

      Standard operating procedure:

      SOPs of all applicable research processes will be made available.

      Data analysis methods:

      Clinical data will be analysed to give an accurate description of the study population. Each
      collected variable will be described using statistical indicators such as mean, median,
      standard deviation for quantitative variables and frequencies for qualitative variables. The
      95% confidence intervals will be provided as well as significance tests (such as Xi-square)
      for comparison between analytical and clinical performance of the EVD diagnostic tests.

      Test accuracy:

      Postive ref Negative ref tests result tests result Positive test result TP FP

      Negative test result FN TN

      Sensitivity: Proportion of true positives samples. (TP/TP+FN) Specificity: Proportion of true
      negative samples. (TN/TN+FP) The sensitivity and the specificity will be combined in a kappa
      value to estimate the overall performance of the tests.

      Test usefulness:

      A scoring system will be developed to assess the user friendliness
    
  