
    
      The management of poor ovarian responders (POR) remains the most challenging in In-Vitro
      Fertilization (IVF). The incidence of POR ranges between 9 and 24% (Caprio F, et al, 2015).

      POR refers to a reduction in the quantity of primordial follicle pool in reproductive age
      group (Jirge, P. R., 2016, Sunkara, S. K., et al, 2014), in addition to a higher risk of
      implantation failure (Kailasam C, et al, 2004).

      To overcome this condition, adjuvant fertility treatments using controlled ovarian
      stimulation along with IVF is needed to achieve pregnancy. Despite the use of various
      treatments including high dose gonadotropins, patients with POR have lower rates of pregnancy
      compared to patients with normal ovarian response (Oudendijk, J. F., et al, 2011). Studies
      now suggest a variety of regimens like the use of growth hormones, DHEA or androgens to
      improve the outcomes (Kyrou D, et al, 2009).

      Inositol belongs to the vitamin B group, precursor for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol
      polyphosphates (PIPs). PIPs belong to the signal transduction system involved in the
      regulation of different cellular functions such as signal transduction, cell morphogenesis
      and cytogenesis (Kutateladze TG, 2010). It is involved in cell membrane formation, lipid
      synthesis and cell growth (Unfer V, et al, 2012). It has been extensively studied in patients
      with insulin resistance, as inositol has an insulin sensitizing action (Croze ML & Soulage
      CO, 2013). In addition, researchers have hypothesized different mechanisms of action on
      different cell types especially at the level of the ovaries. An international consensus has
      confirmed that myo-inositol pre-treatment is able to improve the oocyte and the embryo
      quality via enhancing the intracellular Ca2+ oscillation with meiotic progression of germinal
      vesicle oocytes. Therefore, it acts on improving the oocyte maturation and embryo development
      (Nestler JE, et al, 1999, Papaleo E, et al, 2009).

      Previous studies showed that higher concentrations of myo-inositol in follicular fluid are
      correlated with a better oocyte quality (Chiu TT, et al, 2002). A study by Jiang demonstrated
      that inositol supplementation reduces oxidative stress by different agents such as increasing
      superoxide dismutase and catalase levels (Jiang WD, et al, 2011). In view of its effects on
      oocyte maturation and quality, the use of myo-inositol in women with POR is promising.
      However, data is still sparse whether supplementation with myo-inostiol prior to IVF cycles
      does improve the pregnancy outcomes.

      The main interest of this study is the use of myo-inositol prior to IVF cycles for
      improvement of reproductive outcomes in poor ovarian responders.
    
  