
    
      BACKGROUND: In children with cancer, infections are a major cause of morbidity and mortality
      due to chemotherapy-related immunosuppression, comprising up to 70% of all treatment-related
      deaths. The relationship between neutropenia and life-threatening infection has been well
      established, and any signs of infection including fever has to be treated promptly with broad
      spectrum antibiotics. However, the duration of antibiotic therapy in pediatric cancer
      patients with febrile neutropenia without a known source is unknown. Traditionally,
      antibiotic therapy is continued until neutrophil recovery, due to fear of relapse of
      infection potentially as life-threatening sepsis, but scientific evidence supporting this
      strategy is limited. It has been debated that the strategy may be over-cautious, leading to
      unnecessarily prolonged antibiotic treatments with important side effects, including extended
      hospital admissions, adverse drug events, super-infection with fungi and multi-resistant
      bacteria, and thus affecting the children on both short and long term.

      Studies in adults have shown that withdrawal of empirical antimicrobial therapy based on
      clinical assessment, despite severe neutropenia, can reduce antibiotic treatment
      significantly without compromising patient safety. This approach is warranted in children
      with cancer, but no randomized studies have been conducted in high risk children with
      prolonged neutropenia. A few studies have documented that early discontinuation of empirical
      antibiotics in low-risk children with short-lasting neutropenia is safe, but as stressed by
      recent international guidelines, the question of optimal duration of empirical antibiotics
      for high-risk children with prolonged bone marrow suppression continues to be a major
      research gap.

      HYPOTHESIS: Empirical antibiotic therapy of febrile neutropenia can safely be discontinued
      after 48 hours of apyrexia and clinical stability, despite severe neutropenia, in high-risk
      children with expected prolonged neutropenia.

      AIM: To establish evidence-based treatment strategies for children with febrile neutropenia
      by performing a randomized controlled trial investigating the efficacy and safety of early
      termination of empirical antibiotic therapy.

      METHODS: Children treated at one of the 4 pediatric oncology departments in Denmark who are
      admitted with neutropenic fever will be evaluated according to current routines, including
      complete physical examination, assessment of severity signs and source, blood samples
      (biochemistry and hematology), blood cultures (collected from the central venous catheter),
      and additional samples from infected sites as clinically indicated. After obtaining cultures,
      empiric antibiotic therapy for neutropenic fever is started. The type of antibiotics will
      depend on current local guideline. Children who remain febrile despite empirical antibiotic
      therapy will be treated and investigated according to local and international guidelines.

      Eligible subjects will be screened and included as described.

      Included subjects will be followed for 28 days after initiation of empirical antibiotic
      treatment or until neutrophile recovery, whichever is longest.

      They will be assessed at the following protocolled time points:

        1. At 48 hours of apyrexia

        2. At recovery of neutropenia

        3. At 28 (±2) days (final assessment)

        4. In the event of relapsing fever after the initial 48 hours of apyrexia during the
           follow-up period.

      Each assessment will include a clinical interview, targeted physical examination and review
      of patient chart including biochemistry and hematology. A fecal and a pharyngeal swap will be
      collected and stored at the final assessment.

      Children receiving antibiotics with no additional need for in-hospital treatment can receive
      their antibiotic treatment by continuous infusion on a portable pump and discharged to
      outpatient therapy, according to local department guidelines.

      STATISTICS: The number of days free of antibiotics will be compared between the groups by
      linear regression analysis. A multivariate linear regression analysis will be carried out
      adjusting for age, gender, neutropenia duration, and underlying malignant disease and other
      significant risk factors.

      Secondary outcomes will be compared by a non-inferiority assumption with an inferiority
      margin of 10%. All tests will be two-sided, with p values of 0.05 considered significant. An
      interim analysis will be conducted when 50% of the patients have been recruited to assess the
      safety of the study. A worst-case imputation method will be used for missing data in an
      exploratory sensitivity analysis.
    
  