
    
      Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) (OMIM 301000) is a rare X-linked immunodeficiency caused by
      mutations in a single gene, WAS, mapping to Xp11.22-Xp11.3 and coding for the Wiskott-Aldrich
      Syndrome Protein (WASP) 1. WASP is a critical regulator of actin signaling with expression
      limited to hematopoietic cells, and thus is required for multiple functions including T cell
      activation, dendritic cell migration and podosome formation, and B cell terminal development
      and function. WAS is characterized by microthrombocytopenia, recurrent infections, eczema and
      associated with a high incidence of auto-immunity and of lymphoid malignancies. Classic or
      severe WAS, is generally observed in patients with nonsense mutations or insertions/deletions
      resulting in frameshift or splice-site mutations or missense mutations and resulting in
      unstable protein 2. With few exceptions, WASP-negative patients have classical disease.
      Affected patients have a severely reduced life expectancy.

      Currently, the only curative option for WAS patients is hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT). This treatment is most successful when an HLA-identical sibling or
      matched unrelated donor is available and results in correction of microthrombocytopenia and
      immune dysfunction, even when stable mixed chimerism occurs. However, even patients
      undergoing matched HSCT can suffer from considerable morbidity and mortality due to graft
      versus host disease (GVHD) and many patients lack an HLA-identical donor. The outcome of
      mismatched related HSCT is consistently poor with survival of approximately 50%. Gene
      transfer is an attractive alternative treatment for WAS. Successful gene transfer using
      autologous gene-corrected HSC would overcome clinical complications linked to GVHD and its
      treatment. Furthermore, in contrast to allogeneic HSCT, gene transfer would not be limited by
      the availability of compatible donors. Several lines of evidence indicate that partial
      reconstitution with gene corrected cells may be sufficient to ameliorate the disease.

      We propose here a Pilot and Feasibility study of ex vivo gene transfer using a lentiviral
      vector (LV) to transduce autologous bone marrow derived CD34+ HSC. Cells will be infused into
      patients conditioned with cytoreductive chemotherapy. Our collaborating investigators in
      Europe have developed a LV encoding the human WAS cDNA under control of the WAS promoter and
      pseudotyped with the Vesicular Stomatitis Virus glycoprotein (VSVg) envelope. This
      w1.6_hWASP_WPRE (VSVg) LV (abbreviated as w1.6W) has been shown to be efficacious in both in
      vitro and in vivo preclinical models. Safety including cellular toxicity, insertional
      mutagenesis and tumor formation has been studied by a number of methods including: 1) a
      sensitive in vitro transformation assay, 2) toxicity studies in transduced human CD34+ cells,
      3) examination of the insertional pattern in transduced murine cells, and 4) long-term
      observation and secondary transplant studies in mice. In the United States, we plan to enroll
      5 boys with classic WAS who lack a matched related or unrelated donor. Parallel studies (not
      under our Investigational New Drug application) using the same LV produced in the same
      facility, Genethon, will be conducted in London, UK (5 subjects) and Paris, France (5
      subjects). The primary objective will be to demonstrate feasibility and safety. The secondary
      objective will be to assess therapeutic efficacy.
    
  