
    
      Conventionally laparoscopic surgery requires multiple abdominal wall incision for placement
      of ports and laparoscopic instrument to perform the operation. With the advancement of
      technology, laparoscopic surgery can now be performed through one special port which can
      accommodate several laparoscopic instruments to perform the operation and hence, require only
      one small 2-3cm incision through the umbilicus. This is commonly named as Single-incision
      Laparoscopic Surgery (SILS) or single-port laparoscopic surgery.

      Compared to conventional laparoscopic surgery, SILS has the advantage of further reduction of
      post-operative wound pain because of only one small abdominal incision is required. The
      cosmetic result from SILS is also better because the only incision is made through the
      umbilicus which can hide the wound effectively after operation. After complete healing of the
      umbilical wound, the patient's abdomen could be visually 'scarless'.

      There has been no study to compare the results of the new single-port laparoscopic colectomy
      to the conventional laparoscopic colectomy in the literature yet. In order to decide if this
      new technique should be recommended to more patients for treatment of colonic neoplasia, a
      formal study is required. We designed a patient blinded randomized controlled trial to
      investigate if there is any difference between these two laparoscopic colectomies.

      The primary outcome to be measured is post-operative pain on coughing and analgesia
      consumption. The patients will be blinded to the type of treatment that they have received
      during the first three days after operation. During these three days, the post-operative pain
      score and analgesic requirement will be recorded independently by the Pain team who is also
      blinded to the type of procedure.

      The secondary to be measured include operating time, blood loss, morbidities and mortality,
      cancer recurrence and patient survival in long term. The secondary outcomes will also be
      recorded prospectively and compared.

      Definition of conversion:

      Conversion to conventional is defined as the need to place additional port to aid the
      procedure during the single port laparoscopic colectomy Conversion to open is defined as(1)
      the need to perform conventional laparotomy in order to accomplish the procedure or (2)
      premature abdominal incision for colorectal dissection or vascular control during single port
      or conventional laparoscopic colectomy.
    
  