
    
      Wound infection is a common and serious consequence of anesthesia and surgery. Infection is
      associated with major complications including intra-abdominal abscess, peritonitis without
      leakage, and sepsis. The average wound infection thus prolongs hospitalization by a week,
      doubles the need for ICU care, and doubles mortality.

      The first few hours following bacterial contamination constitute a decisive period during
      which infection is established. Techniques aimed at improving resistance to surgical wound
      infections are thus most effective when implemented during the decisive period - even though
      infections are not detected clinically until five-to-ten days after surgery.

      The primary defense against surgical pathogens is oxidative killing by neutrophils. This
      reaction critically depends on tissue oxygen tension. It is therefore unsurprising that
      subcutaneous tissue oxygen tension (PsqO2) is inversely correlated with the risk of surgical
      wound infection. As might be expected, supplemental perioperative oxygen administration
      increases tissue oxygen partial pressure (compared with an FIO2 of 30%) and decreases wound
      infection risk. While 100% oxygen is associated with atelectasis and pulmonary inflammation,
      we and others have shown that 80% oxygen is not.

      Inadequate healing is also common. Scar formation starts with transcription of pro-collagen,
      which undergoes post-translational hydroxylation of the abundant proline and lysine residues.
      This promotes the cross-linking within and between collagen strands that provides tensile
      strength which begins the healing process. The prolyl and lysyl hydroxylases that catalyze
      this reaction depend on the substrate oxygen. The Km (substrate concentration at which the
      velocity of the reaction is half-maximal) for O2 of prolyl hydroxylase has been variously
      estimated at 20, 25, and 100 mmHg. Even using the most conservative estimate, these data
      suggest that proline hydroxylation of collagen (e.g., scar formation) will be PO2 dependent
      through the range of 0 to ≈200 mmHg, with 90% of the effect occurring by 90 mmHg. In vitro
      and in vivo animal evidence supports this theory. Inadequate healing is associated with
      anastomotic leakage, wound dehiscence, and bleeding.

      In morbidly obese patients, the incidence of infection and major complications related to
      either infection or inadequate healing is 15-20% after gastric bypass based on our
      preliminary data and a review of records at Washington University. Roughly 30% of the
      American population is now obese with a body mass index (BMI) > 30 kg/m2; about 5% of the
      population is morbidly obese, with a BMI exceeding 40 kg/m2. These patients are at
      extraordinarily high risk of wound infection, and infections in these patients are especially
      severe.

      Cardiac output, circulating blood volume, and resting oxygen consumption are all increased in
      the obese; however, total blood flow is sub-normal in relation to body weight. Obesity
      augments the size of individual fat cells without increasing blood flow. Specifically, fat
      tissue is hypoperfused and poorly oxygenated. Intraoperative tissue oxygenation is abnormally
      low in obese patients and postoperative tissue oxygenation is especially low - although it
      can be improved by oxygen administration. It thus seems likely that inadequate tissue
      oxygenation contributes to the observed extraordinary high wound infection risk in obese
      patients.

      Although supplemental oxygen during surgery and for the first two-to-six hours after surgery
      halves the risk of surgical wound infection, it remains unknown whether prolonged
      supplemental postoperative oxygen significantly augments the benefits of intraoperative
      oxygen. There is some evidence suggesting that prolonged postoperative oxygen administration
      may be helpful. For example, experimental infections in guinea pigs are reduced by
      administration of supplemental oxygen for 45 h. In contrast, restricting oxygen for only 45
      minutes after contamination reduces tensile wound strength in rabbits no more than
      restricting oxygen for 5 full days. No study in humans has evaluated the effects of
      supplemental postoperative oxygen on surgical wound infection or associated complications.

      To the extent that supplemental oxygen after surgery is likely to reduce the incidence of
      major complications related to wound infection and healing, benefit is especially likely in
      morbidly obese patients because their baseline tissue oxygenation is usually sub-optimal and
      their risk is high. We thus propose to test the hypothesis that the incidence of major
      complications related to infection or inadequate healing are reduced in morbidly obese
      patients given 80% inspired oxygen during and for 12-18 hours after surgery compared with
      patients given 80% oxygen only during surgery.

      Patients will be enrolled at two OUTCOMES RESEARCH Group sites: the University of Louisville
      and the Cleveland Clinic. Patients undergoing gastric bypass will all be given 80%
      intraoperative oxygen and then randomly assigned to 30% or 80% oxygen until the first
      postoperative morning. The primary outcome will be a composite of major complications
      plausibly related to infection or healing. A maximum of 1,276 patients will provide a 90%
      power to detect a 25% reduction in the proportion of patients with at least one major
      complication. Supplemental oxygen is safe and inexpensive, costing only a few dollars per
      patient. Confirming our hypothesis would indicate that clinicians can reduce the risk of
      serious complications by making an essentially trivial modification in postoperative patient
      care.
    
  