
    
      Approximately 12% of women smoke during pregnancy, and at least 500,000 babies are born each
      year having been exposed to nicotine. These infants have poor lung function at birth and have
      an increased risk of developing lung diseases, including bronchitis, pneumonia, and asthma.
      Researchers believe that nicotine may interact with nicotinic receptors in the unborn child's
      developing lungs and cause altered growth and decreased lung function. Preliminary animal
      research studies suggest that some of the harmful effects of nicotine may be blocked by
      vitamin C, an antioxidant that may protect against cellular damage caused by nicotine and
      other pollutants. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of vitamin C at
      blocking the harmful effects of nicotine exposure on lung development and function in
      children born to women who smoke during pregnancy.

      This study will enroll pregnant women who smoke, as well as a control group of pregnant women
      who do not smoke. At a baseline study visit, all participants will complete smoking history
      questionnaires. For 2 weeks, all participants who smoke will receive placebo capsules once a
      day. They will then be randomly assigned to receive either vitamin C capsules or placebo
      capsules, both of which will be taken once a day, in addition to a prenatal vitamin, for the
      duration of their pregnancy. Study visits, occurring once a month throughout the pregnancy,
      will include a medical and smoking history review and urine collection. An ultrasound exam
      will be performed once during the pregnancy to determine the exact size and age of the baby,
      and blood collection will occur at baseline and once or twice more during the pregnancy.
      Study researchers will review participants' medical records and will call participants three
      times during their pregnancy to review their food intake. At the time of delivery, amniotic
      fluid samples will be collected. When babies are 48 hours old, baby lung function testing
      will occur, and when babies are 3 and 9 months of age, researchers will call participants to
      collect breathing information on the babies. When babies are 12 months old, participants will
      attend a study visit that will include urine collection from the babies and a review of baby
      breathing difficulties, medication changes, and environmental smoking exposure.
    
  