
    
      Tissue factor (TF) is a transmembrane glycoprotein that acts as the principal initiator of
      the extrinsic coagulation pathway. TF is a key mediator between the immune system and
      coagulation and is the principal activator of coagulation. The TF-FVIIa complex activates FX
      and FIX, resulting in the cleavage of prothrombin to thrombin. Normally, localized activation
      of the coagulation cascade associated with inflammatory responses plays a role in controlling
      the spread of infectious agents; however, aberrant TF expression often leads to serious
      thrombotic disorders. TF-dependent thrombosis has been associated with many diseases
      including septic shock, coronary artery disease (CAD), cancer, and many inflammatory and
      autoimmune disorders such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, and inflammatory bowel
      disease.

      Acute lung injury (ALI) and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) are forms of acute
      respiratory failure characterized by diffuse pulmonary infiltrates, pulmonary hypertension,
      refractory hypoxemia, loss of pulmonary compliance and normal hydrostatic pressures. ALI and
      ARDS commonly occur in patients with acute catastrophic events such as sepsis, trauma and
      severe pulmonary infections. The incidence of ALI and ARDS is extremely high in patients with
      sepsis. By blocking the initiating events of extrinsic coagulation activation, their effects
      on pro-inflammatory events in the lungs and disordered fibrin deposition may be corrected and
      the evolution of severe structural and functional injury may be averted during ALI/ARDS.
      TNX-832 (formerly known as Sunol-cH36), directed against human TF, which can block the
      pathological complications of TF-dependent thrombus formation. The blockage by TNX-832 of
      initiating events in the extrinsic coagulation pathway may attenuate the effects on
      pro-inflammatory events in ALI/ARDS patients, thereby averting or decreasing disordered
      fibrin deposition and averting the evolution of severe structural and functional injury.
    
  