
    
      There are case reports and pilot studies in patients with primary biliary cholangitis (PBC)
      In the literature in which the effect of fibrates (specially bezafibrate) on the improvement
      of biochemical cholestasis have been seen, however the clinical benefit (survival, mortality,
      fatigue, pruritus) has not been reported and likewise the response criteria used in previous
      studies is very heterogeneous. In previous studies, bezafibrate has been proved to be a
      secure drug in this patients, with few adverse events, also it is an economic and of easy
      access drug. For all this the investigators intent to study the utility of bezafibrate as an
      additional treatment in PBC patients without response to UDCA.

      This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study designed to enroll a total of
      34 patients with diagnosis of PBC without a complete response to the use of UDCA for more
      than a year, then the participants will be divided by randomization to receive bezafibrate or
      placebo, resulting in a total of two groups of 17 patients each. Both groups will be followed
      every 3 months for a total of 1 year with clinical and laboratory follow-up to determine the
      efficacy and security of the treatment. The investigators will measure all the laboratory
      variables related to the disease and possible adverse effects of the use of fibrates
      (creatine kinase, transaminases, bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase), also the investigators
      will measure the quality of life variables (pruritus severity, Short Form [SF]-36
      questionnaire), and determine the fibrosis stage at the beginning and end of the study by
      non-invasive methods (transient elastography).

      The study is directed to patients with PBC diagnosis who have had management with standard
      UDCA dose (13 to 15 mg/kg per day) for at least 6 months and had not reached complete
      biochemical response, defined by Paris II criteria. The dose of fibrate to use will be
      bezafibrate 200 mg every 12 hours or placebo every 12 hours for 12 months, both having the
      exact characteristics to avoid their recognition. Patients will continue the administration
      of UDCA at the same dose at enrollment. The intervention will be for a period of 12 months,
      with a follow-up every 3 months completing 5 medical follow-up visits (0, 3, 6, 9 and 12
      months).
    
  