
    
      Background: Epidemiological research indicates that increased levels of physical activity are
      associated with decreased breast cancer risk and mortality. Thereby, exercise programs can
      substantially increase patients' quality of life during and after treatment. Up to 80% of
      breast cancer patients demonstrate a decrease in their cognitive capacity, summarized as the
      symptom-complex "Cancer Related Cognitive Impairment (CRCI)". Most frequently reported
      impairments are mild to moderate deficits in processing speed, attention, memory and
      executive functions. In about 35% of affected patients, cognitive symptoms persist for
      months, or even years, after completion of medical treatment, impairing daily functioning,
      limiting ability to return to work and decreasing overall quality of life. Recent studies
      indicate a key role of inflammatory pathways in the CRCI genesis. Attention to physical
      activity therefore as a potential supportive care option is increasing. Anyhow, evidence for
      positive effects of exercise on CRCI is still lacking.

      Patients and Methods: This prospective, two-arm, 1:1 randomized, controlled trial aims to
      investigate the influence of high-intensity training interventions accompanying neo/-adjuvant
      chemotherapy on CRCI in 126 patients with early breast cancer on cognitive performance
      measured by the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT). Secondary endpoints include
      subjective markers and tests for cognitive performance and inflammatory biomarkers as TNF-α,
      IL-6, IL-1α, IL-1ß which are suspected to be involved in the pathogenesis of CRCI. As
      cognitive impairments are believed to be connected to either functional and/or morphological
      hippocampal damage due to chemotherapy, head MRIs and hippocampal volume measurements will be
      performed. In addition to a heart rate controlled home-based endurance and strength training
      for one year, participants in the intervention group will perform a supervised high-intensity
      interval training (HIIT) exercise program at least once a week. This study will help to
      clarify whether a long-term supervised exercise intervention program affects CRCI in breast
      cancer patients and help to reason underlying mechanisms and the pathogenesis of the
      chemobrain.
    
  