
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether treatment with imatinib (imatinib mesylate) plus bevacizumab leads to
      improved progression free survival (PFS) versus treatment with imatinib alone in first-line
      treatment of incurable gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare response probabilities (confirmed and unconfirmed complete response [CR] and
      partial response [PR] for subset of patients with measurable disease), overall survival, and
      central-review based progression-free survival (CRb-PFS) in patients treated with imatinib
      and bevacizumab versus those treated with imatinib alone.

      II. To compare the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with imatinib plus
      bevacizumab versus imatinib alone.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the association between soluble vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
      VEGF-factor D (VEGF-D), VEGF receptor (VEGFR)-1, VEGFR-2, angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2),
      platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR)-AA and PDGFR-BB levels, positron emission
      tomography (PET) imaging and immunohistochemistry for cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A
      (p16), VEGF and VEGFR, with kinase mutation status and clinical outcomes.

      II. To explore imatinib pharmacokinetics with single nucleotide polymorphisms involving the
      adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-binding cassette, sub-family G (WHITE), member 2 (ABCG2) and
      cytochrome P450, family 3, subfamily A, polypeptide 4 (CYP3A4) genes, as well as other genes
      that are reported to influence the absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination of
      imatinib.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 10/1/2009): Patients receive imatinib mesylate orally (PO) once
      daily (QD) on days 1-21 and bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1.

      ARM II (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 10/1/2009): Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD on days 1-21.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 month, every 6 months for 2
      years, and then annually for 5 years.
    
  