
    
      4. STUDY DESIGN 4.1. Endpoints Main endpoint Eradication of infection "by intention to
      treat". Secondary endpoints Eradication of infection "per protocol". Adherence to treatment.
      Medication side effects.

      Clinical and demographic variables:

      1) Age; 2) Sex; 3) Smoking habit; 4) Comorbidity (diabetes mellitus, hypertension, ischemic
      heart disease, dyslipidemia, others); 5) Indication of eradication (peptic ulcer vs.
      functional dyspepsia or not investigated) 6) Initial diagnosis test of H. pylori infection.

      4.2. Clinical trial design Phase III clinical trial, prospective, pilot, open, not
      controlled. The recruitment period will be five months. All the tests to confirm infection
      with Helicobacter pylori made within a maximum period of one year, provided the patient has
      not taken any antibiotics able to eradicate bacteria from conducting the test until the day
      of inclusion, will be given as valid, for the inclusion of the patient, Patients with proven
      infection and that have already prescribed standard triple therapy by routine clinical
      practice, will be required written informed consent to participate in the study, after which
      treatment with Rifaximin will be added.

        1. At the time of enrollment, after reviewing the inclusion and exclusion criteria and
           obtaining the patient's consent, a medical history and complete examination will take
           place including: antiulcer treatment received, history of smoking and alcohol intake,
           aspirin consumption and NSAID. Other concomitant medications that the patient is
           receiving for any other process will be also recorded.

        2. Between days 5-15 after taking the last dose, the procedures of the follow up visit
           specified in section 7.3.2 will be performed to the patients. Similarly, these
           procedures will be performed at the time when the patient leaves the study prematurely,
           if need be.

        3. Control breath test or histology between 4 and 8 weeks after treatment ends. Before the
           control test, it will be confirmed that the patient has not taken proton pump inhibitors
           during the 15 days before or antibiotics within 4 weeks prior to the breath test.

      The breath test is approved for the detection of H. pylori infection and post-eradication
      control. Sample collection can be performed in the same hospital.

      Breath test has been chosen as post-eradication control because it is the test that, in
      isolation, has a higher diagnostic accuracy, so is currently considered as the diagnostic
      method of choice to confirm eradication of H. pylori. In cases of gastric ulcer where
      gastroscopy after treatment control is required, the biopsy is valid also as post-eradication
      control.

      A single test post-treatment control is requested at least four weeks after completion of
      therapy since it has been observed an excellent correlation between it and the long-term
      results in previous studies.

      4.3. Treatment Description Control treatment: N/A Experimental treatment: rifaximin 400 mg (2
      tablets of Rifaximin 200 mg)/8 hours for 10 days.

      Study medication will be donated by "Alfa Wassermann" and re-labeled in accordance with the
      recommendations of the Royal Decree 223/2004 for medication trials.

      4.5. Withdrawal criteria and analysis The patient can discontinue his/her participation in
      the study at any time he/she wishes. In his opinion and judgment, the researcher doctor may
      also decide to withdraw a patient from the trial if it does not comply with the protocol.

      The occurrence of chronic diseases during the trail will result in the permanent exclusion of
      the subject. The onset of acute pathology during the trial period will delay the
      administration of test drugs until the patient is healed. Patients who may vomit within 3
      hours after taking the drug (verified by asking the patient) or other clinically relevant
      process that may affect the pharmacokinetics of study drug, will be excluded from analysis
      Only subjects excluded from the trial before receiving the study medication will be replaced
      by others, so that the number of patients will remain as provided by the sample size
      calculation. Individual sheets of collecting data from these excluded subjects will also be
      sent to the Sponsor organization for evaluation.

      4.6. Investigational drug accountability procedures Patients will receive Rifaximin and will
      be asked to return the remaining investigational medication in follow up visit after
      treatment. They will be asked to collaborate also bringing the remains of standard triple
      therapy for counting. The doctor will ask the patient about treatment compliance and count
      the residual medication after which he will return the remains of the standard triple therapy
      to the patient and preserve the remains of Rifaximin for later destruction by appropriate
      methods.

      4.8. Definition of end of trial Date on which the last patient completed the study follow-up
      visit.
    
  