
    
      General practitioners (GPs) in the Western world have to anticipate the increasing age and
      health care demands of their patients. A considerable proportion of those older patients have
      reduced functional status and quality of life, which may affect their feelings of autonomy
      and ability to live independently. Even with considerable disability, most patients prefer to
      stay at home. Because of their complex clinical presentations and needs, these patients
      require a special approach to their evaluation and care.

      Intermediate care is a possible answer to these changing demands, although the efficacy of
      these programs is a subject of vivid debate.

      With the Dutch Geriatric Intermediate Care Programme (DGIP) we developed an Intermediate Care
      model to study efficacy aspects of problem based intermediate care. DGIP is an intermediate
      care program in which the GP refers elderly patients with a problem in cognition, mood,
      behavior, mobility, and nutrition. A geriatric specialist nurse applies a guideline based
      intervention in a maximum of six visits during a maximum of three months. The nurse starts
      the intervention with the application of the EASYcare instrument for geriatric screening. The
      EASYcare instrument assesses (instrumental) activities of daily life, cognition, mood, and
      includes a goal setting item. During the intervention the nurse regularly consults the
      referring GP and a geriatrician.

      Objectives

        -  To determine the effects of the Dutch EASYcare Study Geriatric Intermediate care
           Programme compared to regular medical care in improving health related quality of life
           in independently living elderly persons and their informal caregivers who contact the GP
           with one of a variety of geriatric problems.

        -  To determine the costs of the Dutch EASYcare Study Geriatric Intermediate care
           Programme.
    
  