
    
      1. Local intratumoral injection of para toluenesulfonamide (PTS) via bronchoscopy could
           alleviate airway obstruction for patients with central air way NSCLC tumor severe
           obstruction, which contributed to the shrinkage of target tumor lesions in a short
           period, with an objective response rate of 66% and an improvement rate of luminal tumor
           obstruction of 70% in the end-of-treatment period.

        2. Patient's pulmonary function, atelectasis and quality of life were improved
           significantly after treatment, indicating that PTS treatment cuold relieve the symptoms
           of air way obstruction and provide clinical benefits to the patients.

        3. Adverse events were mainly blood streaked sputum, injection site haemorrhage, cough,
           pyrexia and oropharyngeal pain, without reporting of potential risks. Common study drug
           related adverse events included injection site haemorrhage, cough, and blood streaked
           sputum and oropharyngeal pain. The multi-center clinical study conducted strictly in
           accordance with Standard Operation Procedures for the Use of a Standard Bronchoscope in
           Local Intratumoral PTS Injection showed that PTS had good safety and tolerability and
           that the procedural risks of intratumoral PTS injection via bronchoscopy could be
           controlled.

        4. The advantages of PTS for treatment of airway lung cancer obstruction included
           significant efficacy, good safety, large applicable population; relatively simple
           equipment conditions and operation, thus it could be spread easily. PTS is also expected
           to be used in the treatment of central lung cancer with acute airway obstruction in
           combination with other treatments (such as stent implantation), which provides a new
           drug treatment to patients with airway lung cancer obstruction. PTS can complement with
           other treatments, which is expected to improve the treatment efficacy significantly.
    
  