
    
      Cardiovascular disease is the most common cause of death in diabetes. Actually, systematic
      screening of asymptomatic diabetic patients for silent myocardial ischemia is highly
      controversial, and is recommended for selected high-risk patients.

      Calcium artery calcification score predicts major coronary events, and improves risk
      reclassification in asymptomatic diabetic patients. The guidelines of the european society of
      cardiology published in 2013 recommend a screening for silent myocardial ischemia in patients
      with a high coronary score, without defining a cut-off value. But, assessing cardiovascular
      risk with calcium coronary score in all asymptomatic patients with diabetes is not feasible.
      In fact, calcium coronary score expose patients to radiation, is expensive, and is not easily
      available in health centres. It cannot be used to screen the 4 millions of diabetic patients
      in France. It could be interesting to identify the predictive factors of a high calcium
      coronary score, in order to perform coronary artery calcification score only in selected
      high-risk patients.

      Ankle-brachial index is also a marker of cardiovascular risk. Several prospective studies
      revealed that a low ankle-brachial index predicts cardiovascular events and mortality, and
      all-cause mortality in diabetes. Nevertheless, a study involving 1343 patients with type 2
      diabetes from MESA and Heinz Nixdorf Recall studies has showed that coronary artery
      calcification score provides better risk reclassification than ankle-brachial index.

      Toe-brachial index is particularly relevant in diabetes for peripheral arterial disease
      screening.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the association between toe-brachial index and coronary
      artery calcification score in asymptomatic patients with type 1 and 2 diabetes.

      The hypothesis is that toe-brachial index is associated with a high coronary artery
      calcification score. It could be performed first to identify patients who require a coronary
      artery calcification score. The measurement of toe-brachial index is fully automated, is
      reliable and reproducible and is cost-effectiveness. This technique is suitable for
      large-scale screening.

      Secondary objectives are :

        1. To assess the association between toe-brachial index and severe coronary artery
           calcification, and to determinate its performance in predicting severe coronary artery
           calcification

        2. To assess the association between toe-brachial index and moderate coronary artery
           calcification, and to determinate its performance in predicting moderate coronary artery
           calcification

        3. To assess the association between toe-brachial index and the absence of coronary artery
           calcification, and to determinate its performance in predicting the absence of coronary
           artery calcification

        4. To assess the association between toe-brachial index and early coronary plaque, and to
           determinate its performance in predicting early coronary atheroma

        5. To compare coronary artery calcification between patients with type 1 and type diabetes

        6. To assess the association between toe-brachial index and coronary artery calcification
           in patients with type 1 diabetes

        7. To assess the association between toe-brachial index and coronary artery calcification
           in patients with type 2 diabetes

        8. To assess the association between toe-brachial index and an abnormal stress myocardial
           perfusion tomography, and to determinate its performance in predicting an abnormal
           stress myocardial perfusion tomography

        9. To assess the association between toe-brachial index and an abnormal coronary
           angiography, and to determinate its performance in predicting an abnormal coronary
           angiography

       10. To assess the association between coronary artery calcification score and an abnormal
           stress myocardial perfusion tomography, and to determinate its performance in predicting
           an abnormal stress myocardial perfusion tomography

       11. To assess the association between coronary artery calcification score and an abnormal
           coronary angiography, and to determinate its performance in predicting an abnormal
           coronary angiography

      This is a cross-sectional and single-centre study, with retrospective data collection. All
      patients addressed to a one-day hospitalization to assess cardiovascular comorbidities,
      between January 2014 and May 2017, in the diabetes department, in the Pitié-Salpêtrière
      hospital in Paris, are eligible.

      Data are collected in patients' medical records. Clinical, biological and imaging data were
      collected previously during their one-day hospitalization.

      Clinical data are age, sex, diabetes duration, type of diabetes, high blood pressure,
      dyslipidemia, smoking status, diabetes comorbidities and current medication. Physical
      examination data are weight, height, body mass index, blood pressure, orthostatic
      hypotension, symptoms of diabetic peripheral neuropathy, monofilament test, VibraTip and
      peripheral pulses.

      Biological data are HbA1c, fasting blood glucose, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol calculated
      using Friedewald equation, total cholesterol, triglycerides, estimated glomerular filtration
      rate (eGFR) by modification of diet in renal disease (MDRD), urinary albumin/creatinine
      ratio, ASAT, ALAT, fibromax protein C reactive and ferritin. Blood and urinary samples have
      been collected during the one-day hospitalization, and have been analyzed in biochemical
      department, in Pitié-Salpêtrière hospital.

      A retinography bas been performed in patient with known retinopathy or with a mild
      nonproliferative retinopathy, without ophthalmologic examination since 1 year. Severe
      retinopathy is defined by severe nonproliferative retinopathy or proliferative retinopathy or
      retinopathy treated with laser.

      Diabetic nephropathy is known or is defined by a urinary albumin/creatinine ratio up to 3
      mg/mmol associated with a diabetic retinopathy or a peripheral neuropathy. Albuminuria stages
      are defined by the urinary albumin/creatinine ratio : no albuminuria if ratio is <3mg/mmol,
      microalbuminuria if ratio is ≥3 mg/mmol and <30mg/mmol and macroalbuminuria if ratio is ≥30
      mg/mmol. Diabetic peripheral neuropathy is known or is defined by typical symptoms or
      abnormal monofilament test or abnormal ViBratip. Autonomic neuropathy is defined by
      gastroparesis, cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy, orthostatic hypotension, urinary
      autonomic dysfunction neuropathy and Charcot foot. Peripheral artery disease is known or is
      defined by a toe-brachial index <0.7 associated with 2 abnormal pulses on the same side or by
      a leg artery stenosis ≥ 70% on the ultrasound examination.

      Carotid arteries have been studied using an echo-doppler. Intima-media thickness has been
      measured on longitudinal images, over a 1 cm plaque-free segment free of plaque, 1 cm
      proximal to the carotid artery bifurcation. Two measurement methods have been used to
      evaluate intima-media thickness: an automated method using a 3 to 8 MHz linear array
      transducer (Philips IE33, Koninklijke Philips N.V., Netherlands) and Philips Q-Lab version 8
      software (Koninklijke Philips N.V., Netherlands), and a manual method using a 8 or a 4 to 9
      MHz transducer (Acuson Sequoi ou Siemens Acuson, respectively). Endpoints are the highest
      intima-media thickness value between right and left side, and the mean intima-media thickness
      from right and left side. Plaque is defined as a stenosis <50%, using NASCET and ECST
      criteria. Carotid stenosis is defined by a stenosis ≥ 50%, using NASCET and ECST criteria.

      Toe-brachial index measurement is described in "primary outcome measures". Coronary artery
      calcification score, stress myocardial perfusion tomography and coronary angiography are
      described in "secondary outcome measures". Stress myocardial perfusion tomography has been
      performed if coronary artery calcification score was >100. Coronary angiography has been
      performed if stress myocardial perfusion tomography was abnormal.
    
  