
    
      In this study, the potential risks to subjects and their corresponding prevention measures:

        1. During the test, the volunteers may feel mild sleepiness due to oxygen.
           (Countermeasures: the subjects have a rest in bed, avoid activity, carry out the
           whole-process pulse oxygen and heart-rate blood pressure monitoring, and have the full
           care of the practicing physician)

        2. Venous blood is extracted pre- and post-test, and a few subjects may have halo bloody
           phenomenon. (Countermeasures: inform, select and remove the halo blood volunteers prior
           to test.)

        3. During the test, two MRI scans were performed and each was 20 minutes; the duration was
           longer than the general MRI (no risk).

      Judging criteria for adverse events： According to researchers' own experiment, the low oxygen
      state had no adverse effects on the body or had only slight fatigue and somnolence, which
      could be improved after inhaling oxygen.

      Plan to recruit and enroll 15 healthy volunteers Group time: March 2018 to March 2019
      Follow-up time: the last volunteer was followed up for 1 month after completing the test.

      Testing method：

        1. Smoking, alcohol drinking, overeating, staying up late were all prohibited one week
           before the test.

        2. The recruiter came to the test center on the testing morning, and the blood was
           extracted to check the following: blood routine, hsCRP, blood IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α, IL-1β,
           leptin , ICAM-1, VCAM-1, E-selectin, ET-1, etc.

           The doctor will check volunteers' EKG as well as their blood pressure, heart rate,
           respiration rate, blood oxygen saturation (when inhaling air). The first DTI was scanned
           and also process their dataset.

        3. Then, the test formally started and immediately entered the intermittent hypoxia cycle:
           With a mouth-nose mask, which can adjust the proportion of nitrogen and oxygen, the
           doctor could monitor the blood oxygen saturation; through increasing the suction
           nitrogen concentration, the subject's blood oxygen saturation could decrease to 80%~90%
           within 30 seconds and also lasts 30 seconds; then quickly reduce the concentration of
           nitrogen gas suction to make the subject's blood oxygen saturation gradually return to
           normal level (consistent with the air inhalation), and then continue breathing air about
           60 seconds to enter the next round of hypoxic state.

      Through adjusting the inhaled nitrogen concentration in patients, the patients could be
      simulated as the OSA patients who had intermittent hypoxic state due to upper airway collapse
      at night. This process is equivalent to AIH 25-30 times/h, which is clinically intermediate
      to severe OSA.

      The subjects always keep quiet and undisturbed during the experiment. The low oxygen cycle
      totally lasted six hours.

      4．Subsequently, the subjects repeated the relevant blood tests (Experiment 2) and related
      checks, and accepted the second DTI scan for comparison with the first scan.

      All blood samples in the test are backup. If the testing results appeared obvious
      abnormality, they can be reviewed immediately. The MRI examination before and after hypoxia
      was completed on the same day of the test and immediately uploaded to the imaging system, so
      there would be no data loss. If the subjects felt uncomfortable during the test, they could
      quit the test at any time. The investigators will re-recruit new qualified participants to
      carry out the test.

      Statistical data processing includes: (1) the paired t-test with the above indicators pre-
      and post-AIH; (2) the relationship between DTI measures and peripheral blood inflammatory
      factors by single factor analysis. (3) Using DTI as the dependent variable and the peripheral
      blood inflammatory factor as the independent variable, multifactor correlation was analyzed.
    
  