
    
      The experimental protocol will be performed in three groups. Two of the three groups (HIT1
      and HIT2) will counterbalance one another, meaning these participants will each receive the
      same level of treatment, but the treatments will occur in different sequence. The third group
      will serve as the control (CON). All qualified subjects will complete a consent form after
      receiving a detailed explanation of the experimental purpose and procedure by the
      investigator. Subjects qualify to participate in this study based upon the results of the
      preliminary health history record, ACSM risk assessment, and a 7-day activity recall form
      IPAQ. Following consent, participants will be randomized into one of three groups and will be
      scheduled three(3) lab sessions. A Subject Tracking Form will be used to monitor the progress
      of each subject.

      All three groups begin the study with the same session protocol, constituting Day 1
      (Baseline). This session will include baseline measurements of perceived effort (RPE),
      perceived pain (RPP), and affect (FS). These measures will be taken before and after the
      maximal oxygen uptake test scheduled on this day. Two single 15 mL blood samples (~1
      tablespoon) will be drawn for baseline pH and lactate quantification. Blood draws (BD) are
      repeated for a total of 8 times throughout the study for a total of 120 mL of blood. During
      the two experimental sessions (Session 2 and Session 3) blood will be drawn 3 times each;
      prior to HIT or seated rest, immediately following HIT or seated rest, and following the
      Wisconsin Card Sorting Task (WCST). The seventh and eight blood draws will occur during
      baseline, immediately before and after the maximal oxygen uptake exercise test. Each group
      will participate in all 8 blood draws. A demonstration of the WCST and a review of the Tabata
      high-intensity interval training protocol (HIT) will also be given during this session.
      Session 1 includes a cardiovascular fitness assessment (relative VO2 test) and body fat
      assessment (Bioelectrical Impedence Analysis, or BIA).

      The following two sessions, Day 3 (Session 2) and Day 17 (Session 3), will be different for
      each group. The first group, (HIT1), will complete a warm-up, HIT, and the WCST during
      Session 2. The next session, Session 3, will be scheduled no less than 14 days from Session 2
      and includes a warm-up, a 5-minute stationary period, and the WCST. The second group, (HIT2),
      will complete the same protocols as HIT1, but will complete Session 2 and Session 3 in
      reverse order. The control group (CON) will not perform the warm-up or the HIT exercise
      before either WCST. This group will still have 14-days separating WCST attempts. A follow-up
      by email will be used to report the results of the WCST scores to each participant once all
      subjects have completed the study in its entirety. Instructions on how to receive
      compensation for participating in the study will also be provided in the follow-up.

      Data will be analyzed using the current version of SPSS Statistics. A 2 (HIT, no HIT) x 3
      (pre-, immediately post-, and delayed post- HIT) repeated measures ANOVA will be used to
      determine the affects of HIT on biophysiological functions (La, H+, RPP, RPE, and FS). A
      paired t-test will show changes in executive function due to HIT. A Pearson correlation will
      determine the influence of biophysiological factors on cognitive function and a 3 (HIT1,
      HIT2, CON) x 2 (time of WCST) mixed-model ANOVA will demonstrate the learning effects
      associated with the WCST over a 14-day period.
    
  