
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study was a subproject within a Mind-Body Center on Understanding Shared Psychobiological
      Pathways. The Center was in response to a Request for Applications issued by the Office of
      the Director, NIH. Dr. Scheier was the Co-Director of the Center as well as the subproject
      principal investigator. The major objective of the Center was to to identify, measure, and
      understand the shared psychological, behavioral, and psychobiological pathways that
      contributed to the onset of and recovery from diverse physical illnesses, which included
      infections, arthritis, cancer, and cardiovascular disease.

      The subproject studied an important area of psychosocial research in cancer, specially the
      relative effectiveness of different psychosocial interventions for women with breast cancer,
      and the mechanisms that underlie the benefits of these interventions.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The specific aims of the project were to:

        1. implement and evaluate two psychosocial interventions, a peer support intervention and
           an education intervention, to enhance psychological adjustment and well-being among
           women with early- vs. late-stage breast cancer

        2. determine the psychological, behavioral, and biological mechanisms through which the
           interventions operate

        3. assess whether the two interventions were differentially effective for women with
           different characteristics, most importantly early- vs. late-stage disease

        4. use the baseline data collected prior to the intervention to determine the nature and
           extent of difficulties faced by early- vs. late-stage breast cancer patients

        5. determine how participants in the intervention differed from those who choose to
           participate.

      Participants included 180 patients with early stage (I or II) and 65 patients with late stage
      (IV) breast cancer. The interventions were conducted in groups of 6-9 women, and groups met
      once a week for 8 weeks. The education group meetings focused on providing patients with
      information about their disease as well as methods to manage their illness and its side
      effects. Facilitators emphasized the theme of perceived control during all sessions,
      discussing how participants are in control of their illness experience and can have more
      control of their lives. The peer support group meetings focused on fostering purpose in life
      by providing participants with opportunities to support and care for one another.
      Participants were asked to share experiences and problems in group meetings and the group
      facilitator encouraged participants to help one another with these issues, and share how they
      had dealt with similar problems. Participants in the control condition received care as
      usual, and did not attend any group meetings.

      Hypothesized predictors, mediators, and relevant outcome measures were assessed prior to the
      intervention. Mediators and outcomes were then reassessed, 2-weeks after intervention
      completion and 6-months later.
    
  