
    
      SJLIFE will be implemented in progressive stages with specific objectives to permit knowledge
      gained in each phase to inform content/format/study design of subsequent stages. The planned
      stages of the study include 1) Pre-Recruitment Study, 2) Barriers to Participation Survey, 3)
      Pilot Study of Recruitment Strategies, 4) Pilot Studies of High-Risk Survivor Cohorts, 5)
      Cross-Sectional Study of 10-year survivors, and 6) Prospective Lifetime Cohort Study.

      Stage I entailed telephone interviews with a random sampling of potentially eligible
      survivors to obtain subjective feedback regarding barriers and facilitators to SJLIFE
      recruitment and participation. The random sample included thirty alumnus survivors
      representing a broad representation of race, gender, attained age, years from diagnosis and
      primary diagnostic groups. The interview content comprised assessment of interest,
      decision-making factors, and barriers to participation, current

      In Stage 2, the Barriers to Participation Survey will be distributed to a random sampling of
      500 patients representative of the potentially eligible cohort by age, race, sex, geographic
      distribution, primary diagnosis and time from diagnosis; 200 patients will be randomly
      selected up front to receive follow-up communication by telephone if they fail to return
      completed surveys. Information obtained from responses to the questionnaire will inform a
      subsequent randomized recruitment trial and provide insight regarding retention procedures.

      In Stage 3, a pilot study will be undertaken to assess feasibility and potential pitfalls in
      recruitment for the Lifetime Cohort. Introductory letters will be sent to 300 alumni
      survivors, with a broad representation across targeted diagnostic groups, to invite their
      participation in the Lifetime Cohort. Recruitment approaches will be informed by the findings
      of the Barriers to Participation Survey. Parameters that will be assessed related to
      feasibility include 1) accuracy of contact information in hospital system (need for tracing
      of potentially eligible research participants); 2) number of eligible participants actively
      or passively declining study participation; and 3) reasons for declining participation. The
      pilot study will provide insight regarding the need for implementing procedures to track
      potential study participants who are "lost to follow-up" or incentives to recruit and retain
      study participants.

      In Stage 4, a pilot study will be undertaken in groups of survivors identified by SJLIFE
      investigators to be at high risk for cancer-related morbidity based on specific demographic,
      diagnostic, therapeutic, or genetic/familiar factors. In addition to utilizing data collected
      from the risk-based evaluations performed in the Cross-Sectional study these individuals will
      undergo more extensive assessment beyond the screening recommendations outlined in the COG
      Guidelines to determine the frequency and more thoroughly characterize the extent specific
      treatment complications, as well as define the need for further study. Knowledge gained in
      this pilot study will provide important preliminary results that will be used to develop
      proposals for extramural funding for further study of the identified vulnerable populations.

      In Stage 5, a cross-sectional study of the cohort of 10 or more year alumnus survivors will
      be undertaken using a risk-based assessment as recommended by the COG Guidelines. The first
      year of the study will target accrual of survivors with a diagnosis of acute lymphoblastic
      leukemia, Hodgkin lymphoma, and acute myeloid leukemia who are 30 years or older. The second
      year will target enrollment of survivors of central nervous system tumors, Wilms' tumor and
      other bone/soft tissue sarcomas. The third year will target accrual of the remaining
      diagnostic subtypes. The prevalence of late treatment complications detected by risk-based
      screening will provide important information regarding the appropriateness of the COG
      Guidelines recommendations in at risk survivor populations after specific therapeutic
      exposures.

      In Stage 6, information gained from the evaluations of 10-year survivors enrolled in the
      cohort provided compelling support for the potential benefits and knowledge to be gained by
      prospective and systematic evaluations of all cohort members. In addition, evaluation of
      participants earlier in survivorship (i.e., before 10 years from diagnosis) was perceived to
      enhance opportunities to characterize the pathophysiology of emerging late onset
      treatment-related toxicities. Therefore, the cohort will be expanded by changing the
      eligibility from +10 years of survival and +18 years of age to 5+ years from cancer diagnosis
      regardless of age. As part of the expansion of the SJLIFE study, participants will now
      undergo systematic organ function evaluations (e.g., echocardiography, pulmonary function
      testing, audiological testing, ophthalmologic evaluation, bone mineral density testing). In
      addition, all participants will undergo a comprehensive psychosocial assessment by a licensed
      social worker and receive, as needed, assistance with referrals to community providers and
      resources for ongoing care. In general, most survivors will have evaluations scheduled to
      occur within a 4 to 5 year interval.

      Several activities are planned to optimize communication with participating survivors about
      research activities involving the Lifetime Cohort. A newsletter will be distributed on a
      semi-annual basis for the purpose of 1) maintaining contact through periodic mailings (which
      include an address correction request from the post-office that can identify individuals who
      have moved from their last known address and may require additional tracing to re-establish
      contact); 2) providing an update on the status of the project; and 3) maintaining and
      enhancing the relationship with participants and 4) educating survivors about selected topics
      of health-related importance. In addition, a website will be developed that will serve as a
      resource that updates the progress of Lifetime Cohort activities.

      Adults who are non-first degree relatives or friends of St. Jude patients or former St. Jude
      patients will be invited to participate as a control in this study during the time of the
      child's St. Jude clinic visit. Employees who request to be in the study may volunteer if they
      are not a SJLIFE study team member or not supervised by a SJLIFE study team member.

      As part of SJLIFE initiative a group of study subjects who are not survivors of childhood
      cancer (community controls) will be recruited. These controls will serve as a comparative
      group to the aging survivors in SJLIFE cohort for assessing health-related, psychosocial, and
      quality of life outcomes.

      Control enrollment to this protocol is expected to average 200-300 participants in the first
      year; with an estimated targeted accrual of 1200.
    
  