
    
      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study compared smoking prevention in junior high schools and in high schools either
      receiving or not receiving a school-wide community intervention. The junior high school
      curriculum was delivered to all volunteers in grades 6, 7, and 8 in each intervention school.
      All participants were tested five times: midway through grade 6 before the intervention
      began, and at the end of grades 7,8,9, and 10. The primary endpoint was self-reported smoking
      status at the ends of grades 8 and 10. The validity of smoking reports was enhanced with
      collection of breath carbon monoxide samples for all subjects at all test points.

      The study was extended for an additional three years to add to the three year, junior high,
      design a two arm comparison between high schools either receiving or not receiving a
      school-wide, community, intervention. The new high school intervention responded to both
      recent evidence of long term decay in junior high program effectiveness, and a trend toward
      greater high school smoking onset most notably among females. Secondary objectives for this
      Demonstration and Education research included (a) a test of the hypothesis that higher levels
      of implementation were associated with better outcomes; (b) preparation for diffusion of a
      complete set of curriculum, provider training, program implementation, and evaluation methods
      and materials; and (c) study of the effects of school environment on program effectiveness.

      One hundred junior high schools were randomly selected and assigned, 20 per condition, and
      some 5,000 Grade 6 youth with approximately the same number of females and males, recruited
      to cohort which participated in intervention and evaluation through the end of Grade 10. The
      junior high curriculum was delivered to all volunteers in each intervention school in Grades
      6, 7, and 8. All participants were tested five times: midway through Grade 6 before the
      intervention began, and at the end of Grades 7, 8, 9 and 10. The primary endpoint was
      self-reported smoking status at the ends of Grades 8 and 10, 2 1/2 and 4 1/2 years after the
      intervention began. The validity of smoking reports were enhanced with collection of breath
      carbon monoxide samples from all subjects at all test points.

      The new high school intervention integrated three approaches: attitude-behavior change
      strategies derived from social psychological research on dissonance, self-perception, values,
      social norms, and commitment; organizational/cultural change strategies using student- driven
      participatory planning and multilevel change methods; and mobilization strategies adapted
      from the National Cancer Institute-funded Community Intervention Trial for Smoking Cessation
      (COMMIT). A comprehensive implementation evaluation used direct observation, multiple sources
      of self-report, program records, and cost data to assess the relationships between
      implementation, outcome, and cost- effectiveness; to provide direct measures of training and
      mobilization effects; and to develop feasible implementation evaluation methodology for
      future diffusion studies.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  