
    
      Randomized controlled study with two treatment arms (Phase II), 1 year open extension

      Efficacy - To assess efficacy of etanercept vs. sulfasalazine when added to NSAIDs in
      patients with moderate to severe active early axial spondyloarthritis duration of ongoing
      axial symptoms of less than 5 years. Primary outcome is change of active inflammatory lesions
      in sacroiliac joints and spine as detected by MRI at 12 months. Secondary outcome parameters
      are clinical and laboratory efficacy parameters and MRI changes at 6 months and 2 years.
      Comparisons will be made within the two treatment arms and compared to baseline. At the 1
      year extension phase comparisons will be also made between year 1 and year 2. At the end of
      the extended study a pelvic x-ray is planned. For etanercept group: To assess whether
      etanercept will show sustained long term response over 1 more year. To assess whether
      etanercept will slow or stop progression as shown by MRI.For sulfasalazine group: to assess
      whether etanercept will show long term response over 1 year. To assess whether etanercept
      will slow or stop progression as shown by MRI. For all patients who are in remission the
      duration of remission will be assessed for a maximum of one year. In case of a flare of the
      disease these patients will be (re-) treated with etanercept and efficacy will be assessed.
      Safety - To study the long-term safety of etanercept in patients with moderate to severe
      active early axial spondyloarthritis compared to patients treated with sulfasalazine over a
      period of one year.

      Patients will be treated for 1 year either with etanercept 2x25mg per week subcutaneously or
      with sulfasalazine 2g/ day given orally. Following screening and baseline evaluations,
      patients will be assessed at week 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 24, 36 and 48. Efficacy and safety
      measurements will be recorded throughout the entire study. The study will be followed by a 60
      weeks follow-up phase after week 48 (end of treatment phase). In case of flare they will be
      (re-)treated with etanercept for further 60 weeks (until week 108). All patients from the
      former etanercept group who are not in remission will continue to be treated with etanercept
      for 60 weeks (weeks 60, 72, 84, 96, 108). All patients from the former sulfasalazine group
      who are not in remission will be switched to etanercept for 60 weeks (at weeks 50, 54, 60,
      72, 84, 96, 108).

      Treatment arms:Arm 1: 40 patients receive etanercept 2x25 mg weekly subcutaneous injectionArm
      2: 40 patients receive sulfasalazine up to 2 g/day (up to 3 g/ per day)

      Duration of the study:12 months. For patients in remission a 12 months follow up period will
      be enclosed. Treatment will be continued for patients in case of flare or in patients who did
      not achieve remission for 60 weeks. The study is planned start at September 2005. Patients
      will be recruited over a 12 months period. Altogether the duration of the study is up to 51
      months. All patients who are willing to participate in the extension will be treated for
      another 60 weeks.

      Patient Population:Only active axial SpA patients with a disease duration (measured from time
      of ongoing spinal symptoms) of less than 5 years will be included. This implies that patients
      with both radiological evidence of sacroiliitis (fulfilling the modified New York criteria
      for AS) and without radiological evidence of sacroiliitis (see inclusion criteria) will be
      included.

      Efficacy Variables:Primary endpoint:· Reduction of active inflammatory lesions in MRI at 12
      monthsSecondary endpoints:

        -  ASAS 20%, 40%, 70% response, ASAS criteria for partial remission· BASDAI 20%, 50%, 70%
           improvement · BASFI · Mobility examinations: BASMI, Chest Wall Expansion· disease
           controlling antirheumatic therapy criteria (DC-ART20) (5 out of 6)*· CRP, ESR· Quality
           of Life: SF-36· Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) - physicians global, patients global, general
           pain, nocturnal pain · Enthesitis index (Maastricht scale)· swollen joint count· EQ-5D·
           Socio-economic questionnaire· Chronic changes in MRI at 6, 12 months and 108 weeks·
           Reduction of active inflammatory lesions in MRI at 6 months and chronic lesions at 6 and
           12 months and 108 weeks
    
  