
    
      I. Rationale

      Inflammatory arthritis is one of the most prevalent diseases in Canada, affecting about 10%
      of Canadian adults (Health Canada, 2003). It is a leading cause functional disability,
      chronic pain, and reduced quality of life, resulting in difficulties at work and at home.
      Affected individuals experience general malaise and fatigue, persistent morning stiffness,
      and severe joint pain. Also, the course and symptoms of the disease over time are often
      unpredictable, making management difficult (Smolen and Aletaha, 2005).

      Currently, there is no clear etiology for inflammatory arthritis, nor is there a definitive
      cure. Existing treatments have been shown to maintain daily function, delay onset of
      disability and alleviate pain. These include traditional medical treatment such as
      nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), low-dose oral glucocorticoids, disease
      modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs), and biologic agents to control local inflammatory
      processes (Altman et al., 2000; American College of Rheumatology, 2002). Although medications
      for self-care of patients are important, both educational programs and peer support have
      played historic yet vital roles in helping individuals with inflammatory arthritis better
      cope with their disease (Penninx et al., 1997; Tucker and Kirwan, 1991)

      Early treatment is of particular importance for patients diagnosed with inflammatory
      arthritis. One way to ensure prompt treatment to these patients is to enhance knowledge and
      skills of both patients and their caregivers in order to improve decision-making and help
      individuals manage disease. Patient education can help individuals and their family members
      with patient self-care and prepare them to make decisions regarding their treatment (Koehn
      and Esdaile, 2008). Also, better understanding of the relationship between clinical practice
      and patient- and family-perceived needs will result in better patient-centered care (Koehn
      and Esdaile, 2008).

      It is widely recognized that peer support plays a key role in the treatment of any disease
      (Berkman et al., 2000). These social support groups include the family members and friends of
      individuals with disease who can help them with treatment decisions and provide emotional
      support while they cope with their disease. In general, having social support leads to
      positive impact on quality of life (Savelkoul and de Witte, 2001) whereas lacking high
      quality social relationships may lead to anxiety, depression, loneliness, and poor physical
      health (Berkman et al., 2000).

      There is extensive literature exploring both peer support and patient education and their
      associations with arthritis. Recent studies have revealed that individuals newly diagnosed
      with rheumatoid arthritis look for not only informational support about symptoms and
      management, but also emotional support such as having someone or a group to talk to (Radford
      et al., 2008). Sherman (2003) reported that peer support provides happiness and boosts
      self-esteem in patients with knee osteoarthritis. Patient education has been shown to
      increase compliance with leisurely physical activity in individuals with rheumatoid arthritis
      (Mayoux-Benhamou et al., 2008). Group sessions including partners of patients with
      inflammatory arthritis have led to mixed results regarding the effectiveness of spousal
      participation (Martire et al., 2008; van Lankveld W, 2004; Riemsma et al., 2003). Less is
      known about the specific educational needs of family members and friends of individuals newly
      diagnosed with inflammatory arthritis.

      II. Purpose and Objectives

      The purpose of this study is to explore the learning needs of individuals with inflammatory
      arthritis from the perspective of family members and friends of those with inflammatory
      arthritis. In particular, this study aims to explore the types of support patients and their
      families feel would be most helpful upon diagnosis. Specific objectives of this study
      include:

        -  to examine the learning preferences of family members and friends of individuals who
           have inflammatory arthritis, including thoughts about peer support,

        -  to identify specific informational needs related to managing arthritis, and

        -  to explore how learning needs change over time or duration of the disease.

      Objectives will be addressed through semi-structured interviews of family members and friends
      of patients through the Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre rheumatology clinic.

      III. Methodology

      In order to meet these objectives, the perspectives of family members and friends of
      individuals with inflammatory arthritis will be explored using a qualitative approach. In
      particular, semi-structured interviews will be used.

      III. A. Semi-structured Interviews

      Study Design Semi-structured interviews will be conducted with key informants, defined as
      individuals who have good knowledge and understanding about the disease of their family
      member or friend with inflammatory arthritis and can clearly articulate their knowledge.
      These interviews serve as an investigative technique for gathering data in short period of
      time and to gain new insight and a broad perspective of views on the research question.
      Although the same specific questions will be asked in the same manner with each interview,
      the interviewer will be free to alter the order in which questions are asked so that the
      interview caters towards each individual research participant. An interview guide (Appendix
      A) was developed for the purpose of this study, and an interview notes form (Appendix B) will
      be used for interviews. As it is a semi-structured interview approach, certain probe
      questions that aim to encourage research participants to elaborate on their responses and
      further discussion have not been included in this guide. Such probe questions are
      context-dependent and evolve as the interview takes place.

      Detailed field notes will be recorded during and after each interview, using the interview
      notes form (Appendix B) as a guide. Digital recorders will be used to record interviews. All
      digital audio files will be transcribed verbatim. All field notes and digital audio files
      will be uploaded to NVivo8, a qualitative data management software serving to assist in the
      analysis, synthesis, and management of data. Data transcription will be outsourced. A data
      transfer agreement will be put in place with Sunnybrook Research Administration.

      Data will be interpreted after each interview. Additional questions may be added to the
      interview guide for subsequent interviews. Data will be collected until approximately 10 to
      15 research participants are interviewed, or until there is enough information gathered such
      that saturation of data is obtained - i.e., no new concepts arise from the data.

      Each interview is anticipated to last approximately one hour, and will conducted by a
      second-year medical student trained by the study coordinator who has expertise in qualitative
      research.

      Subjects

      Potential research participants will be identified for participation in this study based on
      the following inclusion criteria:

        -  Participants must be a family member or a care-giving friend of an individual diagnosed
           with inflammatory arthritis by an established physician;

        -  Participants must be aged 18 years or older;

        -  Participants must be able to participate in a 1 hour interview; and

        -  Participants must be able to understand and converse in English.

      Recruitment and Consent Process

      Individuals will be identified by Dr. Mary Bell (Principal Investigator) through her
      rheumatology clinic at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre. A flyer (Appendix H) will be given
      to the patient by the PI to pass on to their friends or family members which would include
      information about the study and how to contact the study team if they are interested in
      participating. Upon contacting the study team, Dr. Bell will identify and screen family
      members of patients according to the eligibility criteria for the study and will initiate the
      informed consent process (Appendix C). Dr. Bell will then introduce the project and review
      both an information letter (Appendix D) on the study and a consent form (Appendix C) with
      each eligible patient. This will be done to ensure that each potential research participant
      understands the purpose of the study and what is being asked of them. When an individual has
      verbally agreed to participate, his/her name will be forwarded to the Office Manager at the
      clinic who will contact the individual and schedule an interview at Dr. Bell's rheumatology
      clinic office with the medical student co-investigator assigned to the project. A
      confirmation letter (Appendix E) on a Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre letterhead signed by
      Dr. Bell will be mailed to the potential research participant; this will include the time and
      location of the interview. One day prior to the scheduled interview, the medical student will
      telephone the individual to remind them of the time and location of the interview using a
      standardized telephone script (Appendix F). At the beginning of the interview, prior to
      asking any questions, the medical student will review the consent form, answer any further
      questions the person may have and subsequently obtain written consent from the individual
      prior to commencing the interview. Once written consent is obtained, a copy will be provided
      to the research participant.

      IV. Data Analysis

      A constant comparative method (Strauss and Corbin, 1998) will be used to describe learning
      needs using open-coding methods. Transcripts from each interview will independently
      categorized by two members of the research team. Each team member will first analyze the data
      independently before meeting to compare and come to an understanding of common emergent
      themes that may arise during interviews. Each transcript will be compared and consensus
      reached as to the code to assign a particular unit of text. A coding scheme will evolve as
      data analysis progresses and themes will be derived through synthesis.

      V. Risks and Benefits

      There are no known risks associated with this study. Participants of interviews may benefit
      from having any questions they may have answered off-the-record before or after interviews.
      Potential indirect benefits include improvement in care provided to individuals with
      inflammatory arthritis, particularly from the perspective of their family members and
      friends, and the opportunity to share their experiences with other family members or friends
      of individuals with inflammatory arthritis.

      VI. Privacy and Confidentiality

      Only the Principal Investigator and the members of the research team who conduct interviews
      will know the identity of research participants. Confidentiality will be ensured by assigning
      each research participant a unique identifying number upon agreeing to participate in the
      study. The list of names, addresses, and phone numbers corresponding to each study number and
      all other identifying information will be kept on password-protected computers on a secure
      server in a locked research room. All information obtained during the study will be held in
      strict confidence, and any electronic data will be password-protected and stored on a secure
      server in a locked research room. No names or identifying information will be used in any
      publications or presentations, nor will they be transferred outside researchers in this
      study. All hard copies of data will be stored in a locked research room at the Sunnybrook
      Health Sciences Centre. Data will be retained for 25 years as stated in the protocol and
      informed consent form.

      VI. Compensation

      No monetary remuneration will be provided. However, transportation costs will be covered
      (e.g., subway tokens, taxi fares, parking) and refreshments will be provided (see Appendix G
      for budget).

      VIII. Communication of Results

      Results from this study will be disseminated to research participants. Results will be
      communicated to an academic and health professional audience through scientific publications
      and presentations of findings. No identifying information will be contained in these reports
      or presentations. All results presented will be in keeping with privacy and confidentiality
      issues as addressed in section VI.

      A presentation based on findings will be given to second year medical students at the
      University of Toronto. Information given within the presentation will be shared with the
      course coordinators of the Determinants of Community Health Year 2 course under the Faculty
      of Medicine at the University of Toronto. Reports will be made available upon request.
    
  