
    
      Biopsy of focal adenomyosis of the myometrium:

      This will be an extension of the NAPPED1-study. The investigators will perform
      ultrasound-guided transvaginal biopsies of the myometrium and collect venous blood samples.

      As recent studies have suggested abnormalities in the regulation of specific genes in the
      development of adenomyosis, the investigators want to investigate differentially expressed
      genes in adenomyosis compared to eutopic endometrium. Using microarrays, the investigators
      can simultaneously screen differences in expression of thousands of genes in samples from the
      two groups. Profiling studies performed on endometrium of healthy individuals and of
      endometriosis show results that enable identification of biological processes and molecular
      mechanisms. Expression profiles can be used to identify molecular targets for therapeutic
      purposes. There are some very interesting studies that investigate drug treatment on a
      molecular level e.g. the effect of Danazol treatment on eutopic and ectopic endometrial
      tissue, but intramural adenomyosis has not been subject to gene profiling yet.

      Tissue samples can be easily obtained after hysterectomy, but those samples will only
      represent older women, and cannot be used for consecutive monitoring of biochemical effects
      of treatment, as the uterus is removed. In order to investigate the pathophysiology of
      adenomyosis in younger women, and compare it to those in older individuals, as well as to
      evaluate effects of treatment, it is necessary to be able to obtain in-vivo samples.

      The plan is therefore to take transvaginal, ultrasound-guided biopsy-samples from the uterus
      (myometrium) of all included patients at the beginning of their surgery, when the patient is
      under full anesthesia. The safety of comparable procedures has been shown in prior studies,
      but the investigators will further validate the safety of this method. The investigators
      believe that an in-vivo biopsy is a safe measure, and that representative samples of
      adenomyosis can be obtained.

      The challenge with adenomyosis is that it is located intramyometrially. A transcervical
      biopsy will contaminate the sample with eutopic endometria, therefore it is most meaningful
      to take the biopsy transvaginally, but not through the cavity. After obtaining the biopsy
      sample, it will be examined histologically by imprint, to confirm if glandular cells are
      contained where expected. When good routines show a reliable level of specificity, the
      investigators will go further by selecting approximately 10 patients for gene profiling of
      adenomyosis. The investigators will also use endometrial biopsies (Pipelle) from those
      patients to see if there is a difference between intramural adenomyosis and their eutopic
      endometria. Most patients that undergo hysterectomy have taken a pipelle-biopsy routinely.

      The levels of prolactin, Anti-müllerian hormone (AMH), Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH),
      luteinizing hormone (LH) and estrogen will also be taken, in order to determine if the
      severity of adenomyosis is only related to age as shown before, or also to hormonal activity.
    
  