
    
      Rilonacept (Interleukin-1 Trap) has been developed as an antagonist of the cytokine IL-1 in
      the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory diseases. IL-1 causes leukocyte
      accumulation by inducing adhesion receptors on vascular endothelium and stimulating chemokine
      production. It also stimulates the synthesis of other cytokines, including IL-6, which in
      turn stimulates synthesis of C-reactive protein (CRP) in the liver. Based on numerous
      clinical studies, CRP has emerged as a risk marker for the development and clinical
      expression of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, leading to published recommendations
      for measurement of CRP in screening population subsets for cardiovascular risk. Endothelial
      function, as evidenced by stimulated nitric oxide release, has also been recognized as a
      marker of cardiovascular disease risk. Thus, patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) or
      its risk factors have impaired nitric oxide release from the endothelium compared with
      healthy subjects. Recent studies have shown that CRP levels were significantly higher in CAD
      patients compared with healthy subjects, with an inverse correlation between forearm blood
      flow responses to acetylcholine as a measure of endothelial function and CRP. Endothelial
      progenitor cells (EPCs) are primitive bone marrow-derived cells that have a capacity to home
      to sites of vascular injury and differentiate into vascular cell types, and are reduced in
      number and differentiation capacity in CAD patients relative to healthy subjects. Studies
      suggest that CRP inhibits viability and endothelial differentiation capacity of EPCs and may
      account for reduced numbers of EPCs and endothelial dysfunction in CAD patients. The
      objective of the present study is to demonstrate the potential of an investigational
      biological agent, rilonacept, as adjunctive treatment for CAD by examining effects of this
      agent on CRP levels, endothelial progenitor cell mobilization and endothelial function in a
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase I/II clinical trial.
    
  