
    
      The Conseil du médicament du Québec defines optimal drug use as a "use that maximizes
      benefits and minimizes risks to population health by taking into account available options,
      costs and resources as well as patient values and social values". This definition
      appropriately recognizes the uncertainty surrounding the use of most drugs, i.e. there is
      often more than one good therapeutic option. The Ottawa Decision Support Framework (ODSF)
      guides practitioners in assessing decision-making needs in clinical practice, providing
      support for client decision making, and evaluating the effectiveness of their interventions.
      DECISION+ is an innovative continuous professional development program for physicians, based
      on the principles of ODSF and Evidence-Based Medicine. It integrates multiple educational -
      behavioral change components that aim at promoting optimal shared decision making with
      respect to drug prescription. The investigators hypothesize that optimal shared decision
      making should result in optimized prescription behaviors by the physician and optimized drug
      use by the patient. The objective of this pilot clinical randomized trial of DECISION+ is to
      evaluate the feasibility of a larger randomized clinical trial, in order to determine the
      efficacy of the program to promote optimal shared decision making in regards to drug
      prescription by physicians. This pilot evaluation of the program will focus on one clinical
      theme: antibiotic prescription for acute respiratory infections (ARI).

      The program targets general practitioners and combines three strategies that were proven
      effective to improve healthcare practices:

        1. Interactive workshops

        2. Reminders of expected behaviors

        3. Feedbacks

      Three 180-minute workshops will be held over a six-month period and will include:

        1. Retrieval and critical appraisal of information

        2. Clinical practice guidelines

        3. Acquisition of diagnostic skills

        4. Communication of risks and benefits

        5. Shared decision making skills

        6. Barriers and facilitating factors to optimal shared decision making with respect to drug
           prescription

      Family physicians from four large group practices -the randomization unit- in the province of
      Québec, Canada will be randomly selected and assigned to one of the following interventions:

        1. Immediate DECISION+ antibiotics/ARI program

        2. 6-month delayed DECISION+ antibiotics/ARI program

      The main outcome measure of this pilot trial is to determine the feasibility of implementing
      the DECISION+ program on a large scale. Feasibility will be based on the proportion of
      contacted group practices that agree to participate, the proportion of recruited physicians
      that participate in the workshops, the level of satisfaction about the workshop, and the
      proportion of missing data in each survey. Secondary outcomes will include measure of
      decision to use antibiotics, decisional conflict, decisional regret, prescription profile of
      antibiotics in ARI, script concordance test, physician' reaction to uncertainty and intention
      to engage in SDM and to use clinical practice guidelines regarding the use of antibiotics in
      ARI in future clinical encounters..

      The investigators hypothesize that shared decision making will translate into an optimized
      prescription by the physician and will lead to an optimized drug use by the patient. We
      believe that this project will help to enhance the health of the Quebec citizen by a better
      drug use by the patient.
    
  