
    
      The vaginal Optical Coherence tomography/angiography endoscopy imaging system. This
      technology is able to obtain a comprehensive image of the vaginal epithelium, blood vessels,
      and lamina propria. The primary focus of this study is establishing the Optical Coherence
      Tomography system's capability of capturing vaginal changes that occur before and after
      menopause, as well as before and after treatment with fractional-CO2 laser therapy.

      There are two aims of this study.

      Aim 1: To determine the feasibility and sensitivity of the integrated optical coherence
      endoscope to assess vaginal tissue integrity in pre, peri and postmenopausal women

      We will enroll up to 90 women (age: 18 and older) who will be classified as pre-menopausal,
      peri- menopausal, or post-menopausal. There will be 30 women in each group. All enrolled
      subjects will first complete informed consents.

      They will then fill out a questionnaire (the vulvovaginal symptom questionnaire) about their
      vaginal health. This will be followed by a pelvic exam to determine the vaginal health
      (vaginal health index) and to obtain a vaginal swab for assessment of the vaginal microbiome
      .

      This will be followed by OCT scan of the vaginal tissue. There will be only one visit.

      Aim 2: To optically visualize the effects of fractional-CO2 laser treatment on vaginal tissue
      over the course of C02 vaginal laser therapy.

      Up to thirty Post-menopausal subjects with GSM who desire fractional-CO2 laser therapy, will
      be recruited.

      Each visit will include: completion of a questionnaire (the vulvovaginal symptom
      questionnaire) about their vaginal health; followed by a pelvic exam to determine the vaginal
      health (vaginal health index) and to obtain a vaginal swab for assessment of the vaginal
      microbiome and an OCT scan of the vaginal tissue before the CO2 vaginal laser treatment.

      This group will have a total of three visits with CO2 laser treatments. There will be a
      fourth visit which will include all the above study procedures except the CO2 laser
      treatment.

      Subjects who complete 3 laser treatments will be offered participation in long term follow up
      with repeat OCT imaging every 3 months at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after the final laser
      treatment to study the long- term effects of the laser treatment on the vaginal tissue.
    
  