
    
      Rationale/Goal: The use of contrast agents in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been a
      gold standard in diagnosing multiple sclerosis (MS). One active lesion (i.e. enhanced after
      the injection of contrast agent) is one of the major McDonald criteria in diagnosis patients
      with MS and request further follow up. Therefore, it is of great importance to study the
      characteristics of contrast agents and their ability to cross the blood brain barrier and
      enhance lesions, and thus understand the mechanism underlying this debilitating disease. It
      is the aim of this proposal to compare lesion load visualization in MS patients using
      Magnevist and Gadavist contrast agents and show reduced whole brain perfusion of MS patients
      compared to healthy subjects. This proposal will allow us to investigate the increase in
      angiogenic sensitivity to contrast agent (Gadavist), in addition to testing the ability to
      differentiate the breakdown of blood brain barrier.

      METHODS

      -Study Design: Fifty-four (54) subjects will be enrolled in this study including 36 MS
      patients and 18 healthy subjects as age and gender-matched controls over a one year period.
      Approval from Wayne State University Institutional Review Board (IRB) will be obtained before
      the beginning of this study. All the participants will sign an informed consent form after
      being told about the study and its possible associated risks. We propose to study 18
      relapsing remitting MS (RRMS) patients and 18 clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) patients and
      18 normal controls. The subjects will be scanned at entry and a second time (scan 2) - no
      sooner than 8 days after the first scan but no later than 30 days after the first scan. Every
      effort will be made to scan them as close as possible to the 8 day period.

      Nine RRMS and nine CIS patients will undergo an MR scan using Magnevist first (scan 1 at
      entry) then Gadavist (scan 2) while the other nine in each category will undergo an MR scan
      using Gadavist first (scan 1 at entry) then Magnevist (scan 2). Eighteen normal subjects will
      undergo the same protocol described above for MS patients, 9 with one order (Magnevist then
      Gadavist) and 9 with the other (Gadavist then Magnevist), to be used as age and gender
      matched controls for data analysis. Patients will be recruited by physicians affiliated with
      the Detroit Medical Center (DMC) and surrounding areas.

      MR Protocol

      The investigators have prepared an MR imaging protocol that will allow this information to be
      assessed quantitatively in both the MS and normal populations. This protocol will include the
      usual conventional T2, fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR), susceptibility weighted
      imaging (SWI), pre and post T1 scans (both volumetric interpolated breath-hold (VIBE) and
      magnetization-prepared rapid acquisition with gradient echo (MP-RAGE)) at early and later
      time points as well as dynamic susceptibility contrast enhanced perfusion weighted imaging
      (DSC-PWI), flow and average perfusion using phase contrast (PC), MR angiography (MRA) and
      double inversion recovery (DIR). For DSC-PWI, the investigators have developed the perfusion
      software necessary to analyze this data quantitatively including a new processing approach
      referred to as Tissue Similarity Mapping (TSM). This technique uses all time points in the
      PWI data to yield a new means to study similarities between blood flow patterns in tissue of
      the brain. It may help in better diagnosing vascular differences between tissues
      (specifically MS lesions), in addition to the conventional processing to measure relative
      cerebral blood flow, relative cerebral blood volume, mean transit time, and several other
      measures in the white matter and gray matter areas of the brain. If Magnevist was used in the
      initial scan, this protocol will be repeated on the same subject after a period of 8 to 30
      days using Gadavist.

        -  Image acquisition The investigators have designed this protocol to assess the
           pathophysiology of MS lesions in space and in time. SWI will be used as a means to
           visualize iron deposition in lesions, possibly resulting from myelin breakdown or
           microhemorrhages. FLAIR, T2 and DIR will be used to assess any inflammation or edema in
           lesions. Contrast enhanced sequences including PWI, SWI and T1, in that order, will be
           used to dynamically assess the vascular characteristics of the different structures of
           the brain including white matter, gray matter and lesions. PC will be used to
           investigate the blood supply and drainage to and from the brain and any correlation with
           identified perfusion deficit. This will add 4 to 6 minutes to the original protocol.
           MRA, on the other hand, will be used to visualize and assess the blood supply system
           integrity. Finally, the investigators will acquire T1 and SWI sequences at different
           time points post contrast (please refer Sequence_Order.pdf) to compare the mechanism of
           work Magnevist and Gadavist have in terms of relaxivity and permeability and their
           ability to show more lesions.

        -  Data analysis Perfusion Weighted Imaging PWI is a well established MRI method for
           studying cerebral hemodynamics and has found various applications in tumor, angiogenesis
           and stroke imaging. The hemodynamic characteristics are determined by creating maps of
           various parameters, such as: cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral blood volume (CBV),
           mean transit time (MTT) and time to bolus peak (TTP), and these parameter maps are
           derived from the evolution of the intensity of T2*-weighted gradient- or spin-echo,
           echo-planar images as a gadolinium contrast agent bolus passes through the blood
           vessels. Through the use of these maps, it is possible to visualize the passage of blood
           throughout the brain and to identify any regions of abnormal behavior. Quantification of
           these hemodynamic parameters is possible, utilizing the central volume theorem and a
           subsequent deconvolution technique. the investigators developed software SPIN (signal
           processing in Nuclear magnetic resonance), Detroit, Michigan, USA) to process the PWI
           source data to create perfusion maps. The position of the arterial input function (AIF),
           which is needed for deconvolution, is automatically determined by using the maximum
           concentration (Cmax), time to peak (TTP) and first moment MTT (fMTT). The
           concentration-time curve for arteries has short fMTT, short TTP and high Cmax. Twenty
           voxels, which best fit these properties, are selected. Then, the concentration-time
           curves of these voxels are averaged, smoothed and truncated to avoid the signal from the
           second pass of the tracer. Singular value decomposition (SVD) was used to determine the
           hemodynamic parameters such as CBV, CBF and MTT. The parametric maps will be derived
           from the PWI data using the investigators' in-house software SPIN. These maps include
           relative cerebral blood flow and cerebral blood volume in white matter, gray matter and
           MS lesions. This will reveal any changes/ abnormalities related to the vascular system
           such as ischemia, infarcts or any abnormal blood flow to any specific region that might
           be involved in MS pathogenesis. Finally, color-coded maps of CBV and CBF with the
           application of threshold were computed and generated pixel-by-pixel for better
           visualizing the differences between tissues.

        -  Susceptibility Weighted Imaging A 64x64 (or equivalent) low spatial frequency kernel
           matrix was used to complex-divide the original k-space data to create an effective high
           pass filtered phase image (check reference 12). The resulting SWI filtered phase image
           is used as a means to visualize lesions and their iron content.

        -  Conventional MR sequences including T1, T2 and FLAIR Two blinded radiologists will
           review the conventional MR data sets to determine the presence of chronic and active MS
           lesions over time and compare the results with non-conventional MR quantitative results
           (SWI and PWI).

      Study Organization: This study will be performed at Wayne State University, Detroit, MI. MRI
      data will be obtained using a 3 Tesla Siemens system (Siemens Medical Solutions, Erlangen,
      Germany) with a state-of-the-art 32 channel head coil and the latest SWI software located at
      the basement of Harper University Hospital (affiliated with Wayne State University).

      Study Population: Fifty-four (54)subjects will be recruited in this study including 18 RRMS
      patients, 18 CIS patients and 18 control subjects. Patients will be recruited by physicians
      affiliated with the Detroit Medical Center (DMC), Oakland Hospital in Detroit, Michigan (MI)
      and other local hospitals and physicians. Patients with prior known neurological disorders
      other than MS or substances abuse, with contraindication to MRI such as pacemaker, pregnancy,
      other non-MR compatible implanted device as well as with moderate to severe kidney disease
      that have impaired ability to filter the contrast agents will be excluded from the study.
      Brain MRI scans will be obtained once at entry as the investigators will be running a cross
      sectional study. Controls will be recruited from the university environment in Detroit and
      the surrounding areas.

        -  Assignment of subjects to study arms or groups - Randomization: The contrast agent used
           will be randomly assigned to MS patients and controls while ensuring the coverage of
           each type of agent for the two groups to be studied. The conventional dose (according to
           the FDA guidelines) of 0.2 mL/kg (0.1mmol/kg) for Magnevist and 0.1 mL/kg (0.1mmol/kg)
           for Gadavist.

        -  Blinding: Data processors as well as radiologists, will be blinded to what contrast
           agent has been used to ensure objectivity in data analysis.

        -  Primary Efficacy Variable(s): Post contrast imaging sequences will be repeated after 5
           and 20 minutes to monitor lesions visualization as a function of time and test the
           efficacy of both contrast agents as diagnostic measures, revealed by crossing the blood
           brain barrier into MS lesions.

        -  Secondary Efficacy Variable(s): SWI data will be collected after 10 minutes and 25
           minutes.

        -  Safety Variables: Safety Monitoring All subjects will initially be screened for
           inclusion and exclusion criteria by physician (MS patients) or key personnel involved in
           this research (normal volunteers). After the consent/ Health Insurance Portability and
           Accountability Act (HIPAA) is signed, a further MRI and MRI contrast safety assessment
           will be conducted by the Research Nurse and/or the MRI Research Technologist involved in
           this research. Only when all safety parameters are met, will the subject be scanned. The
           research technologist will communicate with the subject as well as visually observe them
           during the entire exam for their comfort and safety. Once the scan is complete, the
           subject will be assessed one more time by the Research Nurse and/or the MRI Research
           Technologist. In case of an unexpected problem during the MRI scan or MRI contrast
           administration, the radiologist will be notified immediately to assess the situation.
           The PI as well as the subjects physician (if known) will also be notified about the
           event. The PI will be responsible to submit any or all source documents and report forms
           to the IRB in less than 5 working days. In each case, the PI will also provide a
           judgment in consultation with a radiologist as to whether or not the adverse event is
           associated with or related to the study protocol.

        -  Sample Size Assumptions / Target Number of Valid Cases: Power analysis: With 18 RR
           patients for both Magnevist and Gadavist, the power to differentiate between a p(n)=0.2
           versus a p(MS) = 0.5 is above 80%. Here p refers to the probability that PWI flow
           abnormalities exist in the normal versus MS population, respectively.
    
  