
    
      Cancer patients often experience anemia due to the disease itself, chemotherapy, or both.
      Quality of life is also affected, due in part to the tiredness associated with anemia.
      Previous studies with epoetin alfa have suggested that early intervention with epoetin alfa
      results in higher hemoglobin levels and lower incidence of red blood cell transfusions than
      are achieved with delayed intervention. This is a randomized, open-label, explorative,
      sequential study that evaluates the effects of early treatment with epoetin alfa to determine
      its impact on hemoglobin values and the need for red blood cell transfusions as well as the
      safety of epoetin alfa when used in the prevention of anemia during chemotherapy in adult
      patients with cancer. During their current course of chemotherapy, patients will receive
      either early treatment with epoetin alfa or standard treatment with epoetin alfa (epoetin
      alfa administered when hemoglobin is <=10 g/dL), in addition to best standard care. Best
      standard care during chemotherapy may include red blood cell transfusions, white cell growth
      factors, folic acid, and iron supplementation, as needed. Effectiveness will be determined by
      the number of patients who receive an allogenic blood transfusion during the study and the
      change in hemoglobin at 3 or 4 weeks, 8 or 9 weeks, and 12 weeks, and at the end of the
      treatment period. Safety evaluations (incidence of adverse events, abnormal clinical
      laboratory tests, and vital signs) will be performed throughout the study. The study
      hypothesis is that cancer patients receiving chemotherapy who receive early treatment with
      epoetin alfa will have higher hemoglobin levels and fewer red blood cell transfusions than
      cancer patients receiving chemotherapy who receive standard treatment with epoetin alfa. This
      study will be conducted in the Netherlands and will only enroll European patients and will be
      generally well-tolerated. Epoetin alfa injections (40,000 units) under skin once a week
      either within 7 days after start of first chemotherapy cycle or from day hemoglobin is <=10
      g/dL. Patients will receive epoetin alfa during the current course of chemotherapy or up to
      24 weeks. Dose may be adjusted.
    
  