
    
      Lung cancer is one of the leading most frequent types of cancer and is the most lethal
      malignancy in the Netherlands. Mortality is high due to its advanced stage disease at
      diagnosis. To improve survival current guidelines are moving towards CT-screening of the high
      risk population. These CT-scans detect numerous nodules and rapidly increase the demand for
      minimal invasive accurate and safe diagnostic procedures.

      The historically available and current first diagnostic procedure in the work-up of PPLs is
      fluoroscopy guided Trans Bronchial Biopsy (TBB) despite its low pooled yield of 31.1%. When
      the above transbronchial technique does not provide an unambiguous outcome, an additional and
      more invasive diagnostic work-up remains indicated. To exclude the possibility of missing
      malignancies, trans thoracic needle aspiration is first indicated. If deemed inaccessible,
      surgical biopsy may be alternatively indicated depending on patient risk of malignancy.
      Ideally, a transbronchial approach having high diagnostic accuracy would overcome the need of
      this sequential increasingly invasive diagnostic and consecutive treatment approach. Newer
      pilot studies now hypothesize that combining multiple new endobronchial modalities might
      provide a solution in preventing more invasive additional diagnostic staging, reporting
      diagnostic yields exceeding 70%. When an accurate and certain transbronchial diagnosis by
      combining multiple techniques can indeed be provided. We will study a combination of new
      advanced modalities for diagnosis of peripheral nodules endobronchially. The aim of this
      study is to determine diagnostic yield, cost-effectiveness, safety, and, to collect data for
      developing diagnostic algorithms to further cost-effectively increase yield, reduce
      complication rate and determine a future platform for clinical implementation.
    
  