
    
      Epidurals provide superior labor analgesia and anesthesia. Unfortunately, failure of epidural
      anesthesia and analgesia is a frequent clinical problem. In a heterogeneous cohort of 2,140
      surgical patients, a failure rate of 27% for lumbar epidural was described. However, the
      definition of a failed epidural is broad. Different definitions include insufficient
      analgesia to catheter dislodgement to conversion to general anesthesia. Epidural analgesia
      failures may result from technical difficulties, insufficiencies or overdosing of local
      anesthetics, epidural septum or midline adhesions, and placement of the epidural catheter
      through an intervertebral foramen or into the anterior epidural space. In an imaging study of
      failed epidurals, incorrect catheter placement accounted for half of the failures, while the
      remaining patients experienced suboptimal analgesia through a correctly positioned catheter.

      The incidence of overall failure was lower in patients receiving combined spinal-epidural
      (CSE) catheters versus epidural analgesia. In one study, the CSE technique provided decreased
      failure rates for labor analgesia and comparable or decreased failure rates for surgical
      anesthesia, when compared with reported failure rates for epidural anesthesia. It is believed
      that positive CSF flow in the spinal needle confirms correct epidural needle placement in the
      epidural space and also confirms the epidural needle to be in the midline position. Placement
      of the epidural needle in the midline position will minimize the incorrect placement of the
      catheter to one side, providing a symmetrical analgesia versus unilateral analgesia.

      However, the practice of CSE and epidural catheter placement relies on the palpation of
      anatomical landmarks that are not always easy to feel. Therefore, the epidural needle maybe
      placed "off midline" despite positive loss of resistance (LOR) that causes negative CSF flow
      in the spinal needle and an incorrectly placed catheter. As a result, the incorrect catheter
      placement will result in a "failed" or suboptimal epidural analgesia.

      Ultrasound has recently been utilized to facilitate lumbar epidurals and spinals. The US
      imaging of the lumbar spine in different scanning planes facilitates the identification of
      the landmarks necessary for appropriate epidural space location in pregnant patients. There
      are two acoustic windows that are effective for lumbar spine sonographic assessment: one seen
      on the transverse approach, and the other seen on the longitudinal paramedian approach. The
      ultrasound single-screen method using the transverse approach of the lumbar spine provides
      reliable information regarding the landmarks required for labor epidurals. The correct
      interspace and midline position are identified for correct placement of the CSE analgesia.

      A previous study done by the research team, comparing "blind" vs US guidance technique. It
      did not show any significant difference in term of success rate or complications with either
      technique. However, the study was done by 4 trained physicians with lot of practice. At this
      level of training, the investigators did not observe any technique improvement with US. Which
      is why the investigators thought might have more success in showing an improvement in
      technique, with junior residents rotating for the first time on the floor. The idea is to see
      if there is any difference in their learning curve using the US versus the "blind" technique.
      Each resident will be their own control.
    
  