
    
      Symptoms of heart failure due to circulatory fluid overload: Signs of circulatory fluid
      overload are theleading to cardiac decompensation or worsening heart failure are: orthopnea,
      dyspnea, fatigue, weight gain, abdominal swelling, fluid retention, extended jugular vein,
      leg edema, crackles, and ascites. Identifying early signs of CFO in HF would provide patients
      more time to respond and self-manage symptoms at home.

      Currently most HF patients are monitored intermittently for changes in symptoms

      . According to the American Heart Association establishing self- monitoring practices is the
      best method for improving health behaviors and health outcomes in individuals.

      Fatigue and sleep in HF and gaps in symptom self-management: Fatigue in heart failure
      patients was previously measured using a self-reported questionnaire and concluded that
      identifying fatigue early could result in initiation of treatment to prevent HF
      decompensation. A study by also concluded that severe HF symptoms are associated with higher
      levels of fatigue in HF patients. found that increases in fatigue in cardiovascular patients
      resulted in poorer self-care and poorer cardiovascular outcomes, but fatigue was not an
      indication of disease severity. . Similarly another study concluded that there is a
      relationship between sleep, fatigue and functional performance in HF patients. However,
      sleep, fatigue and HF symptoms were only intermittently, rather than continuously, monitored
      in these studies to assess its impact on HF patient outcomes.

      The wrist-worn wearable device, Readiband (Fatigue Science)has a 93 accuracy rate in
      measuring sleep. The Readiband and the biomathematical fatigue model SAFTE (Sleep, Activity,
      Fatigue, and Task Effectiveness)have being successfully used to measure sleep and fatigue in
      multiple areas of research The Readiband has a one month battery life and has the ability to
      sync to mobile phones, or iPads via a Sync app. It allows for Minute-by-minute actigraphy
      values and sleep/wake classification. The Readiband has the ability to track, high recurring
      wake episodes, frequency of daytime sleep episodes, high sleep latency, wake after sleep
      onset and total sleep quantity. The Readiband has been used successfully to measure fatigue
      in athletes and law enforcement officers In the following studies the Readiband was use to
      assess the correlation between sleep and fatigue: risk for accidents in medical residents
      risk for making medical errors, and to predict football player's risk for injury Each study
      has shown some level of statistical significance of the relationship between sleep and
      fatigue. This study is adding another component of assessing if sleep and fatigue correlates
      with increase severity of HF symptoms.The SAFTE Fatigue Model (Sleep, Activity, Fatigue, and
      Task Effectiveness)will interpret the data collected from the Readiband. The SAFTE Fatigue
      Model and the Readiband has never been use to monitor the correlation between sleep, fatigue
      and decompensation in HF symptoms. The data from the Readiband will be transmitted to the
      SAFTE Fatigue model. The data will analyze the patient sleep wake pattern to detect patient's
      level of fatigue and data will be provided with the patient.
    
  