
    
      Obesity is a major health problem in many countries and a major risk factor for
      cardiovascular disease. Extreme obesity can be treated with surgery, however these procedures
      are associated with a certain surgery-related morbidity which increases with comorbidities,
      in particular coronary diseases. Thus, preoperative cardiac risk assessment would be
      desirable, however percutaneous coronary angiography is an invasive procedure with problems
      and complications in obese patients. A non-invasive alternative would be coronary
      dual-.source CT angiography (CCTA), however little experience exists in the application of
      CCTA in morbid obese patients. This study would like to address the following issues:

        1. Comparison of image quality of coronary CT angiography using a dual source CT from obese
           patients using a special protocol (140 kV, 350 mAs) with images from historical controls
           from normal weight patients with a standard protocol (120 kV, 330 mAs).

        2. Prediction of major adverse coronary events. Patients with a coronary stenosis in CCTA
           will be followed for any major adverse coronary events (details see Outcomes)

        3. Is it possible to detect myocardial fat by a reduced CT density. Images from obese
           patients will be compared to historical controls from normal patients. Furthermore, is
           the myocardial CT density correlated with the BMI of obese patients?

        4. Optimisation of scan protocol. Increasing the scanning angle beyond the standard 90°
           will reduce the signal noise at the cost of temporal resolution. Various scanning angles
           with be tested for an optimal combination of signal noise and temporal resolution.

        5. Does the long QT-syndrome improve after bariatric surgery? It is assumed that the long
           QT-syndrome is a consequence of fattening of the myocardia. Is it possible to see a
           reduction of myocardial fattening and thus an improvement of the long QT-syndrome with
           CT during the follow-up after bariatric surgery?
    
  