
    
      Since the widespread use of meshes in the repair of inguinal hernia, recurrence rates have
      acceptable values, so, today, the focus is on trying to decrease chronic pain after
      hernioplasty. Chronic postoperative inguinal pain (CPIP) is an important clinical problem,
      which can significantly influence the quality of life of the patient. Different studies have
      published CPIP rates from 9.7% to 51.6%.

      The reasons for CPIP are unclear; Lesion and entrapment of the nerves, the type of mesh used,
      and the fixation material of this has been related to the causes of inguinodynia.

      CPIP can be divided into neuropathic pain and non-neuropathic pain. According to the
      International Association for the Study of Pain (IASP), neuropathic pain is caused by the
      primary lesion or nerve dysfunction, causing burn-like pain that radiates through the area
      innervated by the injured nerve, intensifying the nerve with light touch. The causes of this
      type of pain are the entrapment of the nerve by the mesh or sutures or by the formation of
      neuromas associated with the partial or complete transection of the nerve. The nerves that
      run through the inguinal region and are therefore susceptible to injury when the anterior
      approach is the ilioinguinal nerve, the genitofemoral genital branch, and the iliohypogastric
      nerve.

      Neuropathic pain may occur immediately after surgery, but may also occur months or years
      after surgery.

      Non-neuropathic or nociceptive pain is caused by the activation of mediators of inflammation
      due to the continuous inflammatory reaction that occurs around the mesh. According to Amid,
      nociceptive pain is caused by the mechanical pressure of the mesh over adjacent tissue,
      including the vas deferens and nerves. This type of pain is acute and stabbing and is
      aggravated by intense exercise.

      In conclusion, the use of foreign materials in hernia surgery may induce intense inflammation
      that can result in chronic pain.

      The hypothesis of our work is that: "The use of glue-attached meshes (self-adhesive) compared
      to those fixed with suture present lower rates of post-hernioplasty pain".
    
  