
    
      Hypothesis:

      Intravitreal injection of Lucentis prior to conventional treatment for neovascular glaucoma
      improves overall outcome compared to conventional treatment alone.

      Specific Aims:

      To determine if pre-treatment with a single intravitreal injection of Lucentis prior to
      conventional treatment prevents severe vision loss and improves intraocular pressure control
      compared to conventional treatment alone.

      Neovascular glaucoma is a potentially devastating consequence of fibrovascular proliferation
      of the anterior chamber angle with subsequent obstruction of the trabecular meshwork. The
      production of peripheral anterior synechiae along the trabecular meshwork leads to
      progressive angle closure. The subsequent elevation in intraocular pressure is difficult to
      manage, often leading to rapid progression of glaucoma and significant loss of vision.
      Enucleation for blind, painful eyes secondary to neovascular glaucoma is not an uncommon
      sequelae.

      Neovascular glaucoma has many etiologic causes, the vast majority resulting from retinal
      ischemia secondary to relatively common diseases such as central retinal vein occlusion,
      proliferative diabetic retinopathy and ocular ischemic syndrome (carotid stenosis).
      (Sivac-Callcott et al., 2001) Vascular endothelial growth factor is likely a major
      contributor to the development of angle and iris neovascularization. (Ferrara, 2004) Although
      panretinal photocoagulation and/or cryoablation are mainstays of conventional treatment for
      neovascular glaucoma, the delayed therapeutic effect of these interventions often results in
      the formation of peripheral anterior synechiae and permanent angle closure.

      Recent limited case series have demonstrated a role for bevacizumab (Avastin) in reducing
      rubeosis iridis and as an adjunct for neovascular glaucoma. (Grisanti et al., 2006; Davidorf
      et al., 2006; Iliev et al., 2006; Kahook, Schuman, Noecker, 2006) However, no prospective
      studies have examined the potential utility of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor agents
      in the treatment of neovascular glaucoma. Intravitreal Lucentis is the standard of care for
      the treatment of exudative macular degeneration. Pharmacologic agents such as Lucentis, which
      selectively inhibit vascular endothelial growth factor may provide an important therapeutic
      adjunct for the treatment of neovascular glaucoma by more immediately causing regression of
      angle neovascularization and thereby providing a window for permanent treatment with laser or
      cryotherapy.
    
  