
    
      Due to the immense disease burden of major depression and unsatisfactory response to standard
      pharmacological and psychological treatments, the need for treatment alternatives is evident.
      Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) remains to be the most efficacious treatment known for
      treatment-resistant depression. However, although many studies show response rates above 70%,
      ECT can be considered vastly underused. Reasons contributing to this phenomenon may include
      stigma, regulatory restrictions, limited medical training, safety and side-effect concerns,
      or reluctance among professionals to recommend ECT. Most of these reasons have already been
      refuted or put into perspective by psychological and neuroscientific studies (e.g. ECT causes
      brain lesions) and most cognitive deficits related to the ECT course seem to fade after
      several weeks of discontinuation.

      Still, in terms of the tolerability, memory disturbances remain the most problematic effect
      of ECT. Besides subjective reports from patients after a course of ECT, experimental studies
      have also found evidence of episodic and autobiographical memory impiarment attributable to
      ECT. The origins of these effects are still largely unknown and remain a goal for further
      research.

      It has now been shown that structural T1 weighted MR-images can be used to predict the
      response to a course of ECT via machine learning. Therefore, this study aims to use machine
      learning to predict the occurrence of episodic and specifically autobiographical memory
      deficits arising within a course of electroconvulsive therapy based on MR-images collected
      within one week before the first ECT treatment from severely depressed patients.
      Additionally, the neurophysiological correlates of the cognitive effects modulated by a
      course of ECT will be investigated longitudinally through the use of structural,
      resting-state and diffusion tensor images. The study consists of 60 ECT receiving inpatients
      suffering from major unipolar or bipolar depression.

      If successful, this line of research should lead to a better tolerability of ECT by aiding in
      the complex decision making process involved in prescribing ECT as well as the parameter
      setting within a treatment course (e.g. uni- vs. bilateral).
    
  