
    
      The study will include the following periods:

        1. screening period (up to 4 weeks); During the screening period, the patients' eligibility
           for the study will be evaluated based on the inclusion/non-inclusion criteria. Those
           patients who are considered eligible for participation in the study will be enrolled in
           the run-in treatment period

        2. run-in treatment period (12 weeks, Days 0-84 - for the patients receiving NSAIDs and/or
           colchicine as the therapy for recurrent pericarditis (underlying disease), or 24 weeks,
           Days 0-168 - for the patients receiving CSs) will include open-label treatment with
           RPH-104 80 mg SC once in two weeks for all patients, the procedures of efficacy and
           safety monitoring;

           The response to therapy during the run-in treatment period is defined as resolution of
           the recurrence observed at the moment of patients' enrolment to the study, absence of
           any new recurrence of pericarditis in patients who were enrolled in the study with signs
           of pericarditis recurrence, absence of any new recurrence of pericarditis in patients
           who were enrolled without signs of a recurrence. In case there is no response to therapy
           by Day 14 of the study and later on during the run-in treatment period, RPH-104 will be
           discontinued and treatment with other drugs at the discretion of the Investigator
           initiated. The patients who demonstrate response to therapy with RPH-104 during the
           run-in treatment period, will be transferred to the randomized withdrawal period

        3. randomized withdrawal period (24 weeks: Day 0 since the randomization - Day 168 since
           the randomization) includes treatment with RPH-104 or placebo depending on the
           randomization group (1:1 ratio) once in 2 weeks and the efficacy and safety monitoring
           procedures; Patients will be receiving therapy for a period of 24 weeks: the study drug
           group (to receive RPH-104 80 mg SC) or placebo group (to receive an equivalent volume of
           placebo SC).

           In case of pericarditis recurrence during the randomized withdrawal period (assessed as
           the lack of response), the treatment group will be unblinded. Patients from the placebo
           group will be prescribed open-label therapy with RPH-104 80 mg in SC injections once in
           two weeks; assessment of response to therapy will be conducted 14 days after the
           switching to the study drug, and every 4 weeks thereafter until the end of the treatment
           period in the study.

           Patients from the RPH-104 group (as well as patients from the placebo group who were
           switched to the study drug therapy due to a disease recurrence, those in whom the
           recurrence did not resolve within 14 days, or patients who developed a new recurrence
           after the resolution of the previous one) will be switched to treatment with other drugs
           at the discretion of the Investigator; these patients will have to come to a follow-up
           safety visit in 2 and 8 weeks after the administration of the last dose of the study
           drug.

           Thus, after the end of randomized withdrawal period, the patients who responded to
           therapy with RPH-104 will be asked to transfer to the open-label study to evaluate the
           long-term safety and efficacy of RPH-104. Non-responders, as well as patients who do not
           agree to participate in the open-label study of safety and efficacy, have to come to
           follow-up safety visits.

        4. safety follow-up period includes monitoring of safety for 8 weeks after the last dosing
           of the study drug.

      Thus, the maximum duration of treatment in this study will be 36 weeks (for patients who were
      receiving NSAIDs and/or colchicine at the study enrollment) and 48 weeks (as a monotherapy or
      in combination with NSAIDs and/or colchicine).

      The total maximal duration of the study will be approximately 60 weeks.

      A total of 20 patients with idiopathic recurrent pericarditis are planned to be randomized
      into the study. Taking into account potential dropouts during the screening and therun-in
      treatment period, the number of screened patients (signing the Informed Consent Form) can be
      as large as 25.
    
  