
    
      Research and development in genetic testing for cancer susceptibility genes has advanced
      rapidly in recent years, allowing healthy individuals, cancer patients, and their families to
      determine if they carry mutations which increase their risk of breast, ovarian, prostate,
      colon, and other cancers. Initial efforts have unfolded primarily in academic medical centers
      targeting families at high risk for cancer. There is currently no information available for
      assessing the prevalence of genetic testing for cancer susceptibility genes at the national
      level, or for evaluating the knowledge of and attitudes toward such testing among primary
      care physicians. The objectives of this survey are to determine the utilization of genetic
      tests by physicians at the national level; to ascertain physician knowledge of available
      genetic tests for specific cancer susceptibility genes, to examine physicians' general
      attitudes toward testing, and; to explore possible variation in utilization and
      knowledge/attitudes by medical specialty, type of practice, year of training completion,
      board status, urbanicity, and geographic region. The primary research question that this
      survey will address is what is the prevalence of use of genetic testing for cancer
      susceptibility among primary care physicians in the U.S.? The survey will also assess whether
      there are statistically significant differences in 1) self-reported knowledge, current use
      of, and future intentions to use genetic testing for cancer susceptibility, and 2)
      perceptions of barriers to testing, among primary care physicians by their type and location
      of practice, and recency of training. Primary care physicians (general internists,
      obstetrician/gynecologist, family and general practitioners) will also be compared with
      specialty groups (gastroenterologists, surgeons, urologists) and oncologists with respect to
      their use, attitudes towards, and knowledge of, genetic testing for cancer susceptibility. A
      questionnaire was administered by mail, telephone, facsimilie or Internet to a nationally
      representative sample of 1,251 primary care physicians and specialists. Study participants
      are primary care and specialty physicians with active licenses to practice medicine in the
      U.S. A data file with personal identifiers deleted will be prepared for statistical analysis
      to estimate the prevalence and determine predictors of use and intentions to genetic tests
      for inherited cancer susceptibility.
    
  