
    
      The investigators plan to evaluate the effects of a high versus standard protein enteral diet
      utilizing targeted fortification on neurodevelopmental outcomes, growth, and body composition
      at 18-24 months in infants with a birth weight of less than or equal to 1000 grams.

      Children who have completed a previous study (H-38611) evaluating the effects of a high
      versus standard protein diet utilizing targeted fortification with human donor milk products
      on weight, length, and body composition will be recruited for this study.

      Infants in the previous study, (H-38611) were either born at Texas Children's Hospital or
      transferred to Texas Children's Hospital in the first 24 hours of life and admitted to our
      Neonatal Intensive Care Unit. These infants had a birth weight of less than or equal to 1000
      grams and were randomized to receive a standard protein diet (3.5-3.8 grams of protein per
      kilogram of body weight- the amount of protein recommended for premature babies by the
      American Academy of Pediatrics ) or a high protein diet (4.2-4.5 grams of protein per
      kilogram of body weight- the amount of protein recommended for premature babies by the
      European Society of Paediatric Gastroenterolgy, Hepatology, and Nutrition). Infants in both
      groups received recommended clinical guidelines for protein.

      While the previous study (H-38611) evaluated the effects of a high versus standard protein
      diet on weight, length and body composition prior to discharge from the Neonatal Intensive
      Care Unit, this study (H-44733) will assess if the amount of protein in the diet the infant
      received impacted growth, body composition, and neurodevelopment at 18-24 months of life.

      For the study (H-44733), parents of patients who completed H-38611 will be consented prior to
      discharge from the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit. For patients who completed the previous
      study (H-38611) and have been discharged, the investigators will contact the parents by
      telephone. The investigators will mail a consent form to parents interested in having their
      child complete the follow-up study (H-44733) so they can review the consent form. Then, if
      they want to participate in the study, they will contact study staff to schedule an
      appointment. At the beginning of the appointment study staff will obtain informed verbal and
      written consent in order to conduct study visit.

      This study includes an outpatient visit at 18-24 months corrected gestational age. At the
      visit, the investigators will obtain baseline anthropometric data, interim medical history,
      demographic and socioeconomic information, and nutrition history of the child since discharge
      (formula, human milk, vitamins, and medications). A registered dietitian will ask parents
      questions about the child's current diet.

      Next, body composition will be measured by whole body dual energy x-ray absorptiometry or DXA
      scan. DXA scan is the current gold standard to provide lean and fat body mass and bone
      mineral content results. DXA is a way to measure bone mineral density, or the amount of
      calcium and other minerals in the bones.

      In addition, a Neurodevelopmental Evaluation as part of standard follow-up for extremely low
      birth weight infants (The Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development, 3rd Edition) will
      be completed. The Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development is used mainly to assess
      the mental and motor development of infants and toddlers, ages 1-42 months. It will be
      administered by a pediatric developmental physician.

      Results of evaluations will be given to parents and recommendations for follow-up will be
      made by the physician completing the evaluation.

      No interventions are part of this protocol.
    
  