
    
      Patients will be selected for the study if they met all the inclusion criteria, without any
      of the non-inclusion criteria, ie compensated Child Pugh A alcoholic cirrhosis without viral
      chronic hepatitis B or C, and without any detectable HCC. They will be offered, during a
      consultation as part of their usual care, to participate in the study. An information note
      will be issued. Patients agreeing to participate should date and sign informed consent. Usual
      biological tests and liver ultrasonography will be performed if not done within 90 days prior
      to inclusion. During this visit, 20 ml of blood will be collected for freezing and storage of
      serum and plasma, and constitution of a DNA library.

      From the reviews conducted at baseline, patients with at least one exclusion criteria (ie
      decompensation of cirrhosis, Child Pugh score ≥ 7, co-infection with HBV or HCV, or liver
      focal lesion suggestive of HCC will be excluded (and their serum samples achieved for the
      BioBank will be destroyed):

      Monitoring: According to current guidelines, patients will have periodical surveillance with
      liver ultrasonography and medical consultation at least every 6 months, blood tests at least
      every year, periodic assessment of esophageal and gastric varices (every 1 to 3 years) and
      prevention of their rupture if any. An additional blood sampling of 20 ml will be taken at
      baseline and every year in order to perform serum, plasma, and DNA libraries; Data will be
      standardized and centralized in a single database.

      Statistical Analysis: Methods for censored data with competitive risks. Number of subjects to
      include: The planned number is 1200 subjects included in 3 years. Assuming a minimal annual
      incidence of HCC about 2% in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis, and a proportion of lost to
      follow-up of around 20% in this poorly compliant population, a sample of 3000 patients could
      demonstrate the existence of predictive factors for the occurrence of HCC associated with a
      relative risk at least equal to 2, with a power of 90%. However, the enrollment of 3000
      patients recruited in three years is not a realistic goal. For practical reasons and since
      the data currently available are very limited regarding the precise incidence of HCC and the
      strength of association between risk factors and HCC in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis,
      the minimum number of patients included in the cohort CIRRAL was set at 1200. Regarding an
      expected percentage of patients lost to follow close to 20%, the final number of patients
      with sufficient follow-up will be 1000.

      Expected results

        1. description of the incidence of HCC occurrence in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis;

        2. identification of predictive factors for the occurrence of HCC c) identification of
           prognostic factors for survival. In addition, nested scientific projects will use the
           database and collected samples of this prospective cohort, thus constituting significant
           savings of resources. However, these nested scientific projects should include a
           specific need of organization and financing clean, and may involve only a fraction of
           the population included. The areas involved are very varied (immunology, genetics,
           imaging, evaluation of fibrosis, biostatistics, , quality of life, economy, etc.).
    
  