
    
      There is little doubt that the use of insecticide treated bed nets (ITN's) is one of the most
      successful means of reducing malaria in Africa. However, vectors in this region tend to be
      late night, indoor feeders. Vector species in other parts of the world may not be so
      susceptible to this form of vector control. In much of Central & Southern America, the major
      vectors such as An. darlingi and An. albitarsis have a feeding peak between 8 - 10pm, before
      most people retire to bed. Similarly, the major vector in much of S.E. Asia, An. dirus,
      seldom enters homes to feed. In these circumstances it is unlikely ITN's alone will provide
      adequate protection. Supplemental use of skin applied insect repellents may be an effective
      method of personal protection in the hours between dusk and retiring to bed. It would also
      prove useful for those individuals working late or moving early into the forest where
      exophagic species are encountered. As yet, there have been no robust clinical evaluations of
      combined ITN and repellent use. This double blind, placebo-controlled study is designed to
      evaluate the efficacy of combined ITN and plant based insect repellent use to reduce P.
      falciparum in the Bolivian Amazon in a region where ITN's alone are likely to be ineffective.

      The study is a double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical evaluation. 1000 households will be
      used and 5 individuals age 10 + will be entered into the study from each. Recruitment will
      cover all rural communities in Vaca Diez and Pando Provinces, Department of Beni in the
      Bolivian Amazon Region, plus the outer 10 % of periurban districts of the 2 major towns in
      the region, Riberalta and Guayaramerin. A maximum of 20 % of households in any one location
      will be used, thus avoiding any effect of diversion of insects from treatment to placebo
      homes. Likewise, each house used will be a minimum of 25m from any other in the study.
      Baseline surveys will be conducted on each individual and informed written consent will be
      collected. Treatment (30 % L.E.) / placebo (0.1 % clove oil in alcohol) marked A or B will be
      allocated (50:50) at random, and all individuals in both groups will be provided with an ITN.
      Compliance questionnaires, collection of old bottles and distribution of fresh bottles will
      be conducted every 4 weeks. Everyone will receive personal instruction on how to apply
      repellent to arms & legs each evening at dusk and left a pictorial instruction sheet on how
      to measure 10 ml using the bottle lid. Compliance threshold will be set at 10% and monitored
      by measuring any residual product on collection and recording of nightly use. A more
      realistic measure of compliance will be gained through occasional evening spot checks of
      households by the local health workers. Finger prick blood samples will be collected at
      baseline and monthly throughout the study by trained & approved field staff. P. falciparum
      infection will be diagnosed by Paracheck® dipstick test, thus overcoming problems of
      recrudescence of P. vivax. Positive cases will be referred to the local health centre for
      treatment. The timing of the visits means the majority of malaria episodes will be detected
      as the Paracheck® test can detect antibodies in blood for around 3 weeks post treatment. In
      addition to the use of our monthly questionnaires, any episodes missed are highly likely to
      be recorded, as we are employing the same local health workers in each area, and blood slides
      are routinely taken at the local health centres. Outcome determination will constitute a
      series of monthly cross-sectional prevalence surveys, and, as positive cases are treated,
      this is equivalent to a measure of average prevalence of infection for each house.
    
  