
    
      Background: Morbidly adherent placenta (MAP) is a life-threatening condition characterized by
      placental villi being abnormally adherent to the myometrium. Prenatal identification of MAP
      is essential to anticipate the risk and plan optimal delivery conditions for these women
      while this is associated to a maternal outcome improvement. Prenatal identification based on
      Doppler ultrasound and/or MRI is associated with high rates of false-positive or
      false-negative findings responsible for adverse effects. Some cases reports have suggested
      that the concentration of cell-free fetal DNA circulating in the maternal plasma is
      significantly increased in a context of morbidly adherent placenta (MAP).

      Objective: The primary objective is to determine whether the concentration of cell-free fetal
      DNA circulating in the maternal plasma is significantly increased in women with morbidly
      adherent placenta (MAP) compared to women with placenta praevia and previous caesarean.
      Secondary objectives are to determine whether cell-free fetal DNA circulating in the maternal
      plasma is a useful biological tool to detect MAP, alone or in addition to the imagery
      findings (ultrasonography and RMI), in a high risk population (placenta praevia and previous
      caesarean or only prenatal suspicion of MAP).

      Design: Prospective observational study of pregnant women with placenta praevia and previous
      cesaeran or with prenatal suspicion of placenta accreta, conducted in 5 centers.

      Methods: We expect to include 83 women at risk of MAP in two years, of whom approximately 17
      (20%) will have a MAP.

      Main outcome measures: The primary outcome measure is concentration of cell-free fetal DNA
      circulating in maternal plasma.

      Conclusion: This study will be the first prospective study to include women at risk of
      placenta accreta and to investigate whether the concentration of cell-free fetal DNA
      circulating in maternal plasma is increased in MAP women and whether it is a useful
      biological marker to detect prenatally MAP in a high risk population.
    
  