
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if dose-escalated and -intensified photon IMRT or proton beam therapy (using
      a dose-per-fraction escalation with simultaneous integrated boost) with concomitant and
      adjuvant temozolomide improves overall survival, as compared to standard-dose photon
      irradiation with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To indirectly compare dose-escalated and -intensified photon IMRT to dose-escalated and
      -intensified proton beam therapy in terms of overall survival.

      II. To indirectly compare and record toxicities of dose-escalated and -intensified photon
      IMRT versus dose-escalated and -intensified proton beam therapy and directly compare the
      toxicities of these approaches versus standard-dose photon irradiation on the backbone of
      concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide.

      III. To indirectly determine if dose-escalated and -intensified proton beam therapy with
      concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide improves perceived cognitive symptom severity, as
      compared to dose-escalated and -intensified photon IMRT, and to directly compare symptom
      burden with these approaches versus standard-dose photon irradiation on the backbone of
      concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide.

      IV. To indirectly determine if dose-escalated and -intensified proton beam therapy with
      concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide improves neurocognitive function, as compared to
      dose-escalated and -intensified photon IMRT, and to directly compare neurocognitive function
      with these approaches versus standard-dose photon irradiation on the backbone of concomitant
      and adjuvant temozolomide.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Tissue banking for future translational science projects that will be determined based on
      the state of the science at the time the primary endpoint is reported and will be submitted
      to National Cancer Institute (NCI) for review and approval.

      II. To prospectively compare cluster of differentiation (CD)4 lymphopenia between
      dose-escalated and intensified proton beam therapy, dose-escalated and -intensified photon
      IMRT, and standard-dose photon irradiation.

      III. To explore the most appropriate and clinically relevant technological parameters to
      ensure quality and effectiveness throughout radiation therapy processes, including imaging,
      simulation, patient immobilization, target and critical structure definition, treatment
      planning, image guidance and delivery.

        -  To establish feasibility and clinical relevancy of quality assurance guidelines.

        -  To evaluate efficacy of quality assurance tools.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups depending on enrolling institution. Within
      each group, patients will be randomized 1:2 in favor of the experimental arms.

      GROUP I (PHOTON IMRT CENTERS): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A1: Patients undergo standard-dose photon irradiation using 3-dimensional conformal
      radiation therapy (3D-CRT) or IMRT once daily (QD), 5 days a week for 23 fractions plus a
      boost of 7 additional fractions.

      ARM B: Patients undergo dose-escalated and -intensified photon IMRT QD, 5 days a week for a
      total of 30 fractions.

      GROUP II (PROTON CENTERS): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A2: Patients undergo standard-dose photon irradiation using 3D-CRT or IMRT as in Arm A1.

      ARM C: Patients undergo dose-escalated and -intensified proton beam radiation therapy QD, 5
      days a week for a total of 30 fractions.

      In all treatment arms, patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) QD on days 1-49 of radiation
      therapy. Beginning 4 weeks later, patients receive temozolomide PO QD on days 1-5. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year,
      every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  