
    
      Most studies evaluating treatments PE include intravaginal ejaculatory latency time (IELT) in
      the definition of PE. It has been estimated that PE affects 30-40% of the male population,
      but is paradoxically a condition for which they are least likely to seek help.

      Men with PE exhibit abnormal autonomic reflex pathways for the ejaculatory process. These
      include lower vibratory threshold to ejaculation, shorter bulbocavernous latency time and
      higher bulbocavernous evoked potentials. Reducing the heightened sensitivity of the glans
      penis with topical anesthetics might therefore be a way of improving IELT, without adversely
      affecting the sensation of ejaculation.

      Although IELT is an objective measure of ejaculatory function it does not address the impact
      of therapy on patients' well being and confidence in their sexual performance, which are
      important markers of treatment benefit. Therefore, if IELT is used as a sole efficacy measure
      it may not fully characterise the treatment benefit to the patient. For this reason, a
      patient reported outcome (PRO) known as the Index of Premature Ejaculation (IPE) will be used
      in this study in conjunction with IELT to evaluate efficacy. Thus the combination of the
      objective measure of ejaculatory latency with the PRO of IPE should be able to provide
      efficacy data which are representative of clinical benefit to the patient.

      The use of lidocaine, prilocaine and EMLA® cream as topical anesthetics is well established.
      Many years of experience of use in large numbers of patients, as well as comprehensive
      non-clinical safety testing programs for various formulations of lidocaine and prilocaine
      exist, to support their safety and tolerability. This information, together with the clinical
      data from 3 studies with PSD502 (ANAE-059-00, PSD502-PE-001, and PSD502-PE-003), suggest that
      PSD502 may have beneficial effects in reducing penile sensation and prolonging IELT, and its
      use is unlikely to be associated with significant clinical safety or tolerability concerns.

      The aim of this study is to provide additional placebo-controlled efficacy data to establish
      the clinical utility of PSD502 in the treatment of PE. In addition, long term open-label
      efficacy and safety data will be collected, to further support the registration package for
      PSD502 in the indication of treatment of PE.
    
  