
    
      This study will evaluate the safety and feasibility of the administration of 188Re-PTI-6D2 in
      patients with metastatic melanoma. Patients with confirmed Stage IIIc (unresectable) or Stage
      IV melanoma who meet all eligibility criteria will undergo a thorough physical examination
      and baseline tumor imaging (whole body 18FDG PET/CT and MRI brain) to document all sites of
      tumor.

      Treatment will be administered on an inpatient basis. An initial cohort of 3 patients will
      receive a tracer dose of 188Re-PTI-6D2 without any preceding unlabeled antibody. The tracer
      dose will consist of 10 mCi of rhenium-labeled antibody; the amount of antibody (in mg) will
      depend on specific activity and is estimated to range from 2 to 10 mg. Additional cohorts of
      three patients each will receive 10 mg, 20 mg, and 50 mg of unlabeled PTI-6D2 immediately
      preceding administration of the tracer dose. Patients will undergo serial gamma scans and
      SPECT/CT imaging at specified time points. Blood samples will be obtained prior to dosing and
      at specified intervals for PK measurements of the mAb as well as for measurement of serum
      radioactivity. Urine will also be collected for all patients to measure excreted
      radioactivity. Patients will be closely monitored for safety throughout the duration of the
      study.

      Patients will remain at the study center for 48 hours after infusion to allow adequate time
      for post-treatment safety observation, monoclonal antibody clearance and rhenium decay. Prior
      to the escalation of the dose of unlabeled PTI-6D2, safety data from the inpatient period and
      2-week follow-up visit for the three patients at the current dose level will be reviewed. If
      there is no evidence of a safety risk, the dose of unlabeled PTI-6D2 will be escalated for
      the next cohort of patients. Dose escalation of unlabeled antibody will occur according to a
      specific scheme.
    
  