
    
      Subjects will be randomized to one of two groups: the supra-serratus anterior plane block
      (depositing local anesthetic superficial to the serratus anterior muscle) or the sub-serratus
      anterior plane block (depositing local anesthetic deep to the serratus anterior muscle).
      Randomization will be performed using a computer generated randomization program. The results
      of the randomization will be revealed to the physician performing the block just prior to its
      performance. The site of the block will be marked and a safety timeout will be performed with
      the block nurse, regional anesthesiologist, and patient present and participating.

      Once the above is completed, patients will receive a pre-operative ultrasound-guided
      single-injection serratus anterior plane block using either the supra-serratus or
      sub-serratus techniques according to their randomization. The block nurse will record the
      time when the timeout is performed, the "needle insertion" time when the block needle enters
      the skin, and the "block complete" time when the needle exits the skin. If the block is
      bilateral, the block nurse will record the time when the timeout is performed, then will
      record two sets of "needle in" times and "needle out" times, one for each side. In the case
      of a bilateral block, the same method of serratus anterior plane block will be utilized for
      both sides.

      After the block, the patient will proceed to surgery. The operating room anesthesia team will
      be notified that the patient received a serratus anterior plane block. An appropriate
      multimodal general anesthetic will be employed at the operating room anesthesiologist's
      discretion. Upon completion of the surgery and emergence from general anesthesia, the patient
      will be seen by study personnel in the Post Anesthesia Care Unit and pain will be evaluated
      using a 0-10 Likert scale (0=no pain, 10= worst imaginable pain) about 1 hour
      post-operatively. Pain will be evaluated again by study personnel using the same scale on
      post-operative day #1, about 24 hours after initial block placement. If the patient is
      discharged home prior to the post-operative day #1 assessment, a phone interview will be
      performed 24 hours following the block to evaluate the post-operative day #1 scores and
      monitor for adverse events. Additional pain scores will be documented in the electronic
      medical record by nursing staff per protocol, and will be collected by study personnel.

      During the intraoperative and post-operative period, the patient will continue to receive an
      appropriate multimodal analgesic regimen as necessary to adequately control the pain. No pain
      control method will be withheld from the patient as a result of participating in the study.

      Patient satisfaction scores will also be used as a measure to evaluate quality of
      perioperative pain management. These scores will be assessed on post-operative day #1 on a
      scale of 1 to 5 (Poor=1, Fair=2, Good=3 Very good=4, Excellent=5).

      During follow-up on post-operative day #1, the patients will also be asked for an estimate on
      duration and quality of sleep to help assess their general comfort level during their first
      post-operative night.

      During the routine post-operative visit, an assessment of post-operative nausea and vomiting
      will be made by asking the patient directly. Chart review looking for post-operative
      antiemetic usage will also be evaluated to assess the presence of post-operative nausea and
      vomiting.

      The decision as to whether or not to perform a serratus anterior plane block (SAPB) will be
      made independent from the introduction of the patient to the study. Therefore, the patient's
      choice to receive a SAPB will not be affected by the introduction of the study or their
      desire to participate in a clinical investigation. A multimodal intraoperative anesthetic
      technique will be employed for all patients, and post-operative pain control will be managed
      by the patient's primary surgical team.
    
  