
    
      When suffering from conditions affecting the central nervous system, such as spinal cord
      injury (SCI), stroke or neurodegenerative disorders, two pathways are available for regaining
      independence and quality of life. One way is through clinical interventions, including
      therapeutic exercises, often in combination with pharmacological agents. The other is
      provided by assistive technologies, such as wheelchairs or robotic systems. These two
      approaches have conflicting characteristics. While rehabilitation exercises challenge
      patients to use the most affected parts of their musculoskeletal apparatus, assistive
      technologies are typically designed to bypass the disability. This has led to divergent
      research domains. In both fields there are three major gaps that we plan to address in the
      investigator's research:

        1. High cost of technology and the limited amount of available hospital-based
           rehabilitation;

        2. Lack of adaptability of currently available assistive technologies, such as head
           switches and sip-and puff devices, that require users to overcome a hard learning
           barrier;

        3. Inadequate criteria for assessment of effectiveness of therapy, with common techniques
           still relying on subjective approaches that are inadequate considering the current state
           of biomedical science and technology.

      We will address all of these issues by developing a new generation of body-machine interfaces
      (BoMI) supporting both assistive and rehabilitative goals. BMIs will translate movement
      signals and muscle activities of the user into control signals for assistive devices and
      computer systems. State-of-the-art systems for surface electromyography (EMG) and movement
      recording (IMU) will be integrated through machine learning techniques to facilitate
      sensorimotor learning while providing the means to promote or reduce the use of targeted
      muscles. New comprehensive assessment techniques will be developed by integrating standard
      measure of function - as the manual muscle test - with EMG analysis and non-invasive magnetic
      brain stimulation (TMS) (Magstim 200 Bistim, Whitland, UK). The development will be organized
      in three specific aims.

      AIM 1: To develop a BMI integrating muscle activities and motion signals for operating
      external devices and performing rehabilitation exercises. EMG signals derived from multiple
      muscles in the upper body (e.g. deltoid, pectoralis, trapezius, triceps, etc.) will be
      integrated with motion signals to generate control signals for external devices (e.g. the
      coordinates of a cursor on a computer monitor or the speed and direction commands to a
      powered wheelchair). Both linear (PCA) and nonlinear maps (auto encoder networks) will be
      explored, although current preliminary evidence suggests that non-linear auto encoders (AE)
      are likely to better facilitate user learning1.

      AIM 2: To enable targeting and modulating recruitment of specific muscles and muscle
      synergies during the practice of games and functional tasks. To enhance or reduce the role of
      a muscle or synergy, the output of the BoMI will be modulated in proportion to the deviation
      of the measured muscle activity from the desired level. The effectiveness of the approach
      will be tested at different times following training, both by tracking of motions and EMG
      activities during the performance of selected activities of daily living (ADL) and trough the
      assessment of muscle responses evoked by non-invasive brain stimulation.

      AIM 3: To promote the adoption of the BoMI by facilitating access to its functions by
      patients and therapists and by performing an observational study on uptake in the DayRehabTM
      environment. The Shirley Ryan Ability Lab has established a unique environment in which
      spinal cord injured and stroke outpatients engage in daily rehabilitation exercises in close
      physical proximity with researchers. We will seize this opportunity to introduce the BoMI in
      the context of clinical therapy thus allowing a direct assessment of acceptance by therapists
      and clients.
    
  