
    
      COPDGene® subjects will be screened through several mechanisms for enrollment into the Lung
      Cancer Database:

        1. The COPDGene® Phase 1 Longitudinal Follow-up Questionnaire.

        2. The COPDGene® Phase 2 Medical History Questionnaire at Visit 1

        3. Medical Records Collection through the Mortality Adjudication Committee

      Potential cases will be those who respond yes to lung cancer will be contacted by phone by a
      study coordinator and be screened for the COPDGene® Lung Cancer Database. Medical records
      will be analyzed to determine the patient's cancer diagnosis, pathology, and treatment.
      Information will be collected at each individual institution, de-identified, and entered into
      the password-protected COPDGene® DCC lung cancer database, through a web-based interface. The
      survival data will be obtained through review of medical records or the Social Security Death
      Index in conjunction with the COPDGene® mortality adjudication committee. For the nested
      case-control study, controls will be matched from the those subjects on COPDGene who answered
      'No' to the longitudinal follow-up question "have you been diagnosed with lung cancer" as per
      COPDGene protocol.

      Medical records regarding the patient's cancer diagnosis, pathology and treatment will be
      collected following signed release of medical information from the patient. The following
      information will be collected and entered into a database. The survival data will be obtained
      through review of medical records or the Social Security Death Index.

      i. Date of diagnosis ii. Type of specimen iii. Laterality iv. Lobe v. Record of any false
      positives (can be used as verified controls) b. Pathology Findings: i. Histology ii.
      Molecular Analysis, if done. iii. Stage (TNM classification) iv. Histologic grade c.
      Treatment i. Surgery ii. Radiation iii. Chemotherapy iv. Presentation at Tumor Board d.
      Outcomes i. Recurrence, Second primary cancers ii. Survival after cancer diagnosis, Cause of
      death Study coordinators at each site contact subjects who have self-reported lung cancer or
      were identified as having lung cancer by follow-up clinic visits and complete the lung cancer
      data form. The data collected on each subject is de-identified at the recruiting site prior
      to being downloaded into the COPDGene® DCC located at National Jewish Health. A lung cancer
      adjudication committee, including Drs. Carr and Bowler, will review each case for accuracy
      and completeness.
    
  