
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Framingham Heart Study, initiated in 1948, was designed as a longitudinal investigation
      of constitutional and environmental factors influencing the development of cardiovascular
      disease in men and women free of these conditions at the outset. The first person was
      examined in September 1948 and four years later 5,209 persons had received their first
      examination. The group has now been followed in the Study for twenty-four subsequent biennial
      examinations. The need for more information arises from the fact that the epidemiology of
      cardiovascular disease is incompletely known, estimation of risk is imprecise, and the
      pattern of cardiovascular disease incidence is changing; these changes need to be documented.
      Changing patterns of cigarette smoking, nutritional habits and exercise patterns as well as
      changes in other aspects of lifestyle and advances in medical care may all influence future
      morbidity and mortality rates for cardiovascular disease. New cases of clinically
      recognizable cardiovascular disease are less predictable in disease free subjects over age
      60, and an already large and growing proportion of the total cardiovascular disease events is
      now first expressed at these ages. Recently available, technologically advanced measurement
      tools such as echocardiography need to be evaluated as risk assessors in various age groups.
      Similarly, the predictive efficacy of recently available lipoprotein cholesterol and
      apoprotein measurements need to be demonstrated for early onset (age less than 60) as well as
      later onset cardiovascular disease. Thus, as changes in early detection and treatment of
      cardiovascular disease advance, prospective epidemiology is needed to document the value and
      impact of these changes in an organized fashion. Finally, the availability of prospective
      data on two generations adds to the uniqueness of the Framingham Study among ongoing studies
      of CVD epidemiology. A determination of the extent and mechanisms by which cardiovascular
      diseases cluster in families is another important goal of the Framingham Study.

      In 1982, the National Institute on Aging initiated a study on senile dementia using the
      Framingham Heart Study cohort. The study was designed to determine morbidity and mortality
      outcomes among the 160 subjects identified as suffering from dementia at the 15th biennial
      examination and to determine incidence of senile dementia among those subjects free of
      dementia at the 15th biennial examination. Outcome of nursing home admissions was also
      determined in all study participants.

      Biennial comprehensive examinations of the Framingham Heart Study cohort have taken place
      since 1949. Until examination 12, the study was carried out entirely by the NHLBI. After that
      time, the Boston University Medical Center, in collaboration with, and using facilities and
      equipment made available by NHLBI, was responsible for the examinations.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Biennial examinations are conducted in the surviving original cohort to obtain information on
      physical activity, blood pressure, diet, body weight, occupational history, psychosocial
      factors, and personal habits such as smoking. Special tests include electrocardiographic
      evaluation, exercise stress test, HLA typing, lipoprotein and apoprotein testing,
      non-invasive assessment of atherosclerosis, fasting blood glucose, lung function testing,
      B-scan/Doppler of the carotid and or femoral arteries, and clotting or hemostatic measures.
      Endpoints include coronary heart disease, stroke, hypertension, congestive heart failure, and
      peripheral arterial disease.

      Members of the Offspring Study were examined for the first time between 1971 and 1975, for
      the second time between 1979 and 1983, for the third time between 1983 and 1987. Examinations
      consist of a complete physical examination including resting electrocardiogram, medical
      history, non-invasive cardiovascular examination, lung function assessment, lipoprotein
      cholesterol and apoprotein measurements, SMA 25, personal history interview, blood cell ion
      flux measurement, and platelet function and blood clotting factors measurement.

      The 27th exam of approximately 400 survivors of the original cohort is complete. The 28th
      exam has begun and is ahead of schedule. The 7th exam of the Offspring Cohort began in
      September 1998 and was completed in December 2001 with 3,500 participants examined. The
      genome scan is complete with approximately 1,800 samples from 336 families. A Genetics
      Advisory Panel meets regularly to advise NHLBI on the direction of genetic research within
      the Framingham Study. Analysis of the genetic and nongenetic data is ongoing and extensive
      covering such areas as the genetics of lipids, lifetime risk of coronary heart disease,
      trends in events following Q-wave myocardial infarction, factors affecting left ventricular
      hypertrophy, and the prevalence and determinants of heart valve disorders.

      Initiation of the Third Generation Study was announced in November 2001. Beginning in 2002,
      the Third Generation Study enrolled 3,900 grandchildren of the Framingham Heart Study's
      original enrollees. Key goals are to identify new risk factors for heart, lung, and blood
      diseases, identify genes that contribute to good health and to the development of heart,
      lung, and blood disease, and to develop new imaging tests that can detect very early stages
      of coronary atherosclerosis in otherwise healthy adults.
    
  