
    
      Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) rupture is a common sport-related injury that needs surgical
      reconstruction to restore a better knee function. This ligament accommodates plenty of
      crucial sensory nerve endings providing proprioceptive information to central nerve system
      (CNS) for the knee movement control. Recent studies have found that the patients will
      increase utilization of the visual processing for movement control, concurrent with the
      depression of the proprioceptive information after the ACL injury. In addition, the loss of
      proprioception information will result in motor impairment when disrupting vision during more
      demanding physical activities, such as pivoting, accelerating, decelerating, and landing
      maneuver. It is obvious that this motor control deficit may increase the re-injury risk
      during multitasking situations common in functional movements or sports participation. The
      current treatment for the ACL-injured patients usually emphasize on the movement quality
      through neuromuscular training, but seldom adding the alteration of the sensory processing.
      Some patients still have been forced to lower their activity level or ended their career in
      sports due to the remained motor control problems after rehabilitation. Therefore, the
      purpose of this study is to (1) design a modified visual feedback training program and (2)
      investigate the effects of the modified visual feedback training on the movement control in
      the ACL-reconstructed (ACL-R) patients. Forty unilateral ACL-R male patients will be enrolled
      voluntarily from local hospitals to participate in this study. Each participant will be
      randomly allocated into the traditional neuromuscular training (NMT) or the modified visual
      feedback (MVF) group. The training program will start at the forth week after the ACL
      reconstruction and last for eight weeks. The hypothesis of this study is that the MVF
      training program will have better potential to improve their post-injury movement dysfunction
      and thus may decrease the re-injury risk in ever-changing environment. Therefore, it may
      provide assistance for the patients to build both physical and neurocognitive capabilities
      for returning to sport.
    
  