
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of monoclonal antibody HuHMFG1 in women with
           locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer.

        -  Determine a safe recommended dose and schedule of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetic profile, in the absence of any other chemotherapy or
           endocrine agent, of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the antitumor activity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine time to progression in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Assess immunological markers (e.g., granzyme B, gamma interferon, and C1Q) for
           determining response to this drug in these patients.

        -  Assess markers of immunogenicity (e.g., human anti-human antibody) of this drug in these
           patients.

        -  Assess tumor markers (e.g., CA15.3 and CEA) in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Correlate, preliminarily, soluble HMFG1 antigen levels with pharmacokinetic data for
           this drug in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, non-randomized, dose-escalation study.

      Patients in cohorts 1 and 2 receive monoclonal antibody HuHMFG1 IV over 1-3 hours once every
      21 days for doses 1 and 2. All subsequent dose intervals are based on individual half-life
      value of the drug, to be within 3 days of the estimated half-life in multiples of 7 days.
      Patients in cohorts 3 and 4 receive monoclonal antibody HuHMFG1 at the dosing interval
      determined in the first 2 cohorts. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 6 patients receive escalating doses of monoclonal antibody HuHMFG1 until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which at least 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      All patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 6 weeks for 6 months. Patients with an
      antitumor response or stable disease are followed every 12 weeks until disease progression or
      initiation of another antitumor treatment.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 6-24 patients will be accrued for this study within 18 months.
    
  