
    
      Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is one of the most common childhood mental
      health disorders, affecting 7-9% of children and adolescents, and leading to substantial
      impairment in adolescence. Despite evidence suggesting that behavioral interventions are
      efficacious, approximately 40-60% of adolescents receiving behavioral treatment show little
      to no improvement and skills are rarely generalized beyond treatment sessions. Lack of
      adolescent motivation and engagement, between-session skills use, reward saliency, and family
      involvement are key contributors to these limited effects. Mobile digital health (dHealth)
      strategies and gamification techniques, offer unique opportunities for overcoming the
      barriers of treatments specific to ADHD by using interactive tools to reinforce in-vivo skill
      practice, providing opportunities for immediate reinforcement, and motivating adolescents
      with digital rewards. The primary goal of this study is to develop and preliminarily test the
      integration of a digital health tool into organizational/behavioral skills treatment for
      adolescents with ADHD by improving executive functioning skills, providing in-vivo skills
      reinforcement, and monitoring adolescents' skill utilization. The proposed research will use
      an iterative stakeholder-centered design to develop, refine, and preliminarily test a novel
      digital health tool, applied as an adjunct to behavioral treatment for adolescents with ADHD
      (ages 11-15). This includes focus groups with key stakeholders and an open preliminary
      feasibility trial and usability testing. Data collected from focus groups will inform what
      content and features could be developed to overcome challenges to adolescent engagement and
      parent involvement. During the open trial (N=20) we will assess intervention feasibility,
      usability, and acceptability. During and after the clinical trial, we will collect continuous
      feedback from users on the usability and utility of the tool. At the end of this study we
      will complete debugging and programming to maximize usability before a future larger clinical
      trial.
    
  