
    
      Anesthesia induction will be performed with usual anesthetics without any opioids and
      followed by the placement of a laryngeal mask airway. Optimal anesthesia level will be
      maintained with inhalation anesthesia so as to obtain a bispectral index of 30 to 50.
      Subjects will be ventilated with controlled mechanical ventilation (CMV) by the anesthesia
      ventilator until the presence of spontaneous breathing can be affirmed. A carbon dioxide/flow
      sensor (Adult Combined CO2/Flow Sensor; Novametrix medical systems INC., Wallingford, CT)
      will be placed between the LMA and the breathing circuit. The sensor will be connected to a
      noninvasive cardiac output monitor (NICO; Noninvasive Cardiopulmonary management System,
      model 7300; Respironics Corp., Murrysville, PA). NICO data (end-tidal CO2 (ETCO2), tidal
      volume and flow waveforms) will be recorded and stored on a personnel computer. At the start
      of surgery, the anesthesia care provider will administer opioids to control nociceptive
      stimuli from surgery. Figure 2 shows the procedural course of the study. Once spontaneous
      breathing is observed, PSV will be applied with pressure support (PS) of 3, 8, 13 and 18
      cmH2O in this order, with slope of 1.0 second and no PEEP. The fraction of inspired oxygen
      will be titrated to achieve SpO2 over 98%. Five minutes will be allowed to achieve
      equilibrium at each PS level after which an additional recording of one minute of data will
      be obtained. Once the PSV is completed at 18 cmH2O, ventilation will be carried out in
      reverse order of PS; 13, 8 and 3 cmH2O of PS. If at any point in the course of the study the
      subjects ETCO2 is higher than 60 mmHg, obvious body motion is observed or abnormal vital
      signs [NIBP; >160/90 mmHg or <80/50 mmHg, HR; >100 mmHg or <40 mmHg, SpO2; <94% at a given
      fraction of inspired O2] occur, the study will be terminated and routine care will be
      provided.
    
  