
    
      Lucitanib is an oral multi kinase inhibitor designed to block the action of certain molecules
      called "angiogenic factors" that may cause tumors to grow. These factors are called vascular
      endothelial growth factor (called VEGF), platelet derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) and
      fibroblast growth factor (called FGF). Lucitanib is experimental and not approved by the FDA
      for the treatment of cancer.

      The purpose of this clinical trial is to study the following in cancer patients whose cancers
      harbor aberrations in FGFR, VEGFR, PDGFR, or other biomarkers predicted to be sensitive to
      lucitanib:

        -  To look at the effects of lucitanib on their disease at 10 mg once daily.

        -  To look for biomarkers in samples of blood and tumor tissue to identify patients most
           likely to respond to lucitanib.

        -  To look at the safety of lucitanib in these patients

      This is a two-center, open-label, non-randomized Phase II study of lucitanib in adult
      subjects with advanced cancers. Treatment will consist of daily oral administration of 10mg
      of lucitanib in 28-day cycles.

      All patients providing informed consent will be screened for eligibility. Baseline
      assessments will include vital signs, physical exam, blood hematology and chemistries, ECG,
      and ECHO. If not done within the prior 4 weeks, a PET/CT scan, MRI, and/or CT scan will be
      performed for radiological evaluation of disease.

      Clinical evaluations include physical exam, vitals, ECG (obtained once every month throughout
      treatment); blood hematology and chemistries (obtained every two weeks for the first three
      months and then once every month throughout treatment); radiologic evaluations (PET/CT, CT
      and/or MRI, +/- bone imaging as clinically appropriate) will be performed every 8 weeks.

      This study may last up to approximately 4 years or longer, depending on whether or not the
      study doctor feels that continuing lucitanib dosing is in the patient's best interest. Once a
      patient finishes study treatment with lucitanib, patients will need to complete an End of
      Study visit. Each of the study visits can last from approximately 2 to 8 hours.
    
  