
    
      Infection and sepsis are among the leading causes of death worldwide. The annual burden of
      infectious diseases is particularly high in middle- and low-income countries. The Surviving
      Sepsis Campaign released guidelines for severe sepsis and septic shock management, whose
      implementation improved sepsis outcomes. Despite these benefits, the Surviving Sepsis
      Campaign cannot be implemented in middle- or low-income countries due to lack of training and
      resources. This leaves those clinicians caring for the worldwide majority of patients
      suffering from acute infection without standardized and adoptable guidance for sepsis. The
      Surviving Sepsis Campaign has launched an initiative to improve sepsis care in
      resource-limited settings by employing the 'Scan-Teach-Treat' Approach. This approach
      consists of the following three steps: Step 1 - scanning the region of interest for key
      elements of regional epidemiology of acute infectious diseases as well as elements of the
      teach and treat module; Step 2 - implementing a focused training program on the management of
      acute infectious diseases; Step 3 - implementing a 'Sepsis First Aid kit' into clinical
      practice.

      In this prospective before-after study, this approach will be piloted at the Gitwe Distict
      Hospital in Gitwe, rural Rwanda. During three four month periods, three interventions are
      planned: First four months period: collection of baseline data on the clinical management of
      patients with acute infection. Second four months period: During the first days, a 1.5-day
      focused training program will be performed (participants: health care workers of primary care
      facilities within the catchment area of the Gitwe hospital and health care workers of the
      Gitwe hospital). Then, a simple management protocol to care for patients with an acute
      infection will be implemented into clinical practice. During the third four months period, a
      'Sepsis First Aid' kit containing essential resources to treat patients with an acute
      infection (antimicrobials, fluids, data documentation sheet) will be distributed to primary
      care facilities and the emergency department of the Gitwe hospital. During the 8 months
      following the focused training program (periods 2 and 3), data collection will continue. It
      is hypothesized that implementation of a simple clinical management protocol and exposure of
      health care workers in the Gitwe Hospital area to a focused training program on the
      management of acute infections will increase the rate of evidence-based interventions
      performed in patients with an acute infection during the first six hours after hospital
      admission (administration of oxygen and fluids whenever indicated, timely administration of
      antimicrobial drugs, source control measures). In addition to the main analysis, study
      endpoints will be analyzed separately for the following รก priori defined sub-groups: children
      (<15 years); patients with malaria; patients positive for HIV; patients referred to from
      primary health care centers.
    
  