
    
      Study design After a 4-week washout period, during which patients were allowed to take only
      salbutamol (as needed), they were assigned according to a double-blind, double-dummy
      randomized crossover study to one of the two following 24-week treatments: 1) formoterol 12
      µg plus beclomethasone HFA 200 µg (by MDI) b.i.d., or 2) salmeterol 50 µg plus fluticasone
      propionate 250 µg (diskus) b.i.d.. Daily doses of 400 µg beclomethasone HFA and 500 µg of
      fluticasone propionate are equivalent, according to the Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA)
      International guidelines6. At the end of first period and after another 4-week washout
      period, they received the second randomized 24-week treatment.

      Adherence to the treatment was based on self-reports by each patient, on a declaration of
      willingness to continue to participate to the study and on the counter of drug doses disposed
      by inhalers. All patients have been trained to correctly inhale the drugs by different
      devices.

      At the end of the washout periods and two treatments the subjects underwent Asthma Control
      Test (ACT), oxygen saturation (SaO2) measurement and Pulmonary Function Testing (PFT).

      The subjects were enrolled after obtainment of written consent. The protocol has been
      approved by our local Ethic Committee.

      Asthma Control Test Subjects completed an ACT questionnaire at the end of each washout and
      treatment period. Asthma control was assessed by the validated Italian version of the ACT.
      They subjectively evaluated the degree of impairment caused by their asthma during the
      preceding 4 weeks answering to five questions using a five-point-scale. The ACT is a reliable
      and validated tool, responsive to changes in asthma control over time. A cut-off score of 19
      or less identifies subjects with poorly controlled asthma.

      Pulmonary Function Testing A computerized water-sealed light-bell Stead-Wells spirometer
      (Biomedin, Padua, Italy) was used for measuring slow vital capacity (SVC), inspiratory
      capacity (IC), and maximal flow-volume curves. The operator was assisted during the test by
      software able to verify electronically both the acceptability and reproducibility of
      spirometric maneuvers. All the spirometric tests employed in the study fulfilled the
      recommendations of American Thoracic Society. Total lung capacity (TLC), functional residual
      capacity (FRC) and residual volume (RV) were obtained by using the plethysmographic method.
      The body plethysmograph was a variable flow, constant pressure-type with a frequency response
      flat until 30 Hz (Biomedin, Padua, Italy).

      Determination of the slope of N2 phase III and closing volume (CV) was obtained during a
      single-breath nitrogen washout test (SBWN2)(Medical Graphics, St. Paul, MN, US). Subjects in
      sitting position after exhaling to residual volume (RV) inhaled slowly pure oxygen with a
      single breath until TLC and then expired slowly from TLC to RV. The expired nitrogen
      concentration was measured and plotted as function of expired lung volume. This relationship
      was fitted linearly in the phase III and the slope of N2 phase III was computed automatically
      by the software. The onset of phase IV was identified on the trace by software or by visual
      examination, if required. The average values of the N2 phase III slope and CV obtained from
      two acceptable and reproducible measurements (with expiratory slow vital capacity within 10%)
      were selected for analysis.

      Expiratory maximal flow-volume curves breathing either air or heliox (oxygen 21% and helium
      79%) were also performed. Breathing mixture was introduced in the bell of spirometer by a
      3-way stopcock connected to the ambient air or to a cylinder containing humidified heliox at
      ambient temperature and pressure. In each occasion, after 3 slow deep breaths to total lung
      capacity, a forced expiratory maneuver was performed starting from TLC without
      end-inspiratory pause. Measurements of MEF50% with air and heliox and determination of their
      differences [Delta(Heliox-air)MEF50%] were obtained at baseline and subsequently at
      corresponding isovolume.

      Statistical analysis All values are expressed as mean ± SD. We used the mean of the
      functional values of the two baselines for comparisons. Analysis of variance of the variables
      of interest among baseline and two therapeutic regimens (end of treatment periods) were
      performed by Friedman's test. Comparisons between groups were made according to Wilcoxon
      test, when allowed. A p value <0.05 was considered significant. Statistical analysis was
      performed with GraphPad Prism Version 4 (GraphPad Software; San Diego, CA, USA).
    
  