
    
      Introduction Wound healing problems after surgery are a stressful experience for patients.
      Wound dressing changes are often on a daily basis and can cause considerable discomfort to
      the patient as these are often painful. Wound healing problems can lead to complications like
      wound infection, hernia formation, wound rupture or even tissue necrosis. These complications
      are often associated with prolonged hospital stays and reoperations and cause an economic
      burden to the hospital health budget. It is generally accepted that adequate blood perfusion
      of the wound edges is required for optimal wound healing. Greater understanding of the impact
      of a surgical procedure on skin perfusion may help to reduce postoperative wound healing
      problems. Such will have great clinical relevance.

      Aim Can postoperative wound complications involving the abdominal wall be explained by
      changes in skin blood perfusion?

      Main results from the literature study In surgery, knowledge on the vascular anatomy is
      applied in order to place incisions in such a manner that a good approach is combined with
      minimal damage to the vascular anatomy. Knowledge on vascular anatomy does not provide exact
      information on how skin perfusion alters after surgery. The invasive method indocyanine green
      fluorescence-agiography (ICG-FA) can be used to evaluate intraoperatively the effect of an
      abdominoplasty on skin perfusion. However, animal studies in flap surgery have clearly shown
      that tissue perfusion is a dynamic process. Using dynamic infrared thermography (DIRT) in a
      clinical setting revealed that flap perfusion is a dynamic process that takes place over days
      during the postoperative phase. DIRT is a non-invasive technique that relies on measuring
      skin surface temperatures. Studies have shown that there is a close correlation between skin
      temperature and skin perfusion. DIRT has been shown to be a good alternative to ICF-FA to
      visualize skin perfusion.

      Purpose of the study The purpose of the study is to analyze the impact of a surgical
      procedure on skin perfusion of the abdominal wall in order to increase our understanding on
      how postoperative wound healing problems can be avoided.

      Study population The study population will include patients that are undergoing one of the
      following operations; a) abdominoplasty, b) breast reconstruction after breast cancer with a
      free flap from the lower abdomen and c) endovascular stenting of the abdominal aorta for
      aneurysm. These surgical procedures are frequently performed procedures at the University
      Hospital of North Norway (UNN). Based on the vascular anatomy of the abdominal wall, each
      procedure will have an impact on the skin perfusion of the abdominal wall.

      Material and Methods Approval will be obtained from the regional ethical committee and the
      principles outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki will be followed.

      Study I The inclusion criteria are patients scheduled for abdominoplasty who are non-smokers
      or have stopped smoking at least 3 months prior to surgery and have no supraumbilical
      abdominal scars from previous surgery Study II The inclusion criteria are patients scheduled
      for secondary unilateral free abdominal flap breast reconstructions who are non-smokers or
      have stopped smoking at least 3 months prior to surgery and have no abdominal scar from
      previous surgery.

      Study III Patients who are scheduled for endovascular stenting of the abdominal aorta.

      DIRT will be performed on the day before surgery, intraoperatively and on the 1st, 3rd and
      6th postoperative day with all DIRT examinations performed in the same supine position for
      study I and II. For study III, the same protocol will be used, however, no intraoperative
      DIRT examination will be performed. For study III, thermal images are taken from both lower
      extremities during the abdominal DIRT examination to see if stenting causes a change in
      rewarming of the lower extremities following stenting.

      An IR camera (FLIR ThermaCAM S65 HS FLIR Systems, FLIR Systems AB, Boston, MA) will be
      positioned directly above the exposed anterior thorax and abdomen. This camera can produce
      sequences of high-definition digital IR images with an accuracy of 0.1º C. Thermal emissivity
      is set to 0.98 and the accuracy of the camera will be regularly checked against a black body
      with a traceable temperature source (Model IR-2103/301, Infrared Systems Development Corp.,
      Florida, USA). IR images are taken at regular intervals to register the rate and pattern of
      skin recovery for 3 minutes after a mild cold challenge. Images are electronically stored and
      afterwards processed using image analysis software ThermaCAM Researcher Pro 2.8 SR-1 (FLIR
      Systems AB).

      The pre- and postoperative images are taken in a dedicated laboratory (room temperature
      21-23°C) before and during recovery following a cold challenge after an acclimatization
      period of 10 minutes with the thoracic and abdominal wall exposed. The thermal challenge is
      delivered by blowing air at room temperature over the skin surface for 2 minutes with a
      desktop fan. The intraoperative examination is performed with the patient in general
      anaesthesia just before and at the end of surgery. The thermal cold challenge is performed by
      washing the thorax and abdomen evenly for 1 minute with gauze soaked in saline at room
      temperature (22-23°C).

      The abdomen is divided into vascular zones as defined by Huger. The mean skin temperature is
      calculated for each zone in the postoperative phase before cooling, at end cooling and at 1,
      2 and 3 minutes recovery. A qualitative analysis of the changes of pattern and rate of
      recovery of hot spots within each zone is made and compared with the results from the other
      zones. A one tailed t test for paired variables is use to see if there is a statistically
      significant in the mean temperatures between zones at each time point of rewarming.
      Statistical significance is defined as p<0.05.

      Publications The results from each study will be published in an international peer-reviewed
      journal.
    
  