
    
      Cancer of the rectum is a common disease. It affects nearly 15,000 new people each year, with
      more men (53%) than women (47%).

      In more than 9 out of 10 cases, it occurs after 50 years. Three types of treatments are used
      to treat rectal cancer: surgery, radiotherapy and drug treatments.

      The standard treatment for Locally Advanced Rectal Cancers (LARC) is multidisciplinary,
      combining chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery. The usual treatment in this situation is
      called induction chemotherapy administrated before radiochemotherapy. This phase of treatment
      taking place before surgery is called neoadjuvant therapy.

      However, treating all cancers of the locally advanced rectum with the same neoadjuvant
      treatment exposes patients who are good responders to neoadjuvant chemotherapy with possible
      toxicity to radiotherapy and patients who are poor responders to ineffectiveness of
      conventional radiotherapy with surgery and so to a mutilating ineffective treatment.

      The short- and long-term toxicity of pelvic radiation may be the most compelling reason to
      reconsider reflexive neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy (NA-RCT) and to move toward a more
      individualized approach.

      A large North American trial is currently evaluating the suppression of preoperative
      radiation therapy in patients selected as a good responder to induction chemotherapy.

      A first trial called GRECCAR-4 (Surgical Research Group on Rectum CAncer) with induction
      chemotherapy by 5 Fluorouracil + Irinotecan + Oxaliplatin and personalized radiochemotherapy
      reported the following results:

        -  High-dose induction chemotherapy is well tolerated and reproducible

        -  Early assessment after neo-adjuvant chemotherapy makes it possible to discriminate
           between good and bad responders without a negative impact on surgery.

        -  Personalized management of LARC according to the early tumor response to chemotherapy is
           possible.

        -  In good responder patients, a resection rate of 100% was achieved (even in the arm
           without radiotherapy), but due to poor recruitment, it is not possible to draw a formal
           conclusion regarding these promising results.

        -  The oncological results at 5 years show a local recurrence rate of 0% for the good
           responders and 4.8% for the poor responders. The 5-year overall survival was 86.7% with
           a 5-year progression-free survival of 75.0%.

      GRECCAR 14 is the only French trial to question the feasibility of appropriate management of
      non-metastatic LARC. Its main objective is to evaluate, in good responder patients,
      personalized management after preoperative CT treatment.

      GRECCAR-14 will try to confirm this strategy taking into account the 1st results of GRECCAR
      4.

      The study will initially focus on 200 patients to assess the surgical quality of this
      therapeutic strategy and then on 230 additional patients to assess the effectiveness of this
      personalized treatment on survival without recurrence.
    
  