
    
      This study is aimed to evaluate the effect of fluvoxamine on polysomnographic (PSG) variables
      and clinical improvement in the treatment of depressive patients with insomnia.

      This is an 8-week open-label study. All patients are required to meet Diagnostic and
      Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) [48 criteria for MDD, single
      or recurrent type, with moderate-to-high level of illness severity, as evidenced by a 17-item
      Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD) score >17 [49, 50]. Furthermore, these depressed
      patients should be suffering insomnia, which was determined by the total score of sleep
      disturbance factor in HRSD >3 (items 4, 5, and 6; score range, 0-6).

      Before any procedure of the study, the patient would be explained in detail about the
      potential risk and benefit in this study with a signed informed consent form (ICF). Patients
      can discontinue the study at any time after informed consent. Also, this study should be
      approved by Independent Ethics Committee (IEC) of Guang Dong Mental Health Center and
      compliance with the content of the declaration of Helsinki.

      After 7-day wash-out period and 2 nights PSG (the first night as adaptive and the second
      night as baseline), 30 depressive patients were administered by fluvoxamine as 50 mg/day in
      the 1st day. The dosage of fluvoxamine would be titrated during the 8-week treatment, and the
      maximum was lower than 300 mg/day. The primary endpoints were the changes of PSG variables
      from baseline to the 56th Day. The secondary endpoints were the changes of subjective sleep
      quality and clinical performance from baseline to the 56th Day. Their sleep quality was
      evaluated with Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) and Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), and
      their clinical performance was evaluated with HRSD and Clinical Globe Impression (CGI).
    
  