
    
      (1) Study population(included in the standard): 120 patients(aged 16 to 80 years) who met the
      MDS diagnostic criteria in the hematology department and outpatient clinics of the four
      cooperative hospitals after June 2019. The diagnostic criteria refer to the WHO diagnosis of
      the 2016 MDS. New classification; The prognosis score was based on the 2012 MDS revised
      IPSS-R prognostic integral system.In control group, 5 patients with initial acute myeloid
      leukemia(AML-M2a) and 5 healthy human bone marrow donation volunteers. Understand the purpose
      of this study and sign an informed consent form.

      2) Clinical information collection: medical history collection of selected patients, Routine
      clinical tests(including peripheral blood count, serum ferritin, VitB12, folic acid, EPO
      levels, bone marrow smears and bone marrow biopsies, bone marrow flow cytometry, bone marrow
      cytogenetics, etc.) and follow-up and efficacy observations, The clinical indicators,
      efficacy and prognosis of the patient and the possible related genes detected were
      systematically analyzed.

      (3) Research methods: The bone marrow specimens collected will be extracted according to the
      RAN-seq operating process, and the total RNA, quality test, and cDNA library of each sample
      cell will be extracted, 30 Million reads per sample, and Ilumina X10 PE150 will be sequenced,
      sequencing depth 9G clear Data. After the sequencing data is tested and passed, the original
      sequencing data is pre-processed: the raw data of the sequencing machine is qualitatively
      controlled, the sequencing fragments with the sequencing connector are removed, and the
      low-quality, fuzzy N bases, riboomeRNA are removed. Sequencing fragments with a length of
      less than 20, etc.; Transcription of sequencing data: genomic alignment of preprocessed reads
      and post-comparison quality control.

      Gene Expression Level Analysis: Gene Expression Level Quantification, Gene Expression Level
      Distribution, Biological Duplication Correlation Analysis, Intersample Level Clustering and
      PCA Analysis.

      Differential Expression Gene Analysis:

      The GO enrichment and signal pathway enrichment of different genes were analyzed, and the
      genes specifically raised or decreased between normal samples, AML samples, and MDS patient
      samples(including various MDS subtypes) were compared. Prediction of molecular level events
      associated with these differential gene changes(signal pathway activation or inhibition), and
      search for differential genes that can represent disease processes.

      (4) Data management and statistics: All clinical information data are collected and entered
      into the computer. All data are entered using the database established by the Clinical
      Evaluation and Analysis Center of the unit. Data processing statisticians finally further
      fully verify and check the completeness and accuracy of data before data entry. Data entry
      and management by the person responsible for the establishment of a dedicated database, data
      entry and management should be entered and proofread by two data managers. After completion,
      SPSS 19.0 for Windows statistics software package is used for statistical processing.

      After the completion of clinical information data statistics and sequencing analysis results,
      the computer's "in-depth learning" function was used to complete the establishment of two
      "standards" and one "scheme" using analysis tools such as rMATS and SURVIV.
    
  