
    
      The objectives of the study are: 1) to describe the incidence of iatrogenic withdrawal of
      sedatives and analgesics in critically ill adult patients and; 2) Validate screening tools
      for withdrawal in the adult population.

      Hypothesis

        1. Symptoms of iatrogenic benzodiazepines and opioids withdrawal occur commonly in
           mechanically ventilated patients exposed to high doses and/or prolonged infusions and
           who are rapidly weaned from these therapies.

        2. The scales for benzodiazepine and narcotic withdrawal detection used in paediatrics
           population correlate well with the DSM V diagnosis of withdrawal in an adult ICU
           population

        3. Major risk factors for withdrawal symptoms include longer duration of therapy and higher
           doses and admission for a medical condition (MICU)

      Methods

      A prospective multicenter observational study will be carried out in two
      University-affiliated hospital intensive care units (Hôpital du Sacré-Coeur and Montreal
      General Hospital). All mechanically ventilated ICU patients receiving continuous infusions of
      benzodiazepines and/or opioids for more than 96 hours will be prospectively screened daily
      for withdrawal symptoms by an intensivist. Withdrawal symptoms for opioid and benzodiazepines
      will be identified using the DSM-V criteria. Patients with moderate to severe head trauma, a
      severe neurological disease, or prior to admission substance abuse (significant alcohol,
      illicit or prescription drugs) will be excluded. We will also exclude patients with a
      regularly prescribed chronic opioid or benzodiazepine use prior to ICU admission. Risk
      factors for withdrawal including type of agents exposed, dosing, duration of exposure,
      weaning of agents, organ dysfunction, age, gender, smoking, severity of disease and admission
      diagnosis will be prospectively collected. The Withdrawal Assessment Tool-1 (WAT-1), a
      screening tools validated in the paediatric population, will also be administered daily. The
      criterion validity of this screening tool will be compared to the DSM-V criteria.
    
  