
    
      Name of investigational treatment: Influenza vaccine (VaxigripTetra, Sanofi Pasteur MSD).

      Title of study: Influenza vaccination After Myocardial Infarction (IAMI trial).

      Study centers: Up to 35 centers in Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Scotland, Czech Rebublic, Latvia
      and Bangladesh.

      Planned study period: 2016 - 2020 (influenza season). Long-term follow up to 2025 via
      registries.

      Phase of development. Phase IV.

      Objectives: In a multicenter, prospective, randomized registry-based controlled clinical
      trial based on the SCAAR and SWEDEHEART platforms and other national registries (if
      available) in the participating countries to compare influenza vaccination and placebo in
      reducing future death and major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events in patients with
      myocardial infarction or with very high risk stable coronary artery disease and an increased
      risk of future cardiovascular events..

      Methodology: Following informed consent patients are randomized in a 1:1 fashion to influenza
      vaccination or placebo up to 72 hours following coronary angiography/PCI (or hospital
      admission, Bangladesh only).

      Number of subjects: 4 400

      Primary endpoint: The number of participants with all-cause death, a new myocardial
      infarction or stent thrombosis (first occurring) till 1 year. These data will be obtained
      from national health registries, telephone interviews and hospital records.

      Secondary endpoints

        -  The number of participants with all-cause death till 1 year (key secondary outcome)

        -  The number of participants with myocardial infarction till 1 year (key secondary
           outcome)

        -  The number of participants with stent thrombosis till 1 year (key secondary outcome)

        -  The number of participants with cardiovascular death till 1 year (key secondary outcome)

        -  The number of participants with a new revascularization till 1 year

        -  The number of participants with cardiovascular death, a new myocardial infarction or
           stent thrombosis (first occurring) till 1 year

        -  The number of participants with stroke, including transient ischemic attack (TIA) till 1
           year

        -  The number of participants with hospitalization for heart failure till 1 year

        -  The number of participants with hospitalization for arrrhythmia till 1 year

        -  Length of hospital stay per participant (if information is available)

      Follow up by telephone and registry information: The follow up for endpoints will be
      performed using national health registries (if available), telephone interviews and hospital
      records. Seven days after vaccination patients will be requested to return a postage paid
      standard questionnaire to asses if any adverse event has occurred. Follow up of primary and
      secondary endpoints will also be performed by telephone contacts with the patients or first
      degree relatives by a nurse phone call after 350±10 days. All events will be adjudicated by
      an independent clinical endpoint comittee.

      Quality assurance (registries). It is compulsory to register all patients undergoing PCI in
      the countries with national PCI registries. All registry data are routinely validated in the
      participating countries as part of routine registry function. Sites will be monitored
      according to a specific study monitoring plan. Data checks are part of the registries used
      and uses predefined rules for range and consistency with other data fields in the registry.
      Source data verification is part of routine registry maintenance by comparing the data to
      medical records. Overall agreement between registry data and medical records is >95% .

      Standard Operating Procedures: Before starting the clinical trial all centers will have a
      telephone/web-based start meeting with presentation of the study, study procedures and
      documentation. The first visit at site will be when the center has included some patients
      into the study. During the study period, monitors will have regular contact with the
      participating departments to ensure that the trial is conducted in compliance with the
      protocol and applicable regulatory requirements. The monitors will also provide information
      and support to the investigator(s). The number of monitoring visits will be limited and
      unless no specific problems occur the main part of the monitoring will be centralized by
      regular checks of the data quality in the database. Moreover logs of signed informed consents
      and AE forms will be faxed to the sponsor for follow-up. The monitors will review source
      documents for verification of consistency with the study data recorded in CRF according to
      risk based monitoring. Investigators and other responsible personnel must be available during
      the monitoring visits, possible audits and inspections and should devote sufficient time to
      these processes. Patient recruitment status is continuous (updated every 24 hours on
      weekdays) and will be available on the trial website.

      Reporting for adverse events: Registration of adverse events will start after informed
      consent and when treatment with study medication has been given and continue until the
      patient leaves the hospital after the coronary angiography/PCI procedure up to a minimum of 7
      days following influenza vaccination. The same time limit will be used in both treatment
      groups. The patients will be informed to contact the investigator or study nurse if any
      adverse event should occur during this timeframe. Seven days after vaccination patients will
      be requested to return a postage paid standard questionnaire to asses if any adverse event
      has occurred.

      An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject
      administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have a causal
      relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavourable and unintended
      sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal (investigational)
      product, whether or not related to the medicinal investigational product.

      Medical occurrences that are symptoms of existing disease, and that do represent an
      exacerbation of that disease, or the PCI procedure are not defined as AE's in this clinical
      trial. Also elective hospitalisations for pre-treatment conditions are not AE's nor expected
      reactions to vaccination, such as but not limited to, redness, swelling, pain, fever and
      chills. AEs not to be reported are also those defined as study endpoints. An IEC will
      evaluate for safety after 1000 patients.

      Serious Adverse Events - SAE:

      A serious adverse event (SAE) is any untoward medical occurrence or effect that at any dose:
      results in death, is life-threatening, requires hospitalisation or prolongation of existing
      inpatients' hospitalisation, results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity,
      is a congenital anomaly or birth effect, other important medical event.

      Hospitalisation or prolongation for existing inpatient hospitalisation disease and that do
      represent an exacerbation of that disease and the coronary angiography/PCI procedure as well
      as other events non-related to the study medication will not be reported as an SAE.

      Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reaction - SUSAR:

      All serious adverse events (SAE) must be evaluated unexpected and drug related or not. The
      definition of an unexpected adverse reaction is an adverse event, which has not been
      documented or reported earlier.

      If the responsible investigator judges the SAE as being drug related and unexpected it must
      be promptly reported to the sponsor, who is responsible for reporting SUSARs to the
      Regulatory Authorities and the Ethics Committee. Whether the reaction is expected or not will
      be assessed against the SPC.

      Assessment of severity. For all adverse events, serious as well as non-serious, the
      investigator must make an assessment of severity. Relationship should be classified according
      to the following definitions.

        -  Mild: Awareness of sign or symptom, but easily tolerated and cause no interference with
           daily activities.

        -  Moderate: Discomfort enough to cause interference with daily activities.

        -  Severe: Inability to perform normal daily activities.

      Relationship to study drug. The investigator will judge whether or not, in his/her opinion,
      the adverse event is associated with the study treatment. Relationship should be classified
      according to the following definitions:

      Probable: An adverse event, which might be due to the use of the drug. The relationship in
      time is suggestive (e.g. confirmed by dechallenge). An alternative explanation is less
      likely, e.g. concomitant drug(s), concomitant disease(s).

      Possible: An adverse event, which might be due to the use of the drug. An alternative
      explanation, e.g. concomitant drug(s), concomitant disease(s), is inconclusive. The
      relationship in time is reasonable; therefore, the causal relationship cannot be excluded.

      Unlikely: An adverse event for which an alternative explanation is more likely, e.g.,
      concomitant drug(s), concomitant disease(s), or the relationship in time suggests that a
      causal relationship is unlikely.

      Reporting procedures for Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events: Only adverse events and
      serious adverse events that are not considered as signs and symptoms expected and related to
      STEMI or NSTEMI or known side effects from the study drug will be reported in this study.
      Events defined as endpoints in the study (e.g. all-cause death, a new myocardial infarction
      or stent thrombosis) will not be reported as adverse events. This means that other clinical
      signs and symptoms, which are reported by the patient and observed by the investigator, and
      in the opinion of the investigator are unexpected in relation to actual diagnosis, will be
      reported up to 7 days post vaccination.

      SUSAR reporting procedure: If the responsible investigator judges the SAE as being
      drug-related and unexpected the event must be reported to the sponsor within one working day.
      The documentation will be on a CIOMS form (http://www.cioms.ch/index.php/cioms-form-i). The
      sponsor is then responsible for reporting SUSAR to the regulatory authorities and ethics
      committee. The sponsor is also responsible for information to all involved investigators in
      the study.

        -  A SUSAR resulting in death or judged as life threatening must be reported to regulatory
           authorities and the ethics committee within 7 days after the sponsor has been notified
           about the event. A full report has to be sent to the authorities within 15 days.

        -  A SUSAR which is not resulting in death or is life threatening has to be reported to
           regulatory authorities and ethics committee within 15 days after the sponsor has been
           notified about the event. A full report has to be sent to the authorities as soon as
           possible.

      Annual report: A safety report, including assessment of overall safety and all reported
      SUSARs will be submitted yearly to the Regulatory Authorities and if requested to the Ethics
      Committee.

      Sample size: The combined 1-year primary endpoint of all-cause death, a new AMI or stent
      thrombosis is estimated at 10.0% (expected survival probability of 0.9) for individuals
      randomized to placebo. For patients with stable coronary artery disease we performed an
      analysis of data from SCAAR of 11761 individuals from the Total-AMI cohort and identified a
      subgroup of patients with the same 1-year risk of cardiovascular events (death or MI) as for
      patients with NSTEMI or STEMI. After applying enrichment criteria for individuals ≥75 years
      of age undergoing coronary angiography/PCI and with at least one additional risk criterion -
      previous myocardial infarction, previous PCI (in addition to a current PCI), previous CABG,
      diabetes mellitus, current smoking or an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <40
      ml/min the risk for the primary composite endpoint was calculated to be on par with patients
      with STEMI and NSTEMI (9.3% for death and AMI and assuming the risk for stent thrombosis till
      1 year to be 0.2% totaling a 9.5% risk for the primary composite endpoint). With a 5%
      two-sided significance level the investigators calculated that 386 events would be needed to
      have a 80% statistical power to detect a 25% reduction of the primary endpoint in the
      influenza vaccination group, corresponding to a hazard ratio of 0.75. With this estimation
      2186 patients are needed per study group, power calculation utilized with STATA release 11
      (College Station, TX, USA). In order to control for dropouts and crossing from one group to
      the other (both were negligible in TASTE), 4400 patients will be included.

      Statistical analysis: The results will be analyzed according to the intention-to-treat
      principle. Differences between groups in time-to-event endpoints will be assessed with the
      log-rank test. For the primary endpoint, patients will be censored at 1 year; analyses at
      other time points will be handled in a similar way. Survival probabilities will be displayed
      and calculated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Hazard ratios (HR) with 95% confidence
      intervals between study groups will be calculated using Cox proportional hazard model, if
      violation to proportional hazard assumption time-dependent HR will be calculated and
      adjustment will be made for stratification variables, center and STEMI/NSTEMI. Differences
      between study groups will be assessed with unpaired t-tests on original scale or log scale as
      appropriate. Ordinal variables will be assessed with chi-2 test for trend or Mann-Whitney U
      test and Pearson's chi-square test or Fisher's exact test will be used to test differences
      between proportions. Two-sided statistical significance levels of 5% will be used and
      estimates will be presented with 95% confidence intervals.

      Subgroup analyses will first and foremost be carried out for the primary endpoint and its
      components. All subgroup analyses of event data will be performed using a proportional
      hazards model with factors treatment, subgroup, and treatment-subgroup interaction, and will
      be presented with within-group hazard ratios with 95% confidence intervals and the
      interaction p-value. The primary subgroup analyses will focus on the STEMI and NSTEMI
      populations and the effect of intervention in each of the three influenza seasons, with the
      purpose of evaluating effect in each subgroup.

      Interim Safety Analysis: A maximum of 3 months following inclusion of the first 1000 patients
      an independent endpoint committee (IEC) will monitor study endpoints. Variables to be
      assessed are all-cause death, a new myocardial infarction and stent thrombosis. Premature
      termination of the study will be mandated in the event that one of the treatment strategies
      shows statistically significance at the 0.001 alpha level for the composite of time to
      all-cause death, a new myocardial infarction or stent thrombosis.
    
  