
    
      Interstitial cystitis/bladder pain syndrome (IC/BPS) is a severe, chronic bladder condition
      that is extremely painful and disruptive. Incidence of the disease has increased dramatically
      in recent years, primarily due to enhanced awareness and better defined inclusion criteria.
      Difficulty in diagnosis arises from the diversity of symptoms and severity between patients
      and in the same patient at different times. IC/BPS is generally accepted as a disease of
      exclusion in which a diagnosis is reached after ruling out other conditions. A firm diagnosis
      is only mildly assuring for patients because there are very few therapeutic approaches that
      can alleviate the symptoms. Several risk factors are associated with IC/BPS, including age,
      sex and race [5] and modifiable risk factors such as diet and smoking. This proposal is to
      test the hypothesis that cigarette smoking contributes directly to changes in the bladder
      that are indicative of, or predispose to, IC/BPS. In preliminary studies, the investigators
      have exposed mice to cigarette smoke and observed breaks in the urothelium, decreased
      urothelial tight junction protein expression, increased vascularity and inflammatory cells in
      the bladder wall. This lab has previously demonstrated that cigarette smoke inhibits
      endothelial cell platelet activating factor acetylhydrolase (PAF-AH), which is responsible
      for the hydrolysis of PAF, resulting in increased PAF, a membrane phospholipid-derived
      inflammatory mediator. The investigators have also shown that calcium-independent
      phospholipase A2β (iPLA2β) is responsible for the majority of PAF production in endothelial
      and urothelial cells. PAF has been shown to increase matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) which in
      turn inhibit anti-angiogenic pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF), thus promoting
      angiogenesis. These studies indicate a direct relationship between PAF accumulation and PEDF
      expression in the bladder that may contribute to inflammation in smokers.

      PAF stability in urine has not been established in the literature. This study is proposing to
      assess PAF and PAF-AH activity in urine after using various handling methods of the urine
      specimen. Better understanding of PAF stability will allow for better design of future
      experiments involving PAF in interstitial cystitis patients.

      The investigators have exposed mice to cigarette smoke and examined changes in the bladder.
      they have observed thinning and sloughing of the urothelium, plus increased vascularization.
      These changes are observed in the bladder wall of IC/BPS patients. We have measured increased
      PAF accumulation and decreased expression of PEDF in the bladder wall.
    
  