
    
      Infertility is a common health problem in the United States with approximately 15% of women
      of childbearing age receiving care for this disorder. One of the most successful and commonly
      utilized treatment options is in-vitro fertilization (IVF). Data collected by the Center for
      Disease Control (CDC) and the Society for Assisted Reproduction (SART) showed that in the
      year 2001, over 100,000 IVF treatment cycles were performed through the more than 400 IVF
      centers in the U.S. Despite many recent technological advances, pregnancy rates with IVF
      remain limited with the most recent CDC/SART data reporting that only 27% of treatment cycles
      result in a live birth. Acupuncture has been utilized in China for centuries to regulate the
      female reproductive system and has in recent years become a popular option for infertile
      couples in the States. Though acupuncture has been studied in other infertility settings, IVF
      is chosen because:

        1. IVF is one of the most common infertility treatments as well as the most resource
           intensive treatment option. Therefore, an improvement in IVF success will provide the
           greatest benefit to patients and society.

        2. IVF affords a unique opportunity to gather the most data regarding the reproductive
           process and to investigate putative acupuncture related physiological changes.

      We propose a randomized, sham controlled feasibility study on the effect of acupuncture on
      IVF. Sixty IVF patients will be recruited into the study to accomplish the following aims:

        1. To examine the feasibility of recruiting and retaining a sufficient number of patients
           for an adequate powered study,

        2. To identify issues related to the multicenter approach that could alter study endpoints,

        3. To examine the effect size of the treatment group as compared to the sham group,

        4. To examine whether acupuncture is a safe procedure for women undergoing IVF,

        5. To examine the effect of acupuncture on clinical IVF outcomes, and

        6. To examine the physiological and psychological impact of acupuncture on IVF patients.

      Results obtained from the study will provide necessary information for a larger, definitive
      study, as well as knowledge regarding the broad mechanism of acupuncture on female
      reproductive function.
    
  