
    
      Study 1: Methods-Twenty-four subjects with substroke (less than 6 months post-stroke) were
      recruited for telerehabilitation group and conventional balance training group. Study 2.
      Methods-Twenty -four participants with mild to moderate stroke were randomized into
      telerehabilitation (Tele) group and conventional (Conv) group. They received balance training
      with three sessions per week for 4 weeks. The pressure distribution of buttock-pressure
      interface was measured by Pressure Distribution Plate (PDM-S).

      Study 3.Methods: Twenty-four participants were recruited from three long-term care
      facilities. Participants were assigned into tele-rehabilitation (Tele group) and conventional
      Groups (Con group) randomly. Baseline and post-treatment physical function, daily activities
      and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) were assessed by Simplified-STREAM, Berge Balance
      scale (BBS), Barthel index (BI), and Stroke Impact Scale (SIS 3.0), respectively.
      Interventions were conducted to both groups by two different physical therapists with three
      sessions a week for four weeks of intervention.

      Study 4. Ten participants with stroke were randomized into Tele or control group 1 (CG1) for
      randomized controlled trial. The Tele group also received home PT at 3 weeks later as control
      group 2 (CG2) for cross over design.

      Intervention: All three groups received 4 weeks training (2 sessions/week, 50
      minutes/session), including upper extremity and balance exercises.

      Main outcome measures: The assessments were performed at baseline (pre), after 4 weeks (post)
      and after 7 weeks (follow-up). The measures for physical function included Stroke
      Rehabilitation Assessment (STREAM), Postural Assessment Scale for Stroke Patients (PASS), and
      Barthel index (BI). The measures for satisfaction included Stroke Impact Scale (SIS) and
      user-satisfaction questionnaires.
    
  