
    
      The world health organisation has reported that over 220 million people suffer from diabetes
      worldwide and that by the year 2030, this number will be doubled. The WHO also reports that
      in 2004, about 3.4 million people died from high blood sugar. About 90% of all diabetes cases
      is due to type II diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is largely due to overweight and lack of physical
      activity characterised by high glucose levels (hyperglycaemia).

      In the human diet, the source of blood glucose is carbohydrates. Dietary carbohydrate is
      important to maintain glycaemic homeostasis and provides the most of the energy in the diets
      of most people. The control of blood glucose is a hormonal process and it is very important
      to human physiology. Hormonal processes involve the release of insulin from the β- cells of
      the pancreatic cells which stimulates the uptake of glucose after a meal, to other tissues
      either for utilisation (glycolysis) or to be stored in the liver as glycogen (glycogenesis).
      When blood glucose falls below normal, glucagon is secreted from the pancreatic α-cells and
      it promotes liver glucose production by inducing the generation of glucose from
      non-carbohydrate substrates such as amino and fatty acids (gluconeogenesis) and the
      generation of glucose from glycogen (glycogenolysis).

      When the glucose homeostasis hormonal control fails, it entails high blood glucose levels
      (postprandial hyperglycaemia) which can lead to metabolic syndrome which includes obesity,
      impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), hypertension and dyslipidemia. Disturbance of glucose
      homeostasis can also lead to other symptoms such as inflammation and oxidative stress at the
      whole body level as well as disturbances of the functionality in several organs as well as
      diabetes. Therefore, as much as carbohydrates are required in the human body as a major
      source of energy, too much in the diet can have adverse health effects especially the one
      with high glycaemic effect.

      The proposed mechanism adapted from Aston, 2006 of how carbohydrates may affect human health
      is that when there is a continual presence of high glycaemic index foods in the diet, this
      gives rise to postprandial glucose rise as well as high insulin demand to act on the high
      blood glucose levels in the blood. Postprandial glucose rise and high insulin demand may lead
      to insulin resistance which is the major component of metabolic syndrome. High insulin demand
      may also lead to β-cell failure which may also result in hyperglycaemia which is also a cause
      of insulin resistance. Insulin resistance and hyperglycaemia are risk factors for metabolic
      syndrome and diabetes type 2.

      Scientific evidence suggest that postprandial hyperglycaemia in humans has a major role to
      play in health priorities like type 2 diabetes and blood glucose control. It has been
      reported that about 90% of all diabetes cases consist of type 2 diabetes. Apart from type I
      and type 2 diabetes, there are other related conditions which include pre-diabetes (impaired
      glucose tolerance (IGT) and impaired fasting glucose (IFG) as well as metabolic syndrome
      (obesity, hypertension and insulin resistance). It has been reported that pre-diabetes and
      metabolic syndrome increases the risk of developing cardiovascular disease and diabetes
      mellitus. The glycaemic index was originally proposed with the aim of managing diabetes.
      However, recent studies have shown that the GI has potential in the prevention of type 2
      diabetes as well as in the treatment of metabolic syndrome. Research has shown that high GI
      diets are associated with increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes. More research has
      shown that high GI diet is associated with a number of abnormalities like increased metabolic
      syndrome and insulin resistance. In the same way, a low GI diet is said to improve insulin
      sensitivity but more research is needed to support this. A few studies have shown this to be
      the case. However it was observed that it was difficult to know whether this was as a result
      of improved insulin sensitivity, or improved insulin secretion or due to reduced rate of
      glucose absorption.

      Potential solution having anything in the diet that can either slow down the digestion and
      absorption of carbohydrates can help reduce the risk. Among others, two potential solutions
      are that of consumption of low glycaemic index foods or having ingredients in the diet that
      can reduce the glycaemic index of foods as well as postprandial blood glucose levels. The
      presence of inhibiting components in the diet that can reduce postprandial glucose can also
      be a solution to reducing the risk. Drugs like acarbose are currently used in some countries
      for the management of type 2 diabetes which act by inhibiting carbohydrate digestive enzymes.
      However, the use of acarbose has side effects such as nausea, flatulence and diarrhoea. It
      has been reported that polyphenols also have the potential to inhibit the rise in blood
      glucose by hindering the rapid absorption of glucose.

      A recent review has reported that research using animal models as well as a limited number of
      human studies, have shown that polyphenols and polyphenol rich foods or beverages have the
      potential to affect postprandial glycaemic responses and fasting glycaemia as well as an
      improvement of acute insulin secretion and sensitivity. Other possible mechanisms as reported
      in the review include pancreatic β- cells stimulation to secrete insulin as well as
      activation of insulin receptors, modulation of the release of glucose from the liver as well
      as of intracellular signalling pathways and gene expression.

      Another recent review concluded that it is very possible that the effects of polyphenols in
      the diet will affect glycaemic index of foods as well as postprandial glucose responses in
      humans. The two mechanisms highlighted by which this can be achieved being the inhibition of
      sugar metabolising enzymes as well as transporters. This potential action of polyphenols can
      thus be compared to that of acarbose which acts by the same mechanism and research in chronic
      intervention studies has shown that it reduces diabetes risk.

      This research will involve the use of soluble olive powder as a source of polyphenols to
      determine its effects on the glycaemic response when consumed together with a carbohydrate
      source. Four interventions will be carried out as follows:

        1. White bread as source of carbohydrate

        2. Whole meal bread as source of carbohydrate

        3. Glucose as source of carbohydrate

        4. Sucrose as source of carbohydrate

        5. White bread as source of carbohydrate but with 3 days high fat diet prior to the study
           visit.

        6. White bread as source of carbohydrate but with 3 days high carbohydrate diet prior to
           the study visit.

      The study was approved by the University of Leeds Mathematical and Physical Sciences (MAPs)
      ethical committee with application number MEEC15-044. At least 10 volunteers will be
      recruited for each intervention (white bread, whole bread, glucose, sucrose, 3 days high fat
      diet, 3 days high carbohydrate diet). The volunteers will be screened for their fasting blood
      glucose level. They will need to be healthy and their fasting blood glucose levels should
      fall within the healthy range of 4.3-5.9mmol/L.

      The volunteers are scheduled to attend 3 visits. During each visit, the volunteer comes
      fasted in the morning and the fasting blood glucose is measured by the use of a glucometer.
      The volunteer is then given a test meal which will be randomized and blood glucose will be
      measured at 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120,150 and 180 minutes after the first bite of the test
      meal. The results will be used to plot the area under the curve and results obtained after
      consuming test meals will be compared to those obtained after consumption of control meals.

      THE SIX DIFFERENT INTERVENTIONS MAY OR MAY NOT BE COMBINED FOR PURPOSES OF PUBLISHING
      RESULTS. EACH INTERVENTION WILL AIM TO HAVE AT LEAST 10 PARTICIPANTS.
    
  