
    
      Background: Breast milk is the best source of nutrition for the rapidly growing infant since
      it contains all the necessary nutrients in the right proportions. If the mother cannot
      breast-feed, chooses not to breast-feed or has to stop early, an adapted formula is from a
      nutritional perspective the only alternative during the first four to six months of age and
      also the best alternative throughout the rest of the first year of life together with
      suitable complementary foods. Formula composition has through the years developed to resemble
      as close as possible the composition of breast milk resulting in physiological effects in the
      infant to more resemble that of the breast-fed infant. However, there are still considerable
      differences between the dietary intake of the breast-fed infant and its metabolism compared
      to infants who are fed formula. Furthermore, research suggests that breast-fed infants have a
      lower risk of overweight and obesity in childhood and adolescence, lower risk of acute otitis
      media (AOM), upper airway- and gastrointestinal infections, and possibly a lower risk of high
      blood pressure and diabetes type 2 as adults which probably depend on different protein
      composition and concentration in formula and breastmilk. The optimal protein level of formula
      is still under debate. The investigators know that the protein concentration of formula is
      unnecessarily high, but until now it has been difficult to reduce it further due to the
      potential risk of shortage of some of the essential amino acids, i.e. those amino acids that
      have to be delivered from the diet.

      The concentration of alpha-lactalbumin, the predominating whey protein in breast milk, is
      still low in formula. The composition of the protein in breast milk and formula thus differs
      considerably and consequently also the amino acid pattern in serum between infants who are
      breast-, or formula-fed. Alpha-lactalbumin has many potential positive effects which may
      explain some of the differences between breast-fed and formula-fed infants and when added to
      formula makes it more similar to the composition of breast milk. Alpha-lactalbumin contains a
      higher concentration of cysteine, a precursor of taurine, which is important for
      neurodevelopment. However, it is foremost the concentration of tryptophan that is higher in
      alpha-lactalbumin, an amino acid which otherwise is a limiting factor when lowering the
      protein level in formula. Tryptophan is a precursor of serotonin, a neurotransmitter
      important for stress management, cognition under stress and sleep latency.

      Recently, new whey protein sources which contain higher concentrations of alpha-lactalbumin
      have become available. Studies show that protein is still too high in formula resulting in
      higher concentrations of urea nitrogen and most amino acids in infants who are fed formula
      compared to those who are breast-fed, which indicates that formula-fed infants still have
      excessive protein intake. Thus, there should be no problem in further reducing the protein
      level of formula during the first 6 months of life by increasing the proportion of
      alpha-lactalbumin. In this way the investigators might achieve a growth pattern and a
      metabolism more similar to that of the breast-fed infant. Acid whey protein is already in use
      today by some producers to obtain whey to casein ratio more similar to that of breast milk
      and to increase the concentration of tryptophan, which is an alternative, in increasing the
      proportion of alpha-lactalbumin. In this study the investigators intend to study both
      possibilities.

      Alpha-lactalbumin has been suggested to influence the gut bacterial flora with a positive
      antimicrobial effect and improved immune function of the infant. Hypothetically, an increased
      intake of alpha-lactalbumin may result in fewer infections in formula-fed infants and thus
      decrease the differences in infection prevalence between formula- and breast-fed infants.
      Alpha-lactalbumin also seems to influence the uptake of minerals, such as iron, which could
      be important for iron status of the infant. Thus, iron status may improve in formula-fed
      infants when alpha-lactalbumin is added to formula, which has previously been shown by us and
      others.

      With metabolomics, chemical processes involving metabolites, small molecule substrates,
      intermediates and products of metabolism are studied. Specifically, metabolomics is
      identifies a unique chemical fingerprints that specific cellular processes leave behind".
      Differences in metabolomics between the different groups will be studied Objectives: The
      purpose of the present study is to evaluate the effect of feeding infants a protein-reduced
      infant formula with high or low levels of alpha-lactalbumin on growth, metabolic markers and
      gut microbiota composition.

      Methods: Healthy infants with normal growth parameters will be included. If the infant is
      fully formula-fed at 4-8 weeks of age, he or she will be randomized in a double blinded
      controlled manner to one of the three formula groups and receive the assigned infant formula
      until 6 month of age. The investigators will also include exclusively breast fed infants,
      whose mothers intend to breast-feed for at least 6 months, in a breastfed group.

      From inclusion through the 12th month of age dietary intake, the incidence and duration of
      illness, stool consistency, fever, gastrointestinal problems, respiratory problems, and
      during the first 6 months also sleep- and crying time, will be recorded by the parents.
      Hospitalization and unscheduled doctor's visits will also be recorded by parents as well as
      medication (type, duration) and any adverse effects. Growth and well-being will be followed.
      Blood samples will be taken for analyses of protein metabolism and metabolomics and fecal
      microbiota will be analyzed as well as metabolites in urine.

      Outcomes: Through this study the investigators should be able to clarify if feeding infants a
      protein-reduced formula with addition of alpha-lactalbumin or acid whey protein will affect
      growth, metabolic markers, gut microbiota composition and health parameters to approach those
      of breast-fed infants with possibly lower risk of overweight in childhood and lower
      incidences of infections in formula-fed infants.
    
  