
    
      Aim

      Project RePlay aims to investigate the effectiveness of a play-based physical activity
      intervention on gross motor functioning measured by Peabody Developmental Motor Scales,
      Second Edition (PDMS-2) with the primary end-point six months after diagnosis in children
      with newly diagnosed cancer aged 1-5 years old. The investigators hypothesize that the
      intervention will reduce short- and long-term physical and psychosocial consequences,
      including reduced gross motor function and lack of social interaction.

        1. Background

           Physical play and movement activities are essential for preschool children's gross
           motor, social, and personal development. Through play and movement, children develop
           motor skills crucial for participation in physical and social activities throughout
           life. A study showed that an 18-week play intervention among healthy preschool children
           significantly improved (p<.0005) gross motor function in the intervention group compared
           with the control group. Play is also the children's first arena for socializing, and
           these interactions have an immense role in developing emotional, personal, and social
           skills. Physical play and movement activities are more than just physical exercise; it
           is social teamwork, emotions, and learning. Reduced physical activity or inactivity in
           children is highly dependent on three factors; 1) reduced dynapenia (muscle strength and
           power), 2) exercise deficit disorder (physical inactivity), and 3) physical illiteracy
           (reduced competence, confidence, and knowledge in movement). Due to more intensive
           treatment with chemotherapy, radiation, and surgery, children with cancer experience
           acute adverse events such as myopathy and neuropathy, resulting in muscle weakness,
           physical incompetence, and inactivity. Furthermore, treatment-related complications such
           as infections can cause extended periods of hospitalization, periods of isolation, and
           long-term bed rest. Thus, many children with cancer experience several physical side
           effects as impaired motor skills, physical capacity, and decreased motivation to engage
           in physical activity. The cancer treatment has a significant impact on the children's
           physical development and socialization as the lack of motor development leads to
           inactivity and less participation in sport and leisure activities. This leads to a
           reduced understanding of the social playing field in joint activities, and the children
           feel more isolated from peers. Children with cancer experiences challenges in all three
           factors leading to physical inactivity. Compared with siblings and the general
           population, these social and physical challenges persist for the rest of their lives.
           Hence, children diagnosed with cancer have lower school performance, lower education
           level, higher unemployment, and increased socioeconomic challenges. Thus, the
           investigators hypothesize that early initiated rehabilitation programs during initial
           treatment, focusing on maintaining a typical physical activity level, are crucial for
           continuing everyday activities during and after treatment.

           The rehabilitation, including social and physical activity and education in children and
           teenagers with cancer (RESPECT) study for children with cancer aged 6-18 years, showed
           that it is feasible to carry out physical tests and motivate them to participate in
           physical activities. Physical activity maintained the hospitalized children's physical
           fitness and gross motor function during treatment compared with hospitalized children
           who did not receive physical activity intervention. A systematic review covering
           international studies show similar findings; that physical activities positively affect
           mobility, physical fitness, muscle strength, and quality of life in children with
           cancer. Additionally, children with cancer who participate in structured physical
           activities during treatment have fewer admission days than children who received
           standard care, corresponding to a 17% reduction in hospitalization's total economic
           cost. Most studies focusing on physical activity as part of an early initiated
           rehabilitation program designed interventions for school children aged 6-18. Only a few
           of the studies include children under the age of 6 years. Each year 200 children and
           adolescents aged 0-18 years are diagnosed with cancer in Denmark. Of these,
           approximately one-third is diagnosed before the age of 5. None of the published studies
           on physical activity in pediatric oncology designed interventions for preschool children
           (1-5 years old). Thus, there is a lack of studies with an intervention designed for
           preschool children with cancer focusing on physical and social rehabilitation.
           Improvements in cure-rates of childhood cancer mean that today's 5-year survival is 85%.
           Thus, more research into the best strategies for physical activity and rehabilitation
           for all age groups of children with cancer is needed.

           A single study of parent-controlled physical activity at home included children with
           cancer from age 1-17. The intervention didn't improve the children's motor function
           compared with the control group, mainly due to poor adherence to the intervention.
           Project RESPECT shows that motivation and adherence to physical activity interventions
           are dependent on the support from "significant others" such as parents and exercise
           professionals. Parents are an essential resource for children with cancer. The parents
           follow the child's treatment closely, and the parents' support throughout the treatment
           is crucial for the child's need for presence and support so the child can feel safe and
           in control. Furthermore, the focus on home-based care is increasing to minimize hospital
           visits. Consequently, parents play an essential role in physical activity and
           rehabilitation for children with cancer. For preschool children, the parents' role is
           even more essential. When small children and parents play together, it creates a unique
           and safe environment where the children can be challenged physically and socially.
           Children's development is dependent on parents, and parents of a child with cancer must
           acquire the necessary skills concerning play and movement for the child.

           With project RePlay, the aim is to develop prophylactic strategies by investigating a
           play-based physical activity intervention for children with cancer aged 1-5 years to
           ensure the retention of natural motor and social development and participation in
           everyday activities. The hypothesis is that individual and social play and movement
           activities, with parents as resources, can reduce gross motor and social development
           impairments. Thus, the objectives of RePlay are:

             -  To investigate the effects of a six-month play-based physical activity intervention
                in children with cancer, aged 1-5 years on gross motor function compared with a
                control group receiving usual care.

             -  To investigate the children with cancer and the parents' experiences with a
                play-based physical activity intervention during treatment and the influence on the
                children's social and personal development.

        2. Research plan

      Design:

      The randomized controlled trial study takes place at the Department of Pediatric
      Hematology/Oncology at Rigshospitalet. RePlay will include 84 children aged 1-5 years
      diagnosed with cancer. The children are randomized to either the intervention- or control
      group after the children have performed the baseline testing. The children will be stratified
      by age at inclusion (respectively, over and under three years old) and treatment group
      (hematologic malignancy, solid tumors, CNS-tumors). The intervention group will participate
      in a six-month play-based physical activity intervention starting from initiated treatment.
      The study will be an open-ended cohort where newly diagnosed patients are included on an
      ongoing basis.

      The intervention will consist of 45 min daily play-based physical activities inspired by
      Mighty Moves from the study of Bellows et al. [5], where the activities are playful and focus
      on gross motor skills. The intervention combines hospital and home-based physical activity.
      Three days a week, there will be 45 minutes of group-based physical activity at the hospital
      for the children, siblings, and parents during admissions or appointments at the outpatient
      clinic. An exercise professional or pediatric physiotherapist administers the group-based
      sessions at the hospital. Children isolated in the hospital room are offered individual
      sessions as a substitute for the group-based sessions.

      During the other four days a week or on days where the family is at home, the parents
      administer the play-based physical activity. The parents receive education and supervision on
      conducting play-based physical activity with their child in the hospital room or at home. The
      parents will receive inspiration material containing numerous different plays, games, and
      activities in different intensities, ensuring that their child is physically active every day
      with different intensity. The material is designed to engage the child in choosing what
      activities to do.

      Due to age-specific development and movement, the children in the intervention group are
      split into two groups for the group-based sessions:

      • Tumble: 1-2 years old • Tumble turbo: 3-5 years old

      An example of a weekly schedule:

      Monday: parent administered play

      Tuesday: parents administered play OR group-based session at the hospital

      Wednesday: parent administered play

      Thursday: parents administered play OR group-based session at the hospital

      Friday: parents administered play OR group-based session at the hospital

      Saturday: parents administered play

      Sunday: parents administered play

      The control group will receive standard treatment and physiotherapy if needed. After six
      months of treatment, the child and parents will receive a status on the child's motor
      development and be invited to receive individual instructions and invited to participate in
      the social sessions.

      Sample size:

      Since there is no evidence on the potential effect of gross motor function in children with
      cancer, the sample size is estimated based on Bellows et al.'s (2013). The study objective
      was to research the potential of a play intervention on gross motor function in healthy
      preschool children measured by Peabody Developmental Motor Scales, Second Edition (PDMS-2).
      The sample size is estimated with an Alpha = 0,05 and Power = 80%. Based on a mean (SD) in
      the interventions group = 99,31 (9,07) and a mean (SD) in the control group = 93,24, n=70 (35
      intervention group; 35 control group) are to be included. Assuming a 20% dropout rate, RePlay
      will include 84 children.
    
  