
    
      Blood or marrow transplant patients (BMT) may experience legal support needs through their
      transplant process. Specific examples of medical-legal issues impacting BMT patients include
      social security disability benefits, Will/estate issues, employment concerns, and creditor
      issues. At the beginning of the transplant process, BMT patient-families are often
      overwhelmed by the stress of transplant, and their focus is usually on their care and
      treatment needs. Legal planning that may be important to patient-families may not be
      considered or deferred.

      Presently, the process of referral to legal services is predominantly a reactive process.
      Once a patient identifies a legal issue or concern to a BMT social worker, this is often
      after the issue escalates to the point where it creates significant stress for the
      patient-family. The BMT social workers have prolonged contact with these patients and
      frequently spend many hours trying to assist patients to resolve these issues.

      Cancer Legal Line (CALL) provides caring and compassionate pro bono legal consultation and
      other referral or pro-bono legal services based on income guidelines to Minnesotans affected
      by cancer. CALL has provided this support based on Blood and Marrow Transplant (BMT) social
      work referral for the past 5 years. To our knowledge, there have been no medical-legal
      partnerships established within hospitals for patients undergoing blood or marrow transplant
      with cancer.

      It is hypothesized that by establishing an onsite BMT Legal Clinic through a Medical-Legal
      Partnership (MLP), that patient-and families can be better served through proactive legal
      consultation. The BMT Legal Clinic would serve to connect the CALL staff with the BMT care
      team to better serve patients to address patients' concerns, promote well-being, and reduce
      stress related to medical-legal issues.
    
  