
    
      Shamshuipo District consists of 5.3% of the population in Hong Kong; and ranks the fourth
      most densely populated district in 2010 (Social Welfare, 2011). The proportion of single
      parents, elderly, newly immigrated mainland persons, ethnic minorities, comprehensive social
      security assistance recipients in this district are relatively high; whereas the median of
      monthly domestic household income is the lowest among all districts in Hong Kong (Census and
      Statistics Department, 2011). It is essential to provide substantial support for families
      with low income and under privileged condition. Apart from this, encouraging positive
      thinking among family members may be an effective way to enhance family well-being in this
      district (Linley et al., 2011). A considerable amount of evidence has demonstrated benefits
      of applying positive psychology principles on family well-being. Previous studies including
      the 'nun study' (Danner et al., 2001) and Harvard study (Peterson et al., 1988) suggested
      that people who are happy tend to be healthier and live longer.

      'The Shamshuipo Well-being Movement' ('The Movement'), which adopted a positive psychology
      approach (Seligman & Csikszentmihalyi, 2000) to promote four character strengths
      ('gratitude', 'hope', 'resilience', and 'open-mindedness') among their residents to enhance
      family well-being had been initiated in the past two years, under the coordination of Social
      Welfare Department (SWD) of Shamshuipo District. Building on the success of 'The Movement', a
      community-based initiative named 'Enhancing Family Well-Being Project' is collaboratively
      developed between SWD of Shamshuipo District and the School of Public Health, the University
      of Hong Kong. This project will focus on training and mobilizing local community
      stakeholders, and developing, delivering, and evaluating community-based programmes for
      families in Shamshuipo District, to arouse public interests towards an enhanced family
      relationship, as well as family health, happiness, and harmony (3Hs). The collaboration is
      based on evidence that community-based participatory (CBP) approach provides an effective way
      to engage public health researchers and community members (NGOs, other major stakeholders,
      and participants) in an active partnership to take action, in order to promote social change
      (White et al., 2004; Macaulay, 2007; Berge et al., 2009; Shalowitz et al., 2009).

      This project also adopts a cluster-randomized controlled design to evaluate the effectiveness
      of a theory-based action planning toolkit . The toolkit will be distributed to the
      participants for their use at home, like a 'homework assignment', for the purpose of
      enhancing their intention and practices of the suggested behaviours. The development of the
      booklet was guided by the theory of The Health Action Process Approach (HAPA), which suggests
      that one's intention can be foster by knowing that the new behaviour has positive outcomes as
      opposed to the negative outcomes that accompany the current behaviour; and planning (action
      planning and coping planning) serves as an operative mediator between intentions and
      behaviour (Schwarzer, 2008). Previous evidence has shown the applicability of the HAPA in
      changing people's health behaviours, e.g., physical exercise, breast self-examination, seat
      belt use, dietary behaviours, and dental flossing; and its generalizability has been
      confirmed by Schwarzer (2008).

      In summary, this is a community-based participatory research (CBPR) project using a
      cluster-randomized controlled design; and applying positive psychology concepts to develop
      community-based interventions with a theory-based toolkit, in an attempt to enhance family
      relationship and family 3 Hs in the Shamshuipo District.

      The aim of this study is to assess the effectiveness of a community-based intervention
      programme (with the application of positive psychology) with a theory-based toolkit among
      families in the Shamshuipo District, on enhancing their family relationship and family 3Hs.

      The specific objectives of the study include:

        1. To investigate the effectiveness of the community-based intervention programmes in
           improving family relationship and family 3Hs;

        2. To evaluate the effectiveness of a theory-based toolkit in increasing participants'
           intention and practices of the suggested behaviours; as well as enhancing their family
           relationship;

        3. To evaluate the various components of the project in terms of its structure, process,
           and outcomes;

        4. To engage and build capacity of the social workers through training programmes on the
           application of positive psychology and logic model;

        5. To explore the social impact of the CBPR in collaboration with various NGOs and
           stakeholders in the Shamshuipo District.
    
  