
    
      Post-operative sore throat and cough are common complications of endotracheal intubation and
      occurs in 30% to 70% of patients. Spraying with Lidocaine reduces this incident of
      postoperative sore Throat (POST). The use of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) alone will
      also diminish the incidence of adverse postoperative upper airway symptoms. The use of
      topical Lidocaine is shown to reduce the cardiovascular responses during and after
      endotracheal intubation.

      Hypertension and tachycardia as a response to endotracheal intubation are probably of little
      consequence in healthy individuals. These reactions might though be harmful in patients with
      cardiovascular diseases.

      Postoperative sore throat is an undesired outcome for the patient. Topical or systemic
      pharmacological interventions is shown to reduce the POST.

      Our anesthetists practice very different. The investigators sometime use topical lidocaine 2%
      as a spray, sometime muscle relaxants and often nothing but propofol and remifentanil prior
      to laryngoscopy an endotracheal intubation.

      The objective of this study is to determine, whether the use of topical administered
      lidocaine, 2 %, has a better impact on POST compared with NMBA alone in general anesthesia
      with propofol and remifentanil. Patients receiving nothing but propofol and remifentanil will
      be the reference group. Assessment of the intubation conditions will be done according to a
      standard scheme

      The primary endpoint:

        -  Differences in the intubation conditions between the three groups.

        -  Cardiovascular responses caused by the laryngoscopy and intubation.

      The secondary endpoint:

      • Post operative upper airways symptoms. Power and Sample Size Calculator To detect a
      decrease in the incidence of pharyngolaryngeal symptoms from 60% to 45%, we calculated that
      we needed 150 patients per study arm (power of the study, 0,8; type I error, 0,05).

      450 adult patients have to be scheduled for the study.

      The study is double blind, randomized:

        -  Group Topical lidocaine 4%:

        -  Group NMBA

        -  Control group Premedication: Paracetamol 2g General anaesthesia: TCI (Target Control of
           Infusion is a principle, an anesthesia infusion after protocol): Propofol and
           Remifentanil Surgical procedure: Not specified short lasting (<1 h) procedures The
           experienced anesthesiologist performing the intubating procedure will not be in the room
           until immediately before the intubation.

      Postoperatively:

        -  Oral paracetamol and codeine-fixed combination up to 1000 mg and 60 mg, respectively,
           every 6 h

        -  When nausea and vomiting occurs postoperatively, ondansetron 4 mg IV administers as the
           drug of first choice followed by droperidol 0,625 mg IV if the nausea/vomiting persists.

      Collected data:

        -  Patient characteristics inclusive smoke habits

        -  Intubation conditions according to the Copenhagen score

        -  Blood pressure prior to laryngoscopy and after 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13 and 15 minutes,
           then every 15 min.

        -  Cuff pressure

        -  Pharyngolaryngeal discomfort 2 and 24 hours (telephone interview if released from
           hospital) after extubation
    
  