
    
      -  Principal Investigator: Dr. Sameer Dani, Interventional Cardiologist, Life Care
           Hospital, Ahmedbad. Mobile +91 98250 38855.

        -  Study Title: The First-In-Man Safety and Performance Evaluation of the BiomimeTM
           Sirolimus-Eluting Stent System for the Treatment of Patients with Single, De novo,
           Non-complex Coronary Lesions - The BiomimeTM Pilot FiM Trial

        -  Sponsor: Meril Life Sciences Pvt. Ltd.

        -  Study device: BiomimeTM Sirolimus-Eluting Stent (BiomimeTM SES, Meril Life Sciences)

        -  Study objective: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of BiomimeTM SES.

        -  Study design: Phase IV, prospective study to be conducted in a single centre (Life Care
           Hospital, Ahmedbad)

        -  Study population: A total of 30 patients with stable or unstable coronary disease, or
           silent ischemia with documented evidence of ischemia, with angiography, and, in a
           pre-specified subset, intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) at 8-month follow-up.

        -  Participating Centre: Life Care Hospital, Ahmedabad

        -  QCA & IVUS core lab: To be decided.

        -  Follow-up: All patients will undergo clinical follow-up at 1, 6, 12 and 24 months. All
           patients will undergo angiographic follow-up at 8 months. All patients will be submitted
           to intravascular ultrasound at 8 months.

        -  Primary safety endpoint: Major Adverse Cardiac Events (MACE) at 30 days clinical
           follow-up. MACE defined as any of the following: cardiac death, myocardial infarction,
           and ischemia driven target lesion revascularization (TLR).

        -  Primary efficacy endpoint:

        -  In-stent luminal loss assessed by quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) at 8-month
           follow-up

        -  Percentage of in-stent volume obstruction measured by IVUS at 8- month follow-up.

        -  Secondary endpoints:

        -  Occurrence of Major Adverse Cardiac Events (MACE) defined as cardiac death, non-fatal
           acute myocardial infarction, and need for repeat target-lesion revascularization (by
           cardiac bypass graft or repeat percutaneous coronary intervention up to 24 months of
           follow-up.

        -  Angiographic binary restenosis at 8 months angiographic follow-up.

        -  Other endpoints:

        -  Rates of stent thrombosis (acute, sub-acute, late and very-late) up to 24 months
           follow-up

        -  In-stent and in-segment minimum lumen diameter (MLD) and % diameter stenosis (DS) by QCA
           at 8-month angiographic follow-up.

        -  In-stent acute gain by post procedure QCA.

        -  Late acquired incomplete stent apposition by IVUS at 8 month follow-up.

        -  Primary analysis: The primary endpoint will be analyzed for all subjects who had a de
           novo coronary lesion enrolled in this study (intention to treat)
    
  