
    
      Cigarette smoking continues to have a startling adverse impact on public health, leading to
      more than 5 million premature deaths annually worldwide. Smoking rates are disproportionately
      high among the population suffering from depression. In this regard, smokers with comorbid
      depression are more likely to smoke heavily and meet criteria for high nicotine dependence.
      It is also more probable that they experience negative mood changes after withdrawal and show
      shorter time to relapse and lower rates of abstinence when attempting to quit compared to
      non-depressed smokers. In recent years there has been a great interest in developing
      effective strategies to promote abstinence in smokers with depression. In particular, a
      proliferation on Behavioral Activation (BA) treatments for smokers with depression has been
      recently produced. There is promising evidence for the positive effect of BA treatments upon
      both quitting smoking and depression. On the other hand, Contingency Management (CM) has
      shown promising results in promoting both retention and nicotine abstinence among comorbid
      and non-comorbid smokers. Nevertheless, there is a lack of research exploring the
      effectiveness of CM on smokers with depression.

      The primary aim of this clinical trial is to yield data on the effectiveness of BA and CM for
      smoking cessation in smokers with depression. To address this issue, both BA and CM
      interventions will be compared with a standard smoking cessation treatment, namely
      Cognitive-behavioral treatment (CBT) for smoking cessation. Participants will be assigned to
      one of the following three treatment conditions: 1) Cognitive-behavioral treatment for
      smoking cessation (CBT); 2) CBT plus Behavioral Activation (BA); 3) CBT+BA+Contingency
      Management (CM).

      Regarding the factors contributing to improve the quality of the present clinical trial,
      sample size was estimated using the software G*Power 3.1. An estimated sample size of 150
      participants would detect a medium effect size (Cohen's d = 0.3, with power (1-β) set at 0.97
      and α = 05).

      Given that data will be collected up to six months after post-treatment, moderate rates of
      lost to follow-up can be expected. However, the sample size estimate in this study will be
      sufficient to ensure a representative distribution of the population to whom results will be
      generalized.

      The primary analyses derived from this clinical trial will be conducted using Statistical
      Package for the Social Science (SPSS) version 22 for Windows. A set of descriptive and
      frequency analyses will be carried out with regard to the participants' characteristics.
      Comparisons between the treatment groups for baseline characteristics will be conducted using
      t-tests for independent groups. A set of chi-square tests for categorical variables, and
      independent samples t-tests (two-tailed) for continuous variables (after Levene's correction
      for inequality of variance) will be performed to examine the main effect of each treatment
      condition on abstinence and relapse rates.
    
  