
    
      This trial will use a randomized double blind design. All patients (age 18 or older)
      diagnosed with two or more traumatic rib fractures requiring hospital admission at Victoria
      Hospital will be identified at the time of admission by trauma team members and / or ICU
      research assistants. Patients unable to understand or follow instructions in English or
      French, and those unable to complete the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for pain for any reason,
      will be excluded.

      Any physician member of the inpatient trauma service team, trauma nurse practitioner, or ICU
      research assistants may approach patients and their families to discuss participation in the
      trial. Research assistants will be responsible for providing the Letter of Information and
      Consent Form to families, and storing them once complete. Consented patients will be
      randomized at admission using the online randomization tool, like REDCAP, by pharmacy. Once
      randomized, research assistants will contact pharmacy to order "Study Drug", but will remain
      blinded to study arm

      Consented patients will receive either standard care (acetaminophen, NSAIDs, opioids) plus IV
      placebo or standard care plus IV lidocaine using a fixed strategy with variable blocks and a
      1:1 allocation ratio. The pharmacy will be the only party unblinded to randomization and will
      distribute the "Study Drug" [either IV lidocaine or Lactated Ringer's (a clear colourless
      solution that is indistinguishable from Lidocaine)] to study participants. All patients will
      be followed throughout their hospital stay by our research assistants to assess pain and
      secondary outcomes.

      IV lidocaine will be administered as a bolus dose of 2 mg/kg (maximum dose 100 mg) followed
      by a 2 mg/kg/hr infusion for 72-96 hrs. Lactated Ringer's will be administered at the same
      overall rate to the control group. Patient pain scores will be accessed at the bedside using
      the VAS at time 0hrs and every six hours for the duration of study drug infusion.

      Daily monitoring of the patient will be performed by the trauma team and bedside nurses.
      Clinical care will be conducted as usual with the exception of the provision of study drug,
      the recording of pain Q6 hours, and the assessment of patient satisfaction at the end of the
      72-96 hour infusion. All other patient data will be collected from the patient's EMR and
      bedside chart. In accordance with LHSC hospital Lidocaine policy, all study patients will be
      on telemetry to monitor for arrhythmias resulting from lidocaine toxicity. As the use of IV
      lidocaine is already common in the LHSC patient population, all nursing staff are trained to
      detect signs and symptoms of lidocaine toxicity, and will contact the treatment and research
      teams if these develop. The study drug infusions will be stopped if any signs of toxicity are
      seen. The treating team will be unblinded to randomization group in any cases of suspected
      Lidocaine toxicity.

      The primary outcome will be mean pain score calculated from the multiple VAS measures
      performed during Lidocaine infusions when the patient is at rest and with movement. Secondary
      outcomes are protocol adherence, patient satisfaction as measured on the VAS, incidence of
      respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation, hospital length of stay, ICU length of
      stay, mortality, incidence of lidocaine toxicity, treatment regimens (use of additional
      non-opioid analgesics) and total morphine equivalents used (including breakthrough doses).
      Secondary outcomes will be recorded by the ICU research assistants on a daily basis during
      each patient's index stay. Research assistants will help administer the satisfaction survey
      to patients as soon as possible following completion of the 72-96 hour Lidocaine infusion.
      The methodology, pain and satisfaction reporting with VAS is very similar to the
      investigator's previous work.

      A sample size of 26 patients is required to find a difference between two independent group
      means using the following parameters: (1) a 20% reduction in VAS score (20mm), (2) 90% power,
      (3) probability of a Type I error = 5%, and s stand deviation of 15% (15mm).

      An anticipated attrition rate of 20% will be used to ensure enough patients are included for
      adequate power. Therefore a minimum of 32 patients will be enrolled in the study.

      Continuous data will be reported as mean +/- standard deviation or median and interquartile
      range, depending on the distribution of each data point. Categorical data will be reported as
      percentages with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. The mean pain score will be compared
      between treatment groups using Student's T-test. Findings with a Type I error rate < 5% will
      be considered statistically significant. Analyses of secondary outcomes will be primarily
      descriptive. Any significance testing of these outcomes will be strictly
      hypotheses-generating.
    
  