
    
      Treatment options for multiple myeloma have increased significantly over the last years with
      the approval of immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) and proteasome inhibitors (PIs). These
      therapies have markedly improved overall survival for these patients to a median of 5-7
      years, many continue to live for more than 10 years. Due to the advanced age, the myeloma
      patient collective has a high prevalence of pre-existing cardiovascular comorbidities. In
      addition, the primary disease process contributes to cardiovascular complications. With the
      beginning of anti-tumor therapy, an increased incidence of cardiovascular complications in
      myeloma patients can be determined. This includes hypertension, left ventricular dysfunction,
      heart failure and both arterial and venous thromboembolic events.

      Proteasome inhibitors including bortezomib and carfilzomib, and immunomodulatory agents, e.g.
      lenalidomide, represent cornerstone therapies for multiple myeloma. The most common therapy
      choices are Bortezomib-based therapy (VCD, VC) and Carfilzomib-based therapy (KRD, KD).
      Induction therapy is given 4-6 cycles followed by autologous hematopoietic cell
      transplantation. Thereafter, many patients receive consolidation therapy. In patients not
      eligible for autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation, a prolonged course of initial
      chemotherapy is typically administered. The proteasome inhibitor Bortezomib is used
      predominately in the front line setting, while second-generation carfilzomib is used in
      relapsed/refractory disease.

      Despite their efficacy, increased rates of cardiovascular complications occur in patients
      exposed to these particular therapies. Higher incidences of cardiac adverse events including
      hypertension, arrhythmia, heart failure, ischemic heart disease and cardiomyopathy has been
      reported in patients receiving carfilzomib and bortezomib. Immunomodulatory agents are known
      to increase the risk of venous thromboembolic disease particularly when combined with
      dexamethasone or other chemotherapy. Furthermore, increased incidence of myocardial
      infarction (MI) and cerebrovascular events has been demonstrated in patients treated with
      lenalidomide. The mechanism of PI- and IMiD-associated cardiotoxicity is not fully
      elucidated. PIs inhibit proteasome activity, leading to the accumulation of abnormal proteins
      which in turn activates apoptotic pathways in myeloma cells. IMiDs bind cereblon, a component
      of the E3 ubiquitin ligase which promotes proteasome-mediated degradation of the
      transcription factors, IKZF1 and IKZF. It is unclear if the protein degradation properties of
      these drugs contribute to cardiotoxicity, although clinical features of the toxicity suggest
      endothelial cell injury and dysfunction. It is possible that CV events may be augmented when
      these two classes of medications are co-administered and further enhanced by the additional
      endothelial stress conferred by steroids. The detailed mechanism by which proteasome
      inhibitors and immunomodulatory agents lead to increased cardiovascular events is not
      established at this time.

      Endothelial dysfunction, as a possible mechanism of cardiovascular toxicity, is difficult to
      assess. Flow-mediated dilation (FMD) is an noninvasive method to measure endothelial function
      by assessing the change in the vasodilatative reserve of the brachial artery. Several
      independent recent investigations implicate that vascular (endothelial) dysfunction precedes
      hypertension and heart failure. This has been related to a reduced level of metabolites of
      the l-arginine-nitric oxide (NO) signaling pathway.

      Hypothesis:

        1. Anti-myeloma therapy exert vascular toxicity by limiting endothelial function.
           Endothelial function, assessed by the change in the vasodilatative reserve of the
           brachial artery (flow-mediated dilation = FMD) decreases after myeloma therapy.

        2. Patients with multiple myeloma have a limited endothelial function compared to a healthy
           control group.

      Study design:

      A total of 40 myeloma patients will be examined. Measurements will be taken at baseline, 1
      month 6 month after myeloma therapy. Patients should not have received chemotherapy for at
      least 3 months. Furthermore a healthy sex- and age-matched control group will be examined.

      Primary endpoint:

      • Endothelial function, assessed by the change in the vasodilatative reserve of the brachial
      artery (flow-mediated dilation = FMD), between baseline and 1 month data

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Endothelial function, assessed by the vasodilatative reserve of the brachial artery
           (flow-mediated dilation = FMD) between baseline data in myeloma patients and control
           group

        -  Change of left ventricular pump function (3D-EF, global longitudinal strain)

        -  Alteration of echocardiographic parameters of diastolic dysfunction

        -  Change in dyspnea symptoms (NYHA Classification)

        -  Modification of cardiac biomarkers (NT-pro BNP, Troponin)

        -  Change of circulating NO-Pool

        -  Change in metabolomics (Biobank)

        -  Change in arterial stiffness and augmentation index

        -  Change of quality of life rated according to Medical Outcomes Short-Form Survey, SF-36,
           Minnesota Living With Heart Failure Questionnaire

        -  Change in blood pressure
    
  