
    
      Metformin, a drug with a very safe toxicity profile, is an attractive molecule to be tested
      in patients with newly diagnosed GBM in a phase I clinical trial. This is based on its
      potential to inhibit the proliferation of GBM CSCs through its mechanism of action which is
      similar to IR and TMZ. Metformin, IR, and TMZ stimulate AMPK leading to the subsequent
      inhibition of cellular proliferation. Therefore, it is hypothesized that the addition of
      Metformin to concomitant IR and TMZ may increase the efficiency of IR and TMZ, which are
      currently considered as the standard of care for patients with GBM. In addition, Metformin
      lowers blood glucose levels, and subsequently reduces the insulin and Insulin-Growth-factors
      which are growth-promoting factors with a direct impact on GBM cellular proliferation and
      invasion.

      Metformin may improve the outcomes of patients with GBM when added to current treatment
      consisting of maximal safe surgical resection followed by neo-adjuvant TMZ and concomitant
      accelerated hypofractionated limited-margin XRT followed by adjuvant TMZ. Our Neuro-Oncology
      group at McGill University reviewed the results of an ongoing Phase II study in patients with
      GBM. A group of 33 patients were treated according to protocol, and with a median follow-up
      of 11 months, the median survival was 17.5 months which compares favourably to current
      results from standard treatment with a beneficial 2-week shortening of the XRT treatment
      time.

      This is a phase II clinical trial to assess the feasibility and overall toxicity of adding
      Metformin to Neoadjuvant Temozolomide followed by concomitant Temozolomide and accelerated
      hypofractionated limited-margin radiotherapy and followed by adjuvant Temozolomide in
      patients with newly diagnosed GBM.

      It is expected that the proposed study treatment will improve the median survival from
      current values of 20 months (current MUHC Neo-adjuvant Phase 2 data) to 25 months. This means
      an improved outcome of 25%. Using one-tailed statistics, and with a power of 0.8 and an alpha
      of 0.05, the sample size for this Phase II trial will be 50 patients.
    
  