
    
      Aniridia is a condition in which the iris, the colored portion of the eye, is either
      partially or completely absent. The iris is responsible for regulating the amount of light
      entering the eye by adjusting the size of the pupil.

      Aniridia can either be a congenital condition, often a genetically-based abnormality
      affecting the formation of the iris, or it can be acquired by blunt trauma with or without
      rupture, penetrating trauma, or severe intraocular inflammation.

      Aniridia can also vary in the level of severity. A mild case might involve a thinner iris or
      iris remnant with a normal pupil. A severe case might involve complete absence of the iris or
      impairment of the muscles responsible for adjusting pupil size.

      Iris defects can occur without the loss of stromal tissue as well. In some cases, the iris
      pigment epithelium is missing. In other cases, holes are present in the iris or the pupil is
      chronically enlarged or mydriatic.

      People who suffer from iris defects also commonly suffer from other eye conditions. Common
      comorbidities include glaucoma, cataract, and nystagmus. Other structures in the eye are
      often affected, including the cornea, crystalline lens, zonules, and retina. Iris defects can
      cause severe visual disability if untreated.

      Common treatments for iris defects include the use of colored or tinted glasses or contact
      lenses to reduce the amount of light entering the eye.

      In this trial, several Morcher iris diaphragms are being evaluated as a potential treatment
      to improve the symptoms associated with aniridia and other iris defects. Morcher iris
      diaphragms are manufactured in Germany by Morcher GmbH [website: http:// www.morcher.com].
      These devices have been utilized in Europe to treat aniridic patients for over 40 years.
      Additionally, these devices hold the European CE mark of conformity.

      When a patient is implanted with a Morcher iris device, surgery always involves additional
      standard of care surgical procedures. Typically, a device is implanted during cataract
      surgery along with an intraocular lens (IOL). Morcher devices can also be implanted during an
      IOL exchange with or without an anterior vitrectomy. All implantation procedures take place
      in an operating room under local or general anesthesia. In some cases, a Morcher iris
      reconstruction lens containing both an artificial iris and a lens is implanted. Also,
      depending on the condition of the eye, the lens and iris device may need to be sutured to the
      sclera, the white portion of the eye.

      All patients undergoing surgery are prescribed 2 different eye drops, an antibiotic and a
      corticosteroid. These medications are used for up to 6 weeks following implantation of the
      device. There are 5 postoperative follow-up visits that each patient must complete. Visits
      occur at specific intervals over the course of a 1-year period. At each visit, standard of
      care procedures are performed and, at certain time points during the follow-up interval,
      digital photos and endothelial cell counts are obtained. In instances where both eyes are
      implanted, surgery for the second eye is scheduled 6 months or more later.
    
  