
    
      The study objective is to determine whether the use of hydrochlorothiazide is associated with
      an increased risk of skin cancer compared with the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)
      inhibitors. More specifically, the investigators will assess whether hydrochlorothiazide is
      associated with the risk of non-melanoma and melanoma skin cancer.

      A common-protocol approach will be used to conduct retrospective cohort studies using
      administrative health data from seven Canadian provinces (Alberta, British Columbia,
      Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Quebec, and Saskatchewan) and the United States (US)
      MarketScan database. Briefly, the Canadian databases include population-level data on
      physician billing, diagnoses and procedures from hospital discharge abstracts, and
      dispensations for prescription drugs. Prescription drug data are limited to those aged 65
      years old and older in Alberta, Nova Scotia, and Ontario. The US MarketScan database includes
      individuals and their dependents covered by large US employer health insurance plans, and
      government and public organizations.

      A standardized mortality ratio weighted cohort analysis will be conducted. In each
      jurisdiction, the investigators will assemble a study cohort that includes all patients aged
      40 years or older (or 66 years or older in Alberta, Nova Scotia, and Ontario) newly-treated
      with hydrochlorothiazide or an ACE inhibitor between April 1, 1995 and March 31, 2018 (or the
      latest date of data availability at each site). The date of study cohort entry will be
      defined by the dispensation date of the newly prescribed hydrochlorothiazide or ACE
      inhibitor. Patients will be followed starting 366 days after study cohort entry until an
      incident diagnosis of non-melanoma or melanoma, or censored upon switching to a study drug,
      death, end of coverage or end of the study period (March 31, 2018), whichever occurs first.

      Exposure will be defined as a prescription for hydrochlorothiazide or an ACE inhibitor on the
      date of cohort entry. The exposures will be lagged by one year in order to consider a minimum
      cancer latency period between treatment initiation and the diagnosis of skin cancer. Analyses
      will be conducted using a modified intention-to-treat approach. The outcomes of interest will
      be non-melanoma and melanoma skin cancer.

      Weighted Cox proportional hazards models with calendar year as a strata will be used to
      estimate site-specific adjusted hazard ratios (HR) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals
      (CI) for each outcome of interest among hydrochlorothiazide users compared to ACE inhibitor
      users. In order to reflect the Canadian context, the primary analysis will be restricted to
      Canadian data and the US MarketScan data will be used only in a secondary analysis. Secondary
      analyses will be conducted for each outcome of interest. These will include the following: 1)
      as-treated, 2) cumulative duration of use, 3) dose-response relation, 4) effect modification
      by age (≤65, 66-74, and ≥75 years), sex and immunosuppressive status, and 5) time since
      initiation of treatment (<3, 3-5, and >5 years). For non-melanoma, events will be further
      classified into basal cell carcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma sub-types in jurisdictions
      where data is available. Four sensitivity analyses will be performed to assess the robustness
      of study results and address some of the study limitations. Site-specific results from the
      Canadian sites will be combined by random-effects meta-analysis to provide an overall
      assessment of the risk of non-melanoma and melanoma skin cancer in hydrochlorothiazide users
      compared to ACE inhibitor users. Four additional analyses at the meta-analysis level will be
      conducted. These will include the following: 1) using fixed-effects model, 2) pooling results
      only from jurisdictions where non-melanoma sub-type differentiation is available, 3) pooling
      results from all sites including the US MarketScan data, and 4) pooling results by
      jurisdictions with and without cancer registry data.
    
  