
    
      Critically ill individuals who require emergency endotracheal intubation (placement of a
      breathing tube in the patient's mouth) usually require sedation or anesthesia to make this
      process tolerable. There are several medication choices for anesthesia, including medications
      like etomidate, ketamine and propofol. Of these, etomidate and ketamine are frequently used
      for critically ill patients because they have minimal effects on the patient's vital signs
      (blood pressure and heart rate). Both etomidate and ketamine are standard-of-care
      medications, locally and nationally, and both are frequently used to sedate a patient for
      this procedure. Both etomidate and ketamine have potential side effects. One of the potential
      side effects of etomidate is suppression of adrenal gland function. It is not known if this
      affects patients' outcomes in significant ways. One of the potential side effects of ketamine
      is a slight increase in patients' heart rates. It is not known if this affects patients'
      outcomes in significant ways.

      The EvK Trial will be conducted at Parkland Memorial Hospital by investigators in the
      Departments of Anesthesiology, Emergency Medicine, Medicine / Critical Care Medicine,
      Surgery, and Pharmacy. The study will randomize critically ill patients who require emergency
      endotracheal intubation to one of two groups: Etomidate or Ketamine. We will observe the
      patients' outcomes. The only study intervention involves randomizing individual patients to
      one medication or the other. All study follow-up beyond that point is done by review of
      medical records.

      Because of the nature of this study - an emergency procedure on a critically ill patient -
      the study will require institutional review board permission not to obtain written informed
      consent from the patient prior to randomization of study drug for administration for
      endotracheal tube placement. Prior to enrollment of patients the study team will carry out a
      comprehensive Community Consultation Plan, which is designed to inform the community about
      the research study. This is in accordance with rules set forth by the U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA 21 CFR 50.24).
    
  