
    
      1. Background, Literature Survey and Justification of The Study

           1.1. Introduction

           β-lactams efficacy depends primarily from the time interval during which the plasma
           concentration remains above the minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) of the antibiotic
           against the target organism(s) (Craig, 1998). It is generally accepted that the free
           concentration of the antibiotic must remain above the MIC for at least 40 to 70% of the
           interval between two successive administrations, and should even reach 100% for severe
           infections in patients hospitalized in Intensive Care Units (MacGowan, 2011). The free
           concentration must reach a value of 4 x the MIC for 40 to 70% (Mohd Hafiz et al., 2012)
           or even 100 % (Tam et al., 2005) of the dosing interval in order to prevent the
           emergence of resistance.

           Due to the large inter- and intraindividual variations between patients, it is difficult
           to reach the desired concentrations if relying only on usual dosage recommendations
           and/or using standard dosing regimens. Moreover, Intensive Care patients are difficult
           patients in this context (Roberts et al., 2014) due to gross perturbations related to
           underlying diseases and abnormalities (arterial hypertension, cardiac rhythm
           alterations, renal and/or hepatic insufficiency) and the necessary interventions
           (artificial ventilation, surgery, artificial feeding, and so on…). They also show
           important variations in the level of plasma proteins and rapid and unpredictable
           fluctuations of their renal function (Beumier et al., 2015; Goncalves-Pereira and Povoa,
           2011; Roberts and Lipman, 2009), all of which are known to modulate the pharmacokinetics
           of β-lactams (Goncalves-Pereira and Povoa, 2011; Hayashi et al., 2013; Sime et al.,
           2012; Udy et al., 2012; Wong et al., 2013). The concentration of the free fraction will
           be especially modified for those β-lactams with large protein binding such as temocillin
           or ceftriaxone (Schleibinger et al., 2015; Ulldemolins et al., 2011; Van Dalen et al.,
           1987; Wong et al., 2013), but may also be altered for β-lactams that are mainly excreted
           via the renal route (temocillin, ceftriaxone, meropenem) (Carlier et al., 2013; Simon et
           al., 2006; Vandecasteele et al., 2015).

           1.2. Clinical Interest of temocillin, ceftriaxone and meropenem and State of the Art
           Concerning their dosing

           Temocillin is a carboxypenicillin with useful activity against Gram-negative bacteria
           (excluding P. aeruginosa) and with a large stability towards most β-lactamases,
           including ESBL), AmpC cephalosporinases, and some carbapenemases (Livermore et al.,
           2006; Zykov et al., 2016). Temocillin may stand as an alternative to carbapenems
           (Balakrishnan et al., 2011; Livermore and Tulkens, 2009). About 85% of temocillin in
           plasma is protein-bound and about 80% of the administered dose is eliminated in 24 h
           under an intact form by glomerular filtration and tubular secretion (Temocillin Summary
           of Product Characteristics [SmPC], 2015)

           Ceftriaxone shows a moderately enlarged spectrum of activity and is stable towards
           certain β-lactamases but not to ESBLs, AmpC cephalosporinases and certain carbapenemases
           (Suankratay et al., 2008). It is an alternative to carbapenems when dealing with an
           infection with susceptible organisms (Paradis et al., 1992). Its protein binding is
           about 95%, and its elimination is mainly via the renal route (50 to 60% under an
           unchanged form) with the remaining eliminated via the bile to form microbiologically
           inactive metabolites (Ceftriaxone SmPC, 2015).

           Meropenem shows a very large spectrum and is used in empiric therapy when fearing the
           presence of ESBL-producing organisms to which other antibiotics are resistant (Zykov et
           al., 2016). Meropenem has an unpredictable pharmacokinetic profile in patients with
           renal insufficiency or under hemodialysis (Carlier et al., 2013; Goncalves-Pereira et
           al., 2014). Meropenem is mainly excreted via the renal route (50 - 75 % under an
           unchanged form; SmPC meropenem, 2014).

           Antibiotic are often prescribed empirically with doses based on what has been found
           appropriate for the general population, with some adaptation for weight and renal and/or
           hepatic function. As for any drug, however, there is increasing evidence that the
           concentrations observed after administration of a standard dose are actually highly
           variable and often different from the expected ones, leading to risks of sub-therapeutic
           or toxic effects.

           Recent studies have shown that an intravenous administration of 6 g of temocillin by
           continuous infusion (Laterre et al., 2015), of 4 g of ceftriaxone in two administrations
           at 12 h interval (Roberts et al., 2007; Salvador et al., 1983), or of 6 g of meropenem
           in 3 administrations by prolonged infusion (3 h) at 8 h interval (Dulhunty et al., 2013;
           Frippiat et al., 2015; Jamal et al., 2015), allow to reach free plasma concentrations of
           4 x the MIC against susceptible organisms during 40-70%, or even 100% of the dosing
           interval, with, however, large inter-individual variations, especially for molecules
           with high protein biding (temocillin, ceftriaxone) due to variations in their renal
           elimination. Very little information is available about their tissue levels but it is
           suspected that large inter-individual variations are also frequent.

        2. Study Objectives

           The goal is to measure the total and free concentrations of the antibiotics in plasma,
           accessible body fluids and, if possible, tissues after intravenous administration of:

             -  temocillin: 6 g by continuous infusion over 24 h;

             -  ceftriaxone: bolus administration of 2 g in a 30 min infusion twice daily;

             -  meropenem: prolonged infusion (3 h) of 2 g three times daily.

           These doses will be adjusted in patients based on their renal function.

           Primary objective:

           To calculate and assess the values of key pharmacokinetic parameters (total clearance,
           volume of distribution, constants of elimination, plasma and tissue total exposure, and
           maximal and minimal plasma and body fluid concentrations.

           Secondary objectives:

             -  the correlation between the plasma protein profile and the actual free antibiotic
                concentrations;

             -  the impact of the alterations of the renal function on the free and total plasma
                concentrations of the antibiotics;

             -  the impact of the level and nature of circulating proteins on the free fraction of
                the antibiotics;

             -  the extent of the tissular penetration of the antibiotics (in accessible samples)
                and of their penetration in pertinent body fluids (bronchoalveolar lavage, drainage
                and ascites fluids.

             -  to model the population pharmacokinetics of the antibiotics in the whole set of
                patients included in the study;

             -  to investigate and assess the influence of co-variates (using biometric,
                biochemical and clinical data) on the variability of the individual pharmacokinetic
                profiles.

        3. Outcome measures

           • Primary Outcome Measure: Impact of renal function on total plasma concentrations
           (Measurement of total plasma antibiotic concentrations)

           • Secondary Outcome Measures:

             -  Impact of the plasma protein concentration and of their nature on the free
                concentration of antibiotics

             -  Tissular and fluid penetration of antibiotics (lung tissue, bronchoalveolar lavage,
                drainage fluids)

             -  Pharmacokinetic modeling

             -  Co-variates analysis

        4. Conduct of the Study

           4.1. Eligible patients

           Patients hospitalized in Intensive Care Units and treated for pulmonary or abdominal
           infection, septicemia, or any other infection calling for the prescription of one of the
           three antibiotics mentioned above.

           4.2. Study groups

           Patients will be divided in two groups: :

             -  Group 1: patients with a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) ≥ 30 mL/min

             -  Group 2: patients with renal insufficiency or under hemodialysis

           4.3. Safety considerations

           The three β-lactams have each a long record of safe use in patients hospitalized in
           Intensive Care Units but may cause an alteration of the commensal flora, allergic
           reactions, neurotoxicity (at high doses). Ceftriaxone may case hemolytic anemia.

           4.4. Exclusion criteria

             -  Patients of <18 years

             -  Allergy to β-lactams

             -  Hypersensitivity to penicillin (IgE-mediated)

             -  Any biological abnormality considered by the attending physician as susceptible to
                interfere in a significant manner on the interpretation of the data

             -  Absence of consensus

             -  Therapeutic limitation

           4.5. Treatment duration: 7 days except for deep, non-controlled foci (extended to 10-14
           days).

           4.6. Follow up: First visit (visit #1) to determine eligibility criteria. Additional
           visits: each day during the treatment period.

        5. Calculation of the number of patients

           As this is a descriptive pharmacokinetic study without formal predefined hypothesis, no
           calculation of the size of the population has been made. Based on literature data and
           the experience of the investigators, a total of 20 patients in each arm should be
           sufficient to draw meaningful conclusions.

        6. Sampling and processing of samples

             -  Sampling of serum and body fluids: typically at equilibrium for all three
                antibiotics, and at fixed times after administration of the bolus (ceftriaxone) or
                the prolonged infusion (meropenem), and performed by a research nurse according to
                a predefined schedule.

             -  Sampling of tissues: by Medical personnel when justified for diagnostic or
                treatment reasons.

             -  All samples will transferred to the laboratory where they will be treated using
                predefined and validated protocols.

           Antibiotic assay: validated liquid chromatography - mass spectrometry methods (protocols
           and performance of the assay methods available upon request). The free fraction of each
           antibiotic will be measured after separation of the bound fraction by molecular sieving
           (Ngougni Pokem et al., 2015).

        7. Statistical analysis and data analysis

           Pharmacokinetic analyses will be performed using either NONMEM (NONlinear Mixed Effect
           Modeling) (http://www.iconplc.com/innovation/nonmem/ ) or PMETRICS
           (http://www.lapk.org/pmetrics.php) software. Mono-, bi-, and tri-compartmental models
           will be tested using plasma, tissular and body fluids antibiotic free and total
           antibiotic concentrations. The First-Order Conditional Estimation with Interaction
           (FOCE-I) method will be used to assess the objective functions (Jaruratanasirikul et
           al., 2015) in order to select the most appropriate model for the calculation of the
           pharmacokinetic parameters (Roberts et al. 2009).

        8. Confidentiality and Rights of patients.

           The identity and the personal data of the patients will remain confidential according to
           the applicable Belgian Law

           Before enrollment, each patient (or his/her guardian) will provide a written informed
           consent. Each enrolled patients (or his/her guardian) will be allowed to withdraw from
           the study at any time without impact on his/her treatment.

        9. Contacts

      All questions concerning the study can be addressed to

        -  the responsible investigator: Professor Pr Pierre-François Laterre (phone: 00-32-2-764-
           2733 (Intensive Care Unit) or 764-2735 (direct) at the Cliniques universitaire St Luc,
           Brussels, Belgium

        -  the associated investigators: Professor Françoise Van Bambeke (phone: 00-32-2-764-7378)
           and Pharm. Perrin Ngougni Pokem (phone 00-32-2-764-7225) at the Université catholique de
           Louvain (Louvain Drug Research Institute), Brussels, Belgium.
    
  