
    
      Sedation and analgesia decreases the need for general anesthesia outside the operating room.
      Intravenous route is the standard way of sedation, but its use can be limited in
      uncooperative mentally disabled children. Active Physical restraint of children causes
      emotional trauma for both parents and children particularly in these patients. Oral sedation
      has multiple disadvantages as delayed onset of action, better taste, the need of different
      types of syrup or honey according to the preference of the patient, children may refuse to
      take oral drugs or even spit it and it also causes postoperative nausea and vomiting. In
      contrast, intramuscular sedation is an easy effective way of administration and it is
      preferred due to its rapid onset of action and higher predictability of the duration,
      however, fear of the pain of injections is considered a disadvantage in this vulnerable
      pediatric patients. nasal route is an important alternative route because it is a painless
      and needless approach with rapid drug absorption from nasal mucosa reaching the cerebrospinal
      fluid and bypassing the first pass metabolism in the liver. Intranasal midazolam for sedation
      of children was first described by Wilton et al .Recently studies proved the use of nasal
      ketamine spray for treatment of resistant depression in adults. Ketamine as a premedication
      in children has been also successfully given through the nasal route. In Ain shams University
      hospitals we give either oral Midazolam or intramuscular Ketamine followed by sevoflurane or
      propofol for pediatric procedural sedation. Nasal Midazolam or Ketamine has not been tried
      despite being a feasible choice with many possible advantages. Combination of ketamine and
      midazolam causes deeper sedation and less dysphoric reaction of ketamine so in this study, we
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of administration of this combination through intranasal
      route for procedural sedation in children with mental developmental delay outside the
      operating room.

      After approval from our Ethical Committee, written informed consent from the parents will be
      taken. Forty children presented with autism,mongolism or cerebral palsy classified as
      American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I and II, aged between 4 and 12
      years will be enrolled in our study, and computer-generated assignment will be used for
      randomization and to allocate patients to one of two equal study groups.

      patients will fulfill the fasting hours if elective while the patients in ER will be asked to
      wait for six hours after last meal.

      Patients will be divided into two groups Group IN:will receive intranasal ketamine 5 mg/kg
      and midazolam 0.2 mg/kg, and we will give intranasal sedatives by using mucosal atomisation
      device.

      Group IM:will receive intramuscular ketamine 5 mg/kg, and midazolam 0.2 mg/kg Sedation levels
      after 10, 20, and 30 min will be evaluated by Pediatric Sedation State Scale (PSSS).

      Drugs will be given 15- 20 minutes before procedure then Heart rate (HR), Oxygen saturation
      (Spo2), and mean arterial blood pressure (MBP) will be continuously monitored and recorded
      every 5 min after drug administration for 60 minutes .

      Local anesthesia will be given in painful procedures. Intravenous ketamine 1 mg/kg will be
      given if needed due to prolongation of procedure or if required sedation level not reached
      through intranasal or intramuscular route.

      respiratory events as airway obstruction and desaturation less than 92% will be treated by
      jaw thrust and oxygen supplementation, apnea or laryngeal spasm will be managed with
      endotracheal intubation. Wheezing will be recorded and properly managed with bronchodilators
      and steroids.

      Emergency cart and drugs will be available for haemodynamic and respiratory instabilities.

      After recovery of the patients, parents and doctors will rate their overall satisfaction by
      using simple image of 5 point Likert scale.

      Primary outcome: effectiveness of sedation. Secondary outcome: onset, duration of sedation,
      adverse effect, parents and doctor satisfaction.

      End point of the study: if our technique failed to sedate the patients general anesthesia
      will be given either intravenous ketamine 1mg/kg or inhalational sevoflurane to complete the
      procedure.
    
  