
    
      In patients requiring frequent arterial blood gas sampling in the intensive care unit and in
      cases requiring continuous blood pressure monitoring, arterial cannulation is preferred. The
      use of USG has also become widespread in anesthesia practice. It is supported by studies that
      USG-guided interventions cause fewer complications compared to classical methods and reduce
      intervention time. USG-guided arterial catheterization method is based on the principle of
      direct visualization of the artery and catheter via USG. In this technique, the catheter and
      the needle tip are displayed simultaneously with the USG guided to the artery lumen. Imaging
      of anatomical structures with USG has resulted in a reduction of complications and shortening
      of the processing time. In the USG screen, adjacent anatomical formations such as veins and
      nerve structures are simultaneously displayed. This reduces the risk of complications.

      Two different techniques are used for USG mediated radial artery cannulation. The first one
      is the in-plane technique, which forms the long axis image of the arteries by positioning the
      USG probe to parallel to the vein, and the second is the out-of-plane technique, which forms
      a short axis image with the probe positioned perpendicular to the arteries.

      The ideal location of radial artery catheterization with USG or the advantages/disadvantages
      of the catheterization zone are not available.

      In this randomized prospective and open-label study, patients will be divided into three
      groups. The first group will be determined as 'G1' and the radial artery catheterization with
      ultrasound-guided short axis out of plane intervention will be performed over 2 cm of the
      wrist for this group. On the second group (G2), radial artery catheterization will be
      performed in the distal 3/4 area of the forearm with ultrasound-guided short axis out of
      plane intervention. On the third group (G3), radial arterial catheterization will be
      performed in the distal 1/2 area of the forearm with ultrasound-guided short axis out of
      plane interference. Comparison of these three groups, in terms of duration of use of arterial
      cannula, initial entry success rates, duration of intervention, number of procedures used,
      number of cannulas used and effects on early and late complications, and advantages if any is
      intended.

      Patients will be randomly distributed to three groups. Diagnosis, age, sex, height, weight,
      and body mass index of the patients will be recorded. The random distribution of obese
      patients to groups will be ensured. Allen test will be done to the patients before the
      intervention. Radial artery catheterization will be applied only to patients with the
      collateral flow. Each group will be measured and recorded before, during and after the
      intervention. Before the intervention, local anesthetic infiltration will be applied and
      asepsis will be provided. Early complications (such as hematoma, hemorrhage) and late
      complications (such as circulatory disorders) will be observed and recorded.
    
  