
    
      Purpose:

      To obtain estimates of the effect on intraocular pressure and side effects of three delivery
      methods of Mitomycin C (MMC) compared among each other: preoperative subconjunctival
      injection of 0.1 mL MMC 0.002%, subconjunctival injection of 0.1 mL MMC 0.01%
      intraoperatively, and conventional sponge applied MMC (0.02%) during trabeculectomy surgery
      in patients with Primary Open Angle Glaucoma who did not have any filtering surgeries before.

      Objective:

      To obtain estimates for intraocular pressure reduction among three delivery methods of MMC
      compared among each other: preoperative subconjunctival injection, intraoperative
      subconjunctival injection, and intraoperative topical use during trabeculectomy surgery, and
      to report any associated adverse effects.

      Null hypothesis:

      There is no use of hypothesis testing in this pilot study.

      Alternative hypothesis:

      There is no use of hypothesis testing in this pilot study.

      The effect and safety of MMC subconjunctival injection either preoperatively or
      intraoperatively has been previously investigated in Pterygium surgery (Khakshoor H, Razavi
      ME, Daneshvar R, Shakeri MT, Ghate MF, Ghooshkhanehi H. Am J Ophthalmol. 2010
      Aug;150(2):193-8. Preoperative subpterygeal injection vs intraoperative mitomycin C for
      pterygium removal: comparison of results and complications).

      Previous studies comparing effectiveness of subconjunctival injection of MMC vs
      sponge-applied MMC have shown inconsistent results. In one retrospective study, Mitomycin-C
      applied by injection resulted in significantly lower IOP, and the need for fewer glaucoma
      medications, however description of methods is incomplete. (Lim MC. A comparison of
      trabeculectomy surgery outcomes with mitomycin-C applied by intra-Tenon injection versus
      sponge method. American Glaucoma Society 23rd Annual Meeting; 2013, San Francisco, CA). One
      retrospective study showed similar efficacy and safety of intraoperative MMC injection
      compare to sponge application in trabeculectomy surgery with overall lower IOP in the
      injection group and main advantages being a large surface area of exposure and a predictable
      dose of deliver when the injection was performed. No difference in postoperative
      complications between groups was observed. A small sample size (30) in each group might
      prevent finding statistical significant results. (Khouri AS, Huang G, Huang LY.
      Intraoperative Injection vs Sponge-applied Mitomycin C during Trabeculectomy: One-year Study.
      J Curr Glaucoma Pract 2017;11(3):101-106). A previous case report on preoperative
      administration of MMC for Trabeculectomy showed reduction of IOP with short follow-up (6
      months) Hung PT, Lin LL, Hsieh JW, Wang TH. Preoperative mitomycin-C subconjunctival
      injection and glaucoma filtering surgery. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 1995;11(3):233-241.

      One RCT with a follow-up of 3 years compared outcomes of intraoperative injection versus
      sponge-applied MMC and no significant difference in IOP was found however a more favorable
      bleb morphology was found in the injection group which is correlated with better function and
      long-term success of Trabeculectomy ( Esfandiari, Hamed et al. Treatment Outcomes of
      Mitomycin C-Augmented Trabeculectomy, Sub-Tenon Injection versus Soaked Sponges, after 3
      Years of Follow-up Ophthalmology Glaucoma , Volume 1 , Issue 1 , 66 - 74)

      In this study the comparison will be the timing and route of delivery of MMC in all three
      groups, having found inconsistent reports in the literature and very scarce data on the
      effect of preoperative subconjunctival MMC the investigators would like to further explore in
      this pilot study the effect of subconjunctival injection on IOP reduction for trabeculectomy
      at preoperative and intraoperative phases. Since there is no group receiving placebo, the
      inclusion of a sham injection will not affect the outcomes compared to GROUP C and could
      increase preoperative risks to patients. The same methodology has been applied in two
      previous randomized controlled trials. (Pakravan M, Esfandiari H, Yazdani S, et al. Mitomycin
      C-augmented trabeculectomy: subtenon injection versus soaked sponges: a randomized clinical
      trial Br J Ophthalmol 2017;101:1275-1280 and Khan F, Niazi S, Awais M et all. Effectiveness
      of Preoperative Subconjunctival Injection of Mitomycin-C in Primary Pterygium Surgery Journal
      of the College of Physicians and Surgeons Pakistan 2017, Vol. 27 (2): 88-91)

      Glaucoma patients who need glaucoma surgery, such as trabeculectomy, have ongoing damages
      that cannot be managed only with medication such as drops, and pressure reduction is
      absolutely crucial in preserving visual function in these patients, hence any possible action
      that can add to this reduction is valuable.

      On the other hand, there are several risks associated with the topical applied MMC usage at
      the time of surgery mainly due to the inability to precisely quantify the amount of MMC
      delivered by the sponge application which was shown to be far less with the injection of MMC
      by delivering a predicted volume either at surgery or before the surgery which are mentioned
      in the first two paper references.

      The selected concentrations for the MMC injection are based on pharmacological studies
      performed on ocular tissue in which the concentration achieved after subconjunctival
      injection was established.

      STUDY DESIGN This is a multicenter, randomized, controlled pilot study with a main objective
      of obtaining estimates of differences in IOP reduction among three methods of delivery of
      mitomycin C for use in trabeculectomy surgery.

      The injectors and patients are unmasked in this study while the evaluators are masked.

      This study will be performed at the Glaucoma Division of Stein Eye Institute-UCLA Los
      Angeles, CA.

      METHODS

      Patients who met inclusion criteria and had signed an informed consent will then be
      randomized into three groups as follows:

        -  Group A: Patients will receive a subconjunctival injection of 0.1mL MMC 0.02mg/mL which
           corresponds to 0.002% (a tenth of the concentration of conventional topical MMC use) at
           the site of future trabeculectomy surgery two to four weeks in advance. A follow-up
           phone call 1 week after the MMC injection will assess any side effects of the procedure.
           If side effects are reported by the patient an appointment will be schedule for a follow
           up in-office visit and appropriate treatment will be delivered. On the day of
           conventional trabeculectomy no MMC will be injected. Follow-up will be scheduled for one
           year.

        -  Group B: On the day of conventional trabeculectomy patients will receive a
           subconjunctival injection intraoperatively of 0.1 mL MMC 0.1mg/mL which corresponds to
           0.01% (half the concentration of conventional topical MMC use) at the site of
           trabeculectomy. Surgeon will irrigate the surface of the eye after MMC injection to
           remove any MMC that might have leaked out. Follow-up will be scheduled for one year.

        -  Group C: On the day of conventional trabeculectomy patients will receive MMC by applying
           a sponge soaked in 1mL of MMC 0.2 mg/mL (0.02%) for 1 minute to the site of
           trabeculectomy surgery followed by irrigation. MMC is standard of care for
           trabeculectomy surgery at UCLA. This differs from the proposed research because the MMC
           will be administered as an injection either two to four weeks before the surgery in
           Group A or intraoperatively in Group B rather than the usual topical administration on
           the day of surgery (Group C). Follow-up will be scheduled for one year.

      The concentration of MMC in each group were chosen according to the delivery method and the
      timing of exposition of the tissue to the MMC in order to prevent complications from
      overdose. Based on experimental studies on ocular tissues that evaluated the final amount of
      MMC delivered to scleral tissue and finding a similar result when using subconjunctival
      injection of 0.02% with immediate irrigation and 0.002% without irrigation, the investigators
      chose the latter for group A. Few studies evaluated MMC subconjunctival injection one month
      before pterygium surgery using 0.02% and 0.015% with a follow-up of 3 years establishing
      safety of this approach. For group B the investigators chose a similar methodology of a
      previous RCT comparing subconjunctival injection versus topical administration of MMC for
      trabeculectomy that used a reduced concentration of 0.01%.

      Data collection will be as follows: At preoperative visit, postoperative day one, one week
      (+/- 2 days), one month (+/- 1 week), three months (+/- 2 weeks), six months (+/- 3 weeks)
      and one year (+/- 4 weeks). The data will be recorded in the REDCap (Research Electronic Data
      Capture) software which has free access and allows for easy recording and uploading of
      imaging (VF, Optic nerve OCT, AS-OCT and bleb photography) for future analysis.

      In each of these visits, the following data will be collected: Visual acuity, intraocular
      pressure, number and type of glaucoma medication, slit lamp examination of the anterior
      segment, fundus examination and adverse events if present. Visual field and optic nerve OCT
      will also be included in the preoperative evaluation and at 12 months postoperatively.

      For better assessment of the bleb morphology, the investigators will include a clinical grade
      system, slit lamp photography, and AS-OCT [Anterior segment module of Spectralis OCT device
      (Heidelberg Engineering, Inc., Heidelberg, Germany)] of the bleb.

      For the clinical description of the bleb and a more standardized comparison of the
      morphological changes over time, the investigators included at every postoperative visit the
      description of the bleb using the Moorfields Bleb Grading System (MBGS) which captures more
      morphological features and regional vascularity compared to other systems. (Wells AP, Ashraff
      N, HalL RC et all Comparison of Two Clinical Bleb Grading Systems Ophthalmology
      2006;113:77-83).

      The bleb photography will be included at the Month 3 and Month 12 postoperative visits and
      AS-OCT at 1,3,6 and 12 Month follow-ups. The inclusion of AS-OCT allows for evaluation of the
      internal structure of the bleb that has been shown to have prognostic implications for
      outcomes of surgery. Kokubun T, Tsuda S, Kunikata H et all. Anterior-Segment Optical
      Coherence Tomography for Predicting Postoperative Outcomes After Trabeculectomy, Current Eye
      Research, DOI: 10.1080/02713683.2018.1446535

      Block randomization:

      To ensure the balance of sample size between three treatment groups, block randomization is
      used for treatment assignment. Specifically, each block consists of 6 patients, including 2
      patients in each of three treatment groups, and all possible permutations of a sequence of
      treatment assignment for these 6 patients are generated, such as AABBCC, ABCABC, etc. A
      random number is then generated to select a block of treatment assignment for 6 patients
      among all possible blocks, and a sequence of such random blocks will form the sequence of
      treatment assignment for all patients after their enrollment.
    
  