
    
      The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center has over 100 primary care providers who see
      patients at 14 offices in central Ohio. These providers routinely see geriatric patients and
      routinely conduct Annual Wellness Visits.

      At least two primary care offices will be involved in this trial. At least one location will
      serve as the control office and will continue to conduct their visits including screening for
      cognitive impairment as they normally do using their usual method based on the primary care
      provider's normal practice. At least one different location will serve as the intervention
      office where all the providers, as their standard of care, use a standardized method for
      screening for cognitive impairment consisting of using the SAGE or eSAGE test and having a
      conversation with an individual who knows the patient well (if possible) to ascertain if a
      significant change (based on primary care provider opinion) occurred in the patient's
      cognitive skills over the previous year.

      Chart reviews will be conducted on all of the patients who meet the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria for the trial using a 60 day window from the initial visit. The demographics,
      medical history and list of current medications will be reviewed. SAGE or eSAGE test results
      and the primary care provider's opinion of the informant information regarding the patient's
      cognitive change over the previous year will be obtained. Additionally, the charts will be
      reviewed for the number of referrals for further evaluation/management of potential cognitive
      impairment (including lab work, neuroimaging, neuropsychology testing, neurology/psychiatry,
      occupational therapy, physical therapy, speech therapy, counseling, respite care, legal
      assistance (DPOA or living will), day care, home health, social work, financial planning, and
      cognitive research), the initiation of pharmacological interventions for the management of
      cognitive impairment and the diagnosis of cognitive impairment. Charts will also be screened
      to assess the number of follow up visits that were scheduled after the office visit for
      follow up regarding cognitive issues. For the intervention office, chart reviews will be
      conducted on patients who complete the SAGE or eSAGE and on patients who do not complete the
      SAGE or eSAGE. Possible reasons for why patients would not complete the SAGE or eSAGE
      include: time constraints, patient noncompliance and provider oversight.

      There will be 2 control groups. Control group 1 consists of primary care offices that did not
      use SAGE or eSAGE for any of their patients and Control group 2 consists of patients handled
      by the intervention office who did not complete the SAGE or eSAGE. Intervention group
      consists of patients handled by the intervention office who did complete the SAGE or eSAGE.

      SAGE and eSAGE test scoring will be compared between the intervention office and the research
      site.

      Upon completion of the trial, the providers from the intervention group will be requested to
      complete a questionnaire to evaluate the practicality and ease of use of the SAGE and eSAGE
      test.
    
  