
    
      The purpose of this project is to evaluate the user interface of GTG for ease-of-use. By
      observing and analyzing actual user experience with the current version of the app
      investigators aim to learn about its shortcomings. Findings from this phase will be used to
      make GTG more user friendly. GTG is aimed at the following user groups: 1.
      Patients/caretakers 2. Font-desk staff 3. Nurses 4. Certified Diabetes Educators 5.
      Physicians In this phase, two participants will be recruited from each of the five user
      groups for a one-hour usability testing session during which time they will be subjected to
      the following: A. Introduction to study team and session procedures with the help of a
      physical consent form (15 minutes) B. Perform a set of tasks on the GTG application (15
      minutes) C. Post task interview with study team (15 minutes) D. Fill out post-interview
      questionnaire (15 minutes) The specific set of tasks that each participants will perform
      during the usability testing session will be:

        1. Front Desk Staff: On the Provider Login Screen, log in using the username and password
           provided by the research team on the Patient Screen, add a new patient on the Edit
           Patient Screen, add the Diabetes Family Responsibility Questionnaire on the Edit Patient
           Screen, create a survey access code to share with the patient.

        2. Patient and/or Family Member: On the Patient Login Screen, log in using the last name
           and session ID provided by the research team on the Surveys Screen, click on a pending
           survey when the survey opens, respond to the survey submit the survey log out of the
           Guide-Goals Application.

        3. Nurse: On the Provider Login Screen, log in using the username and password provided by
           the research team on the Patients Screen, choose patient Will Owens on the Visit Status
           screen, change HbA1C value to 10% on the Visit Status screen, change Nephropathy
           evaluation to Abnormal log out of Guide to Goals application.

        4. Certified Diabetes Educator: On the Provider Login Screen, log in using the
           participant's username and password provided by the research team on the Patients
           Screen, choose patient Will Owens on the Visit Status Screen, add comments needs to be
           followed up regarding ketosis education in the comments for provider text box on the
           Visit Status Screen, add a goal for the patient log out of Goals-to-Guide application.

        5. Physician: On the Provider Login Screen, log in using the username and password provided
           by the research team on the Patients Screen, choose patient Will Owens on the Visit
           Status Screen review planning and accountability sections for errors on the Visit Status
           Screen, add a goal for the patient log out of Goals- to-Guide application.
    
  