
    
      Patient who will present to the investigator's tertiary urology clinic with the main
      complaint of stress incontinence will be invited to consider the Contiform device. A total of
      50 women will be recruited and followed over 3 months.

      The evaluation of enrolled women will include a medical history and physical examination, a
      urinalysis, a urine culture, three-day voiding diary and post-void residual (PVR). Urodynamic
      testing will not be required. Kegel assessment will be performed on physical pelvic exam
      based on the Oxford subjective scale, which ranged from 0 (no palpable contraction) to 5
      (very strong contraction). Demographic and baseline characteristics of the participants will
      be recorded, medical condition and medication.

      Patients will be offered the Contiform device and invited to join the study as one treatment
      option for their stress leak. Patients will be asked to use the device for 12 weeks and to
      become comfortable with self-insertion and self-removal. All postmenopausal women will be
      given topical vaginal estrogen therapy before or on the day of starting using the device. No
      other treatment will be initiated during the trial period.

      Once enrolled, patients will be given brief verbal and written instructions on pessary
      insertion and cleaning, and then allowed to select and insert the pessary themselves at home.
      They will be provided with a New User Kit which comprises three available sizes (Small,
      Medium & Large) and a Silicone Removal Strap.

      Patient enrolled will have to sign a informed consent form and agree that all information
      obtained during the research will be kept and treated confidentially within the limits of the
      law. The results of this study may be published or communicated in other ways; however, no
      identity or any other identifying information will not be disclosed in any reports or
      publications. The confidential records and data may be kept up to 10 years.

      Patient will have to come to 3 visits. The first one for enrolment and baseline data
      collection with an urologist, a second visit at 4 weeks with a research nurse assistant and a
      last one at 3 months with the urologist. On each visit, any adverse event not by the patient
      of find on physical examination will be note. Test, exam and questionnaire will also be
      performed (urinalysis and urine culture, to exclude Urinary Tract Infection, residual urine
      estimation by ultrasonography, a 3-day voiding diary, a 24 hours pad weight test, a vaginal
      speculum exam performed to look for abrasions or other abnormalities and the completion of
      questionnaire on quality of like (PGI-I, ICIQ, UDI-6 and a pessary use questionnaire)

      Statistical analysis will be performed using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
      (SPSS) (version13, SPSS Inc, Chicago, IL). All data will be described as the median value
      plus the interquartile range (IQR), as the data will probably not be normally distributed.
      Wilcoxon's and the Mann-Whitney U tests will be used for paired and unpaired data,
      respectively.
    
  