
    
      Rationale: Globally, there are 1.8 million children living with HIV (CLHIV), however, despite
      great progress over the past 15 years, only 52% are receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART),
      leaving approximately 864,000 children in need of treatment.1 Pediatric case finding is the
      first, critical step to close the pediatric ART gap. In Uganda, there are an estimated 36,873
      CLHIV in need of HIV treatment.2 Reaching this population is challenging, because children
      are dependent on parents and caregivers to access HIV testing services. Parents and
      caregivers often face logistical, societal and other barriers that limit the uptake of
      testing services for children. In order to achieve the second and third UNAIDS 95 targets for
      pediatric HIV treatment coverage and viral load suppression to reach epidemic control,
      country programs need to utilize increasingly targeted and innovative testing modalities to
      optimize the identification CLHIV. Oral fluid-based screening may present a safe, convenient
      and reliable way to identify CLHIV that can expand access to essential testing services in
      resource-limited settings where most CLHIV reside.

      Methods: The study will use a cross-sectional cluster sampling design, in which 32 facilities
      in 16 districts will be selected using probability-proportional-to-size (PPS) sampling. In
      the 32 selected facilities, index parent/caregivers of approximately 4,687 children will be
      recruited to accept test kits for their children. Adult index parent/caregivers will be
      consented to participate in the study and asked for parental permission for their child(ren)
      to participate, given a number of oral screening kits corresponding to the number of children
      eligible for screening, and followed-up to confirm the oral fluid-based screening results and
      participate in a testing experience survey. Any children who screen HIV reactive will receive
      confirmatory testing and active linkage to care and treatment services. A cost analysis which
      includes savings associated with facility or home-based costs averted, using existing sources
      to estimate the costs of facility-based testing and home-based by a community health worker
      (CHW), preferably from antenatal settings will be undertaken.
    
  