
    
      Specific aims of this pilot study are to use bedside blood analysis with ROTEM in severe burn
      patients to provide preliminary information on the nature of coagulation abnormalities and to
      compare subject ROTEM coagulation profiles within 24 hours of burn injury (day 1) and on days
      2, 3, 5, 7, 14 and 21 after burn injury. Investigators hypothesize that ROTEM analysis will
      detect a pattern of impaired coagulation in severely burned patients.

      ROTEM analysis:

      A blood sample and reagents are placed into a small cup. A pin suspended from a wire is
      immersed into the sample. The pin rotates back and forth at a fixed angle. The movement of
      the pin is optically monitored and converted into a real time measurement that is represented
      graphically. Prior to clot formation, pin rotation is unhindered and is graphically
      represented as a straight line. As the subject's blood sample starts to clot, strands of clot
      form between the pin and the cup wall, restricting the movement of the pin depending on the
      strength of the clot. Graphically, this is represented as a symmetrical widening of the
      curve. Blood will be obtained for ROTEM/ fibrinogen levels from each subject seven times
      during their hospital admission: once within 24 hours of burn injury (day 1), and on days 2,
      3, 5, 7, 14 and 21. For each sample, 5.4 mL of whole blood will be collected into 2 citrated
      tubes (2.7 mL in each tube). For all subjects, both pediatric and adult, blood will be
      collected via an indwelling catheter (arterial or central line). One 2.7 ml tube will be used
      for ROTEM analysis. The amount of blood is in accordance with the acceptable limit of ROTEM
      analysis. ROTEM testing will be performed according to the manufacturer's instructions using
      test kit reagents. Members of the clinical research team who have been trained and certified
      to use the ROTEM device will perform the appropriate ROTEM tests. The second 2.7 mL citrated
      tube will be used to measure fibrinogen level, using the automated central laboratory device
      in hospital.

      In this interventional study, the ROTEM data will be blinded to the treating Burn ICU
      physicians and will have no effect on standard perioperative and ICU treatment. The ROTEM
      machine will be located in a designated spot outside of the ICU, out of view of the treating
      clinicians. Thus, volume replacement, thrombosis prophylaxis, and other management (including
      blood product transfusions) will be performed according to existing protocols.

      Demographic information will be de-identified, but will include demographics (age, sex) and
      each subject's medical and surgical history, burn injury type (thermal, chemical, electrical,
      inhalational, plus/minus additional injury - i.e. Trauma/TBI, etc) and percent Total Body
      Surface Area (TBSA) as diagrammed by the Burn ICU on admission, medications (specifically,
      form of venous thromboembolism prophylaxis as prescribed by ICU physicians during the study
      period), weight, vital signs, dates of surgical intervention (bedside escharotomies and OR
      procedures), dates and types of blood product administration, fluid balance per day, number
      of days intubated, number of ICU days, hospital LOS, mortality, and ISS. Laboratory values:
      (on days 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 14, and 21) will include fibrinogen, PT, INR, aPTT, and CBC when
      available as standard of care.
    
  