
    
      Rationale: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is defined by airway obstruction.
      However, the degree of airflow limitation does not adequately describe the complexity of COPD
      because significant heterogeneity exists between patients with respect to their clinical
      presentation, physiology, imaging, response to therapy, decline in lung function and
      survival. Currently, a clear alternative for describing COPD does not exist but the
      identification of subgroups of COPD patients based on clinical or genomic and epigenomic
      factors (phenotypes) could be useful. The continuous flow of very severe COPD patients to the
      UMCG gives the investigators the unique opportunity to perform a study on the phenotypes of
      very severe COPD and the underlying gene-environment interaction. The investigators
      anticipate that the findings of this study will lead to an earlier identification of those
      subjects who are at risk to develop severe or very severe COPD. In addition, it will lead to
      a better clinical characterisation of established COPD, possibly enabling a more tailored
      treatment of different COPD subphenotypes.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      To identify new clinical phenotypes in patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD) using a cluster analysis.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To:

        -  identify clinical phenotypes (based on e.g. lung function, clinical, radiologic,
           systemic, pathological and immunological parameters) in patients with severe COPD.

        -  identify endotypes/ intermediate phenotypes in patients with severe COPD.

        -  investigate the contribution of (epi)genomics (including genetics and gene expression)
           to characterize patients with subsets of severe COPD.

      Study design: Observational cross-sectional study with a 2 phase design

      Study population: Patients with severe COPD who are referred to the UMCG for a consultation
      on lung transplantation or bronchoscopic lung volume reduction.

      Main study parameters: The main study parameter is the identification of new clinical
      phenotypes. The collected data will allow us to identify new phenotypes, clusters of patients
      with comparable characteristics. These phenotypes are potentially based on a combination of
      lung function, clinical, radiologic, systemic and genomic parameters and endotypes, in
      patients with severe COPD.
    
  