
    
      Outpatients in treatment will be recruited in this randomized controlled trial (RCT). The
      patients will be randomized to either a Computer gaming Skills Group (CSG) or to a physical
      Exercise Group (EG). The groups are identically organized in two locations. The interventions
      last for 12 weeks, and treatment as usual will be continued for all patients. Patients will
      be assessed when entering the study (after randomization and allocation to one of the
      clinical groups), as well as post-treatment and 4 months post-treatment. Thus, the planned
      study is prospective with a longitudinal design. It is single blind in the sense that the
      assessment of psychiatric symptom level and neurocognitive function will be performed by
      research staff blind for group membership. The physiological testing will be performed by
      staff involved in training and will not be blinded.

      EG participants will perform aerobic high intensity training (HIT) consisting of supervised
      walking/running on a treadmill 2 times a week for 12 weeks. Each session will have the
      following structure; eight-minute warm-up, followed by four times four minutes intervals with
      85-95% of maximum heart rate, with active pauses of three minutes of walking at 70% of
      maximum heart rate. The exercise session will end with a five minute cool-down period. HIT
      performed as 4 x 4 intervals has been proven feasible and safe among patients with
      schizophrenia and in other clinical populations.

      Participants in the CSG take part in sessions in the clinic playing computer games (Nintendo
      Wii Sports). The time spent with activities in the clinic will be the same in both groups.
      When absent from scheduled physical exercise/playing computer games the subjects will be
      offered to participate on a following day. If absent for a whole week, the training
      period/computer games playing period will be prolonged accordingly.

      In this randomized controlled trial we investigate the effects of HIT in outpatients with
      schizophrenia on symptoms and well-being, cognition and brain structure, smoking habits and
      substance use, as well as metabolic indices.

      The participating outpatient clinics are catchment area based and cover a population of 200
      000 persons with more than 250 patients in the diagnostic group in treatment at one time.
    
  