
    
      Study Rationale

      As the double burden of nutrition emerges in Bangladesh and other low- to middle-income
      countries, it is imperative to develop strategies to mitigate the adverse effects associated
      with both undernutrition and obesity. Identifying levels of physical activity among children
      is a requisite step to developing and targeting interventions to promote physical activity
      among young populations. Furthermore, exploring the risk factors associated with physical
      activity levels in young children can help better inform policy makers surrounding a public
      health intervention.

      Goals The overall goal of the research is to generate new knowledge regarding the nutritional
      and environmental determinants of physical activity in young children living in a densely
      populated urban community in Bangladesh.

      Primary Objectives

      The specific objectives of this study are to:

        1. Describe physical activity levels in a sample of preschool-aged children in an
           inner-city community in Dhaka, Bangladesh,

        2. Estimate the associations between characteristics of the physical environment of the
           home (total area of available floor space inside of the home, number and presence of
           physical hazards, and the number of gross motor activity-oriented items present) and the
           physical activity levels of preschoolers in Dhaka, and

        3. Estimate the associations between hemoglobin concentration (Hb) and preschooler physical
           activity level.

        4. Describe sleep quantity and quality in the sample of preschool-aged children in urban
           Bangladesh

      The investigators conducted a cross-sectional observational study of preschool-aged children
      between 34-38 months of age (n=60) selected from the ongoing Maternal Vitamin D for Infant
      Growth (MDIG) trial cohort (NCT01924013) in Dhaka, Bangladesh. The investigators planned to
      enrol a minimum of 60 participants with complete data sets, with recruitment up to 90
      participants until this enrolment target was reached.

      Study Procedures

        -  Accelerometry

        -  Home built environment audit

        -  Anthropometry

        -  hemoglobin concentration

        -  Maternal perception of the home environment and household food security
    
  