
    
      There are more than 420,000 patients receiving maintenance hemodialysis therapy in the United
      States, which is estimated to rise to over 500,000 patients by 2020. There are an estimated
      45,500 Veterans receiving hemodialysis, of which over 3,000 enrolled Veterans were receiving
      dialysis at VA facilities in FY 2013. Over the last decade, there have been no therapies
      proven to significantly lower the mortality and morbidity risk for these patients. One of the
      most important determinants of this poor clinical outcome is protein energy wasting, a highly
      prevalent nutritional and metabolic abnormality characterized by increased protein breakdown
      in the skeletal muscle compartment. The investigators' group has shown that two
      well-recognized and interrelated metabolic abnormalities, insulin resistance and persistent
      inflammation, are likely to play a critical role in the pathogenesis of protein energy
      wasting and related nutritional and metabolic abnormalities. The investigators' preliminary
      data show that in maintenance hemodialysis (MHD) patients 1) There is an inadequate response
      to protein anabolic actions of insulin; 2) Persistent systemic inflammation is strongly and
      independently associated with skeletal muscle net protein balance; and 3) Pharmacological
      modulation of systemic inflammation and insulin resistance partially, but not fully, reverse
      net protein catabolism. It was demonstrated that non-osmotic sodium (Na) is stored in skin
      and muscle without commensurate water retention, which leads to local immune-cell activation
      and accelerated pro-inflammatory status. The investigators' preliminary data show that the
      skin and muscle Na+ contents, derived by 23Na magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are
      substantially higher in MHD patients compared to matched healthy controls. The investigators
      also showed that increased skin and muscle Na concentrations are significantly associated
      with increased inflammatory response and decreased peripheral insulin sensitivity, in
      patients on MHD. These data suggest that tissue Na content, immune pathways and insulin
      resistance are closely linked and could lead to increased risk for protein energy wasting in
      MHD patients. It was reported that standard 4-hour conventional hemodialysis provides
      significant Na removal from muscle and skin suggesting that tissue Na and water content could
      be modulated by modulating hemodialysis prescription. The overall goal of this application is
      to elucidate the mechanisms by which tissue sodium accumulation, persistent immune system
      activation and insulin resistance influence the development of protein energy wasting in MHD
      patients. The investigators hypothesize that the skin and muscle tissue sodium accumulation
      is a critical mechanism by which chronic inflammatory response and insulin resistance, alone
      or in combination, lead to protein energy wasting in MHD patients. Specific Aims: To test the
      hypothesis that removal of tissue sodium by modulating hemodialysis prescription would
      improve metabolic milieu and protein energy wasting in MHD patients. The investigators will
      achieve this goal through a cross-over randomized clinical trial whereby dialysate sodium
      concentrations will be modulated (138 mEq/L versus 132 mEq/L, 4 weeks each) to remove 10% of
      baseline skeletal muscle Na content in the setting of stable sodium intake by diet. The
      primary outcomes will be markers of net protein balance, inflammation, and macronutrient
      disposal rates. If successful, the proposed studies will have great potential to influence
      clinical practices in MHD patients because the proposed intervention protocol would be easily
      accessible and could ultimately lead to improvements in the hospitalization and death rates
      with great impact on Veterans' Health Care and make important contributions to the research
      mission of the Department of Veterans Administration.
    
  