
    
      The goal of this study is to determine whether increasing participation in activities
      prevents cognitive decline in older African Americans with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI).
      We will attempt to increase activities with Behavioral Activation (BA). BA is a manual-based,
      behavioral treatment to increase activities as a way to improve function and mood. As
      patients do more (through activation) and perceive the benefit (i.e., feel better), their
      activity levels increase. BA promotes activities that reflect an individual's preferences and
      goals by structuring, scheduling, and reinforcing daily activities. This increases
      participation in activities with strong personal value, such as social engagement or
      normative role function, which in turn enhances mood and motivation to remain active.

      The control treatment is Supportive Therapy, which is a non-directive, supportive therapy
      that is based on empathy, reflection, and support.

      This study is specifically targeting older African Americans (AAs). Most clinical trials for
      MCI have tested pharmacologic treatments and have enrolled mostly Whites; their results may
      not apply to AAs whose life experiences and medical and genetic characteristics may exert
      unique effects. Those with MCI are a high-risk population for whom interventions to prevent
      cognitive decline are particularly important. Because AAs comprise one of the largest
      minority groups in the U.S., suffer disparities in health outcomes, and are unlikely to seek
      pharmacologic treatments or participate in clinical drug trials, there is an urgent need to
      enroll older AAs in non-pharmacologic intervention studies of cognition.

      We will recruit 200 AA subjects aged 65 and older who have amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment
      (MCI) - Multiple Domain subtype of MCI (aMCI-MD). One of the inclusion criteria is for
      participants to have a Knowledgeable Informant (KI) who is willing to participate in the
      study (with the subject's permission as documented in the informed consent form). A KI is
      defined as a family member or friend who is identified by the subject as someone who has
      regular and frequent contact with the subject (at least twice per week) in-person or by
      phone. The KI will be asked to provide information regarding the subject's functioning.
    
  