
    
      The management of anoperineal suppurations of Crohn's disease is most often based on clinical
      practice recommendations, the results of randomized controlled trials and also the analysis
      of monocentric cohort studies from expert centres. In these latter studies, there is an
      overall improvement in patients during follow-up with a high level of satisfaction (two
      thirds of cases), often assessed by the operator himself or the clinician who provides
      therapeutic management. The most striking finding is the one that highlights the use of
      combined therapeutic strategies combining immunosuppressants, biotherapies, antibiotics,
      surgical drainage and surgical reconstruction procedures to varying degrees. Thus, the
      absence of fistula pathway flow in the long term is the consequence of both maintenance
      treatment with biotherapies and several surgical procedures. When the characteristics of
      fistula pathways considered healed on clinical examination are analysed by MRI exploration,
      an active unhealed pathway persists in two thirds of cases, again emphasizing the inadequacy
      of clinical examination as a means of assessing recovery. For this reason, fistula pathway
      closure strategies do not provide much greater benefit than simple removal of the drainage
      loop. Conversely, medical treatment optimization strategies based on MRI evaluation of the
      therapeutic response have demonstrated high efficacy. It is necessary to (re)define the
      therapeutic management of patients with anoperineal lesions. This strategy must be based on a
      better initial stratification of patients based on prognostic factors derived from available
      scientific data. A second step consists in setting therapeutic efficacy objectives that take
      into account the control of the inflammatory component of anal Crohn's disease and the
      preservation of the anatomical and functional capital of the anus. Only a large prospective
      cohort at the national level provides the opportunity to study these prognostic factors and
      to specify the level of optimal therapeutic responses
    
  