
    
      Medical staff in Israel has long and unorthodox working hours. During residency, doctors stay
      overnight for shifts after working the normal working hours for a total of 24h, without
      regular set breaks or certainty of even one hour of sleep. Nurses, has three 8 hours shifts,
      changing at 7am, 3pm and 11pm, meaning the night shift staff works between 11pm and 7am the
      following morning. These conditions, especially when in a routine when one shifts follow
      another, may contribute to an accumulated workload, associated with sleep deprivation. Such
      conditions may have considerable impact on cognitive functions such as response time and
      concentration, which are fundamental for medical personal's function.

      The driving simulator is based on software (STIS Drive Simulation software, System Technology
      INC, Hawthorne CA) and a hardware consisting of a computer, screen, and two consoles, one
      includes a stirring wheel and press buttons, the second includes acceleration and break
      paddles. Each test drive has several stages, in which the following are measured - the
      ability to maintain constant speed, the ability to maintain driving lain, to follow another
      vehicle and to break abruptly. Additionally, during the test drive, several arrows appear on
      the screen, and the subject is requested to push curtain buttons as they appear according to
      their direction. This simulator has been used in several prior reports for driving skills
      evaluation.

      In this study, medical staff will be asked to be tested with the driving simulator after
      night shift, allowing assessment of cognitive functions and response time.

        -  Study design:

             -  The study will include doctors and nurses from the internal medicine, surgical,
                orthopedic and pediatric wards which work night shifts.

             -  The study will include both genders, ages 25-50.

             -  The study is planned to include 100 volunteers.

        -  Trial entry and enrollment

             -  The medical staff at the participating departments will be approached orally (staff
                meetings etc') and signs will be posted at staff rooms.

             -  Willing volunteers will be enrolled according to order of consent.

                **Visits 1 and 2

             -  Visit 1 will include a training session in which the volunteer is introduced to the
                driving simulator's different functions and will perform a test ride to get
                experience. At this session, the subject will be asked to fill a form stating his
                age, residency and main occupation (e.g. extent of familiarity with laparoscopic/
                endoscopic procedures).

             -  Visit 2 will include a test ride performed during morning (07:00- 14:00pm) and
                after a regular night sleep and not after a night shift. Data collected during this
                session will be considered as baseline values. The following three test visits will
                be compared to these values.

                ** Visits 3-5

             -  These visits will be performed after night shifts. Subjects will be tested at the
                morning (7-10am) following a night shift. Apart form a test drive each subject will
                be asked to state work and sleep hour during the previous day.

                ** Visit 6

             -  Subjects which have completed 3 test drives will undergo a repeat baseline
                assessment (similar to visit 2) to which the following visits will be compared in
                order to minimize the learning curve component.

                ** Visits 7-9

             -  Similar to visits 3-5.

        -  Statistical considerations

             -  Subjects will be grouped according to sleep hours prior to test drives, and driving
                simulator results will be compared.

             -  Furthermore, additional analysis will be performed for individual subjects
                comparing achievements with sleep hours.

        -  Informed consent

             -  Each subject will be enrolled and enter the study only after giving an informed
                consent.

        -  Adherence to study eligibility

             -  The study will be conducted in accordance with good clinical practice (GCP)
                guidelines, and the study protocol.

        -  Safeguarding of documents

             -  The privacy of the subjects and all confidentiality issues will be handled in
                accordance with applicable law and guidelines of the institution and the Helsinki
                Committee, the Israeli ministry of health, or the other appropriate regulatory
                authorities.
    
  