
    
      Cervical radiculopathy is a distinct consideration in the evaluation of any patients who have
      neck pain and may be defined simply as an abnormality of a nerve root, which originates in
      the cervical spine. The initial approach to the management of cervical spondylopathy
      radiculopathy is nearly the same that the nonspecific neck or back pain can be found in most
      of patients. Conservative treatments include non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs),
      narcotics, muscle relaxants, physical therapy and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation
      (TENS). The main objectives of conservative treatments are to relieve pain, improve function
      and improve health-related quality of life.However, these treatments for cervical
      radiculopathy are limited by their modest effectiveness. Surgical treatment for cervical disc
      disease is indicated when symptoms are refractory to conservative treatments and neurological
      symptoms are progressive. In terms of pharmacotherapy, there generally is no randomized,
      placebo-controlled trial available comparing the standard nonsurgical treatments. Therefore,
      care plans should be designed principally based on accumulated experience, the services
      available locally, and the respective preferences of patients. Treatment plans are developed
      to alleviate pain, improve function, and prevent recurrences.

      As a complementary and alternative medicine (CAM), herbal medicines have the potential to
      avoid the adverse effects of medications and surgery.In the basic theory of traditional
      Chinese medicine (TCM), the obstruction of Qi flow and blood circulation in the neck area
      caused by some pathogenic factors, such as "Feng"(wind), "Han"(cold), "Shi"(dampness),
      invading the neck, induces cervical degenerative disc diseases which are the cause of
      cervical radiculopathy. According to the four traditional methods of diagnosis - observation,
      listening, interrogation, and pulse-taking, on patients, TCM doctors can analyze the certain
      pathogenic factors which cause neck pain. And then they will prescribe herbal formulae based
      on the effect and the main indications of Chinese medicine. Natural substances, including
      herbal medicines, have being used to promote healing and alleviate neck pain in western
      countries. Previous studies have demonstrated that some active substances in herbal medicine
      can promote Qi flow and blood circulation to alleviate pain.

      A number of studies on the effects of the Chinese herbal medicine on cervical radiculopathy
      have been proposed, but useful empirical research is insufficiency. For chronic neck pain
      with or without radicular symptoms, there is low quality evidence that herbal is more
      effective than placebo for pain relief, which is measured at the end of the treatment.
      However, the size of the studies was small and the effect was measured in the short-term.
      Further research is very likely to change both the effect size and our confidence in the
      results. There is a need for trials with adequate numbers of participants that address
      long-term efficacy or effectiveness of herbal medicine compared to placebo.

      Qishe Pill is composed of processed Radix Astragali, Muscone, Szechuan Lovage Rhizome, Radix
      Stephaniae Tetrandrae, Ovientvine, Calculus Bovis Artifactus. Using a well-designed clinical
      trial, we will survey the effectiveness of concurrent use of this remedy in relieving neck
      pain. Therefore, the present study is to examine effectiveness and safety of Qishe Pill, a
      compound traditional Chinese herbal medicine, on neck pain in cervical spondylotic
      radiculopathy in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Results of this study
      will provide evidence regarding the value of the Qishe Pill as an intervention to alleviate
      neck pain caused by cervical radiculopathy.
    
  