
    
      The investigators have planned to study the efficacy of non-invasive brain stimulation via
      Transcranial pulsed current stimulation (tPCS) in patients of Huntington's disease. Anodal
      stimulation will be given to the brain area based on quantitative electroencephalography
      (qEEG) findings.

      Patients will be assessed clinically by standard rating scale (UHDRS) and by qEEG, KinArm and
      Gait - before and after 2 week (20 min per day) stimulation via tPCS or sham stimulation.

      The investigators have planned to assess-

        1. Speech

        2. Upper limb movement via KinArm. Standard KinArm testing protocol will be used which is
           used universally.

        3. Gait via Gait Carpet (Zeno Walkway)

        4. Quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG)

        5. Scale for Huntington's disease (UHDRS) tPCS will be delivered through a pair of
           saline-soaked (0.9% NaCl) surface sponge electrodes. Anode will be placed on the scalp
           over the area based on qEEG findings. Participant's speech will be recorded using a
           head-mounted microphone (AKGc520) and a digital recording device (Zoom H4nPro) while
           performing the following calibrated tasks (Calibration involves a sound level meter
           placed at 15cm from the mouth while talker says 'ah' at 70dBA) - a. Prolonged 'ah'. b.
           Rapid repetitions of the sounds "puh", "tuh", and "kuh". c. Two productions of a
           sentence with selected speech sounds (s, sh, p, b, t, i, a, u, ae, ai). "She saw Patty
           buy two poppies." d. Two times louder production of a sentence with selected speech
           sounds. "She saw Patty buy two poppies." e. Repetition of a continuous vowel at normal
           and fast rates. 'eye-eye-eyeeye- eye' without making any voice breaks or pauses". f.
           Read aloud a section of a standard passage - standard rainbow passage g. Monologue. Talk
           for two minutes about an interesting vacation (or an interesting hobby or activity). The
           Zeno walkway will be used in conjunction with the ProtoKinetics Movement Analysis
           Software (PKMAS) . The walkway contains a series of pressure sensors to detect
           footfalls. These data will be captured and collated via the PKMAS software, resulting in
           numerous spatial, temporal and pressure-related gait parameters. Timed-up-and-go (TUG)
           task will be used, consisting of rising from chair, walking across the 20-foot gait
           carpet, turning around off the carpet, walking back and sitting down. This will be
           performed over 3 trials. Gait analysis provides various parameters as output such as
           stride length, line of progression, step length, toe-offs and other temporal and spatial
           parameters for analysis. Neurophysiological EEG signals will be recorded, eyes-closed,
           no-task, using g.Nautilus g.tec wireless system. The g.tech system uses earclip
           reference sensors. The subject will be in a quiet place with less light or
           electromagnetic perturbations. During the resting state recordings, patients are seated
           in a comfortable arm chair and will be instructed to keep relaxed, with their eyes
           closed for 5 min. A paired t test will be used to compare baseline data and post tPCS
           data. Descriptive analysis of the neurological examination findings will be provided.
    
  