
    
      The primary outcome of this study is the safety and feasibility of duodenal feeds in very low
      birth weight infants. The secondary outcomes are various measures related to growth,
      respiratory support, comorbidities, and hospitalization.

      Eligibility of infants admitted to the Johns Hopkins All Children's Neonatal Intensive Care
      Unit (NICU) will be determined based on inclusion and exclusion criteria. Eligible infants
      will be recruited and enrolled by 14 days of life after informed consent is obtained.
      Randomization of the infants into two groups- investigational continuous Duodenal Feeds (DF)
      or standard Gastric Feeds (GF) - will occur just prior to the infants advancing beyond
      50mL/kg/day of enteral feeds.

      All enrolled infants will be fed per the institutional feeding protocol. Once infants advance
      past 50mL/kg/day of enteral feeds, at this point infants will be randomized to DF or GF
      groups in a 1:1 block randomization using blinded envelopes. Multiple gestation infants will
      be randomized individually.

      Placement of gastric tubes will be per standard of practice, and insertion of duodenal tube
      will be per manual of operations. Continuous duodenal feeds will be provided over 24 hours as
      a continuous infusion through a nasoduodenal or oro-duodenal tube. Standard gastric feeds
      will be infused via a nasogastric or orogastric tube per the instructions of the medical
      team. Gastric feeds are provided as standard of care in the NICU; intermittent bolus feeds
      over 15-60 minutes. Feeding time may be prolonged by the medical team, for longer than 60
      minutes and possibly even be given continuously, for various reasons (emesis, reflux, apnea,
      bradycardia, etc.) and will be monitored and recorded. Feed volume and advancement will
      continue to be determined by standardized institutional feeding guidelines. Decision to
      provide further fortification of feeds beyond institutional guidelines will be determined by
      the medical team and not standardized in this protocol. Once full enteral feeds are achieved
      (total fluid goal of at least 140mL/kg/day), patients will continue to receive feeds via the
      designated route.

      An institutional "Infant Driven Feeding Guideline" is utilized to evaluate readiness to
      orally feed and to transition premature infants from enteral to oral feeds. Once an infant is
      eligible to receive oral feeds per this guideline (32 weeks postmenstrual age, and tolerating
      ≤2L flow via nasal cannula for at least 24 hours), the study will allow the medical team to
      transition infants in the DF group to gastric feeds. Regarding transitioning infant from
      duodenal to gastric feeds, infants are initially placed on continuous gastric feeds, and once
      the participants have demonstrated tolerance (no evidence of reflux, increased respiratory
      support, emesis), the participants are then transitioned to bolus gastric feeds
      progressively. Infants may be allowed to orally feed during this transition period if the
      participants meet the appropriate infant driven feeding scores per protocol.

      All infants in this study will be monitored for primary and secondary outcomes through the
      duration of admission and up until the time of discharge. Safety events will be frequently
      monitored for throughout the duration of admission and addressed immediately if warranted.
    
  