
    
      To obtain the sample size, the proportion of patients presenting adverse reactions that
      require interrupting chemotherapy treatment will be taken into account. In the institution,
      this figure is close to 15%. Since it is a dietary supplement, with extensive information on
      the safety of the product, the design is used in a stage of Flemming (without early stop
      rules). Assuming that the Ocoxin-Viusid product would clearly be declared ineffective
      (maximal ineffectiveness) if the proportion of patients not presenting adverse reactions was
      equal to less than 85% (p0), that is the maximum level of success below which the product
      does not shows signs of efficacy (the study does not guarantee further research) and taking a
      p1 value of 95%, where p1 is the minimum level of efficacy required from which the product
      would be declared effective (the results guarantee to continue a study phase III). Assuming
      an α error of 5% (probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when it is true) and β
      (probability of rejecting the alternative hypothesis when it is true) of 20% (the power of
      the test: 1 - β = 80%), It is determined to recruit a maximum number of 59 - 60 subjects.
      Determine a = 54, where a is the number of responses equal and below which the product is
      declared ineffective (H0 is accepted). And r = a + 1 is the cut-off point, that is, the
      number of responses from which the efficacy level ensures to continue to a phase III study.
      In this case we would expect to obtain a number of successes ≥ 55.

      Patients will be randomized after surgery, in the chemotherapy consultation, and once they
      meet the established inclusion criteria. In order to achieve the masking of the research
      product, these have been labeled by a balanced randomized list obtained by computer, which
      will be in the possession of the Biostatistician of the study of the Clinical Investigations
      Section of INOR and the promoter. The product under study has been consecutively labeled from
      1 to 120 (60 patients in each therapeutic arm).
    
  