
    
      Participants enrolled in to this pilot study will not be randomized and will not receive any
      investigation medication.

      In collaboration with Dr. Sibu Saha, Professor of Surgery, University of Kentucky, the
      investigator will obtain freshly isolated human atherosclerotic tissue from patients
      undergoing carotid endarterectomy. The surgical process by which the tissue is obtained is
      not part of this research project. These tissues are surgically removed from patients as a
      treatment for atherosclerosis of the carotid arteries and typically sent for pathological
      examination.

      After the the clinical pathology has been completed, the investigator will obtain and analyze
      a small amount of discarded (200mg) tissue. Subsequent analyses will be performed on the
      basis of the pathological grading provided by UK Pathology (e.g do readouts of the Dicer
      pathway correlate with pathological plaque characteristics). Tissue will be anonymized, with
      only information with respect to drug history, age, gender and pathological grade of the
      tissue.

      The will extract protein and RNA. Dicer abundance will be assessed by western blot,
      quantitative RT-PCR and northern blot. Dicer related RNAs will be measured by quantitative
      RT-PCR and northern blot. The invesigator will inspect the tissue for evidence of altered
      Dicer activity by measuring the relative levels of abundant canonical Dicer
      substrates/enzymatic products (i.e. the ratio of pre- to mature micro-RNA) via northern blot.
      The investigator predicts that Dicer levels and activity are reduced in human atherosclerotic
      tissue compared to healthy arteries.

      Next, the investigator will assess whether downstream mediators of Dicer dysregulation are
      activated in these tissue samples by comparing levels and activation of the inflammasome
      (caspase-1, NLRP3, ASC), cytokines (IL-1β, IL-18) and signaling intermediates (MyD88,
      IRAK1/4) between healthy and diseased tissues. The investigator predicts that atherosclerotic
      plaques will exhibit evidence of Dicer dysregulation.

      Next, the investigator will co-stain tissue sections with antibodies recognizing Dicer as
      well as cell-specific markers (CD31 for endothelium, SMA for smooth muscle, MAC-1 for
      macrophages) to assess whether Dicer dysregulation displays cell type-specific patterns.
    
  