
    
      Human cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a common endemic β-Herpesvirus, and over half of adults have
      been infected with CMV. CMV does not usually cause significant clinical disease but can cause
      health problems for people with weakened immune systems. Expression of proteins unique to
      human CMV has been reported within a large proportion of malignant gliomas (MGs), including
      detection of the human CMV immunodominant protein pp65-LAMP (pp65-lysosomal-associated
      membrane protein). Human CMV antigens were not detected in surrounding normal brain samples.
      The presence of highly-immunogenic human CMV antigens within MGs affords a unique opportunity
      to target these tumors immunologically.

      Dendritic cells (DCs) are antigen-presenting cells in the immune system. DCs are activated
      then migrate to the lymph nodes to interact with T cells and B cells, which initiates the
      adaptive immune response. This study generates autologous DCs from peripheral blood
      leukocytes obtained from the subject during leukapheresis. RNA transfection is the method
      used in this study for loading antigens onto DCs. DCs are pulsed with human CMV pp65-LAMP
      mRNA.

      The in vivo distribution of DCs will be evaluated in Vaccine #4 using 111Indium
      (111In)-labeled pp65-LAMP mRNA loaded mature DCs. 111In-labeled DCs have been used
      extensively for evaluation of adoptively transferred tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, natural
      killer cells, granulocytes, dendritic cells, and whole blood leukocytes, for in vivo
      localization studies in humans. Subjects will undergo SPECT/CT imaging immediately after
      Vaccine #4 and then at 1 and 2 days after injection.

      Tetanus-diphtheria (Td) toxoid is used for active immunization in children and adults against
      infection with the bacteria Clostridium tetani and Corynebacterium diphtheria. It is thought
      that Td toxoid induces an inflammatory milieu within the intradermal vaccine site, thereby
      promoting the migration of injected tumor-specific DCs. Additionally, in the context of
      vaccinating the host with tumor-derived peptides, conditioning the vaccine site with Td
      toxoid has demonstrated enhanced immunogenicity with these peptides. Previous trials have
      suggested that giving the Td prior to immunotherapy may help improve the effectiveness of the
      DC vaccine by activating the immune response. This study will further examine whether Td
      helps activate the immune response by comparing subjects who receive Td pre-conditioning to
      subjects who receive autologous unpulsed DCs as pre-conditioning.

      Varlilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody (mAb) that targets CD27, a critical molecule
      in the activation pathway of lymphocytes. Varlilumab is an agonist anti-CD27 mAb that has
      been shown to activate human T cells in the context of T cell receptor stimulation. In
      pre-clinical models, varlilumab has been shown to mediate anti-tumor effects and may be
      particularly effective in combination with other immunotherapies. Anti-CD27 mAb has emerged
      as a novel costimulatory immune modulator that depletes TRegs without impairing activated
      effector T cells to improve antitumor immunity.

      To examine the impact of Varlilumab on T cell responses to naïve antigen, pp65-loaded DC
      Vaccine #1 will also include separate DCs loaded with the full mRNA of HIV Gag protein;
      responses to HIV-Gag are uncommon and can serve as a naïve antigen in our HIV negative
      patient population. It has been shown that removal of regulatory T cells (TRegs) can enhance
      polyfunctional T-cell responses to HIV Gag. We hypothesize that TReg inhibition through
      Varlilumab may increase polyfunctional immune responses to CMV.
    
  