
    
      Patients will be asked to undergo some screening tests or procedures to find out if they can
      be in the research study. Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular
      cancer care and may be done even if it turns out that an individual does not take part in the
      research study. If a patient has had some of these tests or procedures recently, they may or
      may not have to be repeated. These screening tests include: medical history, physical
      examination, vital signs, performance status, assessment of tumor(s), CT scan or MRI scan of
      brain, routine blood tests, urine pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential and
      electrocardiogram. Additionally at the time of screening patients will undergo collection of
      an archival tumor tissue sample for tumor mutation testing.

      If a patient takes part in this research study, he or she will be given a study drug-dosing
      calendar for each treatment cycle. Each treatment cycle lasts 4 weeks during which time the
      patient will be taking the study drug by mouth daily. The number of cycles the patient will
      receive will depend on how the patient is tolerating the ponatinib and if your cancer has
      worsened.

      There is a possibility that the following tests or procedures may need to be done at times
      other than those listed below. These may be done if the research doctors determine they are
      medically necessary to monitor illness or any side effects a patient may be experiencing. It
      is important that patients call their research doctor if at any time they are experiencing
      side effects they cannot tolerate.

      During all cycles patients will have a physical exam and be asked questions about their
      general health and specific questions about any problems that they might be having and any
      medications they might be taking.

      If the patient's disease progresses while you are on this study, they will be given the
      option of consenting to a new biopsy for research purposes at no financial cost to the
      patient.

      The investigators would like to keep track of your medical condition for the rest of each
      patient's life. The investigators would like to do this by calling every six months to see
      how the patients are doing. Keeping in touch with checking their condition helps the
      investigators look at the long-term effects of the research study.
    
  