
    
      Despite encouraging data deriving from colorectal surgery, evidences in favor to ERAS
      protocols following RARC are poor. Moreover, according to a recent survey of surgeons with a
      specialist interest in RC, the adherence to ERAS protocols is <20% [1].

      Retrospective and preliminary data from the robotic consortium have supported oncologic
      effectiveness of RARC; however in the only prospective randomized trial comparing RARC and
      ORC urinary diversions were performed extracorporeally, potentially impairing the benefits of
      minimally invasive surgery [2].

      Robot assisted radical cystectomy (RARC) has the aim of providing adequate cancer control
      while minimizing invasiveness of open radical cystectomy (ORC). The primary end-point of this
      trial is to demonstrate a reduction of perioperative transfusion rate in RARC arm by 50%
      compared to ORC arm.

      ERAS protocols may significantly contribute to shortening length of hospital stay, a key
      outcome in this clinical setting of patients receiving RC, being the mean length of hospital
      stay around 14 days in Italy. Investigators' hypothesis is that the reduced invasiveness of
      RARC might contribute to an increased adoption of ERAS protocols (reduced need for
      reinsertion of nasogastric tube, shorter time to first flatus, to mobilization, to regular
      diet and finally shorter duration of hospital stay).

      Assessment of oncologic outcomes of RARC, although not the primary endpoint of the present
      study, is certainly an outcome of interest. The expected duration of enrollment (18 mo)
      should provide 2-yr oncologic outcomes for about 66% of patients. Two-year recurrence free
      survival has been reported as a valid surrogate marker of long term oncologic survival after
      RC.

      Specific Aim 1:To demonstrate superiority of RARC versus ORC in terms of 50% reduction of
      perioperative transfusion rates.

      Specific Aim 2:

      To evaluate invasiveness of both surgical approaches by assessing the adherence to ERAS
      protocols in both and the incidence of perioperative and 30-d, 90d, 180d complications,
      readmission rates (30d, 90d). Cost analysis will assess the potential impact of shorter
      hospital stay on overall costs of robotic procedures.

      Specific Aim 3:

      To assess quality of life at 6-mo, 12-mo and 24-mo follow-up evaluation and to perform a
      matched comparison of oncologic and functional outcomes between two arms.
    
  