
    
      Since the 19th century, the potential changes induced by hypnosis have been investigated.
      Indeed, hypnosis induces a change on the usual state of conscious awareness. This state is
      accompanied by physiological changes, as cardiac and cerebral. However, although literature
      on the neural mechanisms underlying hypnosis increases, no specific activity change has been
      identified. Only the subjective judgment of hypnotherapist can assume the volunteer state.
      Considering that the use of hypnosis enhanced in the field of medical care, it is necessary
      to clarify and define it. This requires a better understanding of its mechanisms through the
      study of brain, heart and respiratory activities.

      The aim of this clinical trial is to assess modifications of physiological signals (cardiac,
      respiratory and cerebral) before and during a session of hypnosis, to identify some
      biomarkers of the hypnotic trance. Therefore the cardiac, respiratory and cerebral activities
      will be recorded during hypnosis sessions and control state to compare the signals.

      The MEG will be used to record brain activity due to its sensitivity in the very low and high
      frequencies, its temporal resolution and its robustness for the localization of neural
      origins. In accordance with the literature and preliminary results, changes in theta
      oscillations (4-8 Hz) will be assessed. In fact, these oscillations seem to be increased
      during the hypnotic state. So, it seems interesting to correlate these oscillations with
      potential changes in heart and/or respiratory rhythms.

      This clinical trial is an open mono-centric study, performed on a cohort of healthy
      volunteers in which each subject is his own control (intra-subject control). The
      physiological parameters will be recorded and analyzed during three control states ("subject
      alone", "subject and hypnotherapist without communication" and "reading a book by the
      hypnotherapist"), and several blocks of hypnosis interleaved with an attentional task
      (stroop). All the collected parameters in these different conditions will be compared.
    
  