
    
      Type 1 diabetes is a multifactorial disease with both strong genetic and non-genetic
      components of disease susceptibility. The uniquely strong genetic risk factor region, the
      human leukocyte antigen region on chromosome 6p, contributes approximately half of the
      genetic component and can be used for screening for diabetes risk. For example, individuals
      with the highest risk compound heterozygote genotype comprise 2% of the general population,
      but have a twenty fold increased risk for type 1 diabetes with an absolute risk of
      approximately 7% by age 15 years.

      Studies of the non-inherited component of diabetes susceptibility implicate external
      environmental factors operating in the first year of life, suggesting the possibility to
      reverse the trend with the correct intervention. Recent data suggest that the vitamin D
      system is a potentially important target for therapeutic intervention to prevent type 1
      diabetes. These data include epidemiological studies showing that vitamin D supplementation
      in infancy is associated with a substantially decreased subsequent risk of the disease, and
      animal work in the non-obese diabetes mouse model of autoimmune diabetes showing that the
      incidence of autoimmune diabetes increases when the animals are nutritionally deprived of
      vitamin D, and that the disease can be prevented using 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, and
      non-hypercalcemic vitamin D analogues. In vitro experiments suggest that the prevention seen
      in NOD mice may be due to combined effects of vitamin D on antigen presenting cells and
      activated T-cells.

      Based on these epidemiological and animal model studies, we hypothesize that administration
      during infancy of cholecalciferol, the usual nutritional supplement form of vitamin D, at the
      increased dose of 2000 IU/day (instead of the current practice of 400 IU/day) will prevent
      type 1 diabetes in children from the general population at increased genetic risk.

      The main objective of this proposal is to pilot a two-arm randomized controlled trial
      comparing these two doses. The participants are infants from the general population
      identified at increased genetic risk for type 1 diabetes by cord blood or filter paper blood
      spot HLA class II genetic screening. The study will measure key safety, compliance and
      pharmacokinetic, surrogate efficacy, and process outcomes including growth parameters,
      25-hydroxyvitamin D and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels, calcium levels in blood and urine,
      bone mineral content and body composition by densitometry, diabetes-related autoantibodies
      markers for beta-cell autoimmunity, and recruitment rates for both the screening and for the
      intervention trial.
    
  