
    
      Criteria for Recruitment and Recruitment Process: Subjects will be recruited from SingHealth
      Investigational Medicine Unit (IMU) healthy volunteer database and recruitment posters.
      Subjects will be given a copy of the Participant Information and Informed Consent Form to
      read upon their arrival. A briefing session on the study will be conducted by the
      Investigator. Thereafter, subjects will be ushered into a private room where informed consent
      is obtained and where questions about the study can be asked freely. Subjects will not be
      rushed into making a decision to participate in the study. They will be encouraged to speak
      to their family members about participation in the study; and allowed to defer their decision
      (without any prejudice) to participate till after discussion with their family members.

      Screening Visits and Procedures: Subjects will be recruited via the SingHealth
      Investigational Medicine Unit (IMU). Informed written consent will be obtained before any
      physical examination is performed. All consented subjects will undergo health screening,
      which includes a full physical examination, safety blood tests such as full blood count,
      renal, lipid and liver panel, C-Reactive Protein (CRP) test and urinary pregnancy test (for
      female subjects of child-bearing potential), and HbA1c to exclude diabetes mellitus.

      Study Visits and Procedures: All eligible subjects will proceed to Day 0, where they will be
      randomized into 4 groups to receive metformin 850mg or 1000mg once or twice daily for 10
      days. As this is an open-label trial, both the subject and study team will be made known of
      the allocated group. Subjects will report to the SingHealth IMU on Days 0, 3, 5, 7 and 10 for
      research blood sampling. Venous blood will be collected via venepuncture for laboratory
      analyses immediately before metformin dosing (Day 0), and then at Day 3, 5, 7 and 10. The
      schedule for blood draws will be identical for all study groups. For our primary end points
      evaluation, bloods for gene expression, omics-analyses pre-metformin (Day 0) and with
      metformin (Days 3, 5, 7 and 10) will be assessed. All research blood samples will be stored
      at -80C until recruitment is completed before analysis. Subject recruitment and blood
      collection will be conducted as an outpatient study in the SingHealth Investigational
      Medicine Unit (IMU), a dedicated early phase clinical trial facility.

      Post Study Follow up and Procedures: Subjects will be monitored over a 2-week period starting
      immediately after metformin dosing (Day 0). Based on the known pharmacokinetics of metformin,
      a total duration of 14 days' follow-up would be adequate for side effects monitoring.
      Subjects will be advised to document any local and systemic symptoms that they may experience
      after metformin dosing using a standardised symptoms diary. The diary will be collected on
      the last visit (Day 10) and a copy will be given back to subject. Days 11-14 will be followed
      up via telephone call by a delegated study team member. Any symptoms experienced by the
      subject will be documented into the diary by the study team member. Should the subjects
      develop systemic symptoms that require intervention, they will report to the SingHealth IMU
      for medical evaluation and receive the appropriate therapy if necessary. Any other
      concomitant medication use during this period will also be recorded.

      Safety Monitoring Plan: The study may be evaluated by government inspectors/regulatory
      authorities who must be allowed access to e-CRFs, source documents, and other study files.
      The inspectors will review CRFs and compare them with source documents to verify accurate and
      complete collection of data and confirm that the study is being conducted according to the
      protocol, ICH-Good Clinical Practices (ICH-GCP) and all applicable regulations.

      Known common adverse events of metformin include diarrhoea, nausea, stomach pain, heartburn
      and bloatedness. Rare AEs include lactic acidosis and hypoglycaemia. Limiting the duration of
      metformin dosing to 10 days would further reduce the risk of these serious AEs. Subjects will
      be trained to look out for early symptoms associated with these AEs and to report to IMU
      immediately should they experience any of these symptoms. Details of AE event terminology,
      date and time of event start and end, severity, using the CTCAE or treatment given, impact on
      work and to the continuation of the study, and final outcome of the event will be recorded on
      the case report until resolution of the event.

      During the study, the investigator will recruit the subjects, as well as perform full history
      taking and physical examination at both scheduled and unscheduled visits. The investigator
      will also review the subject's diaries for any potential side effects and manage the AEs
      based on best clinical practice should they arise. Compliance to study protocol will be
      checked by taking a medication history, and pill count and inspection of diary as well as
      measurement of metformin drug level at specific time points.

      Data Quality Assurance: The PI and Co-Is will review the study periodically for data and
      safety monitoring. Internal quality checks will be performed by two CRCs who are study team
      members. The data entered by one CRC will be checked by another using the source documents.
      The study may also be picked for monitoring by SingHealth Office of Research Integrity and
      Compliance (ORIC) or evaluated by government inspectors/regulatory authorities who must be
      allowed access to e-CRFs, source documents, and other study files. The monitors/inspectors
      may review CRFs and compare them with source documents to verify accurate and complete
      collection of data and confirm that the study is being conducted according to the protocol,
      ICH-Good Clinical Practices (ICH-GCP) and all applicable regulations.

      Data Entry and Storage: All participant's data will be de-identified upon recruitment.
      Hardcopy research data collection forms such as CRFs, logs and diaries will be kept in the
      Investigator's Site File and stored in SingHealth IMU under lock and key, accessible only to
      delegated study team members. Direct data capture of demographic and clinical data will be
      captured on source documents. Identifiers will be kept in a separate file in another office
      and every effort will be made to protect the privacy of the participants. The data to be
      analysed will contain only de-identified data. An electronic data capture system will be
      used. All electronic data will be password protected and can only be accessed by study team
      members. Specimens, test results or pathogen data will be stored at Duke-NUS EID laboratory
      in a stand-alone PC whereby access is password protected.

      Determination of Sample Size: Our preliminary data shows that 750mg once a day with a less
      efficient formulation of metformin led to about 0.7 SD decline in indicators of ER stress.
      The investigators hypothesized that in the present study, there will be a 0.7 SD difference
      between two groups. Using the randomized screening trial design for prioritization of new
      treatments as candidates for future phase III evaluation (Rubinstein et al. JCO 2005), a
      sample size of 12 per arm will offer 80% power and 20% one-sided type I error rate. Thus, the
      total sample size is 48 in total.

      From our previous experience with healthy volunteer studies conducted in IMU, there were no
      dropouts when follow-up period is less than one month. Therefore, the investigators are
      confident that they can recruit sufficient number of subjects within the trial period and
      there is no need to inflate the sample size to allow for loss to follow-up for the main
      analysis.

      Statistical analysis: The investigator will assess the change in ER stress variables from day
      0 to day 5 and from day 5 to day 10. Diagnostic plots will be used to determine the choice of
      using the raw data or log-transformed data in parametric analyses or non-parametric analyses.
      The primary analyses will compare changes from day 0 to day 5 and from day 5 to day 10
      between groups. As per Rubinstein's randomized screening trial design, the best treatment
      will be the candidate for future phase III confirmatory trial. Secondary analyses will pool
      all groups and time-points into regression modeling of the effects of dose, frequency, time
      and their interaction.

      Gene expression studies: Gene expression in whole blood would be carried out using Nanostring
      nCounter assay. This assay provides a multiplex approach to identify the genes that the
      investigator have previously used to validate the hits from the microarray that identified
      adaptive ER stress as a susceptibility factor for symptomatic YF17D infection (see
      preliminary data). Importantly, the investigator have worked with Nanostring, to customize a
      comprehensive set of probes that are able to directly quantify mRNA transcripts in the ER
      stress and TCA cycle pathways, which would be the target genes in this trial. This approach
      is also chosen due to the CSA budget constraint. Nonetheless, the study team will collect
      extra clinical samples as backup and explore the use of RNAseq to discover the
      pharmacogenomics of metformin through additional funding from other grant sources.

      This proposed gene expression study will be carried out at the Viral Research and
      Experimental Medicine Centre @ SingHealth Duke-NUS (ViREMiCS). ViREMiCS was established by
      the PI and collaborator, Eng Eong Ooi as a research centre in the SingHealth Duke-NUS
      Academic Medicine Centre partnership. It has established a suite of molecular and systems
      biology tools to support and accelerate proof-of concept clinical trials. The investigators
      thus do not anticipate any problem in using this approach to measure gene expression in blood
      samples.

      Metabolomic profiling: Plasma metabolomics will be examined using capillary
      electrophoresis/mass spectrometry (CE/MS), as the investigator have previously employed to
      measure the polar metabolites from glycolysis and TCA cycle [18, 25]. These assays will be
      outsourced to a Japan-based company (Integrated Human Metabolomics), which the investigators
      have previously engaged on a fee-for-service basis.

      Determination of metformin blood level: Metformin levels will be measured via a liquid
      chromatography-tandem mass spectrometric (LC-MS/MS) assay method. The assay will be performed
      on a Shimadzu 8060 LC-MS/MS system, which is available at the Singapore General Hospital.
    
  