
    
      Lower extremity PAD affects between 10% and 15% of people over the age of 65. A person's risk
      for PAD increases with age but can also be raised by smoking or having diabetes, high blood
      pressure, high cholesterol, or heart disease. PAD symptoms may include leg pain, foot or toe
      wounds, and a noticeably lower temperature in the lower legs than in the rest of the body.
      The specific functional impairments caused by PAD symptoms are associated with increased
      risks of disability, nursing home placement, mobility loss, hospitalization, and mortality.
      Supervised exercise rehabilitation programs have been shown to improve walking ability in
      people with PAD. However, few people with PAD have access to supervised exercise
      rehabilitation programs because of costs and difficulty traveling to the exercise facility.
      Home-based exercise programs may be more beneficial than supervised programs in improving
      lower extremity functioning in people with PAD, but more information is needed to support the
      effectiveness of at-home rehabilitation. This study will compare the effectiveness of a
      home-based GMCB exercise program versus general health education sessions in helping people
      with lower extremity PAD to increase their walking frequency and improve their lower leg
      functioning.

      Participation in this study will last 12 months. The primary outcome will be measured at 6
      month follow-up. All participants will undergo a baseline 6-minute walk test on a treadmill
      and an electrocardiogram (ECG). They will also provide information on their physical activity
      levels. Participants will then be assigned randomly to receive GMCB sessions or health
      education sessions. Both groups will attend weekly sessions of their assigned treatment for a
      6 month period. During the GMCB sessions, participants will be asked to exercise by walking
      around a track. There will also be a group discussion, led by a facilitator, who will help
      participants find ways to increase the frequency of their walking exercise at home. Each GMCB
      session will last approximately 60 to 75 minutes. Health education sessions will last 60
      minutes and will cover health-related topics.

      After completing approximately 6 months of treatment, participants in both groups will be
      telephoned regularly by a study coordinator: they will receive telephone calls every other
      week during Months 6 to 9 of follow-up and monthly during Months 9 to 12 of follow-up.
      Participants will be asked to return for follow-up testing at Month 6 and Month 12; outcomes
      measured at Month 6 are highest priority.
    
  