
    
      This study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, multicenter study with two
      parallel groups of patients.

      The study will be conducted in 5 Italian clinical sites and will involve 250 patients
      receiving at least 2 cycles of highly emetogenic treatments.

      Patients will be randomly assigned to Ginger treatment or to its Placebo.

      All patients will receive, at each chemotherapy cycle, the standard 5-HT3 receptor antagonist
      antiemetics plus dexamethasone and NK1 receptor antagonist. This will guarantee to all
      patients an antiemetic prophylaxis for acute and delayed nausea. No additional treatment is
      usually foreseen for nausea and this justifies the use of placebo in the control group.

      Patients will start the study treatment on the day after chemotherapy cycle and will continue
      until the day of the following cycle; they will suspend the study treatment on the
      chemotherapy day and will start again on the next day. The choice not to treat the patients
      with the study product on the chemotherapy day is intended to avoid any possible interference
      with antiemetic therapy of the first day and chemotherapy, and to analyze the impact of
      Ginger in delayed phase without confounding factors in acute phase.

      Main efficacy assessment of this study is:

      - To evaluate the protection from delayed nausea (incidence of no delayed nausea and
      non-significant delayed nausea);

      Other efficacy assessments regarding nausea that will be evaluated are:

        -  To evaluate the severity of delayed nausea;

        -  To evaluate the overall duration of nausea;

        -  To evaluate inter cycle nausea;

        -  To evaluate nausea anticipatory symptoms before the 2nd cycle.

      Secondary efficacy assessments of this study are:

        -  To evaluate protection from delayed vomiting (number of emetic episodes in delayed
           phase);

        -  To evaluate the impact of nausea/vomiting on daily life activities (FLIE30
           questionnaire);

        -  To evaluate the use of antiemetic rescue medication;

        -  To evaluate the compliance to the treatment;

        -  To assess overall fatigue (BFI31 questionnaire).

      Safety assessments of this study are:

      - Number and typology of adverse events.
    
  