
    
      Primary objective:

      -To compare the rate of grade 2 or higher pneumonitis amongst patients with stage III NSCLC
      treated with radiotherapy using SPECT in radiotherapy treatment planning versus standard
      CT-based radiotherapy planning;

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To evaluate SPECT as a tool to predict lung toxicity;

        -  To establish estimates for the incidence and severity of pulmonary tissue effects
           observed in stage III NSCLC patients treated with radiotherapy;

        -  To generate hypotheses for subsequent use of SPECT-CT-based treatment planning as a
           method for minimization of toxicity risks

        -  To generate hypotheses for modeling studies of SPECT-CT-based treatment planning for
           dose-escalation;

        -  To compare the loco-regional control, time to progression and overall survival of
           patients treated with SPECT-based plan versus standard CT-based plan

        -  To compare the quality of life in patients randomized to the two study arms.

      This trial is a single centre observational study. All patients will irrespective of their
      registration in the trial receive radiotherapy according to the standard treatment regimen at
      the Department of Oncology, Aarhus University Hospital. Participation implies baseline and
      follow-up procedures. In the treatment planning phase patients will be randomized to one of
      the following arms: Arm 1 SPECT/CT-based treatment plan with functional dose-volume
      parameters and Arrm 2 Standard CT-based plan with conventional dose-volume parameters.

      The trial will consist of two parts. To initiate the trial a pilot study (part 1) will be
      performed to determine the feasibility in our setting at Aarhus University Hospital as it is
      described in the literature. Consecutive patients will be enrolled in the pilot study during
      1-year period. The interim analysis after one year of enrollment will be performed to
      determine what patients are most likely to benefit from functional radiotherapy planning
      based on SPECT. The main objective of this part is to determine whether V/Q-SPECT data are
      valid and usable in the radiotherapy planning. The timing for acute and late follow-up SPECT
      will be determined. Randomized trial (part 2) will be performed thereafter.

      Statistical analysis. The randomization by permitted blocks method will be used to allocate
      patients to treatment arm. Stratification factors will be age, gender, disease stage,
      histology, concurrent chemotherapy and irradiated volumes.

      The chi-squire test (α=0.10) with the continuity correction will be used for analysis of the
      primary analysis. For all other comparisons, two-sided analyses will be performed and a
      p-value of 0.05 or less will be considered statistically significant. 95% confidence
      intervals will be constructed for outcomes of interest. Descriptive statistics will be used
      to summarize patient characteristics and outcomes by intervention arm. Differences in
      outcomes between intervention arms will be compared by using paired t-tests, Wilcoxon rank
      sum tests or McNemar tests as appropriate. Adjusting for stratification factors will be
      performed using logistic regression or linear regression. Time-to-event analyses will be
      estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and compared using Cox proportional hazards
      regression.

      Estimation of the relationship between dose-volume parameters and toxicity will be evaluated
      using logistic regression analyses. Within patients who were planned using SPECT, the
      association between dose-volume parameters calculated using SPECT and those calculated under
      a CT-plan will be evaluated using correlation coefficients.

      All patients who are randomized will be included in the analysis of safety and efficacy
      outcomes. Secondary analyses may be performed on those patients only on those who received
      radiotherapy as per the treatment plan based on SPECT or CT as per the intervention arm. Any
      patient who is randomized but does not receive radiotherapy based on the intervention
      allocated treatment plan will be described in detail along with the reason for not receiving
      the prescribed plan.
    
  