
    
      Participants will be 60 couples recruited from a previous research study in which one person
      has type 2 diabetes. We will recruit 60 couples based on power analyses of collaboration
      based interventions. The design will be a two-group pretest-posttest design in which couples
      will be randomly assigned to one of two conditions: communal coping or diabetes education.
      All couples will engage in 1) an in-person session, 2) a 7-day daily diary protocol, and 3) a
      phone call follow-up 1 month later. All participants will come into the laboratory at
      Carnegie Mellon University to complete a baseline questionnaire and listen to a brief
      diabetes education from the American Association of Diabetes Educators. Couples in the
      intervention group will then participate in the communal coping intervention. This
      intervention aims to foster a shared appraisal and collaboration through: the discussion of
      past joint coping, education about communal coping (e.g. what it is and why it is
      beneficial), and discussions to foster the perception of diabetes as shared. Participants in
      the intervention group will also create collaborative action plans to increase
      collaboration-collaborative intentions have been shown to successfully impact health outcomes
      for patients with type 2 diabetes. Couples in the intervention group will also receive two
      daily text messages-one a general reminder to engage in communal coping and the other one of
      the collaborative intentions they created during the in-person session.

      There will be two follow-up periods after this in-person session. First, all couples will
      answer daily questionnaires over a 7-day period starting the day after the in-person session.
      The second follow-up will be one month after the daily diary period, when couples will
      receive a follow up phone call to assess how the primary outcomes of interest changed over a
      longer period of time.
    
  