
    
      Background Hypoxia, reduced lung function and atelectais are common after abdominal surgery
      and can be hazardous in patients with chronic hypoxia. Positive expiratory pressure (PEP)
      therapy or incentive spirometry are routinely given to patients after abdominal surgery to
      counteract atelectasis and improve oxygen saturation. Patients are instructed by a
      physiotherapist to take deep inspiratory breaths and expire in a PEP-device or PEP bottle.
      The method is used routinely in Swedish hospital and the patient breathes against 10-15 cm
      water resistance. This is repeated 10x3 ie 10 deep breaths and exhalation towards PEP then
      rest, breath, rest and another 10 breaths. This procedure should be done once an hour after
      surgery. The idea is that this will widen alveoli and abolish atelectasis, thus increasing
      the oxygen uptake and reducing the risk of postoperative complications.

      There is no evidence of effect of PEP and incentive spirometry on postoperative pulmonary
      complications after abdominal surgery (Guimarães MMF, Tyson AF). Nevertheless, PEP therapy is
      used in Sweden and internationally. There were no studies found reporting the immediate
      effect of PEP on continuous oxygen saturation and carbon dioxide partial pressure after
      surgery.

      Aims

      What effect does PEP have on oxygen saturation and carbon dioxide partial pressure? What is
      the effect of deep breathing maneuvers on oxygen saturation and carbon dioxide partial
      pressure?

      Methods

      Inclusion: 80 adult patients over 18 years of age who have undergone open or laparoscopic
      abdominal surgery. Patients receiving postoperative PEP are asked to participate in the study
      at one or two days after after abdominal surgery.

      Exclusion: Patients who cannot participate in using PEP or who do not agree to participate in
      the study.

      Power calculation:.It was estimated that 34 patients were needed to detect a mean (SD)
      difference in oxygen saturation of 1% (2%) and to detect a difference in transcutaneous PCO2
      of 0.5 kPa (1 kPa) with a significance of p < 0.05 and a power of 80%.

      Design / Randomization: RCT study with cross-over design. Patients are randomized using
      computer programs, handled by a person outside the study, to either start with either PEP
      breathing 10x3 or sham-PEP breathing 10x3.

      Method: Starting with lung function assessment to determine PEF (Mini Wright Clement Clarke).
      Then, application of continuous transcutaneous PCO2 / SaO2 (SenTec Digital Monitoring System,
      ResMed) and a respiratory belt around the chest detecting the respiratory rate. Data is
      recorded with computer equipment (Noxturnal T3, ResMed).

      The patients are randomized to initiate with either 10x3 breaths using PEP therapy or 10x3
      breaths using Sham PEP. After a rest period, patients switch to the second treatment
      (cross-over). At the end of the trial, all patients take 10X3 deep breaths without PEP or
      sham PEP.

      At the start of the study, baseline level for SaO2 and TcPCO2 is recorded, and an arterial
      blood gas is recorded to calibrate the transcutaneous PCO2 measurement. Thereafter, the
      registration continues during breathing / blowing until the patient returns to its baseline
      values. New PEF examination is made after each study arm.
    
  