
    
      Continuous-flow left-ventricular assist devices are increasingly used for the treatment of
      acute or chronic end-stage heart failure (Mancini 2015). Three main implantation strategies
      exist: destination therapy (support until end of life), bridge to transplantation (support
      until transplantation), and bridge to candidacy (support until transplantation criteria are
      met). Although LVAD support delivers excellent short-term and long-term results, the current
      gold standard and last resort of treatment for end-stage heart failure remains orthotopic
      heart transplantation (Lund 2015).

      Obesity increases mortality in heart transplantat recipients and therefore is included in the
      2006 transplantation criteria. The heart transplant program of the Medical University of
      Vienna uses a BMI of 30 kg/m2 as the upper limit to be listed for heart transplantation
      (Mehra 2016).

      Ambulatory patients on CF-LVAD support have a tendency to gain weight because of reduced
      physical fitness, inability to work, and genetic predisposition. In many cases, binge eating
      is used as a coping mechanism to alleviate depression and anxiety associated with heart
      failure and LVAD therapy.

      Conservative measures to reduce weight and increase physical fitness fail in many patients.
      As a result, in many cases these patients remain ineligible for heart transplantation for
      months or years. For the entire period of ineligibility, they are subject to the constant
      life-threatening risks of LVAD treatment, most importantly ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke,
      pump thrombosis, infection, right heart failure, and bleeding episodes in the
      gastrointestinal tract or other organ systems (Kirklin 2015).

      Bariatric surgery has been shown to be superior to conservative measures of weight reduction
      in morbidly obese patients. Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy, one of the most commonly
      employed bariatric procedures, reduces body weight by a non-malabsorptive mechanism (Colquitt
      2014). Gastric volume reduction is achieved by resection along the stomach's greater
      curvature and creation of a gastric tube, leading to reduced capacity for ingested food,
      decreased appetite and earlier satiety. In contrast to malabsorptive bariatric procedures,
      resorption and efficacy of immunosuppressive drugs, an inevitable feature of post-transplant
      therapy, are only minimally influenced following sleeve gastrectomy. Furthermore, there is
      less requirement for substitution of trace elements and vitamins, for example Vitamin B12.
      Due to the fact that the majority of obese LVAD patients are within a BMI range of 30 to 40
      kg/m2, the moderate weight loss achieved by sleeve gastrectomy is expected to be sufficient
      for reaching the eligibility criterion for heart transplantation.

      It is unclear, whether laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy is effective and safe in patients on
      CF-LVAD. The literature is limited to case reports and retrospective series of up to 4
      patients. This is the first prospective series including more than 4 patients with the
      specific aim to enable obese LVAD supported patients to reach a BMI within listing criteria
      for heart transplantation by the means of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy.
    
  