
    
      Dementia has high public health significance due to its prevalence, adverse impact on
      patients and caregivers, high economic cost to society and the rapidly expanding numbers of
      individuals age 65 and older. As the largest provider of geriatric care in the U.S., dementia
      is particularly relevant to the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). However, only a small
      proportion of patients with dementia are diagnosed early when treatments are most effective
      and the opportunity for careful life planning remains, in part because of the absence of
      feasible, well-validated case-finding instruments. Our long-term objective is to improve the
      care and outcomes of veterans with clinically significant cognitive impairment. The first
      steps towards realizing this objective are to determine the acceptability of cognitive
      screening to patients and to identify feasible, valid case-finding tools for primary care. We
      will also determine if patient characteristics can be used to target case-finding, describe
      the current process of care and evaluate the association between cognitive impairment and
      overall- and dementia-related health care utilization and costs. Our research team, located
      in the Center for Health Services Research in Primary Care, brings together researchers
      uniquely suited to achieving this objective. Specific Aims1.Primary Aim: To determine if
      cognitive screening is acceptable to patients, and whether brief cognitive screeners perform
      as well as the longer Modified Mini-Mental Status Exam (3MS) for dementia and cognitive
      impairment-not dementia (CIND).Primary Hypothesis 1: Higher perceived risk of dementia,
      higher perceived benefits and fewer perceived harms from screening will be positively
      associated with screening acceptance. Primary Hypotheses 2: Compared to the 3MS, the
      Mini-Cog, Memory Impairment Screen and 2-item functional screen will have similar performance
      characteristics. 2.Secondary Aim 1: To determine if sociodemographic and clinical
      characteristics available in the electronic medical record can be used to target individuals
      for cognitive screening and improve screening accuracy. Hypothesis: The combination of
      sociodemographic characteristics/clinical information and screening results will more
      accurately discriminate between demented and non-demented patients than screening results
      alone.3.Secondary Aim 2: To describe current care for an inception cohort with dementia or
      cognitive impairment-not dementia. Hypothesis: Compared to patients with dementia, patients
      with cognitive impairment-not dementia will undergo less diagnostic testing, be less likely
      to complete an advanced directive and be less likely to receive dementia specific
      medications. 4.Exploratory Aim: To evaluate the association between cognitive impairment and
      overall- and dementia-related health care utilization and costs. Exploratory Hypothesis:
      Controlling for sociodemographic characteristics and medical comorbidity, overall healthcare
      utilization and costs will increase as cognitive impairment increases. In phase 1, a random
      sample of primary care patients age 65 years will be recruited from 3 primary care clinics to
      complete the Modified Dementia Screening Acceptance and Perceived Harms Questionnaire. In
      phase 2, patients will complete three brief instruments and the standard 15-item 3MS that
      will be compared to a criterion standard interview for dementia. We project 140-200 patients
      will have dementia, 200-300 CIND, and approximately 600 will be cognitively normal.
      Instruments will be compared using sensitivity/specificity, likelihood ratios and receiver
      operating characteristic curves. The emotional impact of screening will be assessed following
      screening. Clinical and sociodemographic characteristics available in the Computerized
      Patient Record System, together with cognitive screening results, will be analyzed with
      logistic regression models to identify risk factors that may be used to target individuals
      for cognitive screening and/or improve screening accuracy. Care patterns for patients with
      dementia and CIND will be described based on detailed chart abstractions. For the exploratory
      analysis on cognitive impairment and utilization, two-part utilization models will be
      estimated for each utilization type, outpatient clinic visits, inpatient visits, pharmacy
      utilization, and other utilization types; utilization data will be obtained from
      administrative data.
    
  