
    
      CMV causes sight- or life-threatening opportunistic infections in people with AIDS.
      Intravenous agents including ganciclovir, foscarnet, and cidofovir are presently approved as
      treatments for CMV retinitis within this population. Ganciclovir and foscarnet induction and
      maintenance therapy require daily infusions and usually require the use of long-term
      indwelling central venous catheters. Although the treatment interval of cidofovir is longer,
      administration necessitates the use of pre-hydration and probenecid in order to avoid a risk
      of renal toxicity. Oral ganciclovir is an alternative to the intravenous formulation for the
      maintenance treatment of CMV retinitis. However, because blood levels achieved after oral
      ganciclovir are low compared to intravenous, oral ganciclovir cannot be used for induction
      therapy. In an attempt to improve the bioavailability of ganciclovir, valganciclovir was
      developed. Valganciclovir is a ganciclovir prodrug which, when administered orally, is
      rapidly converted to the active compound ganciclovir during a first-pass process, with the
      majority of hydrolysis occurring pre-systemically. Studies have shown that valganciclovir
      tablets allow systemic exposure of ganciclovir comparable to that achieved with recommended
      doses of intravenous ganciclovir.

      Patients undergo an ophthalmologic exam by an ophthalmologist and safety and other laboratory
      tests to establish eligibility. No specific visits are requested by the drug usage plan
      following enrollment; however, patients should be seen for safety and/or clinical assessments
      and medication dispensation at periodic visits, consistent with standard of care. An
      ophthalmologic exam should be performed again at Week 3 (no later than Week 4), at the end of
      the induction treatment phase consistent with standard of care in order to ensure adequate
      response to therapy. Valganciclovir is provided on a monthly basis and only as long as the
      patient is assessed and information provided in a timely manner. This supply will be
      terminated 1 month subsequent to when the drug is available by prescription, unless otherwise
      decided.
    
  