
    
      The study will be conducted at the Center of Smoking Cessation, at State University (UEL), in
      Brazil. A sample of 32 outpatients will be selected, that are refractory to first-line
      smoking cessation treatment. All patients included in this study under the condition of
      understanding and signing the informed consent after approval of the research by Ethics
      Research Committee of UEL. Prior to randomization into the clinical trial, all participants
      will be assessed with a questionnaire to provide information about demographic, smoking
      history, nicotine dependence, depressive disorder, anthropometric measurements such as ,
      height, weight, body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC), as well as heart rate (HR)
      and blood pressure (BP).The diagnostic criteria for research for depressive disorder and
      tobacco use disorder will be assed by trained psychiatrists according to the Structured
      Clinical Interview. The primary outcome measurement will be the significant reduction on the
      number of cigarettes/day. Secondary outcome measurements will be: reduction on the exhaled
      Carbon Monoxide, reduction of Hamilton Depression Rating Scale scores, improvement on Sheehan
      Quality of Life scale measurements.

      The Fagerstrom Test for nicotine dependence (FTND) will be used to assess the severity of
      tobacco by dependence FTND. The FTND has a scale of six items and the score 0-10. The cutoff
      point for FTND nicotine dependence will be > 5. The assessment of severity of depression
      among study participants will be conducted by using Hamilton Depression Rating Scale- 17
      items (HDRS). HDRS was translated and adapted for the Brazilian population. Minnesota
      Nicotine Withdrawal Scale (MNWS) MNWS is a 5-point scale (none, slight, mild, moderate,
      severe) to measure withdrawal symptoms.The scale assesses the damage that the patient is
      having due to illness. It is a self - administered scale consisting of 3 items. A score of
      0-10 corresponds to the patient's opinion. Assesses the disability damage in three areas: 1)
      occupational, 2) social life, leisure, 3) family life, activities, and household activities.
      Can be scored 0-10, 0-3 mild injury, 4-6 moderate damage and 7-10 injury grave.The number of
      pack-years was calculated according to the definition: the number of cigarettes smoked per
      day multiplied by number of years smoked and divided by 20 (1 pack has 20 cigarettes).This
      clinical trial was designed to investigate the efficacy of NAC as a treatment for tobacco use
      disorder. Data were collected by face-to-face interview at baseline and weeks 4, 8 and 12.
      Smoking status was also evaluated using exhaled carbon monoxide (COEXH). COEXH was measured
      using a Micro CO Meter with an electrochemical sensor (Micro CO - Micro Medical Ltd,
      Rochester, Kent, UK). All participants were instructed to breathe deeply and to hold their
      breath for 20 seconds and then to exhale slowly and completely through a mouthpiece. Smoking
      reduction was validated by breath carbon monoxide concentration, and the cut-off point for
      COEXH levels will be categorized as ≤ 6ppm for smoking cessation (Middleton et al., 2000).
      Both groups will receive monthly meetings of Group Behavioral Therapy during the course of
      the study.

      Participants (n=32) were randomized into two groups 16 patients in each group, in a
      double-blind manner to receive NAC or placebo. The dose of NAC was 3000mg/day administered in
      500 mg capsules in two daily doses, 3 capsules in the morning and 3 in the evening. The
      chosen dosage was based on previous studies in which similar dosages had shown to be
      effective and well tolerated.

      Individuals were randomized to NAC or placebo, each group have individuals with equal gender,
      age, scores of FTND and depressive disorders.

      Statistical analysis will be performed with repeated measurements design analyses of
      variance, and post hoc t test.
    
  