
    
      This study will evaluate the safety, tolerability and PK-PD of, and to compare and contrast,
      IV Ibuprofen with Caffeine and Ketorolac eye drops with Caffeine in ELGAN infants <28 weeks
      GA for 14 days duration to treat and preferably prevent ROP associated with prematurity and
      ELGAN. The specific aims of this trial are:

      Aim 1: To establish the synergistic effect of local ophthalmic NSIADs and systemic caffeine
      as optimal therapies for the attenuation and/or prevention of severe ROP. Hypothesis: Ocular
      Ketorolac or systemic Ibuprofen potentiated with systemic Caffeine will prevent or diminish
      the severity of ROP. We will: a) Evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of early
      postnatal local ophthalmic NSIADs for prevention of severe ROP in ELGANs. b) Determine the
      pharmacokinetics, pharmacodymanics and pharmacogenomics of NSAIDs potentiated with caffeine
      for prevention of ROP.

      Aim 2: To identify a "critical" number of arterial oxygen desaturations as a key risk factor
      for severe ROP.

      Hypothesis: A "critical" number of daily arterial oxygen desaturations during the first two
      weeks of life is a key risk factor for severe ROP. We will: a) Further define the role of
      VEGF, IGF, MMPs, and ROS in ROP and correlate the levels with the number of arterial oxygen
      desaturations. b) Establish and identify whether increased serum VEGF in infants with severe
      ROP is the diffusible isoform VEGF121. This isoform is formed from VEGF proteolysis by
      plasmin and MMPs. MMPs also cleave Notch/Dll4, which acts as a regulator of VEGF signaling.

      Aim 3: To determine whether infants at risk for severe ROP are haploinsufficient for the
      delta-like ligand 4 (Dll4).

      Hypothesis: ELGANs at risk for severe ROP will have different pattern of gene expression
      specifically related to the Notch signaling pathway, as has been previously shown in animal
      models. We will: a) Examine cord blood, cord tissue, and placental tissue to compare the gene
      profile of VEGF and Notch signaling pathways among infants who develop severe ROP and those
      who do not; and b) Determine whether NSAIDs and/or Caffeine will confer protective benefits
      on Notch/Dll4 signaling and prevent the development of severe ROP.

      This is a phase 2b, randomized, open label, multi-center, safety, tolerability and efficacy
      study comparing 3 interventions for possible prevention of ROP. The trial will be conducted
      in at least 8 investigational sites including the Neonatal networks (SUNY Downstate and the
      Brooklyn-Queens Neonatal Network sites, SUNY Stony Brook), and Miller Children's Hospital,
      Long Beach, CA. An independent DSMB will assess safety during the study. This study will
      monitor for safety while on study drug and for 7 days after last dose of drug. An exploratory
      study to determine the role of pharmacodynamic, drug concentrations (as surrogate of PK
      profile) and pharmacogenomics will also be conducted in this patient population.

      One hundred and twenty preterm infants (<28 weeks gestation; <1250 grams) between 0 and 72
      hours of life will be randomized to receive either:

        1. Caffeine citrate IV (20 mg/kg loading dose followed by 5 mg/kg/day maintenance dose)
           plus placebo saline IV (1 ml/kg followed by 0.25 ml/kg) for 5 days plus sterile normal
           saline (one drop two times a day) for 14 days (n=40);

        2. Caffeine citrate as described in group 1 plus Ibuprofen (10 mg/kg loading dose followed
           by low dose ibuprofen 2.5 mg/kg/day) for 5 days plus sterile normal saline (one drop two
           times a day) for 14 days (n=40); and

        3. Caffeine citrate plus saline IV placebo as described in group 1, and Ketorolac (Acuvail)
           eye drops (one drop two times a day) for 14 days (n=40)
    
  