
    
      Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) generates multiple symptoms and
      problems that can vary in complexity. Although it seems evident that patients and caregivers
      experience clinically significant levels of psychological distress, few intervention studies
      have been explored to address this concern in this population.

      Problem-solving is an essential skill for individuals to successfully cope. Increased
      problem-solving skill has been shown to decrease psychological distress and may improve
      symptom distress and health related quality of life (QOL). The COPE (Creativity, Optimism,
      Planning, and Expert Information) problem-solving education (PSE) intervention has
      demonstrated benefit and has been reported as a positive therapy by cancer patients and their
      families. Only one study has reported the application of this intervention in the acute care
      setting and our previous pilot study has been the only one done with patients and caregivers
      undergoing allogeneic HSCT.

      Based on the findings from our pilot study and recent published reports, this study is
      designed to determine preliminary efficacy of problem solving education by increasing
      self-efficacy in caregivers during allogeneic HSCT. In addition, this study will explore
      factors associated with change in caregiver self-efficacy and distress such as demographics,
      clinical variables, mutuality, caregiver reaction, sleep quality, fatigue and health
      behaviors.

      This is a phase two clinical trial applying a prospective repeated measure design. Subjects
      will be accrued to this protocol if they agree to participation in an allogeneic HSCT at the
      Clinical Center, NIH, are greater than 18 years old, able to read English and able to
      comprehend the investigational nature of the study. Patient volunteers must have at least one
      caregiver throughout the study period. A sample of at least 71 caregivers is needed to
      adequately evaluate the effectiveness of the PSE intervention. In order to achieve a sample
      of 71 caregivers 50 transplant patients will be recruited.

      Each caregiver (and patient) will be scheduled for three individualized PSE intervention
      sessions (study intervention) in addition to the usual care group education. Three surveys
      will be administered to all study participants. The baseline questionnaires will be
      administered twice; once prior to allogeneic HSCT and again directly before the first PSE, at
      the time of initial discharge from the hospital. The post-intervention questionnaires will be
      administered 6 weeks post discharge. There will be no long term follow-up after the
      intervention period. Questionnaires include: Distress Thermometer, Family Caregiving
      Inventory Mutuality Scale, Health-Promoting Lifestyle Profile II, Cancer Self-Efficacy scale,
      Brief Symptom Inventory, Caregiver Reaction Assessment, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index and
      the Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short Form. In addition, the subjects will
      participate in a semi-structured interview at the end of the study and the interventionist
      will complete a log that tracks subject attendance, session length, and discrepancy between
      planned and actual session date and time. Quantitative and qualitative analysis techniques
      will be used in this study.
    
  