
    
      Autism or Autistic Spectrum Disorder is a neurodevelopmental disorder affecting language,
      communication, social interaction and behavior. Autism is a heterogeneous disorder makes the
      assessment of treatment difficult. Only few measures have been used in a standardized way to
      document the outcome of different modalities of treatment in autism. Most claims of treatment
      effect in autism have been quite anecdotal.

      In Traditional Chinese acupuncture, nearly 400 acupoints on the body surface are interrelated
      to various functions. Acupuncture had been practiced in China for over 2 millennia. The
      surface acupoints are linked through 14 meridians to various organs or viscera of the human
      body. The approach in TCM, in sharp contrast to western medical concept, is a "holistic"
      approach with a more philosophical background of balancing the "Yin-and-Yang". The main
      objective of TCM is to improve health of body and mind.

      The pathophysiological basis of TCM aimed to improve "energy" or "body-flow" ["de-qui" in
      Chinese]. Even a normal human subject will respond to acupuncture due to the flow of energy.
      The effect of acupuncture was hypothesized and proven in animal and human studies to be due
      to direct neural stimulation, changes in neurotransmitters such as endorphin, immunological
      markers and endocrinological signals. Thus, acupuncture is Thus, acupuncture is effective in
      chronic disorders, especially in neurological disorders.

      We had demonstrated clinical efficacy of acupuncturing the surface or base of the tongue in
      specific acupoints in improving various functional modalities in patients with chronic
      neurological disorders such as cerebral palsy, stroke and drooling problems. In our
      experience, TCM approach for autism is more holistic. Autism is postulated as part of the
      spectrum of lower intelligence. Thus, the approach to autism is considered as lower
      intelligence due to "Heart-meridian and Kidney-meridian yin-yang imbalance" resulting in
      communication problem and "Liver-meridian yin-yang imbalance " leading to behavioral
      problems.

      We attempted to use a different approach in looking at autism and to assess the efficacy of
      an innovative method in TCM in improving the functional status of these children. Specific
      acupoints in the tongue corresponding to various organs and meridians were used for autism.
      The organ and meridian concept in TCM model has been assumed as a fundamental basis to
      improve the behavior, cognition and communicative ability in children with autism. The
      objective is to study the efficacy of a short course of TAC in improving the overall
      functional status of autism.
    
  