
    
      -  All pregnant women will attend hospital between 14-24 weeks and fulfil inclusion and
           exclusion criteria will be approached for possibility to be included in the study .

        -  History taking .Obstetric history will be obtained from the patient includes gravidity
           and parity , last menstrual period , duration of gestation at birth time , mode of
           delivery , gender, birth Wight, any complication in each pregnancy, miscarriage and
           causes of miscarriage . Past history will be obtained from the patient for any medical
           disease like ( severe anaemia, hypertensive disease, heart disease, antiretroviral
           therapy in pregnancy and genitourinary infection) and History of cervical cercalage .
           Family history will be obtained to determine any history of family preterm birth.
           Socioeconomic status will be obtained include occupation and financial status. Special
           Habits for both couples.

             -  Gynaecological history will be taken from the patient include any vaginal bleeding,
                history of vaginal infection, operations like D and C with cervical dilatation.

             -  Examination Examination of the patient include vital signs, general examination (
                head, neck ,chest ,heart ) obstetric examination include inspection, palpation,
                auscultation and speculum vaginal examination.

             -  -Investigation Investigation includes antenatal care laboratory tests like urine
                analysis ,CBC, RH factor and random blood sugar .

             -  Transvaginal ultrasound:

      Study group : Cervical length will be measured using transvaginal ultrasonography with the
      standard longitudinal view of cervix while patient's bladder is empty. TVS probe will be used
      to measure cervical length. It will be measured by keeping the probe 3cm away from the
      posterior fornix. The cervical length is defined as the length between the internal OS and
      external OS

      Those with short cervix less than 25 mm will be managed According to NICE guide lines :

      Offer a choice of either prophylactic vaginal progesterone or prophylactic cervical cerclage
      to women: with a history of spontaneous preterm birth or mid-trimester loss between 16+0 and
      34+0 weeks of pregnancy and in whom a transvaginal ultrasound scan has been carried out
      between 16+0 and 24+0 weeks of pregnancy that reveals a cervical length of less than 25 mm.

      Discuss the benefits and risks of prophylactic progesterone and cervical cerclage with the
      woman and take her preferences into account.

      Offer prophylactic vaginal progesterone to women with no history of spontaneous preterm birth
      or mid-trimester loss in whom a transvaginal ultrasound scan has been carried out between
      16+0 and 24+0 weeks of pregnancy that reveals a cervical length of less than 25 mm.

      Consider prophylactic cervical cerclage for women in whom a transvaginal ultrasound scan has
      been carried out between 16+0 and 24+0 weeks of pregnancy that reveals a cervical length of
      less than 25 mm and who have either: had preterm prelabour rupture of membranes (P-PROM) in a
      previous pregnancy or a history of cervical trauma (17) .

      progesterone will be given in form of vaginal suppository 200 mg once daily . Start receiving
      it once diagnoses is established till 34 week gestation.

      A McDonald cerclage will be be preformed for women once diagnoses is established and removed
      at 36 week gestational or when labour pain start.

      Control group : All pregnant women who fulfil the same inclusion criteria, exclusion
      criteria, diagnoses established as short cervix by digital vaginal exam or trans abdominal
      ultrasound or not specified and do not undergo transvaginal ultrasound assessment , and do
      not managed according to NICE guide lines will be treated and managed according to their
      units as a control group.

      • Then all patients will be followed up every 4 weeks by taking history , any complaint of
      new symptoms , compliance to treatment, obstetric exam and investigation if indicated till
      delivery and record the time of delivery or termination of pregnancy. After delivery, record
      maternal and fetal outcome.
    
  