
    
      The critical care of patients with an emergency has always been the clinical challenge to the
      medical staff in the emergency room (ER). The emergency includes sudden cardiac arrest,
      respiratory failure, acute conscious change, cardiovascular emergency, sepsis, etc. How to
      treat these patients appropriately and immediately is an important issue, which may change
      the disease process and prognosis, and save the life.

      Owing to the epidemic of coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19), several changes in the
      environmental and personal protective equipment have been made in the ER when treating
      critical patients. The doctor and nurses need to wear individual protective equipment
      including Level C protective clothing, goggles, N95 mask, surgical mask, guard panel, hair
      cap, and double-layered gloves to prevent infectious droplet during tracheal intubation.
      However, the protective equipment may limit the movement and obstruct the vision and thus
      result in response delays, difficult intubation, and prolong hand-off period during
      cardiopulmonary resuscitation. On the other hand, wearing N95 mask, surgical mask and guard
      panel may impair the communication. Additionally, the medical staff may not have enough time
      to wear the protective equipment during emergency events, and therefore suffer from a higher
      risk of infection, which may consequently cause a certain level of psychological stress.

      This study aims to conduct a prospective sequential allocation clinical trial to investigate
      the success rate, patient safety, physical and psychological stress of medical staff, and the
      risk of environmental contamination of tracheal intubation and cardiopulmonary resuscitation
      between the resuscitation area and negative pressure isolation room. The results of the study
      may be used to improve the protocol and protective policy in treating critical patients
      during an epidemic.
    
  