
    
      BACKGROUND: In an era where cardio-metabolic chronic diseases (CMCD) take epidemic
      proportions, health systems have to react by providing care to manage but also to prevent
      them. Our region has demonstrated leadership in developing and implementing regional care
      frameworks and patient trajectories defining services throughout the continuum of care (from
      community to primary to specialized care). However, these diabetes, cardiac rehabilitation
      and 0-5-30 prevention programs have been implemented in silos. Under the leadership of
      decision-makers of our regional health Agency, in order to improve accessibility and quality
      of care, our team has worked on the development and implementation of an integrated care
      framework for the prevention and management of cardio-metabolic chronic diseases: Agir Sur Sa
      SantÉ (ASSSÉ). This new framework, based on individual/group motivational techniques, care
      protocols and collective orders, is currently being implemented in the context of community
      health centers (CSSS). The investigators recently received a Quebec Ministry of Health grant
      to continue supporting the implementation in CSSS, implement the care framework in family
      medicine groups (FMG; spring 2015) and initiate some baseline evaluations (satisfaction and
      perceptions questionnaires). The investigators hypothesize that successful implementation of
      ASSSÉ could improve accessibility indicators, for patients affected or at risk for CMCD,
      patient and primary care personnel satisfaction, fidelity, quality and continuity of care in
      the context of FMGs.

      OBJECTIVES: The investigators aim to:

        1. Analyze the implementation process of the new ASSSÉ framework in the context of FMGs by:
           a) establishing its acceptability and perceived usefulness by patients and health
           professionals; b) identifying the determinants (barriers and facilitators) of its
           implementation; c) describing the strategies used to implement the ASSSÉ care framework
           in FMGs.

        2. Estimate the size of the effects of ASSSÉ (including main effects and variability of
           effects across FMGs to allow for informed sample size calculation in the planning of a
           future large-scale trial) on: a) patients (satisfaction, health outcomes); b) primary
           care professionals (practice, satisfaction, self-efficacy); c) health care system
           (organizational and technical quality of care indicators, accessibility and continuity
           of care indicators, fidelity of care to framework).

        3. Effectively share knowledge obtained through these activities to relevant stakeholders
           in the health care and public health sectors, including policy makers, decision makers,
           health care professionals and patients using innovative tools and approaches.

      METHODS AND APPROACH: This participatory research project will use a mixed-method approach
      combining qualitative and quantitative assessments. The project will be conducted in three
      steps: 1-Pre-implementation evaluation: Services and patient trajectories currently provided
      in all 14 FMGs of the Eastern Townships will be assessed using chart reviews to evaluate
      technical quality of care indicators and health outcomes. The investigators will also use
      questionnaires evaluating the concordance with the Expended chronic care model,
      self-efficacy, satisfaction of personnel and patients, and potential areas to target for
      improvement to assess organizational quality of care. Questionnaires and semi-structured
      group interviews with health professionals, decision-makers and patients with, or at risk
      for, CMCD will also be performed; 2- Post-implementation evaluation and data analysis: 12, 24
      and 36 months after initiation of implementation, the investigators will perform a similar
      evaluation as done in the initial phase. Semi-structured group interviews will only be
      repeated at 24 months. Pre- and post-implementation comparisons will be performed using
      paired t-tests for continuous variables and McNemar tests for dichotomous variables to
      identify areas of improvement and persistent gaps. 3-Knowledge translation(KT): Integrated KT
      is an important outcome of this research, has already begun and will occur throughout the
      project with the various actors involved. The investigators will also reach out to various
      target audiences (health professionals, decision-makers and policy-makers, patients and
      Canadian population) through classic end-of-grant KT and the production of a clear executive
      summary of research results.

      IMPACT: Considering the epidemic of chronic diseases, this project is very important as it
      will generate knowledge on models of care integrating preventive and management interventions
      of multiple conditions in primary care, in continuum with specialized health care services.
      It also has high transferability potential in various provincial and disease contexts.
    
  