
    
      Liver transplant is the most effective treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in
      cirrhosis. Due to organs shortage, the proper selection of patients is imperative. Prevailing
      clinical morphological models used in most centres (Milan Criteria), can exclude potential
      candidates and include patients with aggressive biological behaviour. To more accurately
      select candidates for liver transplant, the inclusion of criteria that could predict the
      behaviour and aggressiveness of tumours, such as molecular markers, might be useful. The
      investigators propose the use of a new algorithm (HepatoPredict Prognostic Tool, Ophiomics),
      combining morphologic information, clinical and molecular criteria, in a prospective,
      intervention, single centre study.

      Patients aged 18 to 70 years, with HCC in cirrhosis, not eligible for liver transplant under
      the "Milan Criteria", whom had the following morphologic characteristics: total tumour volume
      below 500 cm3, total number of tumour lesions below 10 and maximum individual tumour diameter
      below 10 cm, will be proposed for the "HepatoPredict genomic signature" analysis (Ophiomics),
      obtained from DNA of tumor samples. Those considered candidates by the algorithm are to be
      proposed for transplant with marginal livers or with livers from patients with Familial
      Amyloid Polyneuropathy.

      Patients will be followed up to 60 months after transplant, to assess survival and HCC
      recurrence with biannual imagiology screening by triphasic CT scan. Additionally, circulating
      tumour DNA will be assessed previously to the transplant and biannually for up to 60 months.
      Survival and disease-free-survival rates will be compared with those obtained with the usual
      management of patients included and excluded by Milan Criteria, both in the same referral
      transplant center and in the published literature.
    
  