
    
      Objective: This study aims to determine the feasibility and efficacy of an Internet-based
      Cognitive Behavior Therapy (ICBT) in reducing the impact associated with tinnitus in the
      United States.

      Hypothesis: It is hypothesized that ICBT will result in reduced tinnitus-related distress,
      decreased sleep disturbance, decreased anxiety and depression, and improved health-related
      quality of life in a treatment group as compared with adults in the weekly check-in
      control-group in the U.S. population. The investigators also hypothesize that these results
      will be stable in both short- and long-term post-intervention.

      Design: A two-armed Randomized Control Trial (RCT), with a one-year follow-up design will be
      used to evaluate the efficacy of ICBT on tinnitus distress.

      Setting: This will be an Internet-based study for adults with tinnitus living in the State of
      Texas, USA.

      Participants: Eligible participants will include adults with tinnitus for a minimum period of
      3 months with internet access and no major medical or psychiatric conditions. 80 participants
      will be recruited for each group and will be randomly assigned using a computer-generated
      randomization schedule by an independent research assistant after being pre-stratified for
      language and tinnitus severity.

      Intervention: The intervention offered is a guided CTB-based internet intervention (ICBT),
      providing an opportunity to learn about new ways of coping with tinnitus during everyday
      life. It is 8-week long e-learning intervention, with new modules introduced weekly and
      assignments are given to practice techniques learned.

      Outcome measures: The main outcome measure is the Tinnitus Functional Index (TFI). Secondary
      outcome measures are the Tinnitus and Hearing Survey (THS), Tinnitus Cognition Questionnaire
      (TCQ), Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7), Insomnia
      Severity Index (ISI), and EuroQol EQ-5D-5L.
    
  