
    
      Vaccination is the best way to prevent severe rotavirus disease and the deadly, dehydrating
      diarrhea that it causes. However, given only moderate efficacy in the first year of life and
      a possible further decline in immunity, it is considered a top priority by public health
      experts to evaluate the possible value of a "booster" dose of rotavirus vaccine in low income
      countries to confer longer duration of protection into the second year of life when disease
      burden continues to be high.

      This study is an open-label, individual-randomized, parallel-group, comparative
      immunogenicity trial. Participating infants randomized to Group A will receive one dose each
      of measles vaccine (MV), yellow fever vaccine (YFV), and meningitis conjugate vaccine
      (PsA-TT-5μg) at 9 months of age, and infants randomized to Group B will receive one dose each
      of MV, YFV, PsA-TT-5μg, and PRV at 9 months of age.

      The study will simultaneously evaluate two primary objectives, one for noninferiority of the
      response to MV given with PRV (co-primary objective 1) and one for noninferiority of the
      response to YFV given with PRV (co-primary objective 2).

      Secondary objectives of the study were the following:

        1. To evaluate the non-inferiority of the immune response 3 months post-vaccination (as
           sero-conversion) to MV given with PRV (Group B) to that given without PRV (Group A).

        2. To compare the immune response (as geometric mean titers [GMTs]) to YFV given with PRV
           (Group B) to that given without PRV (Group A).

        3. To evaluate the non-inferiority of the immune response (as sero-response) to PsA-TT-5μg
           given with PRV (Group B) compared to that given without PRV (Group A).

        4. To compare the immune response (as GMTs) to PsA-TT-5μg given with PRV (Group B) to that
           given without PRV (Group A).

        5. To evaluate the superiority of the immune response (as sero-response and geometric mean
           concentrations [GMCs]) to a supplemental dose of PRV given at 9 months of age with local
           EPI vaccines (Group B) compared no supplemental dose (Group A).

        6. To describe the safety profile of study vaccination with PRV.
    
  