
    
      The endothelial response is emerging as a critical element of sepsis pathophysiology.
      Preclinical data and small human studies suggest that endothelial cells are responsible for
      increased leukocyte adhesion, inflammation, activation of coagulation, and respond to
      increased levels of the endothelial cell mediator Vascular Endothelial Cell Growth Factor
      (VEGF). Furthermore, the endothelium plays an active role in microcirculatory homeostasis and
      the preservation of microvascular flow.

      The researchers propose to study the endothelium by performing a comprehensive endothelial
      cell "read-out" through the measurement of circulating levels of endothelial cell biomarkers
      as well as direct visualization of microcirculatory flow with in-vivo videomicroscopy.
      Accordingly, the broad, long-term objective of this project is to study the role of the
      endothelium in sepsis in a large, heterogeneous group of patients. To accomplish this, the
      researchers will investigate two specific aims: 1) to study biomarkers of endothelial cell
      activation in sepsis; and, 2) to study microcirculatory flow in sepsis.

      The overall hypotheses of this project is that severe sepsis is associated with endothelial
      dysfunction; that endothelial dysfunction, in turn, is predictive of subsequent organ failure
      and death; and that protocolized resuscitation attenuates endothelial cell (EC) dysfunction
      and improves patient survival. To test these hypotheses the researchers will utilize
      ancillary measurements (notably in-vivo assessment of microcirculatory flow), and additional
      samples and assays from the ProCESS clinical trial. ProCESS is a large, multicenter,
      randomized, controlled clinical trial testing the efficacy and mechanisms behind protocolized
      goal-directed resuscitation.

      To conduct this line of investigation directed at the endothelium and microcirculation that
      was not addressed in the original trial, the researchers will select 8 ProCESS study sites
      for participation in this ancillary study. The researchers will directly visualize and
      quantify the presence of disturbances in sublingual microcirculatory flow utilizing the novel
      bedside technique of orthogonal polarization microscopy. Furthermore, the researchers will
      develop a multi-marker panel that assesses degree of endothelial cell dysfunction and
      subsequent mortality risk.

      The researchers will also capitalize on the randomly assigned interventions in the ProCESS
      clinical trial to observe differences in endothelial response across the alternative
      resuscitation strategies. Improved understanding of these mechanisms may lead to strategies
      to predict outcome, to select patients for tailored (endothelium-directed) therapies, to
      follow treatment response, and to develop novel therapies for endothelial dysfunction in
      sepsis.
    
  