
    
      Patients' comprehension in the emergency department (ED) is relatively low. This is more
      evident for in-patients with more complex diseases. The preliminary study conducted suggests
      that patients' comprehension was improved by the use of standardized information and by
      opening a dialogue. This study however had its limits. It does not deliver proper information
      guideline to physicians working in the ED.

      This study is reproduced on a larger scale for in-patients in the ED concerning their
      comprehension about the medical information given and thus improving the scientific evidence.
      This study has been conducted on a national level in 2 phases with 14 investigating centers
      spread in Paris and other provinces:

      First, an observational period was conducted during 2 weeks in each center in order to
      document their homogeneity. At the same time, this period permitted to have a reference level
      of comprehension. During this period, investigators continued to give medical information to
      their patients as usual. The aim is to adjust the results of the comprehensions levels in 2
      groups after the experimental study on the "baseline" data.

      Second, an experimental period of 4 weeks: 7 centers are identified as "formal procedure
      group" and their investigators are provided with formal procedures on the patient's
      comprehension in the ED based on updated literature data. At the same time, recommendations
      are given on the information given to patients. 7 other centers "control group" only formal
      presentation on the patient's comprehension in the ED on updated literature data.

      According to the center where the patient is included, he will be either in the "formal
      procedure group" or the "control group".

      Among all in-patients in the ED, it is planned to include:

        -  700 patients in the observational period (50 in each center)

        -  1400 patients in the experimental period (700 in the formal procedure group and 700 in
           the control group)

      Improvement in the information given to patients is expected due to the participation of the
      centers in this study. This improvement is expected in both arms only due to the fact of
      their participation. Better information level is expected in the "formal procedure group".

      If this study proves a better information in the procedure group, then our aim will be to
      propose recommendations to ED physicians to improve the information given to in-patients in
      the ED.
    
  