
    
      Our study will incorporate caregivers and their care receivers who are diagnosed with
      dementia and agitation co-occurring depression. The primary study outcomes are the following:
      caregiver burden, measured with the Zarit Caregiver Burden Intervention; mood, measured with
      the Cornell-Brown Scale for Quality of Life; agitation, measured with the Neuropsychiatric
      Inventory Questionnaire; and focus group and diaries will be used to gain a descriptive
      account of caregiver experiences of facilitation of music intervention. Assessment time frame
      is focus group with caregivers, then pre-tests for baseline. Before the first workshop,
      caregivers will be asked to participate in a focus group with other caregivers.

      Following pre-tests and focus group, caregivers will participate in a 6-week classroom
      workshop including the following topics: adding singing and music with movement to address
      mood or agitation, music listening to assist with transitions or difficult tasks,
      implementing background music for compliance during activities of daily living, creating
      individualized playlists/interventions to address undesirable behaviors, and the use of an
      MP3 player . The 6-week workshop will take place in person or via Zoom. Potential
      participants will be asked to meet for an hour, once weekly.

      During the workshops, caregivers will be taught music-based interventions that involve adding
      singing and music with movement to address mood or agitation, music listening to assist with
      transitions or difficult tasks, background music for compliance and the creation of
      individualized playlists to address undesirable behaviors.

      This psychosocial intervention will teach caregivers to incorporate a music-based
      intervention. The music-based intervention is a non-invasive program that involves singing,
      music with movement and music listening.

      During these 6 weeks, caregivers will implement the music intervention with the care
      recipient and document weekly diaries. There will be a 3 month follow up designated for
      participants to repeat the completion of the questionnaires, Zarit Caregiver Burden
      Interview, Cornell-Brown Scale for Quality of Life, and Neuropsychiatric Inventory
      Questionnaire. These questions will be about participants' moods, agitation level or
      caregiver burden. This information will be collected in person at Menorah from potential
      caregiver participants. Principal Investigator will call to gather this data from the
      caregivers.
    
  