
    
      Aging is accompanied by a loss of muscle mass and strength. Because muscle strength is
      associated with functional performance in elderly individuals, various tasks of daily living
      is hampered by the overall decline. The consequence is a vicious circle, where inactivity
      caused by reduced functional capacity accelerates the loss of muscle mass, strength and
      physical function. The Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) is commonly used to assess
      functional capacity, where individuals with a score of 10 or less out of maximum 12 may be
      categorized as pre-frail. Because small-to-moderate limitations in functional status assessed
      by SPPB is associated with higher odds of losing future mobility, these individuals represent
      a group of great interest. Strategies to improve functional capacity in this population are
      therefore important. It is established that heavy-load strength training, alone or in
      combination with protein supplementation, can improve muscle mass, strength, and function in
      elderly individuals. However, most studies have focused on healthy older adults, and less is
      known about the effects of heavy-load strength training in pre-frail elderly individuals.
      Moreover, the extent to which training-induced gains in muscle mass and size are related to
      improvements in strength and functional capacity is still poorly understood, because few
      intervention studies in this population have quantified hypertrophy precisely. Hence, the aim
      of this study is to investigate the effects of 10 weeks of heavy load strength training,
      performed three times per week, on muscle mass (DXA scan), muscle thickness (ultrasound),
      muscle strength (dynamic and isometric), rate of force development, chair rise ability, and
      gait velocity. Participants are randomized to a group performing three weekly sessions of
      heavy-load strength training or a control group. In addition, to optimize gains in muscle
      mass and strength, the strength training group will receive daily protein supplementation
      throughout the intervention period. The investigators hypothesize that the intervention will
      improve muscle mass, muscle thickness and strength, and that improvements in muscle strength
      and rate of force development will be correlated with improvements in functional capacity.
    
  