
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) remains a global health problem even though it has nearly been eradicated
      in some developed countries. Because of variable manifestations and the difficulty in
      collecting clinical samples, extra-pulmonary TB is usually difficult to early diagnose.
      Tuberculous pleurisy (TP) is one of the most common extra-pulmonary infection and accounts
      for approximately 5% of all forms of TB. The gold standard for diagnosing TP is mycobacterial
      culture of pleural effusion (PE), pleura tissue, which requires weeks to yield. The treatment
      could thus be delayed, resulting in an increased mortality rate. In addition, mycobacterial
      culture is not so sensitive for PE and with positivity in less than two thirds of cases with
      TB pleurisy.

      For diagnosing TP, PE biomarkers are required to be investigated in addition to traditional
      PE cell counting and biochemistry. In particularly, inflammation-associated cytokines and
      apoptosis-associated markers may be important because the two pathways involve in TB
      infection/defense mechanism. For inflammation-association markers, current literature is not
      comprehensive except IFN-gamma and IFN-gamma release assay (IGRA). However, the result of
      IGRA using PE is disappointed. We should study other PE inflammation markers such as
      IFN-induced protein-10, interleukin [IL]-2, IL-12 and so on. On the other hand, apoptosis
      suppression is one of escape mechanisms in TB pathogenesis. Macrophage, dendritic cell, and
      neutrophil are reportedly inhibited for apoptosis in TB infection. But the apoptosis of PE
      neutrophil are rarely studied. Moreover, the role of apoptosis-associated markers (Fas ligand
      [FasL], decoy receptor 3, lipoxin, prostaglandin E2, caspases) in PE has rarely been
      investigated in diagnosing TP except FasL. Therefore, we conduct a prospective study to
      investigate inflammation/apoptosis-associated markers in exudative PE and apoptosis of PE
      neutrophil to analyze their diagnostic usefulness for TP.
    
  