
    
      The screening phase to evaluate subject eligibility may start 56 days prior to the treatment
      phase. BMD screening (DXA scan) will be performed locally on approved vendors standardized
      machines and interpreted locally. If a subject is found to be suitable, the BMD results will
      be sent for central reading. The screening DXA scan should be sent to the central reading
      vendor at least 10 days prior to scheduled potential Day 1 in order to allow timely
      turnaround of results. The site will receive unblinded results.

      A DXA BMD scan performed for medical care unrelated to the study may be used as the screening
      BMD if obtained no more than 14 days prior the start of screening and performed with the same
      scanner which was qualified for the study. If the subject is eligible for randomization, the
      DXA scan does not have to be repeated unless there is a delay in the start of Study
      Medication beyond the 28-day Screening period.

      Protocol Version 3.0 describes the randomization of the first 103 subjects. In Protocol
      version 4.0, after completion of all screening procedures eligible subjects will come for the
      first visit and will be randomized to one of three treatment arms (EBP05 1.5 mg, 2.5 mg or
      placebo). A randomized allocation schedule will allocate 6 to EBP05 1.5 mg, 36 to 2.5 mg and
      18 to placebo.

      In Protocol Version 5.0 the starting dose of EBP05 for subjects randomized into the EBP05 2.5
      mg treatment group was changed to 1.5 mg (3 tablets). Subjects randomized to Placebo and
      assigned to the 5 placebo tablet group will also be started on 3 tablets. At the Month 1
      visit, the starting dose will be increased to 4 tablets of EPB05 (2.0 mg) or placebo if no
      continuing drug-related AEs (as assessed by the Investigator) are present. At Month 2 the
      dose will be increased to 5 tablets of EPB05 (2.5 mg) or placebo if no continuing
      drug-related AEs are present. If symptoms associated with administration of Study Medication
      occur with a dose increase, the dose should be decreased to 3 tablets daily (1.5 mg).
      Subjects who tolerate the highest dose (5 tablets, 2.5 mg) without drug-related symptoms will
      continue on that dose for the remainder of the study. Subjects who do not tolerate a dose
      increase (either 3 tablets to 4 tablets or 4 tablets to 5 tablets) will have their dose
      reduced to 3 tablets (1.5 mg) daily.

      Subjects will receive Study Medication and education on Study Medication intake.

      Subjects will visit the clinic once a month for the first three months, and at 6 months for
      the end of treatment or at any time in-between for an Early Termination Visit, if applicable.
      There will be telephone calls at Week 2, Month 4 and Month 5 for a general compliance/safety
      check. The final follow-up visit will also be conducted by phone.

      The 6-month DXA scan will be sent for central reading. Unblinded results will not be released
      to the sites prior to Data Base Lock.

      At the End of Treatment visit, concomitant medications will be reviewed, and outcome of AEs
      recorded, if applicable. The subjects must return all used Study Medication containers.
      Unused medication should also be returned, collected and accounted for.
    
  