
    
      Valvular heart disease is a common clinical indication to assess patients with cardiac MRI.
      Cardiac MRI is comprehensive study that uses multiple imaging sequences.Cardiac MRI is
      indicated to image native and prosthetic aortic valves. Planimetry of the aortic valve is
      valuable for determination of the severity of aortic stenosis. Cardiac MRI is the most
      accurate and reproducible imaging modality to assess left ventricular function and mass. Left
      ventricular (LV) function is a primary determinant of outcomes following aortic valve
      replacement. LV mass is increased in severe aortic stenosis. Variations in the morphology of
      hypertrophy in response to aortic stenosis have been detected by cardiac MRI. Cardiac MRI is
      commonly used to assess aortic stenosis in the context of discordant information from
      alternative imaging modalities and low gradient aortic stenosis.

      It is expected that 100 participants will be enrolled in the study over 24 months. This is
      sample size was agreed upon after discussion with the statistics team.

      Patients who agree to participate will provide informed consent prior to their cardiac MRI. A
      6 minute walk test to measure baseline functional status will be done after consent,
      preferably just prior to reporting to the MRI suite for their scheduled test. Standard
      cardiac MRI will be obtained. All patients having a cardiac MRI have an IV line placed as
      normal procedure. When the line has been placed, prior to contrast infusion (if applicable)or
      other medication administration, blood samples will be collected to test for circulatory
      Podocan and Wnt pathway molecules. Approximately 20 cc will be drawn in total. All specimens
      will be sent to the experimental lab of Dr. Paul Klotman at Baylor Medical Center. All of the
      Podocan & Wnt pathway effectory molecules assays will be completed by Dr. Klotman's lab.

      The following measurements will be collected from the cardiac MRI:

      LV end diastolic (ED) volume: ml LV ED index: ml/m2 LV end systolic (ES) volume: ml LV ES
      index: ml/m2 LV ejection fraction (EF): % LV Stroke Volume: ml LV Stroke Index: ml/m2 LV
      Cardiac Output: L/min LV Cardiac Index: L/min/M2 LV Mass: g LV Mass index: g/m2

      At 12 months post procedure the following information will be collected from the
      participants' charts for endpoint analysis:

      All cause mortality Cardiac mortality Hospital admissions for valvular disease related
      clinical events such as congestive heart failure, angina, syncope Valve replacement surgery

      Patients who do undergo valve replacement surgery during the 12 month follow up period and
      are scheduled to undergo a post-op follow up cardiac MRI (expected to be at 9-12 months
      post-op) will be asked to provide additional blood samples to test for circulatory Podocan
      and Wnt pathway molecules at the time of the MRI.

      Each participant's chart will be reviewed at the time of enrollment and the following
      variables will be abstracted from the medical record:

      age, gender, ethnicity, Most recent Ht, Wt, BP, Heart Rate BMI Tobacco use/history Alcohol
      use/ history Comorbidities

        -  Hypertension

        -  Hyperlipidemia

        -  Diabetes

        -  Chronic Kidney Disease

        -  Cancer

        -  CAD

      Info from previous echocardiogram:

        -  Ejection fraction

        -  Valve area

        -  Gradient

      Info from previous cardiac cath (if done):

        -  Presence/absence of coronary stenosis

        -  Location & degree of stenosis

        -  Aortic valve area

        -  Calculation of valve area

      Info from previous ECG:

        -  Rhythm

        -  Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Medications

      Laboratory data:

        -  Lipids

        -  Chemistries

        -  Complete Blood Count

        -  Hemoglobin A1C

        -  Troponin

        -  B-type Natriuretic Peptide
    
  