
    
      Each week, a programmer will use Epic/Clarity data to identify adult outpatients who
      completed a PHQ depression questionnaire in the previous week and reported thoughts of death
      or self-harm "most of the days" or "nearly every day". This trial will be limited to patients
      receiving care from one of the three participating health systems.

      Those identified will be automatically assigned to continued Usual Care or to one of two
      intervention programs (Care Management or Skills Training).

      The Care Management intervention includes periodic outreach to assess ongoing risk of suicide
      attempt and as-needed care management to facilitate engagement in ongoing outpatient
      follow-up. Contacts will occur by secure messaging (with the option of telephone outreach for
      those who do not read messages). Each contact will include a request to complete a new risk
      assessment questionnaire (the abbreviated Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale used at each
      site) unless a risk assessment was recently documented in the medical record. Using an
      algorithm tested in pilot studies, the Care Manager will determine appropriate timing of
      follow-up and (if not already scheduled) communicate with the participant to facilitate
      appropriate follow-up care. Time between outreach contacts will vary from 2 weeks to 2
      months, depending on the most recent risk assessment. Outreach contacts will continue up to
      12 months. All outreach contacts will be documented in the Epic electronic health record in
      the same manner as any other mental health clinical contacts. The Care Manager(s) will be
      licensed mental health clinician(s) with experience in suicide risk assessment, supervised by
      site specific clinician investigators. A detailed protocol for the Care Management program
      (including sample messages) is included with this application.

      The Skills Training intervention is an online program intended to teach specific skills for
      emotion regulation and crisis management. The content of the program is derived from
      Dialectical Behavior Therapy, an evidence-based psychotherapy designed for people at risk for
      suicide attempts. The program includes four modules or chapters, each focused on a specific
      skill. Each chapter includes written and video didactic instruction, video examples, in-vivo
      practice, and written homework exercises. The program will be supported by a Coach who will
      send periodic messages (via Epic secure messaging) encouraging use of the program and
      practice of specific skills. Coaching messages will be scheduled every 1-3 weeks during the
      first 3 months of the program and every 1-3 months over the following 9 months (varying
      according to each participant's level of participation and progress in the program). All
      coaching messages will be documented in the Epic electronic health record in the same manner
      as any other mental health clinical contacts. The Coach(es) will be licensed mental health
      clinician(s) supervised by site specific clinician investigators. The online program will be
      delivered by a secure website (KP Washington Health Research Institute's DatStat server), and
      participants will reach the program using encrypted personalized links sent to them via Epic
      secure messaging. This trial does not have open enrollment, please see the public facing
      website at www.NowMattersNow.org

      Those assigned to Usual Care will not be contacted.

      For all patients in all three intervention groups, a site programmer will extract data from
      the Virtual Data Warehouse to identify probable suicide attempts over 18 months following
      randomization.
    
  