
    
      The procedure will be performed on an outpatient basis, and the CryoBalloon Swipe will be
      used for all ablations following the instructions for use provided with the product.

      Patients who meet the eligibility criteria will be assigned to one of the treatment groups
      and doses, depending on the order of their enrollment:

      In phase I, the first 6 patients will be treated with Dose 1 (lowest).

      All patients will have to undergo 8 week (±1 week) follow-up EGD to evaluate efficacy of the
      dose before the study continues.

      If the follow-up endoscopies show that Dose 1 eradicates ≥80% of the treated BE (by median
      percentage) and no SAE's are reported, this dose is defined as the therapeutic dose and
      enrollment will proceed to phase II.

      If Dose 1 eradicates <80% of the treated BE, enrollment in Phase I will continue at the next
      highest dose. Treatment doses will be escalated in this manner until the earlier of a
      dose-related Serious Adverse Event (SAE) or determination of the therapeutic dose based on
      endoscopic exam.

      When the therapeutic dose is determined, the study will proceed to Phase II to generate
      additional safety and efficacy data.

      Phase II

      Phase II will confirm the safety and efficacy of the therapeutic dose found in Phase I.

      ---------------------------------------------------------------

      Dose-related SAEs include pain in the treatment area greater than 6 (on VAS) on 24 hours and
      seven (7) days post-treatment; symptomatic stricture requiring an additional EGD with
      endoscopic dilation before the first follow-up EGD; symptomatic stricture at follow-up EGD;
      or any stricture (symptomatic or asymptomatic) preventing passage of the diagnostic endoscope
      at follow-up EGD. Any other serious adverse events within 30 days after treatment will also
      be evaluated by the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) for relationship to the dose and
      severity.

      When a Dose-related serious adverse event occurs, the Holding Rule will be invoked and
      enrollment at that dose will be held until the DSMB has evaluated the event.
    
  