
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. The primary objective is to compare the progression-free survival (PFS) between those
      randomized to palbociclib/binimetinib and those randomized to trifluridine and tipiracil
      hydrochloride (TAS-102) in patients with refractory KRAS- or NRAS-mutant metastatic
      colorectal cancer (CRC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the overall response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) 1.1 criteria between those randomized to palbociclib/binimetinib and those
      randomized to TAS-102 in patients with refractory KRAS- or NRAS-mutant metastatic CRC.

      II. To compare the overall survival (OS) between those randomized to palbociclib/binimetinib
      and those randomized to TAS-102 in patients with refractory KRAS- or NRAS-mutant metastatic
      CRC.

      III. To determine the safety and tolerability of the recommended phase II dose of palbociclib
      in combination with binimetinib in patients with refractory KRAS- or NRAS-mutant metastatic
      CRC.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the tumor mutational profiles that characterize groups of patients that
      predict for response or resistance to combination of palbociclib/binimetinib.

      II. To determine the correlation between circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and
      tumor response or resistance to therapy with palbociclib/binimetinib or TAS-102.

      III. To determine the association between Consensus Molecular Subtype based on gene
      expression profiling and response or resistance to combination of palbociclib/binimetinib.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive binimetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and
      palbociclib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive trifluridine and tipiracil hydrochloride PO BID on days 1-5 and 8-12.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients with disease progression may optionally crossover to Arm A.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30-37 days and then
      every 12 weeks for up to 24 months.
    
  