
    
      Specific Aims

      The specific aims of the project associated with this protocol are:

      Aim 1: Perform a qualitative assessment of facilitators and barriers to PrEP uptake among
      high-risk jail detainees, systems and interactor levels. To achieve this aim the
      investigators will conduct qualitative interviews with three distinct groups of stakeholders:

        1. Systems interviews (n=6);

        2. Interactor interviews (n=8); and

        3. Individual Key Informant interviews (n=20). Within each of these strata, the
           investigators aim to collect data representing diverse perspectives with respect to
           interest, knowledge, attitudes, and barriers (including substance use) to PrEP uptake.
           The investigators will also explore the acceptability and feasibility of an intervention
           to link individuals being released from the Pulaski County jail to PrEP services.

      For the purposes of this protocol, Aims 2 and 3 are identical in terms of participant
      recruitment, enrollment and all study procedures (including data collection and participant
      follow up). The primary objective of Aim 2 is to conduct a small pilot of the intervention
      study in order to make any necessary changes to any aspect of the study procedures. If any
      changes are made, those changes will be submitted to the IRB for further review and approval
      prior to initiating Aim 3. If no changes are made, this IRB protocol will serve as the
      protocol for both Aims 2 and 3.

      Aim 2: Develop the PrEP-LINK intervention and perform an open-label evaluation with AA
      high-risk HIV negative individuals being discharged from the Pulaski County Jail. Directly
      informed from formative work (Aim 1), the investigators will develop the PrEP-LINK
      intervention, which will include the use of a community health worker (CHW) and adherence
      counseling (based on ADAPT-ITT) approach to enhance PrEP care and overcome barriers to uptake
      in this population. The investigators will then perform an open pilot with jail detainees
      recently released from the Pulaski County Jail to evaluate the intervention.

      Aim 3: Conduct a pilot RCT of the PrEP-LINK intervention among high-risk HIV negative
      individuals being released from the Pulaski County Jail. Based on the formative work in Aim 1
      and open pilot evaluation in Aim 2, participants will be randomized to either the PrEP-LINK
      intervention, or enhanced standard of care arm. Both arms will receive education about PrEP
      and referral to a community PrEP provider which exceeds the standards of care these
      individuals would otherwise receive.

      While the investigators will develop the CHW intervention as part of Aim 2, this will be
      informed by work the investigators have already completed through Aim 1, which was approved
      under a separate IRB protocol (#207297). Once the investigators have finalized the
      intervention content, the investigators will conduct the Aim 2 open-label evaluation in the
      exact same way as the investigators will conduct the Aim 3 pilot RCT. To reiterate, the
      rationale of the open-label evaluation proposed in Aim 2 is to ensure that the intervention
      is appropriate and does not need additional revision prior to conducting the Aim 3 RCT.

      Description of the Community Health Worker (CHW) Intervention (Aims 2 and 3): The
      intervention arm in both Aims 2 and 3 will receive additional support by a community health
      worker (CHW) who will assist with healthcare and social service navigation and will utilize
      adherence counseling techniques. The CHW the investigators are employing is Ms. Ruby Welch,
      who is a trained CHW with a strong knowledge base of both healthcare and social service
      systems in the greater Little Rock area. As per the model our intervention is based upon (the
      national Transitions Clinic Network [TCN], which has 14 sites across the country), Ms. Welch
      has a history of incarceration. Therefore, she can serve as a true peer to individuals who
      are enrolled into the study. The national TCN sites employ formerly incarcerated CHWs because
      these individuals are often able to develop close relationships with their peers who have
      also been formerly incarcerated thereby building a strong foundation of trust among a
      population with high levels of distrust of the medical system. Ms. Welch has received
      training from the national TCN coordinating center in San Francisco. In addition, Ms. Welch
      has been certified in HIV testing and risk reduction counseling. She has also received
      training from an Arkansas Department of Health consultant who is an expert in HIV PrEP
      adherence. For participants randomized to the intervention group, Ms. Welch will assist
      individuals with employment, housing (if needed), referrals to mental health or substance use
      treatment, keeping track of medical appointments and medication adherence. The investigators
      anticipate that Ms. Welch will be in contact with intervention arm participants at least once
      per week but the exact amount of contact for each participant will vary based on needs. Ms.
      Welch will be available during regular business hours (Monday-Friday, 9 AM until 5 PM). If
      participants present to Ms. Welch in crisis, she will refer them immediately to the Emergency
      Department, in the event of a medical or behavioral health emergency or the Pulaski County
      Regional Crisis Stabilization Center, which is operated by the UAMS Psychiatric Research
      Institute (PRI). Ms. Welch will be directly supervised by PI Dr. Zaller through weekly
      supervision meetings and biweekly phone check-ins. Frequency of check-in may increase or
      decrease, as needed, during the course of the study period. Ms. Welch is considered research
      staff and has been trained in human subjects through the UAMS CITI program.
    
  