
    
      Sensory polyneuropathy is one of the most prevalent neurological disorders. A Dutch study
      observed an incidence of all types of polyneuropathy of 77 per 100.000 person-years, which
      increases with age. Besides, previous studies evaluated the impact of polyneuropathy on
      quality of life in different patient populations and showed that accompanying symptoms affect
      daily living and influence morbidity and mortality of patients adversely.

      We can classify sensory polyneuropathies broadly into either small fibre neuropathies, large
      fibre neuropathies or mixed small and large fibre neuropathies. In small fibre neuropathies
      the thinly myelinated A delta and unmyelinated C fibres are affected. Therefore, the
      transmission of thermal and noxious sensory input is disturbed translating to symptoms of
      sharp, painful, or burning paraesthesia, sensory loss or numbness, and the inability to
      discriminate between hot and cold sensation. Disorders affecting the large myelinated A delta
      fibres lead to an impaired vibration sensation and proprioception. Patients will complain
      about a combination of symptoms of sensory loss, paraesthesia, and gait imbalance.

      Sensory polyneuropathy is a common finding in renal transplant recipients (RTR), but little
      is known about prevalence, course, or underlying aetiology in this specific group. It is
      known that patients are at a high risk to develop polyneuropathy before renal transplantation
      due to chronic kidney disease. Therefore, related to the previous state of chronic kidney
      disease uremic and diabetic polyneuropathy are probable underlying aetiologies in RTR.
      Furthermore, the use of immunosuppressive medication after transplantation may result in
      polyneuropathic symptoms and signs. These circumstances may explain the high prevalence of
      polyneuropathy in RTR but in order to gain more understanding it is necessary to diagnose and
      stage polyneuropathy in an easy and convenient way in RTR. Furthermore, early diagnosis and
      treatment of certain types of polyneuropathy can prevent further worsening of neuropathic
      symptoms and signs, or even reverse the neurologic deficits.

      The diagnostic approach of polyneuropathy differs depending on the type of affected nerve
      fibre and the distribution of nerve damage in the respective type of polyneuropathy. The
      diagnosis of polyneuropathy is generally based on the presence of distal sensory and
      sensorimotor symptoms and signs, and loss of function, which is consistent with the clinical
      picture. Nevertheless, to reveal an underlying large fibre aetiology, nerve conduction
      studies (NCS) are needed. With the help of NCS, it is possible to categorize the
      polyneuropathy as primary axonal or primary demyelinating. This standard diagnostic test,
      however, exclusively enables measurement of large fibres and patients with pure small fibre
      neuropathies will not show any nerve conduction abnormalities. Hence, quantitative sensory
      testing (QST) is required to assess the function of small sensory nerve fibres. However, NCS
      and QST are time-consuming, fairly expensive, and the investigator needs a certain level of
      expertise. Alternatively, different clinical scores exist which aim to detect and to stage
      polyneuropathy based on symptoms and signs. The Toronto Clinical Neuropathy Score (TCNS) was
      designed for diabetic sensorimotor polyneuropathy but it was shown that its usefulness
      extends beyond diabetic polyneuropathy. These results were based on correlations of the TCNS
      with clinical, electrophysiological and disability parameters in non-diabetic
      polyneuropathies. The same study confirmed that reliability and accuracy were excellent.
      Eventually, the TCNS was modified (into the mTCNS) to better capture a scale of simple
      sensory tests representative for early-stage dysfunction and reflex testing was removed due
      to its high inter-rater variability. The mTCNS was demonstrated to maintain acceptable
      correlation with the precursor score. In the University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG) a
      large population of RTR is followed within the scope of the TransplantLines cohort study and
      biobank. For this purpose, the mTCNS was further adapted by omitting testing of temperature
      sense due to practical reasons (adapted into the amTCNS). To be able to study prevalence,
      course, and underlying aetiology in this specific population of RTR it is crucial to reveal
      whether the amTCNS correlates with the golden standards of diagnosing polyneuropathy, NCS and
      QST. In the long-term, the amTCNS has great potential to help clinicians from various
      disciplines without the specific expertise needed for NCS and QST to diagnose polyneuropathy.

      In conclusion, the aim of this research proposal is to validate the amTCNS with NCS and QST
      for a population of RTR.

      The primary objective is to validate the adapted modified Toronto Clinical Neuropathy Score
      (amTCNS) with QST and NCS.

      The secondary objective is to define reference values of the amTCNS dependent on predictors
      in a healthy subject population. This healthy subject population consists of potential kidney
      donors that were already seen and examined within the TransplantLines cohort study and
      biobank prior to this study. These healthy subjects will not undergo QST or NCS.

      This research protocol contains a cross-sectional study or can alternatively be described as
      a validation study. The aim is to examine the validity of the amTCNS, a clinical score that
      was designed to capture symptoms and signs of sensory polyneuropathy. The amTCNS will be
      validated with QST and NCS which are defined as golden standards of diagnosing small fibre
      neuropathies and large fibre neuropathies, respectively.

      The aim is to validate the amTCNS for a population of RTR to be able to subsequently identify
      and follow up polyneuropathies in this specific population in a more convenient way.

      RTR will be recruited retrospectively after their participation in the TransplantLines cohort
      and biobank study in the UMCG by telephone. Every possible future participant will receive
      written information concerning this study (aim, design and duration of the study,
      disadvantages and risks of participation). The subjects will be required to sign the written
      informed consent form within two weeks if they want to take part in this study. The subjects
      will be informed that if they give consent for participation in the study that they may
      withdraw consent at any time. This withdrawal of consent may be given to the investigator in
      oral or written form. After receiving the written informed consent a screening via telephone
      will be planned to assess whether the potential participant meets the inclusion criteria.

      The amTCNS result will be calculated based on a questionnaire and neurological examination.
      This includes a symptoms score assessing foot pain, numbness, tingling, weakness, ataxia and
      upper limb symptoms, and a sensory test score including testing of pinprick sensation, light
      touch, proprioception and vibration sense. QST consists of thermal threshold testing in which
      the thresholds of warm sensation and cold sensation will be determined following the method
      of limits and the method of levels. NCS will include testing of the CMAP amplitude and distal
      motor latency of the tibial, peroneal and ulnar nerve; the SNAP amplitude of the sural and
      ulnar nerve; nerve conduction velocity and the soleus H-reflex.

      In order to assess polyneuropathy, sensory testing will be performed. Sensory testing as an
      objective physical event requires a response of the subject which is a subjective report. To
      minimize the possible bias resulting from this, neurological examination will be performed
      first, and afterwards QST and NCS will follow. In this way, the golden standards of
      diagnosing polyneuropathy which are QST and NCS will be performed in the end. Subsequently,
      patients will not have an objective appraisal about the severity of their polyneuropathy when
      neurological examination is performed. Participants will not be informed about their result.
      Furthermore, the investigators will be blinded: a first investigator will perform the
      neurological examination according to the amTCNS, a second investigator will perform QST and
      a third investigator will perform NCS without the second and third investigator being
      informed about the amTCNS result.

      Prior to this study the amTCNS was already carried out in 200 healthy subjects which were
      potential kidney donors. Clinical characteristics that function as independent predictors of
      the amTCNS in a healthy subject population will be determined by means of ordinal logistic
      regression analyses. The 95th percentile of the amTCNS final score will be calculated to
      define reference values according to the identified independent predictors. The outcome of
      the polyneuropathy measures of the current study will be dichotomized as follows: presence of
      polyneuropathy (both aberrant QST and NCS), presence of small fibre neuropathy (aberrant
      QST), presence of large fibre neuropathy (aberrant NCS). These outcomes will be opposed to
      the dichotomous outcome of presence of polyneuropathy according to the reference value of the
      amTCNS that was previously established in a healthy subject population. Sensitivity,
      specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value will be calculated.

      To compare amTCNS cut-off points for diagnosis, the reference values determined in the cohort
      of healthy subjects without polyneuropathy will be compared with the data in RTR. Accuracy of
      the amTCNS in RTR will be determined by the area under the receiver operating characteristic
      curve, with presence of polyneuropathy as the dichotomous outcome variable and amTCNS as the
      test. The optimal diagnostic threshold will be identified by the point on the receiver
      operating characteristic curve closest to the point of perfect discrimination.
    
  