
    
      Phase 1- A video-based "app" will be developed to provide HIV patients with information on
      TasP/U=U. The investigators will design a series of short video modules on the prevention
      benefits of ART leading to viral suppression and package them as a tablet-based app to
      augment existing HIV counseling. In collaboration with the Prevention Access Campaign,
      locally-appropriate videos will be developed on (a) the science of TasP/U=U including risks,
      (b) benefits to self (e.g. psychological benefits, ability to have children), (c) benefits to
      partners (e.g. secondary prevention), (d) benefits to society (e.g. AIDS-free generation),
      and (e) TasP self-efficacy, including viral load (VL) literacy, disclosure, and couples
      testing. Content will be developed with HIV counselors, PLWH, and other stakeholders in an
      Intervention Mapping exercise. After training clinic staff, the videos will be shown in
      clinic waiting rooms and the tablet-based "app" will be integrated into HIV counseling
      sessions. Intervention content will also be pushed to participants via SMS, and the app will
      be shared with those with smart phones. The intervention will be pre-tested in focus groups
      (n=3) and interviews (n=20) with counselors and patients. (NOTE: THE RESPONDENTS FOR PHASE 1
      ARE NOT INCLUDED IN CLINICAL TRIAL REPORTING.)

      Phase 2- A clinical trial will be conducted using two recruitment periods at three public
      sector clinics to establish intervention acceptability, effects on knowledge and attitudes,
      and preliminary impact on ART uptake, adherence, and viral suppression in a pilot trial and
      demonstration project (n=135).

      During recruitment period 1 (n=90), patients completing HIV post-test or adherence counseling
      will be referred to study staff and randomized 1:1 to no intervention (Arm A) vs. "controlled
      exposure" to the tablet-based U=U app (Arm B). In recruitment period 2 (n=45), U=U videos
      will be shown in clinic waiting rooms and the tablet-based app will be integrated into
      routine counseling (Arm C) in a "clinical exposure" demonstration project.

      All participants will be cross-randomized to monthly text messages reinforcing intervention
      content. For all study arms, investigators will assess feasibility and acceptability,
      resonance of different key messages and videos, knowledge and attitudes related to TasP,
      internalized stigma and mental health, HIV prevention altruism, and behaviours related to
      disclosure, risk-taking, and care-seeking in surveys at enrolment, post-test, and 6 months.
      ART uptake, appointment adherence, and 6-month VL will be assessed in clinical records.
      Qualitative exit interviews will be conducted with participants and staff (n=30).
    
  