
    
      The symptomatic management of COVID-19 infections is currently at the forefront. The
      therapeutic efficacy of certain molecules is being evaluated in studies, in vitro and in
      vivo, such as remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine / chloroquine, and lopinavir / ritonavir. The
      latter has been used in the treatment of HIV for many years, like other PIs such as darunavir
      and atazanavir. In France, around 11% of PLWHIV are treated with long-term PIs.

      Lopinavir / ritonavir has an inhibitory role on the protein endopeptidase of coronavirus C30
      (CEP_C30). In humans, Cao et al did not demonstrate any superiority of efficacy of lopinavir
      / ritonavir compared to the control group receiving standard care (HR for clinical
      improvement: 1.24 (0.90-1, 72)), but the initiation of treatment in the study was mainly at
      late stages. Early initiation of lopinavir/r at the onset of SARS symptoms appears to be more
      effective. To our knowledge, the other PIs are under study, with a possible inhibition of the
      proteases of type-3-chemotrypsin or of the papain type of SARS-Cov2. Three open randomized
      studies in humans are underway in China, Spain, and Thailand. The question arises as to
      whether treatment with PIs could have a preventive role for COVID-19 infection, especially
      since PLWHIV have not been described as more at risk of developing COVID-19 infection.

      The aim of our study will therefore be to assess the impact of long-term protease inhibitors
      in PLWHIV on the incidence of COVID-19.

      This is a prospective multicenter cohort study. A random sample of 794 eligible individuals
      will be recruited from April 2020, consisting of 397 patients in the long-term PIs group and
      397 patients in the long-term ARV regimen without PIs. The study will be offered to PLWHIV in
      Île-de-France, treated with long-term antiretroviral drugs with or without protease
      inhibitors.

      For those who accept: i) they will receive phone calls (teleconsultation) to collect
      information regarding symptoms at M0, M1 and between M3 and M6 by a medical or paramedical
      person from their hospital center ; ii) in case of a high probability of infection with
      Covid-19, an on-site consultation will be offered to them, with a diagnostic test by PCR on a
      nasopharyngeal swab and eventually a chest scanner if indicated ; iii) a serology on a blood
      sample will be performed at the end of the epidemics to look for anti-COVID-19 antibodies.
    
  