
    
      Rationale for the study:

      Although the incidence of invasive aspergillosis (IA) in patients with hematological
      malignancies has decreased by half, its mortality rate still remains of substantial clinical
      concern.

      Voriconazole is the first line therapy for the treatment of IA. Since it has a narrow
      therapeutic window, the high inter/intra-individual variability and nonlinear
      pharmacokinetics, therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is recommended to optimize clinical
      outcomes. Voriconazole is metabolized principally by CYP2C19 (cytochrome P450 enzyme) and, to
      a lesser extent, by CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 enzymes. Among the various covariates, CYP2C19 genetic
      variability is the major determinant that contributes to interindividual variability of
      voriconazole. While the poor metabolizers are more susceptible to toxicity, the risk of
      treatment failure in ultra-metabolizers are considered to be higher. TDM improve the safety
      and efficacy of voriconazole treatment. The appropriate time for TDM is after the first few
      days (2-5 days) of initiation of standard treatment. However some adverse drug reactions
      (ADRs) and deviation from the therapeutic range may occur until the TDM is done. Starting
      with pharmacogenetic-guided dose would ensure safer and more effective therapy until the TDM
      is performed and would lead to less frequent TDM with decreased treatment costs. Furthermore,
      pharmacogenetic test results can also be used when interpreting the optimal dose of other
      drugs that is metabolized with the same enzyme. The individual pharmacogenetic data also
      enables safer and cost-effective therapy adjustments in the future, too.

      Therefore, primary objective of the study is to determine the influence of CYP2C19 genetic
      polymorphisms on the frequency and severity of ADRs related to voriconazole during the study
      period in a Turkish university hospital. The secondary objective is to determine the
      influence of CYP2C19 genetic polymorphisms on the effectiveness of voriconazole in this
      setting. Our study will fill this gap by assessing the influence of CYP2C19 polymorphisms on
      the safety and efficacy of voriconazole that is being used in patients with a hematologic
      malignancy to treat an IA.

      1.Methods

      The study population will be drawn from patients aged 18 and over that are hospitalized in
      Dokuz Eylul University Hospital Hematology Service due to a hematological malignancy, and are
      receiving voriconazole for the management of an IFI, which is diagnosed based on EORTC/MSG (
      European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer / Mycosis Study Group) criteria.

      1.1.Data and sample collection

      1.1.1.Data collection: At baseline, demographics and clinical information will be recorded
      from all patients directly and complemented from their medical records. All patients will be
      followed up by the research team daily for the first 7 days following voriconazole
      initiation, and then on days 14, 30 and 60. All follow up will be initially via assessment of
      medical records, with additional data input from the patient directly. The medical records
      include: the electronic hospital record system (PROBEL), paper-based patient records and
      other patient follow-up- documents.

      During routine clinical care, ADRs are monitored daily by a hematology fellow and/or an
      infectious disease specialist. On days one to seven following voriconazole initiation, the
      investigators will record these clinical evaluations daily; they will also capture these data
      on days 14 and 30.

      For participants that had either started voriconazole active treatment before they were
      recruited, or were recruited during the maintenance phase of their voriconazole regimen, the
      research team will assess their medicals records retrospectively between the point of
      recruitment and day one of their active voriconazole treatment to detect ADRs.

      On days 30 and 60, patient survival will be recorded by review of patient records only.

      Treatment response (efficacy) will be determined based on the EORTC/MSG consensus criteria
      30. These data will be obtained at all follow up points (from day one to seven, and days 14,
      30 and 60).

      The follow-up scheme and the consort flow diagram regarding the protocol are attached in the
      appendix.

      1.1.2.Sample collection: 1.1.2.1.Samples fo PGx analysis: For PGx analysis, participants will
      donate one 9 mL blood sample collected into an EDTA (Ethylenediaminetetraacetic Acid) tube on
      day one whilst blood samples are being taken from the patient for daily routine clinical
      purposes (without requiring any other needle insertion). Samples for PGx analysis will be
      coded and stored securely in the Department of Medical Pharmacology at the DEUTF. The samples
      will be stored -80 celsius degree until used up. PGx analysis will be performed in the
      Department of Molecular and Clinical Pharmacology at the University of Liverpool at the end
      of the study. Participants and physicians will not be informed of the participant's genotype
      as this is an observational study. The participant's clinical care will not be affected in
      any way by taking part in the study

      1.1.2.2.Samples for voriconazole concentration determination The second 9 mL blood sample
      will be collected into a red cap tube on the fifth day (9th dose) of treatment before the
      morning voriconazole dose, again whilst blood is being collected as part of routine clinical
      care (without requiring any other needle insertion) to determine the trough voriconazole
      concentration at steady state. This blood sample will be centrifuged and the serum stored in
      the Department of Medical Pharmacology at the Dokuz Eylul University Faculty of Medicine.
      When follow up is completed for a given patient, this serum sample will be transferred to an
      accredited laboratory in Istanbul, Turkey, with maintenance and assurance of the cold chain
      during sample transportation to guarantee sample integrity.
    
  