
    
      Strip harvesting technique, a conventional hair transplantation procedure, is widely used in
      the treatment of androgenetic alopecia for more than half a century. It provides less
      time-consuming, more feasible and more cost-effective comparing with follicular unit
      extraction (FUE) technique. However, linear scar at the donor site is also introduced.

      The latest method to fine the scar at the donor site was invented and known as 'Trichophytic
      closure technique'. It can be done by trimming upper or lower wound edge for about 1
      millimeter (as Fig.1) before wound closure. Then the linear scar will be less visible after
      hair growth. Anyway, there is no exactly wound edge (upper, lower or both) that recommended
      for the excellent cosmetic results without any severe side effects. Therefore, this study was
      designed to determine which is the best trichophytic closure technique.

      This research is a pilot, split-wound comparison study of trichophytic closure techniques for
      donor site in hair transplantation.10 males, aged ≥ 25 years, who require strip harvesting
      follicular unit transplantation in the treatment of androgenetic alopecia will be enrolled.
      Preoperative and perioperative process will be conducted as standard procedure except wound
      closure technique. Each incision wound of donor site will be equally divided into 3 parts
      (marked with tattoos as Fig.2) and each part will be randomly treated with different
      trichophytic closure techniques as below.

        -  The 1-millimetre trimming of upper edge of linear incision before wound closure

        -  The 1-millimetre trimming of lower edge of linear incision before wound closure

        -  The 0.5-millimetre trimming of both edge of linear incision before wound closure For
           evaluation, we have planned to assess both cosmetic results and side effects as shown in
           the table. ( Table 1 - image file ) After data collecting process, we have planned to
           analyze the demographic data, rate of infection and other side effects in a descriptive
           manner. However, the evaluation for cosmetic results will be analyzed by paired t-test
           in the same technique at different follow up period and by one-way ANOVA between each
           technique at the same follow up period.
    
  