
    
      Although more than five million children have been conceived worldwide through Assisted
      Reproduction Techniques (ARTs), little is known about potential effects of ART in later life.
      So far, the focus of reproductive research is based on the success rate of infertility
      treatment. There is increasing evidence that exposure to environmental substances, age of the
      patient or in vitro culture conditions in early development is associated with a life-long
      increased risk of metabolic and other common diseases. These increased disease risks are
      likely due to environmental-induced epigenetic changes leading to dysregulation of genes and
      signaling cascades. These include Beckwith-Wiedemann and Angelman syndrome.

      The best studied epigenetic modification in this context is DNA methylation, which regulates
      the gene expression in a temporally and highly coordinated manner. Preliminary studies have
      already shown that an increased father age influences the pattern of methylation in the sperm
      and umbilical cord blood of children. Moreover, intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) also
      leaves epigenetic signatures in umbilical cord blood. Unlike sperm, little is known about the
      methylation of human oocytes and their susceptibility to environmental factors. The main
      reason for this is the difficulty of collecting human oocytes in sufficient numbers for
      genome-wide analysis. The aim of this study is to analyze the methylation pattern of immature
      oocytes, which are not suitable for further ICSI treatment, of women with decreased
      fertility. The products of gene expression and also the methylation of the DNA itself can be
      investigated using newly developed DNA sequencing methods. Based on the results of a large
      number of oocytes from different women, risk assessments could be made for individual factors
      such as the age of the patient, as well as correlations between the occurrence of changes in
      gene expression and the unfulfilled desire to have children. In addition, the methylation
      patterns in sperms from 20 patients are to be examined as reference.
    
  