
    
      General objective To show that the long-lasting insecticide-treated nets(LLIN)///// plus RDT
      screening and treatment strategy is not inferior to LLIN plus SP-IPTp in reducing the burden
      of malaria during pregnancy.

      Specific objectives Primary

      1. To demonstrate that the prevalence of severe anaemia (Hb < 8g/dl) at 34 to 36 weeks of
      gestation in the LLIN plus RDT screening and case management arm is not greater than that in
      the LLIN plus IPTp arm.

      Secondary

        1. To demonstrate that the prevalence of low birth weight (BW < 2500g) at delivery or
           within 72 hours after delivery in the LLIN plus RDT screening and case management arm is
           not greater than that in the LLIN plus IPTp arm.

        2. To demonstrate that the prevalence of anaemia (Hb < 11g/dl) at 34 to 36 weeks of
           gestation in the LLIN plus RDT screening and case management arm is not greater than
           that in the LLIN plus IPTp arm.

        3. To demonstrate that the prevalence of placental parasitaemia in the LLIN plus RDT
           screening and case management arm is not greater than that in the LLIN plus IPTp arm.

        4. To demonstrate that the incidence of spontaneous abortions, intrauterine
           deaths/stillbirths, neonatal and maternal mortality and developmental delays in the LLIN
           plus RDT screening and case management arm is not greater than that in the LLIN plus
           IPTp arm.

        5. To demonstrate that the cost per case of (1) severe maternal anaemia averted (2)
           maternal anaemia averted (3) peripheral malaria averted and (4) placenta malaria averted
           is not higher in the LLIN plus RDT screening and case management arm than in LLIN plus
           SP-IPTp arm.

      Sample size The prevalences of severe anaemia at delivery and low birth weight have been
      shown to be 12% and 5.7% respectively among Gambian multigravidae who received varying doses
      of SP-IPT (Mbaye et al. 2006). In the absence of local data from the proposed study site, we
      estimate that the prevalences of severe anaemia in the third trimester and low birth weight
      will be 12% and 6% respectively in the LLIN +SP-IPTp arm of this study, similar to that in
      the Gambian population.

      For trial planning we have set a non-inferiority margin of 5%. This means we would consider
      the LLIN + RDT screening with SP or AQ+AS treatment options to be inferior to the LLIN
      +SP-IPTp option if the prevalence of severe anaemia at 34 to 36 weeks is 5% greater in the
      LLIN+RDT with SP or AS+AQ treatment arm than that is observed in the LLIN+SP-IPT arm. Since
      we expect the prevalence of severe anaemia in the LLIN +SP-IPTp arm would be 12%, we need 887
      women per arm to detect a 5% difference between the two study arms at 95% significance with
      90% power. Considering a 20% dropout rate we need 1110 women per arm.

      Setting a non-inferiority margin of 5% seems clinically and statistically relevant; and
      yields a sample size that makes the execution of the study feasible within the time frame and
      with the resources available. Choosing a smaller margin than 5% may be too tight requiring
      large sample size of over 2000 per arm which might not be feasible and achievable within the
      time frame; a larger margin than 5% may be too liberal to compare the public health impact of
      these interventions.

      We estimate that 925 women per arm can show with 90% power at 95% significance level and
      accounting for a 20% dropout rate, that the prevalence of low birth weight associated with
      the LLIN + RDT screening with or without SP or AQ+AS treatment is no worse than LLIN +
      SP-IPTp by a margin of 4%.

      Since, a sample size of 1110 per arm is adequate to detect any effects of the interventions
      on both birth weight and maternal Hb, a total of 3330 pregnant women will be recruited into
      this study.

      Study Design A three-arm open label randomised control non-inferiority trial of RDT screening
      with or without treatment with SP or AQ+AS versus IPTp using SP as follows: -

        1. OptiMAL® antigen screening and treatment with SP plus LLIN

        2. OptiMAL® antigen screening and treatment with AQ+AS plus LLIN

        3. SP-IPTp plus LLIN

      Study site and population The study will be conducted in the Ejisu-Juaben and Sekyere East
      districts of the Ashanti Region of Ghana. Enrolment will be done simultaneously at the
      antenatal clinics of the Effiduase and Juaben district hospitals and a sub district health
      centre in each of the districts. The Effiduase and Juaben hospitals have 50 and 40 beds
      respectively and provide all basic medical services including adult medicine, paediatrics,
      surgery and obstetrics and gynaecology. They run weekly antenatal clinic sessions and
      together they register an average of 220 new pregnant women per month. The sub district
      health centres (at Kwaso and Kumawu) are manned by qualified medical assistants and midwives.
      Together they register an average of 80 new pregnant women per month. All health facilities
      in the study districts including the proposed enrolling clinics offer SP-IPT to pregnant
      women following the MoH guidelines. Pregnant women in their second or third trimester
      diagnosed with malaria are treated with AQ+AS as recommended by the MoH at these facilities.
      The study population will comprise pregnant women presenting at the hospital's antenatal
      clinic with a gestation of 16 to 24 weeks at their first booking.

      Enrolment Procedures

      A schematic profile of the study is shown in Figure 1. All study women will be recruited from
      weekly antenatal clinic sessions held at the study sites over a period of one and half years.
      Three teams of midwives and their assistants put together and trained by the principal
      investigator (PI) will assist the PI and research teams to conduct the recruitment during
      antenatal clinic hours. The standard operating procedures at the clinic will be as follows:

        1. Randomise pregnant women reporting at the ANC who consent to participate in the study
           into three arms: an IPTp arm, RDT screening and SP case management arm and RDT screening
           and AQ+AS case management arm. Distribute LLIN to eligible pregnant women in all arms.

        2. Obtain blood for baseline investigations including haemoglobin level, thin and thick
           blood films for malaria parasite counts and, filter paper blood spots.

        3. Assess all pregnant women in the RDT and treatment groups clinically and obstetrically
           prior to OptiMAL® dipstick screening; for those parasitaemic offer SP or AQ+AS and
           ingestion of first dose observed directly at the ANC. Encourage the women to regularly
           sleep under the bed nets provided and take their daily doses of iron and folic acid
           tablets.

        4. For women in the RDT and treatment groups who are negative offer only daily doses of
           iron and folic acid tablets and encourage them to regularly sleep under the bed nets
           provided.

        5. Women in the IPTp group will receive SP and ingestion will be directly observed at the
           ANC according to the national guideline. Encourage the women to regularly sleep under
           the bed nets provided and take their daily doses of iron and folic acid tablets.

        6. Women who decline participation in the study will receive SP-IPTp according to the
           national guideline.

      Antenatal Follow-Up Procedures

        1. Day 7: Women receiving SP or AQ+AS treatment will be followed up actively on the day 7
           post treatment to assess any adverse events during the week post treatment.

        2. At 6 months: repeat SP-IPT for women in the IPT arm and treat women in the case
           management arm with SP or AQ+AS if they are RDT positive. Women in the case management
           arm with negative RDT would receive only haematinics. Ask all study women to regularly
           sleep under bed nets provided.

        3. At 8 months: repeat SP-IPT for women in the IPT arm and treat women in the case
           management arm with SP or AQ+AS if they are RDT positive. Women in the case management
           arm with negative RDT would receive only haematinics. Ask all study women to regularly
           sleep under bed nets provided.

        4. At 34 to 36 weeks: actively follow up women to sample blood by finger prick for
           haemoglobin measurements, slide smears for malaria parasite counts and filter paper
           blood spots.

        5. Unscheduled visits: Women presenting with a history of fever during an unscheduled visit
           will be tested for malaria parasites. If they are found to be parasitaemic, they will be
           deemed to be a treatment failure and will be given quinine as rescue medication.

        6. All pregnant women will receive haematinics packs at each of the follow ups.

      Delivery and Postpartum Follow-up

        1. The midwives will record all birth weights and note any stillbirths and perinatal
           deaths.

        2. Midwives will record all congenital deformities for verification and confirmation by a
           clinician.

        3. Visits will be made toall women and babies at 6 to 8 weeks post-delivery to obtain
           reports of any neonatal deaths or other adverse events.

        4. At 6 weeks post-partum, if a woman has peripheral parasitaemia she will be treated with
           SP and followed up for parasite clearance on days 14 and 28 post-treatment. If there is
           no parasite clearance on day 14 and/or day 28 a course of rescue medication (quinine)
           will be given. This part of the study is necessary to assess the efficacy of SP to clear
           parasitaemia.
    
  