
    
      BACKGROUND

      Heart failure exacerbations consume 60-70% of costs for the condition and COPD exacerbations
      lead to 1:8 admissions so are costly to the NHS. The roll-out of telemonitoring in chronic
      disease is in line with NHS policy (Building Telecare in England; High Quality Care for All,
      national health service (NHS) next stage Darzi review).

      Despite systematic reviews, the Whole System Demonstrator programme and randomised control
      trial (RCT) evidence in heart failure, the outcome of implementing telemonitoring is unclear,
      the evidence base in COPD is less consistent, and few studies have included economic analysis
      or investigated cross speciality implementation. An Italian trial found that telemedicine
      reduces chronic respiratory admissions by a third, but the Italian health service differs
      from the united kingdom (UK) system. The european union (EU) Commission Communication on
      telemedicine 2009 has stressed the need for new deployments to contribute to the evidence
      base in respiratory disease, and include a detailed analysis of the process changes that
      determine success. Our group has previously shown that telemonitoring reduces unplanned
      admissions in heart failure patients, and that elderly patients were able to cope well with
      the equipment. The investigators have also had experience with telesupport in chronic
      respiratory patients.

      RATIONALE FOR CURRENT STUDY

      The study will assess the implementation of a telemonitoring programme to demonstrate

        1. whether home telemonitoring alerts patients and health professionals to exacerbations
           and reduces admissions,

        2. if it can be reasonably implemented cross specialty,

        3. the impact on quality of life of patients,

        4. interaction between healthcare professionals, robustness of algorithms and self efficacy
           in patients.

      The cross-over design allows sustained effects on self care and admissions to be assessed
      after removal of telemonitoring at 6 months in first groups treated. The acceptability of
      telemonitoring to healthcare workers and factors aiding and limiting integration into care
      pathways will be explored. Results should inform the commissioning of telemonitoring
      locally/nationally, facilitate buy-in from secondary and primary care teams, and optimise
      cost.

      OVERALL DESIGN

      Design: Crossover implementation study with patients allocated randomly 1:1 to telemonitoring
      or delayed entry to telemonitoring (after 6 months). All patients with receive standard
      optimal medical care according to European Society of Cardiology (ESC) Heart Failure
      guidelines, National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) COPD guidelines or other
      best practice care pathways as relevant to their condition. Each patient will receive home
      telemonitoring for 6 months. Comparisons will be carried out between patients with delayed
      entry (controls) and active telemonitoring. In the group receiving telemonitoring in first 6
      month period the investigators will be able to assess impact of withdrawal in subsequent 6
      months ie longer term benefit.

      TELEMONITORING

      Data from the monitors are delivered to the health care team members personal computer (PCs)
      using a dedicated broad band line which is installed in the patients home and is routed via a
      secure Philips Server. Each patient receives education in using the device until he or she
      and/or family/carer are fully confident. Via information displayed on their television screen
      each day patients are requested to answer interactive questions on level of breathlessness,
      sleep quality, phlegm production, wheeze. These results from each patient is used to create a
      warning system such that if all parameters are satisfactory this will appear as a green
      light; or for example, if a drop in arterial oxygen saturation and increase in wheeze, or
      increase in weight and increased breathlessness is seen the Motiva system will generate a red
      light for that patient which needs to be acted upon. It is an interactive system and
      therefore the healthcare team member can advise the patient through their screen (eg.
      increase dose of diuretic or oxygen flow rate, start antibiotic and steroids), or provide
      educational material eg. on inhaler use or exercise, and patients can respond. Patients will
      also be asked several questions once a week on whether they have consulted their general
      practitioner (GP), visited an Accident and Emergency Dept or been admitted to hospital.
    
  