
    
      Objectives:

      The overall goal of this proposal is to develop methods to achieve heart and vascular
      protection from ischemia and thus improve soldier's performance in adverse environment. The
      major hypothesis is that new approach and method can be developed to enhance resistance to
      stress-induced circulatory insufficiency and myocardial ischemia. The goals here are to
      determine whether a decreased adenosine transporter function is associated with a reduced
      physiological responsiveness to the vasculo-protective drug persantine using two in vitro
      endpoints: the ability of persantine 1) to inhibit platelet aggregation and 2) to inhibit
      [3H] uridine uptake. Both are endpoints that indicate physiological responsiveness. Both
      relate directly to the cardiovascular protective effects of , that is, persantine the
      availability of extracellular adenosine level and the anti-platelet property. Specifically,
      the relationship between circulating adenosine increase to persantine in vivo and blockade of
      radio-labeled uridine uptake by erythrocytes and of platelet aggregation by the drug in vitro
      will be determined. These investigations will recruit subjects undergoing persantine stress
      testing in the Nuclear Cardiology Laboratory.

      Scientific Background and Significance:

      Development of methods to protect from skeletal and cardiovascular insufficiency is the main
      objective of the current research. Adenosine is a potent cyto-protective hormone released
      during ischemia. The goal of this clinical research project are to test the presence of
      genetic polymorphisms in the adenosine transporter gene and to determine whether it is
      associated with an altered persantine responsiveness. The hypothesis is that some or all of
      these polymorphisms are associated with a decreased responsiveness to persantine and that
      increasing the dose of persantine will overcome the relative non-response.

      Specific Evaluations:

      -Persantine Administration: Persantine will be administered after baseline evaluation with
      intravenous dose (0.56 mg/kg) over 5 minutes.

      -Adenosine levels: Adenosine levels will be measured at baseline, and 2 minutes after the
      persantine dose. We have recently modified and adapted a method to measure nanomolar
      concentration of adenosine in human blood.

      -Adenosine transporter function: The transporter function will be determined by the ability
      of persantine to inhibit erythrocyte uptake of radio-labeled uridine in vitro.

      - Anti-platelet effect of persantine: The platelet aggregation response to persantine will be
      determined via whole blood aggregometry in vitro where the ex vivo platelet response to the
      drug can be quantified.

      Preliminary Studies:

      Preliminary data showed that two non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms occurring at
      a frequency of 3-4% exist in the persantine-binding regions of the adenosine transporter
      gene. The goal of the present study is to determine the functional significance of these
      polymorphisms by testing the association of these polymorphisms with the ability of
      persantine to inhibit uridine (uridine uses the same transporter) uptake and platelet
      aggregation. These represent the in vitro functional endpoints in the subjects with the
      polymorphism. The investigators will also study the association of these polymorphisms with
      any clinical characteristics such as the incidence of MI, acute coronary syndrome, coronary
      bypass or stenting procedures. Since this is NOT an interventional study, these are not
      considered clinical outcomes or endpoints in the traditional sense when an intervention is
      carried out. These are considered clinical characteristics or phenotypes that associate with
      the genotype of polymorphisms. Primary and secondary outcomes and endpoints: The goal of the
      present study is to determine the functional significance of these polymorphisms by testing
      the association of these polymorphisms with the ability of persantine to inhibit uridine
      (uridine uses the same transporter) uptake and platelet aggregation. These represent the in
      vitro functional endpoints in the subjects with the polymorphism. The investigators will also
      study the association of these polymorphisms with any clinical characteristics such as the
      incidence of MI, acute coronary syndrome, coronary bypass or stenting procedures. Since this
      is NOT an interventional study, these are not considered clinical outcomes or endpoints in
      the traditional sense when an intervention is carried out. These are considered clinical
      characteristics or phenotypes that associate with the genotype of polymorphisms.
    
  