
    
      The objective is to compare surgical fixation of humeral shaft fracture to non-surgical
      treatment with early identification and treatment of failed treatment.

      The trial is divided into two separate RCT's:

        1. SHAFT-Y for the young with an age cut-off of 18 to 64 years. The early identification
           and treatment of delayed union is set to 6 to 12 weeks

        2. SHAFT-E for the elder with an age cut-off +65 years. The early identification and
           treatment of delayed union is set to 12 to 26 weeks

      The trials are otherwise identical and the primary outcome is the DASH-score at 52 weeks
      after primary intervention. The SHAFT trial is divided into two trials as there is a bimodial
      age distribution with more elderly than young thereby possibly skewing the results if the age
      groups where combined.

      The SHAFT trial will be conducted in hospitals around Denmark, Sweden and Norway.

      Patients admitted to the emergency department in one of the trial sites and fulfil the
      eligibility criterias, will be invited to enroll into the trial. They will be given time to
      consider and be scheduled for a consultation with a trial worker (non-physician) within 7
      days. Written consent will be obtained at the consultation and randomization will occur
      immediately after. If patients do not wish to enroll to the RCT, they will be asked to
      consider enrollment in an observational cohort.

      Treatment will be performed within 14 days after injury

        -  Surgical treatment. The specific treatment is decided by the treating surgeon/department

        -  Non-surgical treatment with the option of early secondary surgery from 6-12 weeks for
           SHAFT-Y and 12-26 weeks for SHAFT-E

      Participants will be assigned to the trial with an allocation of 1:1 to either surgical
      treatment or non-surgical treatment. The trial worker (non-physician) acquires the allocated
      treatment from REDCap and initiates the treatment, either by scheduling the surgery date or
      applying the chosen non-surgical method.

      The total sample size is estimated to 100 participants in each trial and is powered to detect
      a minimal important change (MIC) of 7 points in DASH. The standard deviation(SD) is ±10. The
      investigators used an α-level of 0.05 and β-level of 0.10. The primary sample size
      calculation is based on these assumptions and a total of 43 participants are required per
      group. The allowance of attrition is set to 15%.

      Participants will be included consecutively to an observational group until the sample size
      for the RCT is completed. The trial management committee can decide to pool data from both
      RCTs (SHAFT-E, SHAFT-Y) if recruitment is prolonged.

      Statistical analysis for the study will be performed by an blinded independent statistician.

      Follow-ups are planned at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 12 weeks, 26 weeks and 52 weeks.
    
  