
    
      Objective: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the signature injury of recent wars. Fatigue is a
      pervasive and debilitating consequence of TBIs, experienced by up to 80% of military
      personnel following TBI. If present greater than 6 months post-injury, fatigue is classified
      as chronic and may hinder recovery and affect return to service in military personnel.
      However, the pathophysiology through which TBI results in fatigue symptomology remains
      unclear. This protocol will examine several pathways that have been hypothesized to underlie
      the association between TBI and fatigue including; sleep disturbances, neuroendocrine and
      mitochondrial abnormalities. Sleep disturbances and fatigue overlap and frequently co-occur
      after TBI. However, to date no published studies have investigated the association between
      objectively measured sleep and fatigue following TBI with and without significant fatigue in
      military personnel. The second pathway involves dysfunction of the neuroendocrine system,
      which participates in the regulation of sleep states, circadian function, and attention.
      Deficits in neuroendocrine function, including putative changes in crucial neuronal
      populations in the hypothalamus and in somatotrophic cells of the anterior pituitary will
      result in changes in regulatory hormones such as growth hormone (GH). Evidence suggests that
      disruptions to GH may be associated with fatigue, however, current findings are mixed. The
      final pathway may be through mitochondrial dysfunction. Early results from multiple fields
      have shown that decreased mitochondrial markers have been associated with fatigue, however
      few studies have looked at these predicted associations in TBI populations. It is evident
      that further research is needed to examine the relationships between TBI and fatigue. Thus,
      this protocol aims to identify the pathways associated with TBI and fatigue. Findings from
      this protocol may lead to novel targets for intervention and reduction of fatigue
      symptomology following TBI.

      Aim: To identify factors that are associated with the persistence of fatigue symptomology, at
      or greater than 6 months post TBI.

      Protocol population: Up to 74 military personnel will be recruited into this protocol. All
      participants will have experienced their most recent TBI >= 6 months and <= 5 years prior to
      protocol participation.

      Design: We will compare military personnel who have sustained a TBI with and without
      subsequent fatigue symptomology. This protocol will have two visits, one outpatient and one
      inpatient to NIH which include:

      Screening Visit: All participants will undergo a clinical evaluation of TBI history, fatigue,
      and complete self-report questionnaires. Participants will also be given an actigraph and
      sleep diary to take home and complete.

      Sleep Visit: All participants will undergo two, consecutive, overnight polysomnography (PSG)
      tests, which includes one night of serial blood sampling to examine endocrine function and
      neuropeptide release. Over the two days, participants may also complete an optional
      hydrocortisone stimulation test and their mitochondrial respiratory profile will be assessed.
      During this in-patient stay, all participants will undergo neurocognitive testing and have an
      opportunity to undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
    
  