
    
      Rational:

      Biotherapies, including anti-TNF alpha have demonstrated effectiveness by several randomized
      clinical trials. The long-term use in clinical practice raise several questions regarding
      their safety, the risk-benefit ratio, and the actual advantage of such treatment in real life
      routine practice. Moreover such practice may considerably change, as far as increasing number
      of therapies are made available on the market.

      On request form national health authorities in France, this phase 4 study will help monitor
      the changing strategies of prescription, the effectiveness and safety of these drugs.

      Objectives :

        1. to determine the impact of biotherapy prescription in 3 category of diseases assessed on
           articular, functional and quality of life outcomes, as well as other drug consumption,
           and to monitor adverse events

        2. to determine the place of biotherapy in the sequence of treatments of patients

      Study design:

      an open cohort study to include patients over 3 years continuously, and to last at least 5
      years form study start, with annual prospective follow-up. C.O.R.P.U.S. will be the first
      French observatory of prescription (or non-prescription) practices of biotherapy in first or
      switch treatment.

      Sample:

      Patients will be recruited by French network of private rheumatologist, and 40 university
      hospital rheumatology ward.

      Data collected:

      Socio-demographic, clinical parameters, function and quality of life know to have prognostic
      value

        -  Exposed patients will be those receiving any biotherapy

        -  Non-exposed patients will be those not receiving biotherapy : non indication, refusal,
           contraindication.

      Outcomes:

      radiographic joint lesions, function, adverse events, maintenance rate, drug consumption.

      Sample size:

      a sample of 1200 RA, 350 SPA and 300 IJA will be recruited every year for the first 3 years.

      Adverse events:

      Any adverse events will be reported to the national centre for pharmacovigilance.

      IRB:

      this protocol has been accepted by the CCTIRS and the CNIL.

      Study monitoring:

      A scientific committee has been constituted and is in charge of respect of any aspects of the
      protocol, particularly regarding safety A steering committee has been constituted and
      includes any drug company representative marketing such therapy, as well as representative of
      Inserm.
    
  