
    
      The skin to skin care (SSC) is a technique that proceeds by laying the neonate ventrally on
      the parent's chest. Many positive effects are recognized as due to SSC i.e, maintaining the
      infant's body temperature, better sleep organization, neurocognitive development and
      cardio-respiratory stability, more strength in parent-infant affective relations, reduction
      in neonatal and parental stress, more success in feeding with breast milk. Nowadays, SSC is
      generalized in modern Neonatal Intensive Care Units as part of developmental care. However,
      the mechanisms involved in SSC are not totally understood. The hypothesis in this study is
      that the cardio-respiratory stability results partially from the intervention of the
      coordination between cardiac and respiratory activities. These suppose the involvement of
      complex mechanisms of cardio-respiratory coordination including neuro-autonomous loops with
      chemoreceptors and baroreceptors, bulbar vasomotor and respiratory regulatory centers,
      ortho-parasympathetic neuronal and chemical pathways and cardiac, vascular and lung
      effectors. In this study the identification of these characteristics will be performed by
      processing signals of ECG, SaO2 (arterial oxygen saturation), respiratory movements,
      perfusion index, cutaneous and ambient temperature extracted from the clinical monitoring
      systems. Each preterm infant included in the study will be explored twice, 5-10 days apart.
      The explorations will be carried out on 3 steps: before (at least 30 minutes), during (at
      least 60 minutes) and after (≥ 60 minutes) the SSC session. Each patient will participate in
      the study for 10 days at maximum. Inclusions in the study will last for a total period of 18
      months and 10 days. The cardio-respiratory coordination will be assessed using coordigram
      technique, corresponding to the proportion of time with > 0.7 amplitude on spectral density.
    
  