
    
      Two-centre, open label, uncontrolled, dose-finding phase I study, to determine the safety and
      tolerability of APO010 administered by intravenous bolus injection once per week in patients
      with solid tumors, for whom therapy of proven efficacy does not exist or is no longer
      effective. The dose-escalations will follow a classical Fibonacci schedule, meaning at least
      three patient per dose-level, prior to further escalation. The dose-level assignment and
      patient registration is centralized by SENDO-Switzerland & Milan offices.

      APO010, Apoxis' proprietary humanized recombinant mega-Fas-ligand, is a novel "First in
      class" investigational anticancer agent. APO010 is a protein that by specific binding to its
      cognate Fas receptor on the cell surface induces apoptosis (programmed cell death). This is
      called the extrinsic apoptotic pathway of cells. APO010 has shown to exert anticancer
      activity in vitro and in animal models carrying a human xenograft of a variety of cancers,
      including malignancies such as multiple myeloma, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), ovarian
      cancer. Its activity is cell cycle independent, it does not cross react with known multi-drug
      resistance mechanism (MDR) and appears to be synergistic with a variety of commonly used
      anticancer drugs. Hence, APO010 may an attractive candidate for combination anticancer
      therapy and may be a effective drug in overcoming MDR.

      In this study the starting dose is 2.5 microgram/m2. Normally 1/6 of the
      No-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) dose-level in monkeys would be chosen as the first
      dose-level, however it has been decided to start at 25% of that dose-level. Across species
      (mice, rats and Cynomolgus monkeys) the rise in transaminases and drop in platelets occurred
      at 30 microgram/m2. The Nadir of these toxicities occurred within 6 hours and full recovery
      at day 5 after the bolus injection.

      At the first occurrence of non-reversible (within 1 week) Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) v3.0
      Grade 2 liver function toxicity (Aspartate transaminase (AST)/Alanine transaminase (ALT) or
      alkaline phosphatase), i.e. Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), the patient accrual will be placed
      on hold until recovery and the subsequent timing of patient accrual to the existing and
      subsequent cohorts will be re-defined by the sponsor, the principal investigators and SENDO.

      Pharmacokinetic assessments will be carried out in all patients during the first, and in
      consenting patients during the second cycles of treatment.

      Assessment for immunogenicity (binding and/or neutralizing antibodies against APO010 will be
      carried out in all patients in all cycles of treatment before each dose and 2 weeks after the
      final dose.
    
  