
    
      This is a randomised (1:1), multicentre, comparative, parallel-group, prospective, open
      label, non-inferiority controlled clinical trial.

      Enrolled patients, taking an ATV/r based HAART and with stable HIV-RNA < 50c/ml (24 weeks),
      will be randomized to:

        -  continue the same regimen ATV/RTV 300mg/100mg OD plus 2 NRTIs (according to the specific
           dosing schedule) as backbone (HAART arm) with ATV/r

        -  or simplify therapy to ATV/RTV 300mg/100mg OD as monotherapy (Monotherapy arm) with
           ATV/r The study follow up will be 96 weeks after randomization and primary objective
           will be evaluated at week 48.

      Patients will be followed every 4 weeks for the first 16 weeks, and then every 8 weeks until
      week 48, then every 12 weeks until week 96 or discontinuation ; at each visit the following
      evaluations will be performed:

        -  clinical assessment.

        -  routine laboratory tests (hematological tests and hematochemistry) including creatinine,
           phosphorus, calcium, alkaline phosphatase, gammaGT; urine analysis, lipid profile, level
           of HIV-RNA and CD4 cell counts.

      During follow-up, at randomization, week 48, week 96 or discontinuation, patients will
      additionally undergo:

        -  Fat redistribution evaluation by DEXA (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry

        -  Vertebral and femoral bone mineral density evaluation by DEXA.

        -  ECG;

        -  Glicate haemoglobin.

        -  Adherence assessment (questionnaire and/or pills counts).

        -  Neurocognitive evaluation [HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HANDs) evaluated by
           validated neuropsychological tests].

      In case of viral rebound (defined as 2 consecutive measurement of HIV-RNA > 50 c/ml) patients
      will be immediately contacted in order to perform genotypic tests. Furthermore a plasma PK
      analysis will also be performed. Any patients with virological rebound will be selected for a
      reintensification therapy with NRTIs and if not suppressed after 12 weeks they will be
      discontinued.
    
  