
    
      The proposed study will be a randomized, open-label, comparator controlled study
      investigating the safety and efficacy of Botox in Persistent Post "Stroke" (encompassing
      ischemic stroke, hemorrhagic stroke, CVST, Cervical Vessel Dissection and RCVS) headache
      patients relative to Placebo with or without concomitant standard pharmacologic and
      Non-pharmacologic treatments.

      The study population will be a stratified random sample of stroke patients fulfilling the
      inclusion criteria and consenting to study. The study groups will consist of 40 patients
      randomly allocated to receiving Botox according to the treatment regime specified below and
      40 patients randomly allocated to Non-Botox standard treatments, to a total study population
      of 80 patients.

      A Screening Questionnaire will be developed allowing for the identification of
      persistent/chronic post stroke headache and the classification into novel vs previous stable
      migraine sub-groups. Such dichotomization will not affect randomization process up and until
      one sub-group total had been met. If one arm is met prematurely, the Data and Safety
      Monitoring Committee will inform study investigators and only patients of the remaining
      sub-population will be randomized post- screening (stratified random sampling).

      To facilitate Data collection and monitoring. Patients will be seen in face to face
      encounters every 12 weeks with interim phone interviews every 4 weeks. A cross platform
      mobile based application (Migraine Buddy, Healint Analytics)15 will be utilized with patient
      subjects to allow for documentation of migraine attacks including severity and the facility
      of real-time documentation of temporal profile, migraine triggers, and medications as well as
      facility for remote monitoring by study investigators. Subjects will be taught how to use
      application to export data to study investigators in order to allow timely a communication of
      potential adverse and serious adverse events.

      Additionally, the investigators will be undergoing a retrospective analysis of headache
      patients treated at the Grey Nuns Community Hospital Stroke Clinic in order to add to the
      literature regarding the clinical characteristics and putative treatment effects in this
      unique patient population.

      Treatment Protocol:

      Botox 200 IU vials for 40 patients for the duration of study (4 treatment cycles); Treatment
      will be based on the PREEMPT study full treatment and follow the pain protocol to a total of
      195 IU in standard injection sites.
    
  