
    
      Human milk is the ideal diet for neonates. However, it does not provide enough energy,
      protein, and sodium to meet the nutritional requirements of very preterm infants. Postnatal
      growth failure is common despite the current use of human milk fortifiers. The main human
      milk fortification methods include:

        1. standard HM fortification (SF) which assumes an average composition of breast milk and
           adds fortifiers in a fixed dosage. It does not account for variations of nutrient
           content in human milk

        2. Individualized human milk fortification which encompasses two methods:

             1. Adjustable HM fortification (AF): Protein supplementation is provided in addition
                to SF according to blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentration which reflects the
                infant's metabolic response to protein intake. However, there are clinical
                scenarios in which the BUN levels are not a reliable marker of protein intake, such
                as acute kidney injury.

             2. Targeted HM fortification (TF): Based on routine analyses of HM that are used to
                adjust fortification to meet the recommended requirements for infants. It does not
                take into consideration that the requirements of infants may vary.

      SF has frequently failed to achieve appropriate weight gain, while individualized (AF or TF)
      fortification seems to have better performance. However, the evidence to support one method
      over the other is lacking.

      The objective of the study is to compare weekly average weight gain between preterm infants
      on AF versus TF.

      Once the written consent is obtained, the infant will be randomized to AF or TF. The sequence
      code will be kept in sequential numbered sealed envelopes. Infants from multiple births will
      be included as 1 unit and randomized to the same arm of the study.

      For patients allocated to the TF group, breast milk will be analyzed twice weekly for energy,
      protein, and sodium contents. The daily protein, fat, and sodium intakes will be then
      calculated and optimized to meet the recommended dietary reference intake (DRI) for preterm
      infants with birth weight <1250 g.

      For patients allocated to the AF group, weekly BUN measurements will be performed. Based on
      BUN concentrations, the liquid protein will be added to achieve the targeted BUN level.
      Additional calories will be added using formula if growth is suboptimal or DRI is not met
      based on the assumed human milk content for protein and energy.

      The intervention will last 4-8 weeks. For all patients, the day the first BUN concentration
      and milk analyses are done will be day 1 of intervention. The following measurements will be
      performed on days 7-8, 14-16, 21-23, and 28-30 of intervention: Weight (grams), length and
      head circumference (centimeters), BUN and sodium concentrations.

      Data on maternal and neonatal characteristics will be collected from their electronic and
      physical charts.
    
  