
    
      Patients: Patients with upper and lower gastrointestinal cancer for planned resectional
      surgery will be recruited. Patients will be identified by the clinical team at the relevant
      multidisciplinary team meeting and then approached for study information and consent in the
      surgical clinic. Age-matched, healthy controls undergoing elective surgery for benign
      conditions (e.g. hernias) will also be recruited.

      Patient Phenotyping: CT scans performed as a routine part of diagnosis and staging will be
      used for analysis of body composition. All patients recruited will have their CT scans
      analysed where present. Control patients (e.g. hernias) may not have CT scans, but where
      available, will be analysed. A transverse CT image from the third lumbar vertebrae will be
      assessed and tissue volumes estimated by a single trained observer. Cross-sectional area for
      muscle and adipose tissue will be normalized for stature (cm2/m2). Estimates of whole body
      stores will be generated from raw data (cm2) using regression equations. Cutoffs for low
      muscularity are based on CT-based sarcopenia plus obesity studies of cancer patients. In a
      previous study, the median time to muscle biopsy after CT scan was 18 days. Phenotyping will
      also involve measuring basic physical attributes (e. g. weight, height etc) and self-reported
      physical abilities (through questionnaires).

      Muscle function/Physical activity assessment: An objective assessment of physical ability
      will be undertaken in the clinic for all patients. This will involve a "timed up and go" test
      and a "6 minute walk" test. These tests have been well-validated in the literature and have
      good inter-rater reliability. Whilst they do add a slight burden of inconvenience to the
      patient clinic visit this is minimal. Additionally, a physical activity meter will be applied
      to the patients' thigh under a waterproof dressing. The Investigators have validated these
      meters in cancer patients, and they are small (35x53x7mm) and light (20g). When used in
      previous studies as above the patients have found them unobtrusive and they have been
      well-tolerated. Where possible, the Investigators will ask the patients to repeat the "timed
      up and go" and "6 minute walk test" in postoperative clinic up to 12 months after surgery.

      Patient self-reported assessment: At routine clinic, all patients will be asked to complete
      validated questionnaires regarding their physical health, and their perceptions of this.
      These will be used to assess severity of co-morbidity, and also to assess frailty. Example
      questionnaires include the Scottish Co-Morbidity Severity Score, the Charlson Co-morbidity
      Index, and the Edmonton Frail Scale. Other questionnaires relating to self-reported appetite
      and function will be considered but the overall aim will be to ask select questions to reduce
      the burden of questioning and prevent questionnaire fatigue. The Investigators will ask
      participants to repeat these questionnaires in routine clinic up to 12 months post surgery.

      Blood and urine sampling: At routine National Health Service (NHS) clinic, all patients will
      be asked to provide a blood and a urine sample. Where this is not possible, the research team
      will ask for permission to take these samples under general anaesthetic at planned surgery
      via urinary and vascular catheters inserted as part of routine care. In the postoperative
      phase the Investigators will ask participants to provide blood and urine samples, where
      possible, in routine clinic up to 12 months following surgery.

      Muscle Biopsy: A biopsy of rectus abdominis muscle will be taken at surgery by the operating
      surgeon for all patients. This will be taken from the incision performed for the planned
      surgery and requires no further incisions. Where possible, an additional needle biopsy of
      quadriceps (thigh muscle) will also be sampled for comparison. Samples will be cleaned of
      fats, blood/fibrous tissue, snap frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -80°C, For
      immunohistochemistry (IHC), muscle specimens will be stitched onto a cork, treated with
      optimum cutting temperature (OCT) and then lowered into cooled isopentane solvent (-190°C)
      prior to storage at -80°C.

      Fat biopsy: A biopsy of subcutaneous fat, and where possible, visceral fat will be collected
      at the time of surgery for all patients by the operating surgeon. This procedure does not
      require any additional incisions. These samples will be snap frozen in liquid nitrogen and
      stored at -80°C.

      Tumour biopsy: For the cancer patients, once the resection specimen has been removed at
      surgery, this will be taken fresh to the pathology lab where the duty pathologist will
      retrieve sections of tumour. This will be done without compromising clinical staging and in
      accordance with current procedures. The tumour samples will be divided into aliquots and snap
      frozen in liquid nitrogen at -80°C. This will not apply to the control group.

      Repeat sampling: At follow-up NHS clinic, all patients will be asked to provide repeat blood
      and urine samples which will be divided into aliquots and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen at
      -80°C. Where the patient is amenable, they will also be asked to provide a single repeat
      needle biopsy of the quadriceps muscle. This will be performed in clinic under local
      anaesthetic using standard aseptic technique. There is some discomfort associated with the
      injection of local anaesthetic but this is transitory. There is also some discomfort
      associated with the muscle biopsy but this is short-lived and in the past has been
      well-tolerated. Quadriceps biopsy will be requested at routine follow-up (at around 6-8
      months after surgery) only. Where possible, repeat blood and urine samples will be requested
      at subsequent routine follow-up appointments for the duration of the study. The Investigators
      would anticipate this to take place for up to 12 months postoperatively.

      Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and Western Blots: These will be performed as per previous
      publications. For IHC, frozen muscle sections will be co-stained for laminin and myosin heavy
      chain or lla to distinguish fibre type. Paraffin sections may also be used and stained. The
      distribution of fibre types, cross-sectional area of individual fibres, and the distribution
      of nuclei (central versus peripheral location to assess level of regeneration) will be
      assessed by a proprietary image analysis platform. Potential markers for measurement will
      include pathways members of autophagy (beclin, lamp, anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG));
      apoptosis (poly adenosine di-phosphate ribose polymerase (PARP), caspase-3); oxidative stress
      (nitrosylated 4-Hydroxynonenal (HNE) and ubiquitinated [K48, K63] proteins); cell stress
      (Nuclear factor (erythroid derived 2)-like 2 Kelch-like erythroid cell-derived protein with
      Cap 'N' Collar homology-associated protein 1 (NRF2KEAP1), Heat Shock Protein (HSP),
      endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-stress); inflammation (IkB kinase (IKK), nuclear factor
      kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NFkB)-9p65, p.38, extracellular
      signal-related kinase (erk)1/2, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (jnk)); satellite cell maturation
      (Paired Box (Pax)3, Pax7, Myogenic factor (MYF)5, M-cadherin); myogenesis (myogenin, desmin);
      sma/mothers against decapentaplegic(SMAD) (SMAD3, phosphoSMAD3); and P-selectin.

      C - reactive protein (CRP) Analysis: Systemic inflammation (SI) will be assessed using plasma
      CRP concentration, which will be measured with an automated immunoturbidimetric assay by the
      Department of Clinical Chemistry, Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh (RIE).

      These analyses will be carried out both in the University of Edinburgh and at the premises of
      international collaborators. Any tissue transferred out of the care of the University will be
      fully anonymised using unique study identifiers.

      This current study is a continuation of a previous study funded and supported by Cancer
      Research United Kingdom (UK). As part of that study tissue samples were collected, some of
      which remain in the University. The Investigators intend to use these remaining samples to
      add power to the new samples the Investigators collect by increasing the cohort size and thus
      the likelihood of any potential biomarker identified being significant rather than erroneous.
      In addition, including these samples in the analysis will add to their value, over and above
      that already gained by inclusion in the previous project.
    
  