
    
      Introduction In Bangladesh, about 2 million new faces are added to the population annually
      with a growth rate of 1.4% . Last Health Population and Nutrition Sector Development
      Programme (HPNSDP) of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) had set a target of
      total fertility rate (TFR) of 2.0 and contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) of 72 by 2016 which
      is currently 2.3 and 61.2 respectively. It is necessary to increase the age at first birth as
      data indicates almost half of women giving birth by age 18 and nearly 70% giving birth by age
      20. It is indicated that only 26% women received four or more antenatal care (ANC) visits
      during their pregnancies, while 68% received at least one ANC during their pregnancies which
      are the great challenges for ensuring safe motherhood in the country. As a part of safe
      motherhood, it is estimated that only 29% deliveries are being conducted in health facilities
      in the country. In case of postnatal care (PNC), from 2008 to 2010, only 27 percent of women
      received PNC for their last birth from a medically-trained provider within two days of their
      delivery . Despite the tremendous success of EPI in Bangladesh, a substantial number of
      children are not fully vaccinated under EPI as data shows 82% were fully vaccinated by the
      age of 12 months. In case of diarrhoea among under 5 years of age, 25% received treatment
      from a health facility or healthcare providers. Thirty-five percent of the children under 5
      years who had acute respiratory infection (ARI) received treatment from a health facility or
      healthcare providers. More than six of every ten children with fever sought treatment from
      the private medical sector. Although 90% of children are breastfeed until age 2, as
      recommended, but 36 percent of children less than age 6 months are out of exclusively
      breastfed. Though the health indictors in Bangladesh are improving, these rates are behind
      from the target.

      In recent years, mobile phone use in healthcare (mHealth) has emerged to augmented of
      healthcare services where the population is underserved especially in rural areas . In a
      systematic review, Tamrat and colleagues (2011) highlighted the scope of mHealth along the
      stages of the 'continuum of care' for maternal, newborn and child healthcare [8]. mHealth
      programs are being used for pregnancy tracking, appointment reminders for antenatal care, and
      SMS-based health education during pregnancy. During the birth, mHealth can be used for
      point-of-care remote consultation, facilitate referral to health facility; facilitate access
      to health facility and to promote timely contact with community health workers. For
      postpartum and newborn care, mHealth can be used for maternal and infant growth monitoring,
      timely reminders for immunization .

      In Bangladesh, mHealth and eHealth initiatives are being implemented by MOHFW and different
      organizations and donors are supporting to the initiatives. This initiative will complement
      with existing health systems and contribute to increase effectiveness of HPN services by
      using mobile phone based technologies.

      The Government of Bangladesh has placed a high priority on eHealth, which is reflected in the
      ICT Policy 2009. The strategic areas/issues relevant to health in the ICT Policy 2009 include
      the following (Clauses 7.1-7.4 of ICT Policy): 'Improve healthcare delivery management
      through use of telemedicine and modern technology; create awareness at all levels, including
      hard-to-reach areas with particular importance in making maternal, child and reproductive
      care available; ensure quality of care and increase the capacity of health care delivery
      system'. But use of technology for covering all or major components of primary health care
      (PHC) is yet to be developed and tested in Bangladesh. Further, no such initiative has yet
      been taken focusing community clinic (CC) to ensure universal health coverage in Bangladesh.

      At present, in Bangladesh, the CCs can cater the services on family planning (FP), maternal
      neonatal and child health (MNCH) and health education for the rural people by using eHealth
      strategy as the community health care provider (CHCP) and other staff of CCs are equipped
      with internet connected laptop service . One recent study findings show that 33% rural
      married women and 69% of their family members have mobile phones. Therefore, the MOHFW,
      icddr,b and Ethics Advance Technology Limited (EATL) have taken this initiative to utilize
      mobile phone technology to improve HPN service in rural areas of Bangladesh. This study will
      be implemented with the aim to develop and test a mechanism of mHealth strategies as well as
      assessing the impact in improving reproductive health and family planning, maternal neonatal
      and child health, integrated management of childhood illness, expanded programme on
      immunization, and other primary health care services in community level in rural areas of
      Bangladesh. This is an evidence based research for HPN services using mobile technology and
      proposed extension of the project and integrated with health system of the Government in
      Bangladesh.

      This study aims to: 1) Improve coverage of ANC, delivery care and PNC; 2) Improve use of
      family planning services among newly married couples to increase the age at first birth; 3)
      Improve utilization of MNCH services including EPI services to reduce neonatal mortality
      rate; 4) Assess acceptability of providing health education regarding family planning,
      nutrition, breastfeeding; 5) Establish technology based referral linkage of CCs with the
      higher facilities.

      Methods Study design

      The study will follow a quasi-experimental pre-post design. Evaluation will be carried-out
      through comparing ANC, delivery care, PNC, contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) and EPI
      coverage before and after its implementation between the study and the comparison areas.

      Study area

      The study will be conducted in two selected administrative divisions of Bangladesh: one high
      performing (Rajshahi) division and one low performing (Chittagong) division. Based on the
      performance of health and family planning indicators, the selected districts are: Natore from
      the high performing (Rajshahi) division and Cox's Bazar from the low performing (Chittagong)
      division. In high performing division, one upazila (Bagatipara) of Natore district will be
      the intervention upazila while Baraigram of the same district will be the comparison upazila.
      On the other hand, one upazila (Chakaria) of Cox's Bazar district will be the intervention
      upazila while Ramu will be the comparison upazila. A total of 4 upazilas (2 intervention and
      2 comparision upazilas) from the two divisions will be selected for the study.

      Timeline The study will be conducted over a period of 30 months in three phases: (i)
      inception phase (6 months for IRB approval, recruitment of staff, stakeholders' meetings at
      different levels, mobile apps and survey instrument development, training of GoB staff on
      interventions, baseline survey and inception report preparation); (ii) intervention
      implementation phase (18 months for implementation of intervention; (iii) evaluation phase (4
      months for end line data collection, data analysis and report writing, sharing of the results
      and evidence for future scaling up through dissemination, finalization of report and
      publications).

      Mobile apps development and testing

      The mobile apps were developed by a team a team from Ethics Advanced Technology Limited
      (EATL). After developing the apps study team did the filed test and piloting in other than
      project areas. After receiving the feedback, study team tried to make the easiest apps. The
      SMS messages were developed by a team comprising of general physicians, immunization expert,
      family planning expert, health systems expert, health care provider, GoB officials and non
      government officials. After developing the SMS messages in Bengali, study team sent these
      messages to several individuals in the pre-test stage including persons who can only read SMS
      and have no formal education qualifications. After receiving the feedback, study team tried
      to make the contents of the SMS suitable for the general population. Investigators will
      ensure that all our participants in the study can read the SMS messages by themselves or
      someone in the family who can describe the messages to them if they do not understand.

      Interventions

      The Bangladesh government provides primary health care services to all citizens through a
      three-tiered healthcare service delivery system: the community clinics, each for 8000 people;
      the union health and family welfare centres (UH&FWCs), each for 25,000 people; and the
      upazila (sub-district) health complexes (UHCs) with an out-patient and an emergency
      departments, 50 in-patient beds and an operating room, each for 250,000 people, which
      coordinate services between different tiers. The service delivery personnel at different
      levels (CC, UH&FWC, UHC) will be equipped with Smartphones having the facilities for text
      messages, voice messages as well as internet and data capturing. Smartphones will be provided
      to them from the project. Training on handling of the Smartphones, data capturing and
      monitoring will be provided to upazila Health and family planning officer (UHFPO), upazila
      family planning officer (UFPO), medical officers (health and family planning departments),
      the statistical assistant, family welfare visitors (FWVs), sub-assistant community medical
      officers (SACMOs), nurses and medical technologist, health inspectors (HIs), family planning
      inspectors (FPIs), assistant health inspectors (AHIs), health assistants (HAs), family
      welfare assistances (FWAs), community health care providers (CHCPs) and other related service
      providers in each upazila. They will be trained to input, edit, verify and monitor the data
      on different services through the software installed in their Smartphones. The community
      clinic management and support groups will be oriented and motivated on mobile phone based
      registration, notification and referral to the health facilities. A team from Ethics Advanced
      Technology Limited (EATL), a software development company will provide technical support to
      develop the device, train concerned personnel, and continue support in smooth functioning of
      the system. The interventions to be tested are as below:

        1. Identification and registration of pregnant women and services for them

           For fixing the target population for ANC, PNC and delivery care, pregnancy
           identification and registration is the initial activity. A routinely updated list of all
           the pregnant women of every village is supposed to be available with all FWAs. However,
           this list can be updated from information of other service providers like HAs, FWVs, and
           CHCPs. Pregnant women will be identified and registered in the following ways: from
           routine community visits of health and family planning workers; from EPI centres when
           the pregnant mothers visit for receiving TT vaccine; from registers of pregnant mothers
           with community clinics; from satellite sessions conducted by FWVs; from registers of
           pregnant mothers maintained by FWVs at UH&FWCs and UHC; from combined meetings held at
           community clinics, UH&FWC and UHC, and; from registers of pregnant mothers maintained by
           NGOs who are working on reproductive, maternal and child health.

           Registration process of pregnant women: The Smartphones carried by the healthcare
           service providers will contain a customize software for registration of pregnant women
           with information (name of pregnant women, age, address, last menstruation period (LMP)
           and mobile phone number) and updating and sending to the server. A unique identification
           (ID) number will be automatically created followed by data upload to the server and will
           be given to the pregnant women. This unique ID will ensure her to get necessary
           healthcare services within the study area.

           Service delivery system for ANC, delivery care, essential newborn care and PNC: Pregnant
           women will receive auto reminder through their mobile for ANC visit prior to their
           scheduled date for each visit via voice message followed by text message. The schedule
           visit date will be calculated by the system automatically from the LMP. The reminder
           will include the date, time, available facilities and services for ANC, and will be sent
           to the women several times to ensure their ANC visits. The system will also send auto
           reminder through text message to the concerned service provider to check whether the
           pregnant woman has received ANC or not. The service provider will provide and update the
           ANC services and status of the particular pregnant woman. Apart from ANC reminders, the
           pregnant women will also receive voice message on healthcare during pregnancy, danger
           signs and birth preparedness.From the LMP, the expected date of delivery (EDD) will be
           calculated by the system and reminder will be sent to the pregnant women automatically.
           The pregnant woman will receive auto voice messages/text messages containing necessary
           information related to institutional delivery according to her EDD.

        2. Birth notification

           The pregnant women will be encouraged and trained to notify immediately after the
           delivery through SMS by themselves or by anyone on behalf of the delivered women. After
           receiving birth notification, system will automatically update the particulars of
           newborns including date of birth, PNC schedule, EPI vaccination due dates for the
           newborn and location of service centre. The system will also send auto reminder to the
           mothers with a specific time schedule for PNC visit, newborn care visit and schedule of
           receiving vaccines for the newborn.

        3. Childhood vaccination services under EPI

           After the outcome of the delivery of the registered pregnant women, the system will
           receive the birth notification as mentioned in the birth notification process.
           Mothers/caregivers of the newborn will receive auto voice/text messages one day prior to
           their visit to the vaccination centres. A second reminder will be sent to the parents of
           all the targeted children through their own phones or their family's numbers collected
           earlier on the vaccination day at the beginning of the vaccination session for bringing
           their children for vaccination. A third reminder will be sent to the mothers/caregivers
           of the children who were not vaccinated after receiving the second reminder as scheduled
           on that day. The system will also provide auto reminder to the concerned service
           provider including EPI session wise list of targeted children. The service providers
           will update the status of vaccination of session using their Smartphone and the system
           will allow the service providers to see the drop-out and left out cases.

        4. Newly married couple identification

           Newly married couple identification and registration is the initial activity for fixing
           the target population for FP service. A routinely updated list of all the newly married
           couple of every village is supposed to be available with all FWAs. However, this data
           can be updated from other service providers also, such as HAs, FWVs, CHCPs. Couple
           identification and registration will be done through following ways: during their
           regular community visits; from service delivery points like community clinics, UH&FWCs
           and UHC; at satellite sessions by FWVs; and from other NGOs who are working on
           reproductive health.

           Newly married couple registration process: The Smartphones will contain specific
           software for newly married couple registration where some necessary information (names
           of newly married couple, age, address, LMP, current contraceptive use, future fertility
           plan and mobile phone number) can be updated and sent to the server. A unique ID number
           will be automatically created followed by data upload to the server and will be given to
           the couple. This unique ID will ensure her to get necessary family planning services
           within the study area.

           Family planning service delivery system:Based on the information gathered through couple
           registration process, the system will automatically generate the most suitable family
           planning options for a couple and send the information to the concerned service
           providers. The service provider will motivate the client for the most suitable FP method
           option generated by the system and after taking the consent they provide the method
           accordingly. The system will send auto messages to the couples through their mobile
           phones about importance of birth spacing and use of FP methods, information related to
           services at CCs and UH&FWCs. The service provider will update information to the system
           to maintain the information of FP method use and regular follow up status which will be
           recorded in server.

        5. e-Referral

           There will be online referral system for the registered women and their children for
           ANC, PNC, delivery care, neonatal management, IMCI and other complication management in
           which healthcare providers from lower facilities can refer a patient to the higher
           facilities. The women will be identified in the higher facilities by their unique ID.
           The service providers will enter referral data to the system during the referral process
           and the patients and providers from higher facilities will get system generated
           reminders about the referral. The service providers in higher facilities will be able to
           check the health status and cause of referral using patient's unique ID number from the
           system and will manage accordingly as well as update the given management to the system.
           If the referred woman does not visit the referral facility, she will receive repeated
           reminders auto-generated by the system to comply the referral; and the service provider
           who referred the mother/client will be able to see the status of the client using smart
           phone.

        6. e-monitoring

      There will be web based monitoring system to oversee the progress and status of all the
      activities under this study for policy makers, programme peoples and other supervisors from
      national to the union levels. All these data will be available in the central database which
      will be visualized and accessible at all concerned levels through internet in particular
      website. They can constantly follow up the progression and healthcare delivery system of the
      respective area and provide regular feedback, when necessary. There will be provision of
      auto-generation of reports for each and every activity through the system by area and service
      provider specific. Figure-2 shows the interventions implementation process and Figure-3 shows
      the snap shots of apps developed.

      Study population The study populations will be: (i) currently married women of reproductive
      age not currently pregnant and did not have delivery within last 6 months; (ii). Mothers of
      children aged 12-23 months for assessing children's vaccination coverage; (iii). Mothers of
      children aged 0-11 months for assessing ANC, delivery care, PNC and vaccination coverage; and
      iv. The healthcare service providers.

      Procedures for selection of sample clusters: In the catchment area of a CC there are 8
      routine EPI centers (including the CCs one) each serving, on an average, ~1000 people (or
      ~235 households). The catchment area of the EPI centre will be treated as 'cluster'. Given
      the crude birth rate of ~20 per 1000 population per year there will be 20 mothers who have a
      infant aged 0-11 months eligible to provide information on ANC, delivery care and PNC; and
      another 20 mothers who have a toddler aged 12-23 months eligible to provide information on
      child vaccination. As such, 33 EPI centers from the list of EPI centers of an upazila (with
      at least one EPI centre per CC) in the selected sub-district will be randomly chosen for
      survey.

      Selection of households: The second stage will be selection of households with eligible
      respondents in each sampled cluster (or EPI centre catchment area). With their consent all
      mothers with child aged 0-11 months or 12-23 months will be interviewed for maternity care
      and vaccination respectively. Women (married non-pregnant or did not delivered baby in <6
      months) eligible for family planning use are many in a cluster. Therefore, a woman eligible
      for family planning method use living in the household next to the mother with a child aged
      0-11 months will be interviewed. The same sample selection procedures will be followed in the
      comparision areas.
    
  