
    
      According to CDC Taiwan epidemiology data, Hualien county had 6 confirmed JEV infection
      patients in 2009 witch was the highest county in Taiwan. Since mass vaccination was arranged
      since 45 years ago in Taiwan, most of the JEV infection was happened on the elderly, possible
      due to aging and immune compromised. However, from Mennonite Christian Hospital and CDC
      records, most of the confirmed JEV patients in Hualien county were aboriginal people. The
      youngest patient in 2009 is around 30-year-old who lived in the mountain side aboriginal
      village. Whether aboriginal people are at more risk for JEV infection or Genotype I JEV was
      appeared in Hualien with more virulent, resistent to vaccine protection is unknown.

      In order to understand the risk of JEV infection and environmental (mosquito, swine)
      surveillance, we had arranged a small cohort study in 2 villages. The 2 villages are located
      at middle Hualien with direct distance around 20 KM between each other. Both villages had
      several pig farms and mosquito numbers in summer were very high. Both villages had document
      JEV infection resident in past 2 years. The first village was near the river ready to
      entrance the sea (wetlands) and many migrate birds appeared in the summer every year. The
      residence were mostly Han people. The seconds village was located very closed to the central
      mountain Taiwan and the residence were almost aboriginal people.

      In this year 2010, we plan to do the following research:

        1. Collect mosquito in 2 villages since May.2010 with RT-PCT method to identify the JEV
           genotype

        2. Collect sera from swine in 2 villages to identify the JEV genotype

        3. Collect sera from 312 residency in 2 villages at May and Sep 2010 to detect sub-clinical
           infection rate. ( estimated sub-clinical infection rate = 2.5%)

        4. Identify the JEV from new diagnosed patient in 2010.

      Since virus was hardly detected by RT-PCR or virus isolation from JEV infected patient, the
      virus identified from mosquito or swine in the nearby may show indirect evidence of the JEV
      genotype.

      After comparing the 2 sera from the same person during the summer in these 2 villages, we can
      identify:

        1. The subclinical infection rate of the JEV (genotype I or III, depends on JEV isolated
           from mosquito)

        2. Whether aboriginal people near the central mountains are at more risk then people near
           the wetlands.
    
  