
    
      Endovascular techniques are well accepted in the treatment of iliac occlusive disease. It is
      shown that in the iliac artery especially stenoses and short occlusions respond well to
      percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) with our without stenting. Although hard data are
      lacking, with the technical developments and the introduction of new stent types, more
      complex lesions have been treated with endovascular procedures. Although stents are often
      used to improve the outcome of PTA, there is no general consensus whether stenting is
      mandatory for chronic iliac arterial occlusion. The more, if we use stents, it is still
      unclear if we should implant bare self-expandable stents, bare balloon-expandable stents or
      covered stents. On one hand, the randomized controlled Dutch Iliac Stenting trial failed in
      demonstrating superiority of primary stenting over PTA with additional stenting in short
      lesions. On the other hand, while several papers advocate bare stenting, other trials
      conclude better results with covered stents.

      The Trans-Atlantic Inter-Society Consensus (TASC) working group has published in 2000 their
      recommendations for the management of peripheral arterial disease. In order to better reflect
      the developments in technology and techniques, the TASC working group has revised and updated
      their recommendations in the TASC-II document in 2007.

      The treatment recommendations between surgical or percutaneous intervention they propose
      involve all peripheral arterial beds and are based upon several factors such as availability
      of expertise in the percutaneous or conventional vascular surgical techniques, the patient's
      preference and most importantly on the lesion's morphology. TASC classifies all lesions in
      the different beds into types A to D. In general, endovascular therapy is the treatment of
      choice for TASC A & B-lesions and surgery is preferred for good-risk patients with TASC C
      lesions and all TASC D lesions.

      For aorto-iliac lesions, the TASC-II classification is as follows:

      Type A lesions

        1. Unilateral or bilateral stenoses of the Common Iliac Artery (CIA).

        2. Unilateral or bilateral single short (≤3 cm) stenosis of the External Iliac Artery
           (EIA).

      Type B lesions

        1. Short (≤3 cm) stenosis of infrarenal aorta.

        2. Unilateral CIA occlusion.

        3. Single or multiple stenosis totaling 3-10 cm involving the EIA not extending into the
           Common Femoral Artery (CFA)

        4. Unilateral EIA occlusion not involving the origins of Internal Iliac Artery (IIA) or CFA
           Type C lesions

      1. Bilateral CIA occlusions 2. Bilateral EIA stenoses 3-10 cm long not extending into the CFA
      3. Unilateral EIA stenosis extending into the CFA 4. Unilateral EIA occlusion that involves
      the origins of IIA and/or CFA 5. Heavily calcified unilateral EIA occlusion with or without
      involvement of origins of IIA and/or CFA Type D lesions

        1. Infra-renal aortoiliac occlusion

        2. Diffuse disease involving the aorta and both iliac arteries requiring treatment

        3. Diffuse multiple stenoses involving the unilateral CIA, EIA and CFA

        4. Unilateral occlusions of both CIA and EIA

        5. Bilateral occlusions of EIA

        6. Iliac stenoses in patients with an Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (AAA) requiring treatment
           and not amenable to endograft placement or other lesions requiring open aortic or iliac
           surgery

      The TASC working group has based their recommendations on the literature available to date
      and are generally considered as the guidelines to be followed. Nevertheless it should be
      stated that it is feasible to treat with good technical success and sustained durability TASC
      type C and D lesions in an endovascular way.

      Recent publications finally start to show the excellent durability of iliac stenting in the
      daily practice. Park et al, described their long term (up to 10 years) experience in their
      total cohort of iliac patients (TASC type A-D lesions) and presented impressive primary
      patency rates of 87%, 83%, 61% and 49% at respectively 3, 5, 7 and 10 years after the index
      intervention. De Roeck et al. published their results after stenting of different types of
      iliac occlusions (TASC type B-D), and showed primary patency rates of 94%, 89% and 77% after
      respectively 1, 3 and 5 years follow up. They could also show that in their cohort of
      patients with complex aorto-iliac lesions, stent-failures can always be endovascularly
      rescued. They showed secondary patency rates of 100% after 1 year and 94% after both 3 and 5
      years. Bosiers et al. concluded in their BRAVISSIMO trial primary patency rates at 12 months
      for the TASC A, B, C and D lesions of respectively 94.0%, 96.5%, 91.3% and 90.2%. Leville et
      al. questioned after the presentation of their outcome with stenting iliac occlusion (primary
      patency rate of 76% and secondary patency rate of 90% after 3 years), whether the
      endovascular treatment for iliac occlusive disease should be extended to Type C and D
      lesions. Leville came to this conclusion as they could not detect any significant differences
      in outcome for both primary and secondary patency rates stratifying for the TASC
      classifications. They summarized the treatment of iliac artery occlusion can be accomplished
      via endovascular means with little morbidity and acceptable patency rates. The COBEST trial
      demonstrates that covered and bare-metal stents produce similar and acceptable results for
      TASC B lesions. However, covered stents perform better for TASC C and D lesions than bare
      stents in longer-term patency and clinical outcome. Sabri et al. concluded that the use of
      covered balloon-expandable kissing stents for atherosclerotic aortic bifurcation occlusive
      disease provides superior patency at 2 years as compared with bare metal balloon-expandable
      stents. Bosiers et al. experienced that the implantation of the Advanta V12 PTFE-covered
      stent for iliac occlusive disease shows to be safe and feasible with excellent clinical
      results at 1 year in the investigated patient cohort. The TASC stratification is an important
      tool in allowing us to assess the extent of lesion morphology, but extensive lesions do not
      preclude successful endovascular treatment. They continued that the fate of the limb is
      dictated by the infrainguinal disease that is often present in patients with complex iliac
      occlusions and therefore believe that endovascular attempts should be exhausted before
      attempting open surgical repair of iliac occlusions because of the decreased perioperative
      morbidity and good mid-term durability.
    
  