
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether varenicline, a nicotine receptor partial agonist, leads to a higher
           rate of smoking cessation than combination nicotine replacement therapy with nicotine
           patch prescription plus ad libitum nicotine gum delivery in methadone-maintained
           smokers.

      Secondary

        -  To test the effects of the treatments on smoking urges, withdrawal symptoms, and
           reinforcing effects of smoking.

        -  To test the effects of the treatments on methadone treatment outcomes, including
           retention in methadone maintenance, methadone dose changes, and continued use of illicit
           drugs as measured by urine toxicologies.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified based on gender and level of
      nicotine dependence. Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 intervention arms.

      At baseline, all patients receive a minimal behavioral intervention using a 3-minute, simple
      smoking cessation counseling strategy, a self-help manual, and a telephone quit-line number.

        -  Arm I (varenicline): Patients receive oral varenicline once daily on days 1-3 and twice
           daily thereafter for a total of 6 months or when a comfortable level of smoking
           abstinence is reached.

        -  Arm II (placebo): Patients receive oral varenicline placebo once daily on days 1-3 and
           twice daily thereafter for a total of 6 months or when a comfortable level of smoking
           abstinence is reached.

        -  Arm III (nicotine patch/gum): Patients receive a nicotine patch, with doses tapering
           over time for a total of 26 weeks. Patients also receive nicotine gum to quell
           breakthrough urges. Patients may stop treatment when a comfortable level of smoking
           abstinence is reached.

      Patients complete a brief interview over 10-15 minutes at 2 weeks and monthly during months
      1-5. They complete a longer interview over 45 minutes at months 6 and 12 and provide breath
      samples (for carbon monoxide monitoring) and urine samples (for cotinine testing).

      NOTE: Smoking cessation may prevent certain smoking-related illnesses, including cancer.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 602 patients (258 receiving varenicline, 258 receiving nicotine
      replacement therapy, and 86 receiving placebo) will be accrued for this study.
    
  