
    
      Intertrochanteric hip fractures are common injuries in the elderly population. They often
      signify generalized physical deterioration. Operative management has become the standard of
      care to prevent life threatening complications and dates back to the 1940's. The design of
      implants has evolved significantly since then.

      The sliding hip screw replaced static fixation of the femoral head in the 1950's. As a result
      of this improvement in design, failures have been reduced to 9-16%. The sliding hip screw
      allows for stable collapse of the femoral neck. This can lead to significant shortening of
      the proximal femur in comminuted fractures.

      Current treatment modalities focus on obtaining a satisfactory union of the fracture, often
      at the expense of anatomical alignment. Severely comminuted fractures treated with a standard
      plate-hip-screw device thus commonly result in significant degrees of mal-union and
      shortening. In the past, implants designed to restore and maintain the anatomy of the hip
      have resulted in high failure rates with the implant breaking out of the femoral head. In the
      mid 1980's, recognition of this led to the development of various intramedullary devices for
      fixation of these fractures. The weight-bearing portion of the implant is therefore shifted
      medially, resulting in reduced lever forces on the implant and femur. Additionally, the IM
      device does not rely on fixation to the lateral cortex of the femur with screws. From a
      biomechanical standpoint, the intramedullary device has distinct advantages, as it is a load-
      sharing device more closely located to the axis of weight bearing than the plate-hip-screw
      device.

      Advances in intramedullary designs have been promising, but the clinical results variable.
      The relatively high rate of fracture at the tip, specifically at the level of the locking
      bolts, has hampered the widespread popularity of intramedullary devices. Additionally, the
      large diameter of the proximal aspect of the implants required extensive reaming of the
      greater trochanter and partial detachment of the gluteus medius. This may lead to abductor
      weakness and a Trendelenburg gait. Some studies have found increased re-operation rates for
      these early hip-nail devices compared to the plate -hip-screw implant. Other studies have
      shown decreased blood loss and operative time with the nails. A meta-analysis of the
      literature favors the sliding hip screw design. Unfortunately, most studies focus on
      radiological failure rate rather than patient function and relate to the first generation of
      IM devices.

      The newest generation of nails (like the IM studied here) has attempted to correct the
      shortcomings of earlier designs. The proximal aspect of the nail diameter is minimized. The
      distal locking screw is located far away from the distal end of the nail and the locking bolt
      is placed in an oblique fashion. Design alterations to the femoral head fixation portion of
      the nail by using a helical blade rather than a screw may improve fixation in the femoral
      head. These new designs seem to compare favorably in recent clinical tests. Early
      mobilization for patients with the intramedullary device (IM) seems to be better.

      Results of the pilot study indicate an earlier return to full mobility and shorter operating
      time in the IM group. This study included all intertrochanteric fracture types and did not
      demonstrate a clear benefit of the IM in many other parameters. The currently proposed
      multi-centre study will focus on the unstable A2 intertrochanteric fracture pattern.

      Considering the significantly increased cost of the new intramedullary devices compared to
      the standard plate-hip-screw, a significant overall improvement in patient function should be
      realized before the general use of these new devices could be recommended.
    
  