
    
      This research is an observational study with no intervention. It uses qualitative methods.

      The development of the classification consists in 3 phases: a preliminary phase of literature
      review, an investigation phase and a phase of elaboration of the classification.

      Preliminary phase To deepen the questioning of the research, a literature review will be
      realized on concepts and models as well as on tools and methods used in the published PTE
      interventions.

      Investigation phase

      This step uses qualitative methods with 3 types of data collection:

        -  Semi structured interviews: individual interview will be realized with health care
           professionals and Therapeutic Patient Education stakeholders (trainers, professional
           network, decisions makers..). Focus groups will be organized with patients after
           completion of a therapeutic patient education program.

        -  In situ observations of the sessions

        -  Analysis of the documents surrounding the implementation of the interventions: reports,
           grey literature, applications; the objective is to capture the environment supervising
           the programs

      The investigators plan to include up to 15 programs. However, this number will be adjusted
      according to the principle of data saturation.

      Programs will be selected to ensure variability: the investigators will include hospital
      based or community based programs, programs led by general practitioners or specialists, with
      or without patients' implication, recent or experimented programs.

      For each program, at least 3 health care professionals and one focus group with patients will
      be conducted. It will be completed by observation of education sessions.

      Other actors (patients' proxies, associations playing a role in the conception or animation
      of the programs, designers, coordinators, general practitioners, experts of French
      territorial organization, trainers..;) will complete the data.

      The aim of this step is not only to describe the practices but also to interview the experts
      on the elements they think can impact the results of PTE interventions.

      Phase of elaboration of the classification Thematic and content data analyses are scheduled.
      Concept mapping method will be used to develop the classification.

      The classification will be reviewed by experts having not participated to the previous steps.

      Validation of the classification :

      Applicability and relevance of the classification will be tested with 15 programs in various
      medical domains.

      The classification will then be used in a cohort of patients before and after PTE
      intervention.

      With this classification (or list), recommendations to describe PTE programs will be
      published.

      Eventually, the aim of the recommendations, is to improve the understanding of PTE by
      providing thorough description of the interventions. This work will help stakeholders to
      better interpret the results of their interventions, to improve the transferability, the
      implementation and finally to determine which are the elements able to improve patients'
      health status.
    
  