
    
      Recruitment: Patients with a long-chain fatty acid oxidation disorder will be recruited
      through our clinic, past research participants, a patient support website, and recruitment
      letters mailed to physicians around the US. We will enroll 16 subjects at OHSU and 16
      subjects at the University of Pittsburgh, age 7 to 40, with a disorder in fatty acid
      oxidation.

      Procedures: Subjects will be admitted to the clinical research center for 4 days. They will
      collect all their urine for 24 hours. Heart function will be measured using ultrasound an
      electrocardiogram (ECG). The motion of the heart will be measured by magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI). For this test, the patient lies in the magnetic field of the MRI machine in
      the Advanced Imaging Resource Center (AIRC) for about 45 minutes. The amount of muscle and
      fat in the whole body and inside the liver and muscle will be measured by MRS and by dual
      X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). Subjects will walk on a treadmill for about 45 minutes. The
      amount of Calories they use, their heart rate, and if they burn fat or carbohydrates will be
      measured. Blood samples will be collected before and after exercise. A meal test will be used
      to determine how much fat they burn. The subjects will drink a liquid breakfast with a stable
      isotope labeled fat in the breakfast. Breath and blood samples will be collected before and
      after the meal. The amount Calories burned by each subject will be measured when they are at
      rest on a bed by indirect calorimetry. The amount of Calories burned by subjects when they
      are doing their routine daily activities will be measured at home by doubly labeled water.
      All of these tests will be done at baseline. Then, subjects will be randomly assigned to
      consume MCT (current standard of care) or triheptanoin at 20% of their estimated Calorie
      needs for 4 months. The subject and/or the parent will be taught how to use the supplement
      oil in their diet for cooking and baking. The subject will be sent home and the oil will be
      shipped to their home. The study coordinator will call the subject or subject's guardian each
      week to monitor the subject's diet, potential side effects and assist with diet planning. At
      the end of 4 months, all of the baseline tests will be repeated.

      Triheptanoin is experimental oil. It is a clear, odorless oil that can be mixed with foods
      and used in cooking. Almost all oils are made from even chains of carbon molecules.
      Triheptanoin is different because the carbon chains are odd in number. The co-investigator of
      this study at the University of Pittsburgh, Dr. Jerry Vockely, holds an IND for the
      prescription, and use of triheptanoin in humans (IND 106011).

      Data Analysis: The change in exercise ability, heart function, Calories used and body fat
      after 4 months will be compared between subjects randomized to MCT versus triheptanoin.
    
  