
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Dasatinib is designed to decrease the activity of one or more proteins that are responsible
      for the uncontrolled growth of tumor cells. This may cause the tumor cells to die.

      Erlotinib hydrochloride is designed to block the activity of a protein found on the surface
      of many tumor cells. Blocking the protein may control tumor growth and survival. This may
      stop tumors from growing.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to participate in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you joined this study. Up to 6 groups of 3-6 participants each will be
      enrolled in the Phase I portion of the study, and up to 35 participants will be enrolled in
      Phase II.

      If you are enrolled in the Phase I portion, the dose of dasatinib you receive will depend on
      when you joined this study. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose
      level of dasatinib. Each new group will receive a higher dose of dasatinib than the group
      before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. If intolerable side effects are seen,
      the next group of participants may receive the same dose level or a lower dose level. This
      will continue until the highest tolerable dose of dasatinib is found.

      If you are enrolled in the Phase II portion, you will receive highest tolerated dose level of
      dasatinib that was found in the Phase I portion.

      All participants will receive the same dose level of erlotinib hydrochloride. If the doctor
      thinks it is needed, the dose level may be lowered.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are in Phase I, on Day -3 of Cycle 1 (3 days before your first dose of study drugs),
      you will take erlotinib hydrochloride by mouth. On Days 1-19 of Cycle 1, you will be take
      dasatinib and erlotinib hydrochloride by mouth once a day. On Days 20 and 21 of Cycle 1, you
      will only take dasatinib by mouth once a day. Every day of Cycles 2 and beyond, you will take
      dasatinib and erlotinib hydrochloride by mouth once a day.

      If you are in Phase II, every day you will take dasatinib and erlotinib hydrochloride by
      mouth once a day.

      Each cycle is 21 days.

      Erlotinib hydrochloride and dasatinib should be taken together at the same time every day.
      The tablets must be swallowed whole and may not be broken. The tablets should be taken with 1
      cup (about 8 ounces) of water. Dasatinib and erlotinib hydrochloride should be taken 1 hour
      before or 2 hours after meals or any other drugs, and should not be taken with grapefruit
      juice. The entire dose must be taken at 1 time. If you vomit within 30 minutes of swallowing
      the tablets, the dose may be replaced if the tablets can be seen and counted. If you are
      currently taking St. John's Wort, you should stopping taking if for at least 5 days before
      taking dasatinib.

      Study Visits:

      At Week 1 of Cycle 1, your vital signs and weight will be measured.

      At the end of Week 3 of every cycle, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests

        -  The amount of oxygen in your blood will be measured by a pulse oximeter.

        -  You will have a chest x-ray to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will be asked if you have experienced any side effects and to list any drugs you may
           be taking.

        -  Women who are able to become pregnant must have a negative blood (about 1-2 teaspoons)
           or urine pregnancy test.

      At the end of Week 3 of Cycles 1 and 3, you will also have an ECG.

      At the end of Week 3 of every other cycle (Cycles 2, 4, 6, and so on), you will also have a
      chest CT scan or a whole body PET/CT (if necessary) to check the status of the disease.

      Phase I PK Testing:

      If you are in Phase I, you will have blood (about 2 teaspoons each time) drawn for PK
      testing.

        -  On Day -3 of Cycle 1, blood will be drawn 5 different times.

        -  On Days -2, -1, and 1 of Cycle 1, blood will be drawn 1 time.

        -  On Day 19 of Cycle 1, blood will be drawn 5 times.

        -  On Days 20, 21, and 22 of Cycle 1, blood will be drawn 1 time.

      Length of Study:

      You may stay on study for as long as you are benefitting. You will be taken off study if you
      experience intolerable side effects or the disease gets worse.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      At the end of your study participation, you will have an end-of-study visit. At this visit,
      the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  The amount of oxygen in your blood will be measured.

        -  You will have a chest x-ray to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have an ECG.

      If you are taken off study due to unacceptable side effects, you will be called and asked
      about any side effects until the side effect gets better or becomes stable.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      After the end-of-study visit, you will be contacted every 3-4 months for 1 year to collect
      information about how you are doing. You (or your family members or designees) may be
      contacted by telephone or during clinic visits. If you are called, this will take about 5
      minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Dasatinib is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of acute lymphoid and chronic myeloid leukemia. Erlotinib hydrochloride is FDA
      approved and commercially available for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. The use
      of this combination in this study is investigational.

      Up to 59 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  