
    
      All the patients who diagnose as poor ovarian responders (POR) based on the Bologna criteria
      are eligible for participation in this study. In order to define the poor response in IVF, at
      least two of the following three features must be present: (i) advanced maternal age or any
      other risk factor for POR; (ii) a previous POR; and (iii) an abnormal ovarian reserve test
      (ORT). Two episodes of POR after maximal stimulation are sufficient to define a patient as
      poor responder in the absence of advanced maternal age or abnormal ORT.

      The ovarian stimulation is performed with antagonist protocol with E2 priming for all
      eligible patients. All women receive estrogen priming (E2 tablet) starting a week after LH
      surge until menses. Controlled ovarian stimulation is started on day 2 of menstrual cycle
      with 225 IU recombinant FSH (Gonal-F®; Serono Laboratories Ltd., Geneva, Switzerland) and 75
      IU hMG (Menopur®; Ferring). The doses of gonadotropins were adjusted as ovarian response in
      the ultrasound monitoring. Gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist (Cetrorelix
      acetate 0.25 mg; Cetrotide ®, USAN) is administrated to prevent premature ovulation when the
      lead follicle measured ≥ 12 mm and was continued until the hCG trigger. Final oocyte
      triggering will be done with 10000 IU of hCG (Choriomon®; IBSA). If there were or more
      dominant follicles, oocytes retrieval will be done under transvaginal ultrasound guidance
      32-34 hours after hCG administration. Intracytoplasmic sperm injection will be performed for
      all metaphase II oocytes. Embryo transfer will be done under ultrasound guidance on day 3 for
      all patients.

      On the day of oocyte pickup, patients are allocated randomly (by the blocked randomization
      method) into three groups to receive three different luteal support protocols and they
      remained on the same allocation throughout the study. Group 1, subjects receive 1,500 IU of
      hCG IM on the embryos transfer (ET) day, as well as 4 days after the embryos transfer. Group
      2: patients will receive 1,500 IU of hCG IM on the ET day, as well as 3 and 6 days after the
      transfer along with Endometrin ® vaginal tablets (Ferring Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Germany) 100
      mg twice daily. Group 3, patients will receive only Endometrin ® vaginal tablets (Ferring
      Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Germany) 100 mg twice daily for luteal support from the day of oocyte
      pickup to the day of the pregnancy test. The vaginal progesterone is continued in all
      patients who become pregnant in all three groups until the 12th week of pregnancy. The serum
      ß-hCG level is checked 2 weeks after ET to confirm positive pregnancy test. Clinical
      pregnancies are detected with the confirmation of positive fetal heart activities by
      transvaginal sonography. The implantation rate is considered as the proportion of number of
      observed intrauterine gestational sac to number of transferred embryos. Multiple pregnancies
      are defined as two or more gestational sacs in the uterine cavity. Miscarriage is defined as
      a loss of a clinical pregnancy before the 12th week of gestation.
    
  