
    
      Functional Neurological Disorder (FND) (Conversion Disorder) is a poorly understood and
      prevalent somatoform disorder, making up 16% of outpatient neurology referrals. Patients with
      motor FND (mFND) are difficult to treat, result in major morbidity, and are costly to the US.
      An estimated $256 billion is spent annually treating this population. mFND includes
      Nonepileptic Seizures (NES), Functional Movement Disorders (FMD) and Functional Weakness
      (FW). An impediment to managing mFND is the lack of a neurobiological understanding for this
      disorder. The diagnosis of mFND is currently based on qualitative aspects of behaviors, which
      may be difficult to interpret, and the absence of findings characteristic of other
      neuropsychiatric disorders on laboratory studies such as electroencephalography (EEG) and
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

      A major step forward would be the identification of neuroimaging biomarkers for mFND. mFND is
      understudied compared to other disorders, but recent studies point to distributed
      neurocircuit alterations associated with mFND. This project aims to advance our biological
      understanding of mFND by investigating neuroimaging biomarkers linked to prognosis. An
      improved understanding of the neuropathophysiology of mFND will provide a critical step in
      elucidating diagnostic, prognostic and treatment response biomarkers.

      Aim:

      Identify structural and functional biomarkers of prognosis at 6-months in patients with motor
      functional neurological disorders receiving an updated standard of care.

      H1: Favorable mFND prognosis at 6 months post initial evaluation will be predicted by the
      degree of preserved baseline gray matter in limbic-paralimbic regions, particularly those
      part of the salience network.

      H2: Favorable mFND prognosis at 6 months post initial evaluation will be predicted by the
      degree of preserved baseline resting-state functional connectivity in limbic/paralimbic
      areas, particularly those part of the salience network.

      H3: Favorable mFND prognosis at 6 months will correlate with the degree of preserved baseline
      cingulum bundle and cingulo-insular tract integrity.
    
  