
    
      Patellofemoral disorders make up about 20% of all knee pathologies and are often a source of
      diagnostic and therapeutic doubts for the orthopedic surgeon. The incidence of patella
      dislocation is estimated to be 5.8 cases per 100,000 people, with values that become five
      times higher in patients aged between 10 and 17 years. Conservative treatment is preferable
      in the first case of acute dislocation, however the recurrence of this episode occurs in a
      percentage equal to 15 - 44% in these subjects.

      Many surgical interventions have been described to correct the various factors that
      predispose to patellofemoral instability, with variable success rates (72% with the Hauser
      technique and 93% with the Roux-Goldthwait technique, 73% with that of Fielding and 78% with
      that of Trillat after a long follow-up.

      The medial patello-femoral ligament (MPFL) is one of the main stabilizers of the patella in
      its movement on the femur; numerous studies have recently shown that this ligament is damaged
      in almost all cases, thus recognizing the role of the structure that most limits the patella
      in its lateral dislocation to the MPFL. Following these studies, the reconstruction of the
      MPFL as an elective treatment for relapsing patella dislocation has been recently proposed
      with countless surgical techniques that use various types of grafts: autologous tendons (the
      first in 1990 by Suganuma et al), tendons from donor (allograft) and synthetic ligaments.

      Our team recently developed a minimally invasive MPFL reconstruction technique using an
      allograft tendon of the fascia lata with the aim of stabilizing the patella and limiting the
      patellofemoral arthritic degeneration in the medium to long term.

      The imaging evaluation of instability and correct alignment of the patella, both in the
      pre-operative and in the post-surgery, is normally performed using magnetic resonance imaging
      or conventional CT. The CT offers the advantage of being able to make a very accurate
      morphological evaluation and therefore to be able to calculate with great precision the
      degrees of the tilt angle of the patella, the subluxation and the distance between the tibial
      tuberosity and the center of the trochlear sulcus (TT-TG ). The big limit of this method is
      that the patient is acquired supine, with the knee extended and with the muscles of the leg
      relaxed while it is well known how the knee flexion and the contraction of the quadriceps
      muscle possible in load, significantly affect the tracking of the patella on the trochlea. In
      literature, numerous studies show that the acquisition of the lying patient removes these
      determining factors (Callaghan; Draper; Tanaka) by altering the assessment of instability and
      malalignment. In a recent study by Marzo et al. it has been shown that in subjects suffering
      from instability of the patella, the evaluation under weight-bearing and with knee flexed by
      CT (CBCT Carestream) shows lower tilt angles, congruence and TT-TG than the evaluation in
      load and therefore the evaluation under load of the patellar alignment is more adequate to
      evaluate with precision these parameters.

      The objective of the present study is to compare the stability and alignment of the patella
      in patients with previous relapsing dislocation treated with reconstruction surgery by means
      of a medial patellar ligament with lata band allograft 5 years after surgery by conventional
      CT and by CT under weight-bearing.

      The assessments are carried out in a group of 20 patients with previous recurrent patella
      dislocation who underwent reconstruction surgery between 2012 and 2013 via a medial
      patello-femoral ligament with fascia lata allograft at the Orthopedic and Traumatologic
      Clinic 2nd of the Rizzoli Orthopedic Institute. The patients will be contacted by phone and a
      follow-up visit will be scheduled which is normally carried out 5 years after the operation
      to evaluate the stability of the patella and therefore the patient's clinical condition. The
      patient will undergo a clinical examination and radiological control with conventional CT at
      the Rizzoli Orthopedic Institute. Conventional CT will be performed with the patient supine,
      the knee fully extended and with the muscles of the thigh and leg completely relaxed. On the
      same day, the patient will undergo a CT scan of the knee under weight-bearing with the Cone
      Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) scanner system.The CT images will be viewed through the PACS
      system by two independently expert radiologists who will measure the tilt, congruence angles
      and the TT-TG with the methodical notes described in the literature.

      The use of a CT under weight-bearing allows for the first time to evaluate in a realistic way
      the stability and tracking of the patella, with the knee flexed and therefore with the
      activation of the quadriceps muscle.
    
  