
    
      Heart failure (HF) with reduced ejection fraction is a major global health problem. Every
      year, over 200,000 patients with HF and electrical abnormalities receive device implants for
      Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (CRT). However, one-third of these patients receiving CRT
      fail to clinically improve, a large population with refractory HF symptoms, high mortality,
      and tremendous healthcare costs. The overall objective of the study is to improve the
      clinical response to CRT by physiological optimization of CRT programming with individualized
      ventriculo-ventricular (VV) offset, guided by novel 4-dimensional panoramic electroanatomical
      heart mapping using Electrocardiographic Imaging (ECGI). ECGI is a high-resolution,
      non-invasive, validated technique using 250 recording electrodes combined with heart-torso
      anatomy from chest CT.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Assess the acute impact of ECGI-guided CRT optimization on hemodynamic heart function.

        2. Determine the impact of ECGI-guided CRT optimization on reverse heart remodeling at 6
           months.

      Methods:

      The study will enroll 56 adult patients undergoing CRT for standard clinical indications.

        1. Compare the impact of ECGI-guided CRT optimization vs. standard-of-care (zero VV offset)
           on acute hemodynamic function i.e. left ventricular stroke volume on Doppler
           echocardiography.

        2. Randomize patients to (a) ECGI-guided CRT optimization or (b) standard-of-care (zero VV
           offset). Patients will be crossed-over at 6 months and serve as their own controls. The
           primary outcome will be the difference in heart remodeling, i.e. % reduction of left
           ventricular end-systolic volume (LVESV) from baseline, between the two groups after 6
           months. Reduction in LVESV is a validated physiological marker of CRT response that
           strongly predicts lower mortality and HF events. The secondary outcomes will include
           quality-of-life (Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire), functional performance
           (6-minute hall walk distance) and a prognostic biomarker (serum N-terminal proBNP).

      The results of this important study will provide key mechanistic insights on the salutary
      effects of CRT on reverse heart remodeling and enhance the understanding of failure in CRT
      response. Physiologically tailored CRT therapy would improve individual patient health by
      reducing CRT non-responders, and decrease the economic burden of refractory HF.
    
  