
    
      Meropenem plays a crucial role in the treatment of pulmonary exacerbations in cystic fibrosis
      patients, because it has activity against both P. aeruginosa and B. cepacia, two of the most
      problematic pathogens that are encountered in this disease. These organisms cause chronic
      endobronchitis with frequent exacerbations which lead to significant morbidity and premature
      mortality. Treatment options for pulmonary exacerbations are limited due to the high rates of
      resistance with currently available antibiotics and lack of development of new effective
      antibiotics. Therefore optimization of the dosing of meropenem, by use of extended infusion
      strategy, is one method to allow us to maximize the efficacy of this drug. Meropenem is a
      beta-lactam type antibiotic with time-dependent bactericidal activity and hence it is
      suitable for extended infusion dosing. The key rationale for extended infusion of beta-lactam
      antibiotics is to allow for optimization of pharmacodynamic target attainment of time above
      the minimal inhibitory concentrations (T>MIC) to maximize bactericidal killing and optimize
      clinical outcomes. The use of this infusion strategy has been studied in non-cystic fibrosis
      patients treated primarily with piperacillin-tazobactam or meropenem for P. aeruginosa
      infections. The application of this strategy in cystic fibrosis patients has not been well
      studied, and there is no data for the treatment of B. cepacia infections. Also the
      pharmacokinetic characteristics of meropenem in adult cystic fibrosis patients with pulmonary
      exacerbation have not been previously studied. It is unclear whether or not the
      pharmacokinetic profile of meropenem in patients without exacerbation can be accurately
      extrapolated to those patients with exacerbation. The first phase of this study will,
      therefore, describe the pharmacokinetic profile of meropenem and the distribution of MICs for
      P. aeruginosa and B. cepacia in a population of adult cystic fibrosis patients with pulmonary
      exacerbation. The data will be used to determine an optimal extended infusion dosing strategy
      specifically for our patients with cystic fibrosis. The second phase of our study will
      provide additional data on the pharmacokinetics of meropenem in patients without active
      infection.

      Significance of study:

      This study will provide new information regarding the pharmacokinetics of meropenem in a
      population of cystic fibrosis patients with pulmonary exacerbation. This will allow us to
      apply Monte Carlo simulation to the data set with greater confidence as it directly reflects
      our own target population. Optimization of meropenem dosing based on pharmacodynamic profile
      and Monte Carlo simulation lays the groundwork for clinical efficacy studies in the future.
      Based on results from previous studies, optimization of meropenem dosing has the potential to
      produce better patient outcomes, reduce drug utilization and cost and reduce rates of
      resistance. These can be examined in future clinical studies.
    
  