
    
      Cementum is a component of the periodontium, and its major role is to serve as the site of
      attachment for principal collagen fibers (Sharpey' s fibers). In particular, cementum, by
      virtue of its structural and dynamic qualities, provides tooth attachment and maintenance of
      occlusal relationships between the jaws. Its multiple functions are fulfilled by the
      biological activity and reactivity of cementoblasts, which deposits two collagen-containing
      varieties of cementum with completely different properties. Periodontal disease is the local
      inflammation of the supporting tissues of teeth, it causes destruction of gingival tissues,
      bone loss and loss of connective tissue attachment to cementum. Since the relationship
      between local bacteria and periodontal disease has been proved and widely recognised, it is
      generally accepted that removal of pathogenic microorganisms that form plaque and calculus is
      the major goal of periodontal treatment. This therapy currently consists of scaling and root
      planing, but in addition to mechanical instrumentation, regeneration and restoration of
      various periodontal components to their original form, function and consistency should be
      performed.

      Previously it was accepted that bacterial endotoxins or bacteria penetrate the cementum of
      periodontally diseased root surfaces. Therefore, besides the removal of the subgingival
      plaque and calculus deposits, the removal of all or most of the cementum was one of the
      primary endpoints of periodontal healing. The goal of periodontal therapy was to attain a
      planed root surface with a smooth and hard surface characteristics and free of endotoxins as
      the cementum of a tooth prior to eruption. While some studies have reported that endotoxins
      are not located within cementum it has been accepted that the removal of 'diseased' cementum
      was not necessary for a successful periodontal treatment.

      Saygin et al. reported that cementum is the site where soft-tissue attachment has to be
      re-established, and cementum matrix is a rich source of many growth factors which influence
      the activities of various periodontal cell types and Grzesik et al. stated that cementum
      plays a regulatory role in periodontal regeneration. From these studies it can be concluded
      that non-aggressive periodontal treatment is necessary for optimal periodontal health as well
      as for periodontal regeneration.

      During periodontal therapy subgingival instrumentation by means of the removal of root
      cementum can be eventually lead to exposure of dentinal tubules, pulp injury and dentin
      hypersensitivity. The in vitro studies including establishing in vitro experimental models
      under standardized experimental conditions evaluated the amount of cementum with various
      instruments or force combinations. Several studies, which showed the effects of different
      instruments on root surfaces, emphasized that periodontal treatment can be performed less
      aggressively with respect to the removal of cementum.

      Previously reported that the teeth treated by HC and US can present a surface without
      cementum and the open dentinal tubules.They reported that root surfaces treated by US showed
      a scaly and rough topography whether the teeth treated with HC presented smooth surfaces.
      Kawashima and co-workers compared two different piezoelectric US (VectorTM and EnacR scaler)
      and HC and found that both US groups had significantly more remaining cementum than the HC
      group. However they observed some areas with thin or absent cementum in the HC group. Ruhling
      et al. compared the effects of the piezoelectric US, sonic scaler (SS), sonic scaler insert
      coated with Teflon tube, Periotor insert and HC. They showed that HC and SS group presented
      greater removal of root cementum and nearly all cementum was removed in 25% of the samples
      treated with HC.

      Tomasi et al. reported that biofilm and calculus certainly should be removed but also they
      questioned the requirement for removal of contaminated root cementum by root planing. US with
      new shaped tips and AP devices as alternative to HC designed for subgingival access have been
      developed for minimal root damage. In recent years, there are newly developed instruments
      presenting clinically efficient results in the treatment of chronic periodontitis.
      Subgingival AP has been suggested as a treatment modality for root debridement. Two recent
      studies have investigated the clinical and microbiological efficacy of subgingival AP by
      glycine powder in periodontal pockets and they revealed probing depth reductions and removal
      of subgingival biofilm. Today there is no scientific research evidence showing the loss of
      root substance or surface roughness by subgingival AP or US instrumentation with AP.

      The aim of the present study was to compare the effect of in vivo root instrumentation using
      a new piezoelectric US instrument, HC and air polishing by glycine powder, under routine
      clinical conditions, on the thickness and surface characteristics of cementum.

      Forty-eight periodontally involved caries free, single rooted teeth with advanced
      periodontitis scheduled for extraction treated in four different methods. The teeth were
      instrumented subgingivally at one approximal site either by hand curettes (HC), piezoelectric
      ultrasonic scaler (US), piezoelectric ultrasonic scaler following air polishing, air
      polishing (AP) alone. Upon extracting the teeth, instrumented and other non-instrumented
      sites analyzed with a dissecting microscope and SEM for the measurement of amount and surface
      characteristics of residual cementum.
    
  