
    
      The AIMS related to specific outcomes are:

      AIM 1. Evaluate the feasibility of a group drumming intervention.

      RQ 1.1 What are the rates of recruitment?

      RQ 1.2 What are the potential barriers to recruitment?

      RQ 1.3 Was the group drumming intervention protocol delivered as designed?

      RQ 1.4 Did the attention control group follow designed protocol?

      RQ 1.5 What are the differences in treatment acceptability?

      AIM 2. Evaluate adherence and duration between a group drumming intervention and attention
      control group.

      RQ 2.1 What are the adherence rates for the 6-week interventions among cancer patients, and
      were these rates similar in the two treatment arms?

      RQ 2.2 What are the dropout rates for the 6-week interventions among cancer patients, and
      were these rates similar in the two treatment arms?

      RQ 2.3 Are there differential reasons for drop out based on group assignment?

      AIM 3. To obtain preliminary data describing the impact of group drumming on fatigue and
      anxiety severity levels and change patterns over time as compared to an attentional control
      group.

      Exploratory AIMs. To explore whether cancer patients, who participate in a 6-week group
      drumming intervention, will show improvement in cognitive function, as measured by the
      Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognition (FACT-COG). To explore impact on group
      drumming and positive affect as measured by Positive Affect & Well-being Scale-Short Form
      (PAW-SF) and Core Flow States (C FSS).

      Statistical Methods, Data Analysis, and Interpretation. Demographics, feasibility measures,
      and outcome measures will be analyzed through a combination of descriptive and inferential
      analysis. Sample characteristics will be reported as means and quartiles, counts, or
      percentages, as appropriate, along with standard deviations or interquartile ranges to
      describe variability. Where it is possible to construe sample values as population estimates,
      standard errors and confidence intervals will also be provided. Comparable information will
      be provided for the samples randomly assigned to receive either intervention or attention
      control. Any chance imbalance will be controlled statistically by conditioning on baseline
      values, as described in many of the statistical references. Drop out and attendance
      percentages will be calculated within each group and evaluated as potential treatment
      responses.

      Aim 1: This AIM focuses on determining the pragmatic possibility of success in recruiting and
      delivering a group drumming intervention. Rates of recruitment will include reporting the
      percentage of people who expressed an interest in participating from those approached,
      percentage of people who met inclusion criteria from those who expressed an interest,
      percentage of people consented from those who met inclusion criteria, the percentage of
      people consented from those who met inclusion criteria, the percentage of people who
      completed the questionnaires. Barriers to recruitment will include reporting percentage of
      those who were excluded from those who expressed an interest, documentation of barriers
      people stated for not being able to participate in the study with percentages for each
      reason. A CONSORT flowchart will be used to show how many people were screened, how many were
      eligible or excluded, how many consented, and how many completed the study. Fidelity related
      to following protocols for the group drumming intervention will be evaluated by using a music
      therapy validity checklist. The music therapist facilitating the intervention will sign a
      copy of the protocol and fidelity checklist prior to beginning the intervention and the
      percentage of deviations will be recorded on the protocol fidelity check list by the
      principal investigator during the first intervention group to be sure that the protocol is
      being followed in order to ensure fidelity.

      Aim 2: Adherence (compliance, persistence, "dose") between a group drumming intervention and
      attention control group will be calculated based upon percentages of participants who missed
      a group, percentage of participants who dropped out, percentage of people who did not
      complete the study, and percentage of people who completed the study. Confidence intervals
      for the percentages will be derived from exact permutational tests that require no
      distributional assumptions and are hence more appropriate for small samples than those based
      on normal theory. Duration will be examined using discrete time survival analysis and
      bootstrapped confidence intervals. Reasons for missing a group will be tallied (see appendix
      9), and grouped into "unrelated" or "possibly treatment-related" categories. Examples of
      "presumptively unrelated" reasons would be colds or minor illness, dental or medical
      appointments, family issues, or moved to a different area. If participants missed a group
      session because they could not accept or tolerate the experience, this would be coded as
      possibly treatment-related. Those who actively withdraw (letting music therapist or research
      team member know ahead of group or after group that they don't plan to return) will be noted
      separately as neutral reasons from those who passively withdraw (don't show up).

      Similarly, the percentage of positive and negative answers to "How did the session go today?"
      will be reported. The answers to the two questions "what made this study challenging for you
      to attend?" and "what didn't you like about it?" will be reported and categorized into
      percentages.

      Exploratory Aim 3: This aim provides preliminary pilot data describing the impact of group
      drumming on fatigue, anxiety, and cognitive impairment severity levels and change patterns.
      These data will be needed to plan sample size and design features in a future definitive
      comparative study. For this purpose, a formal statistical model is most useful, since it
      generates parameter estimates that can be applied to power calculations for similar
      model-based analyses to be used in the future study. Two aspects of an individual's response
      are relevant: the degree of overall treatment impact (gain) and the mean rate-of-change
      post-baseline (trend). Fatigue will be analyzed by looking at gain and trend of individual
      FACIT-F scores at 3 weeks, 6 weeks, and 8 weeks after group has ended between intervention
      and attention control groups. Anxiety will be analyzed by looking at gain and trend of
      individual using STAI scores at 3 weeks, 6 weeks, and 8 weeks after group has ended between
      intervention and attention control groups. Cognitive impairment will be analyzed by looking
      at gain and trend of individual using FACT-COG scores at 3 weeks, 6 weeks, and 8 weeks after
      group has ended between intervention and attention control groups.

      Analysis model. The two primary outcomes of fatigue and anxiety will be analyzed using a
      mixed effects linear model that assumes that individual longitudinal responses, conditional
      on baseline values, are generated by treatment assignment, and time since baseline.
      Specifically, the post-baseline measures at three, six, and eight weeks after the last group
      ends will be analyzed by examining the difference in mean adjusted gains and trends. Equally
      important in this kind of pilot study, the model yields empirical Bayes estimates of
      individual gains and time trends. Such a clinical impact analysis model will allow the study
      to show individual responses related to who is benefitting, how much they are benefitting so
      that responses can be viewed based on trend and adjusted gain (or loss), and how varied these
      responses are relative to the mean treatment impact. Details of the model are developed in
      multiple scientific publications.

      The following hypotheses will be explored under the clinical impact model: HImpact: Drumming
      yields greater mean improvement on fatigue, anxiety and cognitive impairment than does
      attention control. Hpersistence: The mean rate-of-change with drumming is more positive than
      that of the control treatment, Hheterogeneity: Patients receiving either intervention vary in
      the extent of their benefit. Data will be analyzed using SPSS Mixed and SAS Proc Mixed
      programs under inferential options appropriate for smaller samples (Restricted Maximum
      Likelihood with Kenward-Roger Degrees of Freedom). The hypothesis represents plausible
      expectations, not formal statistical assumptions of population magnitudes. The purpose of the
      analyses is to generate estimates for future planning, not to reach definitive conclusions.

      I plan to recruit 26 participants (n=13 treatment, n=13 control) allowing for 20% drop out to
      yield 10 per group will allow me to plot the distributions of the individual and mean
      estimates in a scatterplot with adjusted gain and trend as the two axes.
    
  