
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a debilitating mental disorder, that can develop
      after service in the armed forces. Psychotherapy performed along with MDMA is an innovative
      form of therapy for posttraumatic stress disorder. This study will follow on the findings of
      an initial pilot study in a sample largely made up of people whose PTSD did not develop from
      serving in the military. This study will investigate whether MDMA-assisted psychotherapy is
      safe and efficacious in a sample of veterans and whether maintaining an effective
      double-blind can be better addressed by performing a dose comparison study.

      This study is a randomized, double-blind, dose comparison study with an open-label cross-over
      segment that will assess the safety and efficacy of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy in veterans
      with chronic posttraumatic stress disorder. Twelve of 24 participants will receive the full
      dose of 125 mg, six will receive 75 mg and six will receive 30 mg (active placebo dose). An
      independent rater blind to condition will assess symptoms of PTSD and depression, general
      quality of life and posttraumatic growth prior to any psychotherapy sessions one month after
      the second experimental session.

      After undergoing three 90-minute non-drug introductory psychotherapy sessions with a
      male/female co-therapist team, study participants will undergo two eight-hour long
      experimental sessions scheduled three to five weeks apart, during which they will randomly
      receive either 30, 75 or 125 mg MDMA on both occasions, followed by a supplemental dose of
      half the initial dose. Participants will undergo integrative psychotherapy in between each
      experimental session, including on the day after each session. Vital signs and psychological
      distress will be measured throughout each experimental session, and suicidality will be
      assessed throughout the course of the study. Spontaneously reported side effects will be
      collected on the day of each experimental session, and for six days afterward. PTSD symptoms,
      symptoms of depression, general psychological function, posttraumatic growth and quality of
      sleep will be assessed one month after the second experimental session, and the blind will be
      broken.

      Participants who received 125 mg MDMA will continue to have a third experimental session, and
      they will be assessed two months after the third experimental session.

      Participants who received 30 or 75 mg MDMA may take part in an open-label crossover segment
      that will follow nearly identical procedures, except that there will only be one introductory
      session prior to the first experimental session. There will be three experimental sessions.
      Symptoms of PTSD, depression and posttraumatic growth will be assessed at the start of the
      study. They will also be assessed one month after the second and two months after the third
      experimental session.

      All participants will be assessed 12 months after their final experimental session. PTSD and
      depression symptoms and posttraumatic growth will be assessed, and participants will complete
      a questionnaire concerning the costs and benefits of being in the study.
    
  