
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the rate of major erythroid response (MER) between lenalidomide monotherapy and
      combined treatment of lenalidomide and epoetin alfa in erythropoietin non-responsive
      low-/intermediate-1 (Int-1)-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients or erythropoietin
      treatment naïve patients with low probability of erythropoietin benefit.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the time to MER by treatment assignment. II. To evaluate the duration of MER by
      treatment assignment. III. To estimate the frequency of MER to salvage combination therapy in
      patients who fail to experience a MER with lenalidomide monotherapy.

      IV. To evaluate and compare the frequency of minor erythroid response by treatment
      assignment.

      V. To investigate the mechanism and target of lenalidomide action in patients with chromosome
      5q31.1 deletion.

      VI. To evaluate the frequency of cytogenetic response and progression, and the relationship
      between cytogenetic pattern and erythroid response.

      VII. To evaluate the frequency of bone marrow response (complete response [CR] + partial
      response [PR]).

      VIII. To evaluate the relationship between erythroid response and laboratory correlates
      outlined below:

      VIIIa. Pretreatment and on study endogenous erythropoietin level (Arm A). VIIIb. To evaluate
      the effect of CD45 isoform profile on lenalidomide enhancement of erythropoietin-induced
      STAT5 phosphorylation in CD71^Hi erythroid precursors and the relationship to erythroid
      response.

      VIIIc. To characterize molecular targets relevant to lenalidomide cytotoxicity in del5q31.1
      cells.

      VIIId. To evaluate the frequency of cryptic chromosome 5q31.1 deletions in patients with
      non-del5q31.1 MDS by array-based genomic scan, and to determine the relationship to
      hematologic response.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Patients with del 5q31.1 karyotype
      are assigned to Arm A.

      ARM A: Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21.

      ARM B: Patients receive lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21 and epoetin alfa subcutaneously (SC)
      once weekly.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 cycles. Patients who achieve a major
      erythroid response (MER) may continue treatment beyond 4 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression, disease conversion to acute myeloid leukemia, or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      in Arm A who fail to achieve MER or who achieve MER but relapse after 16 weeks of treatment
      with lenalidomide may crossover and receive treatment in Arm B.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 6 months.
    
  