
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM) is the second most common haematological malignancy (after
      non-Hodgkin's lymphoma), representing 1% of all cancers and 2% of all cancer deaths. Despite
      the increased efficacy of first-line agents, the majority of patients will eventually relapse
      and become resistant to all classes of available therapies. With over 15,000 deaths from MM
      expected in 2014 in the United states of America (USA) alone, there remains a need for novel
      therapies for the treatment of refractory MM that can improve outcome Daratumumab is an IgG1ĸ
      human mAb that specifically recognizes the CD38 epitope. Daratumumab binds to the C-terminus
      of CD38. It is produced in a recombinant Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell line. Standard
      mammalian cell culture and purification technologies are employed in the manufacture of
      Daratumumab. Daratumumab targets directly the tumour cells by selectively binding to CD38
      receptors, present in high levels on malignant plasma cells in multiple myeloma. While
      binding of Daratumumab antibody to CD38 in vitro has some effect on enzyme activity
      (inhibiting cyclase and stimulating hydrolase activity), the main effect of Daratumumab
      antibody binding to CD38+ myeloma cell lines is lysis and cell death through complement
      dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), through antibody dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) or
      antibody-dependent cell phagocytosis (ADCP), or by direct apoptosis following crosslinking of
      the antibody molecules. These mechanisms are likely to be involved in Daratumumab activity in
      vivo, although the primary mechanism of action in patients is not fully elucidated.
      Importantly, Daratumumab-induced ADCC and CDC was not affected by the presence of bone marrow
      stromal cells, indicating that Daratumumab can effectively kill MM tumour cells in a
      tumour-preserving bone marrow microenvironment. In vivo, Daratumumab was highly active and
      interrupted xenograft tumour growth at low dosing. Daratumumab has demonstrated activity in
      myeloma as a single agent in small phase I/II studies and in combination with Lenalidomide
      and Dexamethasone where it enhanced the potency of other MM drugs such as Lenalidomide
      offering an interesting alternative to chemotherapy in myeloma.
    
  