
    
      This study will investigate the physiological and cognitive responses to warm exposure in
      persons with SCI who have subnormal Tcore and in AB persons who are euthermic. The positive
      effect that an increase in Tcore will be expected to have on cognitive performance,
      specifically working memory and executive function, will be demonstrated. These two areas of
      cognitive performance are vital for the ability to optimally care for one's self, at which
      persons with higher cord lesions must excel in order to ensure health, and for the ability to
      attain the maximal degree of independence possible.

      Preparation for Study Visits: Subjects will be instructed to avoid caffeine and alcohol,
      maintain normal salt and water intake, and avoid strenuous exercise for 24 hours prior to the
      study. Subjects will be asked to eat a light, standard meal (plain bagel or 2 pieces of
      toast) 2 hours prior to their visit. Subjects will be asked to empty their bladders prior to
      their visit and again upon arrival, if needed. Subjects will wear minimal clothing during the
      study to maximize skin exposure to the warm temperature.

      Instrumentation: Subjects with SCI will be asked to remain in their wheelchairs and AB
      controls will be placed in a manual wheelchair where they will remain seated and relatively
      still for the duration of the study visit. A thin, flexible rectal sensor will be placed 4
      inches beyond the anal sphincter for Tcore collection, and skin sensors will be secured at 15
      sites above and below the level of lesion for collection of skin temperature (Tsk). Sweat
      collection capsules will be placed on the left bicep, the left forearm, the left thigh and
      the left calf for measurement of sweat rate by QSweat methodology (QS). Laser Doppler
      flowmetry will be used to measure changes in microvascular perfusion (MVP) by placing a
      Doppler probe on the back of both hands and both feet to confirm peripheral blood vessel
      dilation. An automated blood pressure cuff will be placed above the left elbow to measure
      brachial BP.

      Baseline Collection (BL): At the end of a 30-minute acclimation period at 81 F, a baseline
      collection of the following parameters will be performed for 15 minutes: Tcore and Tsk will
      be continuously monitored; BP, heart rate (HR), and thermal sensitivity (TS) will be measured
      in 10-minute intervals; and MVP and QS will be measured in 15-minute intervals. After 15
      minutes, a battery of cognitive tests will be administered to establish baseline cognitive
      performance.

      Thermal Challenge (Heat): Following completion of the BL period, subjects will be wheeled
      into a pre-heated (95 F) thermal chamber for up to 120 minutes or until Tcore increases 1 F.
      Tcore and Tsk will be continuously monitored to ensure subjects' safety throughout the
      protocol, while HR, BP, and TS will be assessed at 10-minute intervals. MVP and QS will be
      measured every 30 minutes. The battery of cognitive tests utilized during BL collection will
      be administered when Tcore increases 1 F from BL values (for subjects with tetraplegia) or
      after 100 minutes (for controls) to determine any change in cognition after exposure to 95 F.
      An increase in Tcore 1 F, significant changes in BP, or subject discomfort will result in
      termination of the protocol.
    
  