
    
      The present study provides the next important step for this line of research. First, the
      present study is a far more developed examination of the potential effects of BCT on multiple
      dimensions of youth functioning, taken from multiple perspectives. Second, we do not know
      "how" BCT works. The positive effects of BCT on parents (reduced addition severity, improved
      dyadic adjustment, reduced partner violence, improved parenting, and improved parental
      psychological adjustment) may have positive "trickle down" effects on youth; however, we have
      not undertaken an empirical examination of these potential mechanisms of action. If we can
      understand how it works, we will be able to use that information to refine BCT to enhance the
      mechanisms that benefit youth. Thus, the present study will examine possible curative
      mechanisms. Third, we have a very limited understanding for "whom" it works. Thus, we will
      examine whether BCT may operate differently for children of different stages of development.
      If we can understand this moderating effect, we may be able to develop and refine BCT to meet
      the needs of families with children of different ages.

      To address these issues, the present study will compare the emotional and behavioral
      adjustment, beliefs, and behaviors, including serious problem behaviors, of youth ages 5 to
      18 (as rated by mothers, fathers, and the children themselves) whose mothers or fathers take
      part in BCT to an Intent-to-Treat group. We will focus on potential mechanisms of action that
      are positively influenced by BCT.

      We intend to use the information collected from the proposed investigation to refine and
      modify BCT to enhance its positive effects on children. This process of (a) examining
      multiple dimensions of functioning and (b) evaluating theoretically and empirically
      identified mediators and moderators to inform intervention development and refinement has
      been used successfully for over a decade with BCT, resulting in empirically informed BCT
      variants for alcoholic patients, drug-abusing patients, patients who engage in domestic
      violence, female substance-abusing patients, and so on. Thus, this project provides the next
      critical step for BCT refinement and interventions for couples entering BCT who have
      custodial children, the latter of whom we may only be able to help by helping their parents.
    
  