
    
      Coronavirus-induced disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by SARS-CoV-2 infection is a highly
      contagious disease with a high and unpredictable morbidity and mortality, for which there is
      currently no specific treatment. Progression from a mild fatigue, fever and cough, to severe
      respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation may occur 1 to 2 weeks into the disease.
      This provides a window of opportunity in which patients in the early phase of the disease
      could be treated with a disease-modifying agent, to halt disease progression, prevent
      hospital admissions with respiratory failure and prevent death.

      Camostat is a serine protease inhibitor in clinical use in Japan since 1985 to treat patients
      with chronic pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas) and has an acceptable safety
      profile. Camostat has been shown to inhibit SARS-CoV-2 entry into epithelial cells in vitro.
      A trial of this repurposed drug for treatment of COVID-19 in humans is urgently required to
      assess its impact on disease progression to respiratory failure and whether it can reduce
      mortality.

      The trial has a pilot phase and then a continuation phase. Patients will be randomised into a
      treatment arm (camostat tablets) or control arm (best supportive care). Patients will be
      called daily at home for 14 days by the clinical trial team to collect symptoms and record
      the general well-being of the patient. The primary aim of this trial is to determine if
      camostat can reduce the clinical progression of COVID-19 and therefore the need for hospital
      admission and supplemental oxygen. Secondary aims include collection of patient reported
      health status, severity of symptoms and biological markers of the virus. As the understanding
      of COVID-19 develops and improves, the inclusion criteria may be adapted to support the trial
      outcomes. Patients will be recruited through various settings which may include primary care
      'COVID-19 hub' clinics, COVID-19 community-based testing centres or other clinical
      environments.
    
  