
    
      Osteoporosis is an important and costly health issue. The diagnosis of the disease is based
      on measurement of bone mineral density or the occurrence of characteristic fractures.
      Currently it is not possible to predict fractures in individual patients, and the ability to
      monitor the response to treatment is limited as well.

      We have synthesized and characterized a novel photoreactive Ca2+-analog reagent, Azido
      ruthenium (AzRu) that binds covalently to Ca2+-binding sites in proteins. The specificity of
      AzRu for Ca2+-binding proteins, its photoactivation and its radioactive labeling pave the way
      for a wide use of AzRu as a powerful tool to assess Ca2+-dependent cellular processes, both
      in vitro and in vivo. Using radiolabeled AzRu, it will be possible to identify Ca2+-binding
      proteins in a biological sample such as whole cell, isolated mitochondria, ER or other
      protein containing fractions. Protein bound [103Ru]AzRu in biological sample can be separated
      by SDS gel electrophoresis, followed by Coomassie staining and exposure of the dried gel to
      X-ray film (autoradiography). This allows the identification of the [103Ru] radiolabeled
      proteins. The labeled protein bands can be cut from the gel and subjected to MALADI-TOF
      analysis and the identity of the protein can be determined by a sequence homology search.

      These would allow detection of Ca2+-binding proteins in the serum of various diseases and
      disorders, potentially leading to identification of novel biomarkers for disease diagnostics.

      We would like to use blood samples to carry out the procedure described above for
      identification of Ca2+ binding proteins appearing or their level is increased in disease or
      under pathogenic conditions. Since Ca2+ binding proteins play an important role in bone
      metabolism, we chose to test their occurrence in the serum of patients with osteoporosis and
      other metabolic bone diseases.
    
  