
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete 3 sets of questionnaires (at the
      beginning of the study, at 2-months and at 4-months) which will be sent to you and returned
      by you through the mail. This will not require you to travel to M.D. Anderson. In addition to
      the questionnaires, you will also complete 2 follow-up phone interviews.

      Questionnaires:

      The first set of questionnaires will be mailed to your home. The questionnaires will ask
      questions about your anxiety level and how much you know about pacemakers or implantable
      cardioverter-defibrillators. There will also be questions about your gender, age, ethnicity,
      and race. The questionnaires will take about 25 minutes to complete. When you are finished,
      you will mail the questionnaires to the study staff. An envelope with pre-paid postage will
      be provided.

      Educational Packet:

      After you have completed the questionnaires, you will receive an educational packet in the
      mail. The packet will have a DVD or a video (depending on whether you tell us you have a DVD
      player or a VHS player) with information on medical devices, device recall information (when
      and why certain devices have been recalled in the past), a list of on-line resources and
      benefits of routine follow-up.

      Phone Interview:

      The study staff will call your home 1 week after you receive the educational packet for a
      follow-up interview. A member of the study staff will review the packet with you. The phone
      call will last about 20 minutes.

      Additional Questionnaires:

      Approximately 2 months and at 4 months after you complete the first set of questionnaires, an
      additional set of questionnaires will be mailed to you. You will be asked to complete the
      same questionnaires as you did in the first set. At 4 months an additional questionnaire
      about the information in the educational packet and how useful it was to you will be
      included. The questionnaires will take about 25 minutes to complete. When you are finished,
      you will mail the questionnaires to the study staff. An envelope with pre-paid postage will
      be provided.

      Length of Study:

      You participation on this study is complete once you have completed the additional
      questionnaires.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 104 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  