
    
      In recent decades, numerous videolaryngoscopes have been introduced to facilitate tracheal
      intubation. However, it remains unclear whether videolaryngoscope will increase the
      successful tracheal intubation compared with usual Macintosch laryngoscope. In a quantitative
      review on the performance of several non-standard laryngoscopes (e.g. Bonfils, CTrach,
      Glidescope), no strong evidence has been identified to support these devices to supersede the
      Macintosh laryngoscope. Owing to the lacks of randomized trials at the time, Airtraq has not
      been reviewed in the analysis.

      The Airtraq laryngoscope is one of the optical indirect laryngoscopes, which provides glottis
      display without any deviation in the normal position of the oral, pharyngeal or the tracheal
      axes. Unlike other videolaryngoscopes, the Airtraq larygoscope is a non-steering novel airway
      device which has a guide channel for tracheal tube alongside with the blade. Its use has been
      showed to improve the ease of intubation in difficult airway situations. Up to date,
      randomized controlled trials comparing the Airtraq and Macintosh direct laryngoscopes are
      either small scaled or focusing on specific populations. And instead of the first-attempt
      success rate, the primary endpoints adopted have focused on the glottic view, intubation
      time, and cervical spine movement. The Difficult Airway Society has highlighted the
      importance of a robust and high standard of evidence to assess the use of new devices in
      airway management. Knowing that failed tracheal intubation has remained a major contribution
      to anesthetic-related morbidity and mortality, clinical relevant endpoint is essential to
      guide the selection of airway devices for tracheal intubation. Considering reports on
      unsuccessful tracheal intubation under satisfactory video-laryngoscopic view, using
      laryngoscopic view as a surrogate measure for successful intubation can give false assurances
      of device efficacy. While improvement in first-pass laryngoscopic success confers less airway
      trauma and possibly the prevention in deterioration to a 'Cannot Intubate Cannot Ventilate'
      scenario, it then translates into much more success than the improvement with multiple
      attempts and shortened intubation time. Meta-analyses have demonstrated that the Airtraq
      significantly decreased intubation time both in novice and in experienced anaesthetists
      compared with the Macintosh laryngoscope. Whereas in the first-attempt intubation, an
      increase in the first-pass success rate was only found in novice anaesthetists with
      significant analysis heterogeneity.

      In view of these, a large pragmatic effectiveness trial using first-pass intubation success
      as the primary endpoint to compare the Airtraq and Macinotosh direct laryngoscope is
      necessary. The trial population should include normal and abnormal airways, a variety of
      elective and non-elective patients and proceduralists with mixed experience to allow results
      to be generalizable. A large trial would allow testing of subgroup effects that has not been
      previously possible and results would be generalizable due to its pragmatic design. The
      results of this trial will provide improved guidance for current airway algorithms.
    
  