
    
      Primary end point Effectiveness To demonstrate in diabetic patients,the effectiveness of
      nutraceuticals (bergamot 450 mg, Gymnema (400 mg, Phaseolamin 30 mg, Olea Europaea 10 mg) to
      reduce total and LDL cholesterol.

      Secondary end points To demonstrate in diabetic patients,the effectiveness of nutraceuticals
      (bergamot 450 mg, Gymnema (400 mg, Phaseolamin 30 mg, Olea Europaea 10 mg) to improve
      Endothelial function evaluated with vascular Doppler color echo; CHARACTERISTICS OF THE
      POPULATION diabetic patients in optimized medical therapy and increased plasma levels of
      total and LDL cholesterol EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN AND METHODOLOGY OF RESEARCH Experimental
      drawing Phase II prospective, randomized, comparative, vs placebo study Sample size
      Literature data show that total cholesterol levels> 200 mg / dl and LDL> 130 mg//dl have an
      increased cardiovascular risk in subjects with diabetes mellitus; in the Calabrian people the
      Health Examination Survey conducted in 2012, showed the following average values: total
      cholesterolemia 233 +/- 45 mg /dl for men and 238 +/- 40 mg / dl for women; while for LDL
      cholesterol the mean values are respectively 151 +/- 30 mg / dl in humans and 148 +/- 35 mg /
      dl in women. In these subjects the doubling of the statin dosage contributes to a further
      reduction of plasma levels by about 6%; the hypothesis not evaluated is that the integration
      with nutraceuticals (bergamot 450 mg, Gymnema (400 mg, Phaseolamin 30 mg, Olea Europaea 10
      mg) in patients with optimized therapy, involves reduction of plasma levels> 6% HYPOTHESIS N
      =2(1600)/(196)*6,2= 3200/196*6.2= 88 The study will be performed with the enrollment of 88
      diabetic patients, Eligible patients will be of both sexes, and naïve patients on
      nutraceutical (920 mg), consequently recruited.

      Patients using randomization tab will be randomized 1: 1 to treatment with active substance
      versus placebo. Investigators may not be aware of the sequence in which the treatments will
      be assigned nor foresee the next assignment in any way.

      TIMING OF THE STUDY The duration of the study will be 12 weeks after recruitment. After
      signing the informed consent, previously approved by the Ethics Committee, the subjects can
      fully enter the study. Each patient must make three visits: SEL (selection visit); V01
      (initial visit); TERM (final visit). Excluding the patient's inclusion visit (V01), each
      visit will take place in the morning and each patient will be studied at the same time of
      day, between 8.00 am and 12.00 am, during the study (± 2 hours).

      The treatment is always accompanied by main meals. The first administration in naïve patients
      on Nutraceuticals will be done under the supervision of the staff involved in the study.
      Patients will then be reviewed at 4 and 12 weeks after recruitment.

      ANALYTICAL PRESENTATION OF THE PROCEDURES TO BE PERFORMED Before signing informed consent,
      patients will be informed about the rationale of the study, the objective and the procedures
      of the study itself. All the subjects can refuse to participate, or they can interrupt the
      participation at any time.

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the protocol, Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and
      according to the regulatory principles of application.

      Selection visit During the selection visit (SEL), all patients are subjected to the following
      evaluation.

        -  Collection of informed consent by the principal investigator;

        -  Complete medical documentation on anthropological characteristics and clinical anamnesis
           (including any chronic treatments, or in the case of women, of contraceptive measures),
           and assessment of the presence of inclusion and exclusion criteria;

        -  Data collection: weight, height, Body Mass Index calculation, Systolic Blood Pressure
           and Diastolic Blood Pressure measurements (mean arterial pressure) using automatic
           meters, and 12-lead electrocardiogram;

        -  Blood chemistry tests (total ,LDL and HDL cholesterol, glycemia, triglycerides,
           creatinine, Glutamic Oxaloacetic Transaminase(GOT), Glutamic Piruvate Transaminase
           (GPT), , potassium(K), Sodium (Na) uricemia and blood count, hb glycated blood sugar,
           C-reactive Protein );

        -  Electrocardiogram

        -  cardiac Eco-color - doppler (evaluation of the systolic and diastolic function indices)

        -  Non-invasive study of endothelial function (vascular arterial Doppler )

        -  Ergometric test

        -  Six minutes walking test

        -  Questionnaire on quality of life SF 36

        -  Pregnancy test in women of childbearing age

      All laboratory results and pregnancy tests are checked before enrolling the patient in the
      study:

      If the result of these evaluations:

      A) Does not meet the inclusion criteria, the investigator must:

        -  Document all the interview and the occurrence of adverse events;

        -  Draw up the examination and a physical exam including weight, height and measurements of
           systolic and diastolic pressures;

        -  Examine all the results of blood chemistry and biochemical tests; Document the reasons
           why the patient is not included in the study. Complete the CRF (case report Forms) of
           the trial. B) Satisfy the inclusion criteria (and if exclusion criteria do not appear),
           a blood sample will be collected.

      Therefore, the patients eligible for the study will be recruited and treated with:

        -  nutraceuticals (bergamot 450 mg, Gymnema (400 mg, Phaseolamin 30 mg, Olea Europaea 10
           mg)

        -  Placebo Patients will take part in the study by double daily administration, before main
           meals. The first administration always takes place in the presence of personnel involved
           in the study VISIT 1 (4 WEEKS) Patients enrolled are promptly informed on the dosage of
           treatment, on compliance with treatment and on the need to evaluate its effectiveness
           after four weeks (± 3 days): V01.

      During the 4-week visit (V01), patients undergo:

        -  Collection of any symptoms related to gastrointestinal disorders

        -  Blood sampling: Blood chemistry tests (total cholesterol, LDL and HDL cholesterol,
           glycemia, triglycerides, creatinine, GOT , GPT, Na, K, uricemia and blood count, hb
           glycated blood sugar, insulin, CrP )

        -  Objective examination

        -  Detection of vital parameters (blood pressure, heart rate)

        -  Interview on adverse events, if present, and concomitant changes to the assumption of
           treatment

        -  Restitution of the drug and calculation of unused capsules to assess patient compliance

        -  Reporting in the CRF of the number of unused and returned capsules

        -  Delivery of the drug. FINAL VISIT (TERM)

      During the final visit (TERM), made twelve weeks after enrollment (± 3 days), patients
      undergo the evaluation of:

        -  Data collection: weight, height, BMI calculation, SBP and DBP measurements (mean
           arterial pressure) using automatic meters, and twelve-lead electrocardiogram;

        -  Blood chemistry tests (total cholesterol, LDL and HDL cholesterol, glycemia,
           triglycerides, creatinine,GOT, GPT, Na, K, uricemia and blood count, hb glycated blood
           sugar, insulin,CrP)

        -  Electrocardiogram

        -  Cardiac Eco-color doppler (evaluation of the indices of systolic and diastolic function)

        -  Non-invasive study of endothelial function (vascular arterial Doppler)

        -  Ergometric test

        -  Six minutes walking test

        -  Questionnaire on quality of life SF 36

        -  Collection of any symptoms related to gastrointestinal disorders

        -  Interview on adverse events, if present, and concomitant changes to the assumption of
           treatment

        -  Restitution of the drug and calculation of unused capsules to assess patient compliance

        -  Reporting in the CRF of the number of unused and returned capsules. EARLY TERMINATION OF
           THE STUDY After informing the Ethics Committee and the Health Authorities, the person
           who took part in the study may decide to stop the study before the deadline.

      Two copies of the written consent will be dated and signed by the investigator. All data will
      be collected in the case report (CRF) INTERRUPTION OF THE TREATMENT Withdrawal and
      interruption of a patient's study A patient can withdraw from the study at any time.

      The treatment may be prematurely and permanently interrupted by the investigator for one or
      more of the following reasons:

        -  Patient refusal to continue the study

        -  Principle of an adverse event, which represents an important risk to the patient
           according to the investigator or requires the prescription of treatments that are not
           considered concomitant in the protocol.

        -  Treatment not tolerated

        -  Any clinical event that requires treatment interruption.

        -  Any clinical event that requires a type of treatment that is incompatible with the
           study.

        -  Pregnancy Procedures

      In case of premature interruption of treatment:

      - the investigator must document the reason (s) and the exact time of the interruption of the
      study in the CRF and in the patient's record. If more than one reason is given, the
      investigator must indicate the main one.

      In the case of a premature withdrawal from the study due to an adverse event (an event
      requiring immediate notification or not), the investigator must collect all the information
      related to the event. If necessary, the information is put together later.

      - During the final follow-up visit, the investigator must:

        -  Draw up the interview on the occurrence of an adverse event and on the changes in the
           treatment and the respective doses;

        -  Perform objective examination (including weight, height, systolic and diastolic blood
           pressure);

        -  Perform a twelve-lead ECG

        -  Carry out a withdrawal for renal and hepatic function, possibly fasting blood count;

        -  Recover the remaining capsules and report in the CRF the number of unused and returned
           capsules;

        -  Document the date of the first and last administration taken;

        -  Estimate patient compliance with treatment between the final and previous visits.

      ADVERSE EVENTS AND ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse event and adverse drug reactions The
      European legislation on pharmacovigilance was amended with the adoption in 2010 of EU
      Regulation 1235/2010, whose application is operational from 2 July 2012, and of Directive
      2010/84 / EU, in force since 21 July 2012.

      Collection and notification, by the individual Investigators and by the Promoter, of adverse
      events / adverse reactions occurred to patients enrolled in clinical trials with medicinal
      products for human use. For the definition of serious and non-serious adverse events, refer
      to the Standards of Good Clinical Practice of the PATIENT TREATMENTS Treatment management
      There is only one treatment period, and the formulation of the drug is in capsule form. The
      treatment is provided directly by the investigator at the end of each scheduled visit.
      Patients will take the product in a single daily dose after one of the main meals.

      Delivery of treatment

      Patients will be divided into two groups:

      Group 1 composed of 45 enrolled subjects who will receive placebo bis in die, twenty minutes
      before the main meals; Group 2 composed of 45 subjects enrolled with type II diabetes
      mellitus and hypercholesterolemia without hypertriglyceridemia who will receive a double
      administration of nutraceuticals (bergamot 450 mg, Gymnema (400 mg, Phaseolamin 30 mg, Olea
      Europaea 10 mg) mg with the cadences described for group 1; Previous and concurrent
      treatments All details on previous and concurrent treatments must be collected by the
      investigator in an appropriate form in the CRF. It will be the duty of the investigator to
      always evaluate that concomitant and / or previous treatments are authorized and included in
      the inclusion criteria.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS All values are expressed as mean +/- Standard deviation. The values of
      the selected variables in perspective mode will be expressed as mean +/- standard deviation
      (parametric variables) or median (non parametric variables). To compare the differences
      between the study groups, correlation analysis, t-test for samples, independent, chi-square
      test, frequency tables, cross tables and tables for multiple / dichotomous responses will be
      used. A probability value <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  