
    
      Sarcopenia, i.e., loss of muscle mass and strength, is a well-established consequence of
      normal aging. Skeletal muscle strength and mobility is also dependent on the composition and
      mechanical properties of connective tissue, which encase skeletal muscle allowing for
      effective transfer of tension developed during cross-bridge cycling. Importantly, skeletal
      muscle strength and function is directly related to connective tissue strength. Specifically,
      greater tendon connective tissue cross-sectional area (CSA) and stiffness optimize force
      transfer through tendon to maximize musculoskeletal function, including muscle power output,
      locomotion economy, and control of balance. As with skeletal muscle, aging leads to the
      decline of tendon connective tissue quality, including reductions in tendon collagen (the
      primary structural component of tendon), and a decrease in tendon CSA. Previous research
      indicates that resistance training (RT) can improve muscle mass and strength in older adults
      but may not counter the effects of aging on tendon. Specifically, a 12-week RT protocol
      improved tendon properties in young but not older adults. The specific problem is that no
      approaches are available that target both skeletal muscle and tendon health to minimize loss
      of muscle mass and quality while simultaneously improving connective tissue quality and
      function in older adults. Therefore, a critical need exists to scientifically assess
      interventions that concomitantly improve muscle and connective tissue strength and function.
      This need is highly relevant for older women, due to their higher risk of sarcopenia than
      men.

      Resistance training, especially when combined with higher protein intake, has been
      consistently shown to improve muscle mass and strength in older adults. However, limited
      research exists on the impact of beef consumption combined with RT on sarcopenia-related
      outcomes, especially in older women. Further, emerging research indicates that diets rich in
      leucine or glycine (as in beef) augment resistance or aerobic exercise-induced improvements
      in tendon CSA in rodents and young humans. However, the potential benefit of lean proteins,
      such as beef, on connective tissue adaptations in older adults requires investigation. This
      study will assess the effects of consuming a healthy, protein-rich diet emphasizing lean beef
      on RT-induced changes in skeletal muscle and tendon connective tissue size, strength, and
      quality in older women. It is hypothesized that consumption of a healthy diet high in protein
      from predominately lean beef will augment improvements in both skeletal muscle and tendon
      responses to RT, when compared to consuming a healthy diet with normal or high-protein and
      less total red meat. The overall healthy diet will be modeled from the U.S. Healthy Eating
      Pattern and consistent with the 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans.
    
  