
    
      Despite recent developments in postoperative pain control, many patients still suffer from
      moderate to severe pain after surgery. It is estimated that postoperative severe pain occurs
      in 20 to 40% of surgical procedures. With the recent increase in obesity incidence in the
      last years, the need for bariatric surgical intervention is greater. The management of
      postoperative pain in obese patients is particularly important, since this population have
      increased susceptibility to cardiovascular, pulmonary and thromboembolic perioperatively.

      One of the strategies to improve pain management in the perioperative period is the
      intraoperative use of intravenous methadone, given its pharmacokinetic profile, specially in
      those patients in which regional anesthesia is contraindicated. Methadone is an opioid μ
      (MOR) receptor agonist, also a glutamate antagonist by blocking the N-methyl-D-aspartate
      (NMDA) receptor and a reuptake of serotonin and noradrenaline inhibitor. Intraoperative
      analgesia generated by administration of 20 to 30 mg methadone can last 24 to 36 hours. There
      is also evidence that methadone at 0.2 to 0.3 mg / kg is not associated with an increased
      incidence of side effects compared to other opioids with short or intermediate duration of
      action, such as fentanyl, sufentanyl and morphine.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of intraoperative methadone in reducing
      postoperative pain and opioid consumption in patients undergoing open gastroplasty with or
      without associated Roux Y. Patients will undergo standardized general anesthesia, and the
      opioid used in anesthesia induction is methadone 0.15 mg / kg fentanyl or 6 mcg / kg bolus
      with additional if necessary. After extubation a intravenous morphine patient controlled
      analgesia device will be already available in the operating room. Groups will be compared
      regarding opioid consumption, pain scores, side effects, patient satisfaction and development
      of chronic postoperative pain.
    
  