
    
      An augmented reality (AR) system provides the surgeon with computer processed imaging data in
      real-time via dedicated hardware and software. The projection of AR is made possible by using
      displays, projectors, cameras, trackers, or other specialized equipment.

      At present, the applications of AR are limited by the essential requisite of preoperative 3D
      reconstructions of medical images. It is possible to create these reconstructions by using
      commercial or self-made software from the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine
      (DICOM) format . The quality of a reconstruction depends on the quality of input data and the
      accuracy of the reconstruction system. Such reconstructions can be used for virtual
      exploration of target areas, planning an elective surgical approach in advance, and for
      better orientation and navigation in the operative ﬁeld. AR is especially useful in
      visualizing critical structures such as major vessels, nerves, or other vital tissues. By
      projecting these structures directly onto the patient, AR increases safety and reduces the
      time required to complete the procedure. Moreover Augmented reality proved to be an eﬀective
      tool for training and skill assessment of surgery residents, other medical staﬀ, or students.
      Augmented reality can be used eﬀectively for preoperative planning and completion of the
      actual surgery in timely fashion. The preoperative 3D reconstructed images can be modiﬁed and
      prepared for display in AR systems. Commonly, AR is used for tailoring individually preferred
      incisions and cutting planes, optimal placement of trocars, or to generally improve safety by
      displaying positions of major organ components. Another beneﬁt of AR is the ability to aid
      surgeons in diﬃcult terrain after a neoadjuvant chemotherapy or radiotherapy.

      Studies suggest that AR systems are becoming comparable to traditional navigation techniques,
      with precision and safety suﬃcient for routine clinical practice. Most problems faced
      presently will be solved by further medical and technological research. Augmented reality
      appears to be a powerful tool possibly capable of changing the ﬁeld of surgery through a
      rational use. In the future, AR will likely serve as an advanced human-computer interface,
      working in symbiosis with surgeons, allowing them to achieve even better results.
      Nevertheless, further advancement is much needed to achieve maximum potential and
      cost-eﬀectiveness of augmented reality.
    
  