
    
      Phase I: Phase I participants will engage in two sets of activities: (a) standardized and
      informal language and cognitive measures and (b) a series of language and cognitive
      activities performed during the collection of event related potential (ERP) recordings.
      Standardized language measures will include the: (a) Test of Adolescent/Adult Word Retrieval,
      (b) Cognitive Linguistic Quick Test, and (c) California Verbal Learning Test. Informal
      measures will include a conversational interaction about a participant's language
      difficulties and a topic of his/her choosing. During the conversational interaction,
      participants will press a button each time they experience difficulty retrieving a word.

      ERPs measure electrical signals from the brain using a soft net of woven electrodes placed on
      a participant's head. Before the session, the investigators will soak a net in a saline (salt
      water) solution. The recording electrodes will be placed on the participant's scalp. The
      investigators will record ERPs while the participant completes the following tasks:

        1. word retrieval: The participant will view a series of neutral stimuli (i.e., pictures of
           familiar objects, people, or locations flashed briefly on a computer monitor). The
           participant will press one of three buttons to indicate (a) recall of the name of the
           depicted image, (b) knowledge of the name but inability to recall it, or (c) no
           knowledge of the name of the depicted image. If a participant does not press a button
           within the time limit of the stimulus presentation, a new stimulus trial will begin.
           During some trials, participants will perform a second task requiring judgment about the
           orientation of lines appearing after the stimulus image. Following completion of all
           trials, the investigators will present the stimulus images a second time along with
           three response options: (a) the correct name, (b) an incorrect name, and (c) "don't
           know." The participant will again use a button press to indicate his/her response
           choice.

        2. stimulus categorization: The participant will view a series of objects. For each object,
           he/she will categorize the stimulus semantically (e.g., Is the object a fruit or
           animal?) or phonologically (e.g., Does the object start with the letter "L" or "N?").
           Participants will respond by pushing a button.

        3. deductive reasoning: The participant will view written word pairs. Some of the pairs
           will relate to a specific word (e.g., "desert" and "humps" relate to "camel"), whereas
           other pairs will not (e.g., "desert" and "bark"). The participant will press one of two
           buttons to indicate whether a word pair triggers or does not trigger recall of a related
           word.

      Phase II: Only people with acquired brain injury (ABI) will participate in Phase II
      activities. Phase II participants will attend two-hour, group intervention sessions one day
      per week for eight weeks. Participants will engage in multiple word game activities
      throughout each intervention session. Games will include Facts in Five, Anomia, Boggle, and
      Bananagrams as well as variations on these, as appropriate. Data collection during these
      sessions will be limited to a list of activities in which a participant engaged and the
      duration of engagement in each activity. Game-based group activities such as these are not
      typically used in intervention sessions for people with ABI who experience mild
      word-retrieval challenges. In fact, because of the subtlety of word retrieval difficulties
      experienced by people with relatively good recoveries from ABI--that is, the target
      population for this research--most people do not receive any treatment for this problem.

      Phase III: Only people with ABI who have performed both Phase I and Phase II activities will
      be eligible for participation in Phase III. Following completion of the intervention
      sessions, participants will perform post-testing activities. Post-testing activities will
      include a subset of Phase I testing activities. Specifically, we will repeat (a) the audio
      recording of a conversational interaction and (b) the ERP recording with the same tasks used
      in Phase I.
    
  