
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the feasibility of conducting a multi-institutional clinical study of
      cryosurgery for liver metastases. II. Evaluate the morbidity and mortality of cryosurgery for
      liver metastases when applied in a multi-institutional setting. III. Evaluate the efficacy of
      cryosurgery for liver metastases as measured by total liver control, local lesion control,
      and overall survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a multi-institutional study. Patients are first confirmed by exploratory
      laparotomy to have no extrahepatic metastases. They then undergo biopsy of the portal lymph
      node, after which, full mobilization of liver is recommended. Cholecystectomy is optional but
      recommended for treatment of tumors adjacent to the gallbladder. After mapping out the
      location and size of the metastatic tumor by ultrasound, cryoablation of the metastases is
      carried out. Cryoablation involves the delivery of nitrogen through metallic probes placed
      surgically into the center of the liver metastases. There are two freeze and thaw cycles for
      each lesion with synchronous intraoperative ultrasound monitoring of the cryoablation. One
      centimeter margin of cryoablation is determined by this ultrasound image. Treatment of the
      liver with regional chemotherapy is not allowed until radiographic and pathologic
      confirmation of disease progression in the liver. Follow-up is at 3 weeks after surgery and
      then every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: There will be a maximum of 45 patients accrued in approximately 3 years
      for this study. This is a two stage accrual design in which 17 patients are first accrued of
      which 15 should be eligible. If fewer than 11 of the initial 15 eligible patients show no
      evidence of disease at 3 months, the study stops and treatment is abandoned. If at least 11
      patients show no evidence of disease, then 28 additional patients are accrued.
    
  