
    
      Potential participants will report to the Human Performance Lab (HPL) in James Hall to
      complete the screening process. They will complete the informed consent form process with a
      member of the research team before providing any protected health information (PHI). The
      screening process has two components: questionnaires and physical measures. Potential
      participants will complete the following questionnaires: Stanford 7-Day Physical Activity
      Questionnaire and a Medical History Questionnaire. Participants will complete the following
      physical measures: height, weight, waist and hip circumference, and blood pressure will be
      assessed and followed by calculations of body mass index (BMI) and waist to hip ratio (WHR).
      The final measure will be a determination of fasting total cholesterol and blood glucose
      measured via capillary blood from a finger prick using an automated analyzer. The purpose of
      the screening process is to determine if a participant is healthy and can safely participate
      in exercise testing, and to determine their eligibility to participate in the study based on
      the criteria listed elsewhere.

      Participants who meet the eligibility criteria and are willing to participate will be
      enrolled in the study and randomly assigned to FO or PLA via block randomization methods.
      Enrolled participants will return to the HPL in the morning to complete a battery of
      biometric tests (described below) and will be given two logs to complete to collect baseline
      data: the Stanford 7-Day Physical Activity Questionnaire and a 3-day diet log. The purpose of
      the physical activity log is to determine their average level of physical activity and
      training program. The purpose of the 3-day diet log is to record their normal dietary intake
      and to provide practice for completing these logs as they will be completed on a weekly basis
      during the supplement intervention period.

      Participants will have the following physical measures recorded: height, weight, waist and
      hip circumference, body composition, and blood pressure. Participants will then have their
      resting metabolic rate (RMR) measured by indirect calorimetry. In preparation for this test
      participants will be asked to complete an overnight fast of at least 9 hours, abstain from
      caffeine for 12 hours and abstain from exercise and alcohol for 24 hours. Participants will
      be brought to a quiet room and asked to lie in a supine position for 30 minutes of rest. They
      will then be fitted with a breathing mask connected to the metabolic cart and their breath
      will be analyzed for 15 minutes while they continue to lie in a supine position. Their total
      energy expenditure will be calculated using their RMR and a physical activity factor based on
      their level of physical activity obtained from the Stanford 7-Day Physical Activity
      Questionnaire. Subject's total daily calorie requirements will then be verified using their
      3-day diet record and the Mifflin-St. Jeor prediction equation. In order to ensure that
      participants are consuming enough calories in order to maintain their body weight during the
      6-week supplementation period, the research team will use the average of participant's total
      calorimetric data (based on RMR), 3-day diet log, and the Mifflin-St. Jeor estimate.

      Participants will be sent pre-participation instructions before testing to ensure they arrive
      at the HPL with proper exercise attire and having abstained from caffeine for 12 hours and
      exercise and alcohol for 24 hours. They will report to the HPL to complete a 1RM test, a type
      of muscular strength assessment. This test will be performed for the back squat in a Smith
      machine with hand release breaks. Water will be provided and consumed ad libitum. Bench press
      and Squat will be completed with proper lifting technique as described by the National
      Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA) guidelines.

      Participants' lower body neuromuscular function, assessed via maximal voluntary contraction
      (MVC) and rate of force development (RFD), will be completed through the use of force
      transducers applied to the legs. Participants will be seated in a custom-made wooden box with
      a single axis transducer attached to one of its surfaces (SM-500, Interface Inc., Scottsdale,
      Arizona, USA). When subjects sit on the box, their knee and hip joints will be at
      approximately 70° and 90° of flexion from full extension, respectively. Subjects will be
      asked to cross their arms across their chest during the testing.

      Dietary compliance will be monitored weekly during the free-living supplementation period
      using 3-day diet records and returned supplement pill bottles. 3-day diet records will be
      recorded by the participants and returned to the research team for analysis using
      professional nutrition analysis software (Food Processor, Oregon). Dietary analysis results
      will be discussed with the participant in order to help them adhere to dietary
      recommendations. Body weight measures will be recorded once per week to ensure a stable
      weight during the dietary intervention period. The participants will return supplement
      bottles weekly, and the research team will count and record any remaining capsules. Finally,
      physical activity logs will be collected every week to ensure diet and calorie
      recommendations are meeting the demands of RET.
    
  