
    
      It is a randomized controlled clinical study to be conducted in the Department of Pediatric
      Dentistry of the International University of Catalonia (UIC).

      The clinical study and data collection will be obtained by the second year students of the
      master's degree in Pediatric Dentistry. All of them will receive the same practical and
      theoretical training on the treatment to be performed, and will be calibrated by the
      principal investigator. The procedure and the data obtained will be reviewed by a trained
      investigator and blinded with the type of procedure used.

      Children from 4 to 8 years old will be selected to visit the Clinica Universitaria de
      Odontología (CUO) with the master's degree in Pediatric Dentistry. A sample of 60 children
      will be taken. There will be three study groups, where 20 subjects will be assigned to each,
      estimating a follow-up loss ratio of 20%.

      Once the patient is selected, they will be assigned to one of the groups in order of arrival.
      For example, patient one will be assigned in group 1, patient two in group 2, patient three
      in group 3 and so on.

      There are 3 study groups groups: Group 1, with Manual instrumentation with K files (Dentsply
      Caulk, Milfors, DE, USA); group 2, with the VDW.ROTATETM (VDW, Munich, Germany); and group 3,
      with Reciproc® Blue (RCP, VDW, Munich, Germany) system.

      A preliminary clinical and radiographic examination with periapical radiographs will be
      performed. To anesthetize the tooth, the student will use topical anesthesia (Urricaine gel,
      Clarben SA Laboratories) and local anesthesia with articaine 4% 1:200,000 epinephrine
      (Ultracaine; Normon S.A., Madrid, Spain) using a lower alveolar nerve block. The student will
      work with absolute isolation with rubber dam. The cavities will be removed with a high-speed
      diamond ball cutter and once the operator are inside the pulp chamber, will continue to
      remove the coronal pulp with a endo-Z cutter.

      The operator will determine the working length (LT) with the Gold Reciproc motor (VDW,
      Munich, Germany), using K #15 file. LT is to be determined it at 1 mm less than what the
      locator indicates due to the physiological reabsorptions present in the tooth. Each group
      will be instrumented according to the manufacturer's instructions, explained above. The duct
      permeability will be ensured with K #10 file with between files and at the end of the
      instrumentation. The duct irrigation was carried out with 5ml of 2,5% NaOCl in each duct and
      a side outlet needle. In the case of group 3, which is a single lime system, the operator
      will take into account that the irrigation must be similar to that of the other systems.

      Once the instrumentation is finished,the elapsed time will be recorded from the beginning to
      the end of the instrumentation with the disinfection of the appropriate irrigant. The
      operator will record the minutes and seconds evaluated with an analog stopwatch. The ducts
      will be dried with sterile paper tips and place the sealing material, calcium hydroxide with
      iodophormic paste (Vitapex; Neo Dental International Inc., Federal Way, WA, USA). The sealing
      material will be placed with the applicator tip that comes with the product and at the end we
      will compact the sealing with a cotton ball in the chamber. The application material
      procedure will be carried out in this way, to know if the success of the sealing depends on
      the system of files used. The tooth will remain with a temporary Eugenol Zinc Oxide (IRM;
      Dentsply Caulk, Milfors, DE, USA) filler until the next visit, which will be a week later, to
      place a stainless steel crown (3M ESPE, St. Paul, MN, USA) cemented with glass ionomer cement
      (Ktac-Cem;3M ESPE, St. Paul, MN, USA).

      To finish the treatment, a periapical radiography will be done to the patient. With the final
      periapical radiography, a researcher blinded to the study groups, will evaluate the quality
      and quantity of the seal without the need for auxiliary elements such as léntulos or files.
      The filling will be evaluated if it's optimal, under-filled, over-filled or with the presence
      of gaps.

      To determine the patient's anxiety during dental treatment, the operator will use a pulse
      oximeter (digital Onyx, NONIN, Plymouth, MN, USA). The child's heart rate will be evaluated
      in the following moments: 3 min before the application of topical anesthesia, at the topical
      anesthesia aplication, during the application of the local anesthetic, when the rubber dam is
      placed, during the instrumentation and removal of coronal pulp tissue, during the
      instrumentation with each file system, and finally when the rubber dam is removed. The
      average heart rate will be determined for each period by a set of values in a period of 1
      minute.

      At the end of the treatment the operator will evaluate the behavior of the child with the
      Frankl scale where 1 is very uncooperative and 4 is very collaborative; and will see if it is
      similar to the behavior of previous visits with conservative treatment.

      To determine the ease of operation, a numerical scale from 0 to 10 is will be used, where 0
      means very easy to use and 10 very difficult. It will be taken into account that if there are
      more than one operator, they have the same acquired skills and the same familiarity with the
      file systems used.

      In the evaluation of postoperative pain, that same day the patient's parents will be given a
      questionnaire where the parents will have to write down at 6, 12, 24, 48, 72 hours and a week
      later, the pain felt. The pain will be evaluated with the Wong-Baker scale because facial
      scales are usually easier for the pediatric patient. All patients will be given a 2% junifen
      prescription with a weight-appropriate dose in case of postoperative pain. Parents will be
      advised that the prescription should only be used in cases of more severe pain, and will need
      to be noted on the data collection sheet. When these patients need taking medication, the
      marked value at the Wong-Baker station will not be taken into account. It will be noted that
      they are patients who have required medication. The operator will collect the data a week,
      coinciding with the stainless steel crown placement.

      All the data obtained from the patients participating in the study will be recorded in two
      sheets: One for the operator, where the age, sex, the assigned study group, and all the
      variables studied will be recorded: instrumentation time, filler quality, operator's ease,
      behavior and anxiety of the patient; The other sheet will be for parents to record at home
      the postoperative pain felt by the child.

      Statistical analysis will be caried out with Statgraphics Plus 5.1 version and Microsoft
      Excel.

      An absolute and relative frequency shall be used in categorical variables to describe the
      data. For the numerical variables the mean and standard deviation or median and first and
      third quartile will be used, depending on whether the data is parametric or not. To be able
      to make comparisons between files, the Chi-square T will be used for categorical variables
      and the T-student or Mann Whitney test for numerical variables. The SHAPIRO WILKS contrast
      will be used to compare the normality of the data.

      For this study, a 95% confidence interval is to be taken into account, taking as
      statistically significant reference a p value ≤ 0.05.
    
  