
    
      Subjects presenting to the emergency department with a suspected acute infection will be
      eligible. Suspected infections may be of a) respiratory, b) urinary, c) intra-abdominal, or
      d) skin & soft tissue etiology. Subjects with suspected sepsis of any cause will also be
      eligible.

      Blood sample collections: Clinical study staff or the treating physician will obtain patient
      consent and collect two PAXgene RNA tubes of whole blood by venipuncture. The blood samples
      will be stored at room temperature overnight prior to being frozen at -80C for long-term
      storage. Samples will be shipped to the sponsor for testing using the HostDx Sepsis test. An
      additional tube of blood obtained via venipuncture and stored for shipment to a centralized
      testing laboratory, where it will be tested for C-reactive protein and procalcitonin. This
      will be done for all participants, even if they had these tests ordered locally as SOC.

      In participants with suspected respiratory tract infections a nasopharyngeal swab will be
      collected as intervention and sent to the reference laboratory. The sample will be processed
      in a respiratory pathogen panel (regardless of whether the participants had or had not
      provided a nasopharyngeal swab for local testing with a respiratory panel as SOC).

      Results obtained from microbiological testing of the following additional samples will be
      recorded if testing had been performed locally as SOC:

        1. Suspected urinary tract infection: Urine sample for culture.

        2. Suspected skin & soft tissue infection: Swab from wound or abscess drainage, or other
           sample, for culture.

        3. Suspected intra-abdominal infection or abscesses (e.g. appendicitis, diverticulitis,
           cholecystitis): Swab, biopsy or other sample types for culture

        4. Suspected sepsis of any cause: blood cultures (at least 1 set following local
           guidelines).

        5. Suspected respiratory tract infection: sputum culture and/or throat culture.
    
  