
    
      This is a randomized, phase 3, open-label, multicenter, protocol study in children age ≥ 6
      months to < 18 yr., with recurrent and/or progressive OPG who have 1) received prior
      treatment with carboplatin or cisplatin, which was terminated secondary to toxicity or
      progression of OPG or 2) developed recurrence of OPG after completion of carboplatin or
      cisplatin therapy. A total of 158 subjects will be enrolled and randomized equally to one of
      two therapy groups: ANP therapy (79 subjects) or TMZ (79 subjects). If an average of 4
      subjects is enrolled each month, enrollment will be completed in 3 years and 3 months. There
      will be an additional three years of follow-up.

      Children of either gender and from all racial/ethnic groups will be eligible for this
      protocol study if they meet the criteria outlined in Section 3. Upon determination of
      eligibility, including the obtaining of an informed consent, study subjects will be
      randomized to ANP therapy or TMZ. The randomization will be stratified by prior RT (Y/N),
      hypothalamic involvement (Y/N) and age (< 5 years / ≥ 5 years).

      In a group of children treated with TMZ after developing progressive and/or recurrent disease
      following first-line chemotherapy, a 2-year PFS of 49% and a 4-year PFS of 31% was reported
      by Gururangan and associates. Based on their results, and assuming an exponential
      distribution, a least squares estimate of the hazard is 0.333 per year.

      For those study subjects, in the BRI Phase 2 study of ANP therapy for OPG, who 1) received
      prior treatment with carboplatin or cisplatin, which was terminated secondary to toxicity or
      progression of OPG or 2) developed recurrence of OPG after completion of carboplatin (or
      cisplatin) therapy, a least squares estimate of the hazard is 0.075 per year. Since the
      sample size in the Phase 2 study is small and may overstate the effect of ANP therapy in
      general use, a hazard of 0.167 per year was utilized in determining the sample size for the
      proposed Phase 3 protocol study, giving a hazard ratio (TMZ:ANP) of 2.0.

      The primary efficacy hypothesis of the proposed protocol study is that ANP therapy provides
      for a significantly better PFS than does TMZ. This protocol study is event-driven (PD or
      death from any cause), and will be completed after 90 events have occurred. The required
      sample size in each treatment group is 79.

      A log rank test of equality of survival curves, with a 0.05 two-sided significance level, has
      90% power to detect the difference in PFS between children treated with ANP therapy vs.
      children treated with TMZ. Assuming an accrual rate of 4 subjects per month, the accrual
      period is 3 years and 3 months. There is an additional 3 years of follow-up. A common
      exponential dropout rate of 0.05 per year is assumed.

      This study utilizes an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis. It is event-driven (PD or death
      from any cause), and will be completed after 90 events have occurred. All subjects are
      evaluable for PFS from the time of randomization to the time of PD or death, regardless of
      therapy group, eligibility, or adequacy of follow-up. All study subjects who receive at least
      one dose of ANP therapy or TMZ are evaluable for safety.
    
  