
    
      Unipolar depression and anxiety disorders (particularly social anxiety disorder [SAD],
      generalized anxiety disorder [GAD] and panic disorder [PD]) are among the most common forms
      of mental illnesses. They often have a chronic course, and are frequently associated with
      co-morbidities, significant disability, and poor quality of life. Published epidemiologic
      studies indicate that these conditions typically emerge during early adolescence and
      adulthood, and are often poorly recognized, resulting in delay of several years before help
      is sought. Such delay is often attributed to the non-recognition of the significance of the
      symptoms, lack of information on or access to services, and embarrassment and fear of stigma,
      but each effective early treatment can reduce co-morbidities and improve prognosis.

      Cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) is recognized as the single most effective psychological
      intervention for depression and anxiety, but accessibility is affected by therapist costs and
      long wait times for OHIP-covered services. Internet-based CBT (iCBT) is an innovative
      alternative with higher accessibility and cost-efficiency than group CBT, but with comparable
      efficacy. Transdiagnostic models of iCBT that treat depression, SAD, PD and GAD within one
      program have shown efficacy in preliminary trials and may offer even greater accessibility
      and economy, as several depressed and anxious populations can be treated with the same
      protocol. As a non-pharmacological treatment option enhanced by technological advances, iCBT
      is likely to appeal to tech-savvy young adults. However, it has not been evaluated
      specifically in a young adult population, thus far.

      This 8-week, multi-site, randomized, controlled trial to evaluate the benefits of
      trandiagnostic iCBT in 60 young adults with unipolar depression and/or SAD, PD or GAD. We
      hypothesize that patients who receive iCBT will show significant improvement in depressive
      and anxiety symptoms and functioning, compared to a wait-list group.
    
  