
    
      Participants From August 1998 to June 2001, 92 consecutive patients were admitted to a
      specialized eating disorder unit at a psychiatric hospital, Modum Bad. The admission criteria
      were symptoms of anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and eating disorder not otherwise
      specified that impaired daily life functioning, inadequate responses to previous treatment
      and age above 18 years. Those with severe medical complications and body mass index (BMI) <
      14 were excluded. Patients were allocated to specific inpatient treatment programs for
      anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa respectively. Six patients discharged themselves during
      the first two weeks. A total of 86 remaining patients, one male and 85 female, initially
      entered the study. Participants have been assessed at five points in time, i.e. 1 (Admission,
      1998-2001), 2 (Discharge, 1998-2001), 3 (one year after admission, 2001-2002), 4 (two years
      after admission, 2002-2003) and time 5 (five years after admission, 2004-2005). A total of 77
      patients (90 %) were available for the five-year follow-up. These patients have given written
      consent to participate in a 17-year follow-up. Attrition is a common problem in long-term
      follow-up investigations, but appears to be less severe in Norway generally and at Modum Bad
      in particular.

      Aims Study 1: Investigate the course and outcome of eating disorder patients Subordinate aims
      included: to a) report on the 17-year course and outcome of adults with longstanding eating
      disorder and b) identify eating disorder subgroups with various courses and outcomes.

      Study 2: Investigate the course of personlaity disorders among eating disorder patients
      Subordinate aims included: to a) report the presence of categorical and dimensional
      personality disorder in adults with longstanding eating disorder at admission to hospital
      treatment and at 1-, 2- 5-year and 17-year follow-up; b) compare the changes of personality
      disorder in anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and eating disorder not otherwise specified;
      c) investigate if personality disorder is less frequent among recovered patients; d) compare
      the magnitude of changes in specific eating disorder symptoms, general psychopathology and
      personality disorder; e) investigate whether changes in personality disorder influence
      changes in symptom scores, or vice versa.

      Study 3: Identify predictors of poor outcome in longstanding eating disorder Subordinated
      aims included: to a) investigate if personality disorder and child sexual abuse predict the
      course of severity of eating disorder symptoms, b) examine how child sexual abuse and
      personality disorder interact to affect the eating disorder course. Does persoanlity disorder
      mediate, does child sexual abuse moderate, or do they independently influence the eating
      disorder course?

      Feasibility: design, method, analysis The present sample is unique in having participating in
      a previous prospective longitudinal study of adult patients using structured diagnostic
      interviews both for the eating disorder and the personality disorder. The very longterm
      course and outcome can be evaluated. There are no other studies where several repeated
      structured clinical interviews have been used to assess personality disorders in a sample of
      patients with eating disorders. This study may bridge the gap between science and practice in
      the assessment and treatment of severe eating disorder patients. As there are no generally
      accepted guidelines for treatment of severe eating disorder, the present finding may elicit
      efforts to develop such guidelines. The main finding in the previous studies is that a
      majority of patients with severe and longstanding eating disorder experience significant
      improvement that is fairly stable through years. This knowledge stands in contrast to a
      widespread professional opinion that there is little chance of improvement for individuals
      with longstanding eating disorder. Bridging the gap between science and clinical practice the
      refuting of this opinion by dissemination of research findings stands out as an important
      implication as one aspect of being a clinician is to provide a realistic hope to patients and
      relatives. However the previous studies do not provide the full knowledge of the full course
      of eating disorder. Thus, a further extension of the study is important.
    
  