
    
      Hepatic encephalopathy complicating chronic liver failure in patients undergoing liver
      transplantation increases the risk for adverse outcomes including mortality. Even mild
      hepatic encephalopathy may not be recognized clinically without specific testing but can be
      associated with impaired functional status and reduced quality of life before liver
      transplantation. The changes that can be seen in chronic liver failure, (cerebral edema and
      increased intracranial pressure) can adversely affect cerebral blood flow autoregulation that
      may predispose to brain injury during the multiple hemodynamic perturbations that occur
      during and after liver transplantation. Currently, invasive monitoring with an intracranial
      "bolt" is the only method to aggressively manage patients with elevated intracranial pressure
      from acute liver failure and hepatic encephalopathy. The placement of an intracranial
      pressure catheter in patient with liver failure is associated with a risk of brain hemorrhage
      due the presence of a coagulopathy. Further, the risk of this type of monitoring outweighs
      the benefits in the patients with milder or subclinical forms of hepatic encephalopathy. In
      this pilot study of 20 patients undergoing liver transplantation the investigators will
      evaluate the feasibility of non-invasive monitoring of CBF autoregulation and assess whether
      autoregulation is impaired in this group of patients. The investigators hypothesize that
      cerebral blood flow autoregulation is impaired in patients undergoing liver transplantation
      based on severity of liver disease. In this situation, improved patient monitoring would
      allow clinicians to maintain arterial blood pressure above an individual's lower limit of
      cerebral blood flow autoregulation that might prevent devastating brain injury during and
      after surgery. Cerebral blood flow autoregulation can be continuously monitored by evaluating
      the correlation coefficient between cerebral blood flow velocity measured with transcranial
      Doppler and arterial blood pressure. The investigators have developed a novel method of
      autoregulation monitoring using near infrared spectroscopy that allows continuous monitoring
      of autoregulation with the cerebral oximetry index and the hemoglobin volume index(, a moving
      linear correlation coefficient between cortical tissue oxygen saturation and hemoglobin level
      with arterial blood pressure, respectively. The latter approach is more practical and would
      allow widespread autoregulation monitoring in diverse clinical settings. A secondary
      hypothesis of this study is that near infrared spectroscopy-based monitoring of CBF
      autoregulation will provide an accurate assessment of the limits of autoregulation compared
      with the more clinically challenging transcranial Doppler methods .

      Specific Aims:

        1. To assess whether patients undergoing liver transplantation have impaired cerebral blood
           flow autoregulation.

        2. To evaluate whether non-invasive monitoring of cerebral blood flow autoregulation with
           cerebral oximetry index and hemoglobin volume index can identify the lower limit of
           autoregulation within 10 mmHg compared with that measured with transcranial Doppler.
    
  