
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, multi-center investigation with a minimum of seventy five
      (75) study subjects designed to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the Thrombi-Gel
      product as an absorbable hemostat in the surgical patient population.

      Subjects who are undergoing orthopedic/spinal, general, cardiac, hepatic or vascular surgical
      procedures should be considered for this investigation. Subjects can be pre-screened
      utilizing standard of care data for the specified inclusion/exclusion criteria to ensure that
      they are eligible for treatment in the investigation. If the subject appears to qualify for
      the investigation, the subject will then be asked to give his/her written informed consent.
      If, during surgery, the surgeon encounters a bleeding site that he or she is unable or
      unwilling to easily control due to failure or impracticality of conventional methods (sutures
      and/or cautery), the subject may be enrolled and randomized to receive either the
      investigational or control treatment. If the subject has multiple bleeding sites, each site
      to a maximum of 5 sites, may be treated with the assigned surgical hemostat. However, only
      the first site treated will be used to determine study objectives. All subjects will be
      followed through their hospitalization.

      A follow-up evaluation will be conducted at approximately 30 and 60 days post-procedure to
      determine the long-term effectiveness of the hemostatic treatment received, incidence of late
      adverse events, and interim immunologic response to the study treatment device. Follow-up
      evaluations will include obtaining a blood specimen that evaluates for antibody development,
      coagulation, and Factor Va testing. Blood samples will be sent to independent labs for
      analysis.

      From baseline to the final study exam, data pertaining to the investigational objectives will
      be recorded on the appropriate case report forms at the predetermined study intervals. The
      investigation will be conducted at a minimum of five (5) sites, but no more than fifteen (15)
      sites.
    
  