
    
      Stroke is a leading cause of disability, death and health care expenditure. It is the second
      most common cause of death worldwide, exceeded only by heart disease. Ischemic stroke
      constitutes 83 to 90% of stroke cases in western countries. Occlusion of the Middle Cerebral
      Artery (MCA) in the anterior circulation, or its branches is the most common site, accounting
      for approximately 90% of infarcts and two thirds of all first strokes. Available therapies
      include intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (IV rt-PA) and mechanical
      recanalization using thrombectomy (MT) devices. Both treatment approaches are primarily
      focused on recanalization, i.e. aiming to restore artery potency and brain perfusion to
      reduce the volume of cerebral infarction which thereby reduces functional deficits. Recent
      meta-analysis of the results demonstrated that although MT is an effective therapy, still
      over 50% of the treated patient do not recover. IV rt-PA treatment suffers from similar, more
      significant, lack of effect in majority of patients. This lack of treatment success is
      probably a result of inadequate micro circulatory collateral blood flow in the involved brain
      tissue. Treatment targeting collateral cerebral blood flow augmentation is a promising
      therapy, either as a stand-alone treatment, or as a complementary treatment post
      recanalization. BrainsGate's device, the ISS, augments brain perfusion through the collateral
      circulation. The augmentation of collateral blood flow is a result of stimulation of the
      Spheno-Palatine Ganglion (SPG). The SPG is the source of parasympathetic innervations to the
      anterior cerebral circulation, which comprises the middle cerebral artery, the anterior
      cerebral artery, and their tributaries. Studies in rodents, dogs and monkeys have
      demonstrated that stimulation of SPG neurons leads to a profound ipsilateral increase in the
      CBF because of arterial vasodilatation, and that this leads in turn to augmentation of tissue
      perfusion (see Figure 1). Moreover, previous studies, including histopathologic studies in
      humans have revealed that the main neurotransmitters of this neuronal pathway are
      acetylcholine (ACh), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), and nitric oxide (NO). It is
      interesting to note that NO is best known for its potent vasodilatory activity and its
      capacity for neuroprotection and neurogenesis. Several studies have demonstrated that the
      cerebral vasodilatation induced by SPG stimulation is indeed mediated through NO mechanisms
      and that ablation of the SPG efferents to the cerebral vasculature leads to an increased
      infract size in MCA-occluded rats. So far, imaging studies aiming to demonstrate collateral
      blood flow augmentation due to SPG stimulation were not yet performed in human stroke
      patients. It is highly important to study the effect of SPG stimulation on the augmentation
      of collateral blood flow and to relate it to the subject's cerebral blood flow status, the
      extent of the collateral vessel potency prior to the stimulation and the relation of the
      vessel occlusion site to the vasodilatory effect. The purpose of the ImpACT-24col sub-study
      is to explore these important questions by using digital subtraction angiography (DSA), the
      gold standard imaging technique to demonstrate collateral blood flow dynamics. The results of
      this study will further promote the knowledge towards optimization of SPG stimulation to
      treat acute ischemic stroke patients. The ImpACT-24col study will be a sub-study of the
      ImpACT-24B trial and eligible patients will be enrolled to both trials.
    
  