
    
      This is a Treatment clinical trial, randomized, controlled, parallel, double-blinded, with
      four groups, that aims to evaluate the best application strategy when using a new Universal
      Adhesive system, Futurabond Universal (VOCO GmbH, Germany). Volunteers will be selected and
      recruited,following inclusion criteria and pre-established exclusion. All volunteers will be
      informed and sign a term of clarification and consent. All 50 enrolled patients will receive
      Class V dental restorations, made in four different ways, one from each experimental group,
      using the same universal self-etching adhesive system, which is the tested material in this
      study. All patients must have at only 20 teeth in function, must have at only 2 non carious
      cervical lesions (NCCL), in different teeth, that need restoration. Those lesions must be non
      carious, must be more than 1 mm deep, should have exposed dentin, and must have at only 50%
      of margins in enamel. Teeth should not present periodontal mobility. Firstly, the patient
      will be anesthetized locally with 3% Mepivacaine solution, followed by prophylaxis with
      pumice powder and water. All cavities will be washed and dried after these procedures for
      optimal selection of color, using a color scale. Then, the rubber dam isolation of the teeth
      to be restored will be held. Non-carious cervical lesions will receive the applied adhesive
      system in 4 different protocols separated by groups. Group Self Etching (SET) (control): no
      conditioning, the adhesive system will be used in 50 teeth, according to the manufacturer's
      instructions, in the self-etching mode. The adhesive system will be brushed during 20 seconds
      in the cavity, will be air-dried during 5 seconds, and activated during 10 seconds with Light
      Emission Diode (LED) light; Group SEE (Selective enamel etching): 37% phosphoric acid will be
      applied during 30 seconds, only in enamel in 50 teeth. This acid will be removed using water,
      the cavity will be air-dried, and then, the adhesive will be applied according to the
      manufacturer's instructions, as described in group SET; Group ERDry (Etch& Rinse Dry): 37%
      phosphoric acid will be applied during 30 seconds, only in enamel and during 15 seconds only
      in dentin, in 50 teeth. This acid will be removed using water, the cavity will be air-dried,
      keeping dentin dry, and then, the adhesive will be applied according to the manufacturer's
      instructions, as described in group SET; Group ERWet (Etch& Rinse Wet): 37% phosphoric acid
      will be applied during 30 seconds, only in enamel and during 15 seconds only in dentin, in 50
      teeth. This acid will be removed using water, the cavity will be air-dried, keeping dentin
      wet, and then, the adhesive will be applied according to the manufacturer's instructions, as
      described in group SET. After applying the adhesive, the restorations will be made with
      composite Admira Fusion (VOCO GmbH, Germany), and evaluated every 6 months for pain
      assessment, shape, staining or recurrent caries, using scores. To determine in which group
      each tooth will be enrolled, the authors will randomize the teeth.
    
  