
    
      Background:

        -  We generated an HLA-A*11:01-restricted murine T-cell receptor (mTCR) that specifically
           recognizes the G12V-mutated variant of KRAS (and other RAS family genes), expressed by
           many human cancers and constructed a single retroviral vector that contains its alpha
           and beta chains that confers recognition of this antigen when transduced into PBL.

        -  In co-cultures with HLA-A*11:01+ target cells expressing this mutated oncogene, mTCR
           transduced T cells lyse target cells and secrete IFN-gamma with high specificity.

      Objectives:

      Primary objectives:

        -  Phase I: determine the safety of administering PBL transduced with anti-KRAS G12V mTCR
           in concert with preparative lymphodepletion and high dose interleukin-2 (IL-2;
           aldesleukin).

        -  Phase II:To determine if anti-KRAS G12V mTCR-transduced PBL can mediate the regression
           of tumors harboring the RAS G12V mutation.

      Eligibility:

      Patients must be/have:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years and less than or equal to 70 years

        -  HLA-A*11:01 positive

        -  Metastatic or unresectable RAS G12V-expressing cancer which has progressed after
           standard therapy (if available).

      Patients may not have:

      -Allergies or hypersensitivities to high-dose aldesleukin, cyclophosphamide or fludarabine.

      Design:

        -  This is a Phase I/II, single center study of PBL transduced with anti-KRAS G12V mTCR in
           HLA-A*11:01 positive patients with advanced solid tumors expressing G12V mutated RAS.

        -  PBMC obtained by leukapheresis will be cultured in the presence of anti-CD3 (OKT3) and
           aldesleukin in order to stimulate T-cell growth.

        -  Transduction is initiated by exposure of these cells to retroviral vector supernatant
           containing replication-incompetent virus encoding the anti-KRAS G12V mTCR.

        -  All patients will receive a non-myeloablative, lympho-depleting preparative regimen of
           cyclophosphamide and fludarabine.

        -  On day 0 patients will receive their PBL transduced with the anti-KRAS G12V mTCR and
           will then begin high-dose aldesleukin.

        -  A complete evaluation of lesions will be conducted approximately 6 weeks (+/- 2 weeks)
           after treatment.

        -  The study will be conducted using a phase I/II Simon minimax design, with two separate

      cohorts for the Phase II component: Cohort 2a, patients with RAS G12V pancreatic

      cancer, and Cohort 2b, patients with RAS G12V non-pancreatic cancer.

      -A total of 110 patients may be required; approximately 24 patients in the phase I portion of
      the study and 86 (41, plus an allowance of up to 2 non-evaluable per phase II cohort)
      patients in the phase II portion of the study.
    
  