
    
      Intervention Based on the previous studies, intraarticular administration with concentration
      of 30mg/mL was selected. The operation room nurses prepared 3g tranexamic acid in 100 mL of
      saline solution during operation. After finishing surgical wound suture and orthopaedic
      surgeons related to this study left operation room, the orthopaedic residents who were not
      involved in the postoperative evaluation administered tranexamic acid solution through
      suprapatellar pouch before tourniquet release in patients in the treatment group. The control
      group did not receive any solution. intraarticular drain was not inserted in all patients.

      Outcome Demographic variables (age, sex, body mass index, and time from injury to surgery),
      clinical outcomes and surgical records including operative time, bleeding amounts, meniscus
      and cartilage lesions were collected by an independent orthopaedic resident. Primary outcome
      was a blood loss calculated based on hemoglobin balance. We assumed that blood volume in ml
      on the second day after surgery was the same as that before surgery. Blood volume was
      estimated according to the method of Nadler and colleagues taking sex, body mass and height
      into account. The loss of Hemoglobin was then estimated according to the formula.

      Hemoglobin loss=Blood volume*(Hemoglobin concentration before surgery - Hemoglobin
      concentration after surgery)*0.001+total amount of allogenic hemoglobin transfused

      The secondary outcome was an extent of pain measured by a visual analog scale at a consistent
      time in the afternoon of postoperative day 1 (PD 1) and for the next 4 day.The pain visual
      analog scale is a numeric response on a scale from 0 to 10, with 0 denoting no pain and 10
      signifying severe pain. The other secondary outcomes included mid-patellar circumference at
      postoperative day 2 and day 5 and knee range of motion after 6 weeks from operation, which
      were measured by an independent orthopaedic fellow. The patellar circumference was measured
      transverse axis of the patella center to evaluate intra-articular effusion. To minimize
      inter-observer variance of the patellar circumference, we considered the difference between
      the preoperative and the postoperative results. The range of motion was documented as the
      extension and flexion degrees using an orthopaedic goniometer.
    
  