
    
      Type and Site of The study:

      This study will be be done at Beni-Suef university hospital ,Surgical Intensive Care Unit
      (SICU) after approval of the local ethics and research committee and anesthesia department of
      Beni- Suef University.

      DATE AND PERIOD OF THE STUDY:

      The study will be done between NOV. 2018 and Nov. 2019

      Patients will be included:

      Patients scheduled for elective or emergency major surgeries (e.g., abdominal exploration,
      cancer bladder, cancer rectum, cancer stomach and aorto-femoral bypass grafting) who require
      post-operative SICU admission for close monitoring and assessment of volume status will be
      considered for enrollment.

      Thirty five patients will be enrolled in the study; the patients will be admitted to the
      post-surgical intensive care unit for post-operative close observation and monitoring for at
      least 24 h. Upon admission, baseline laboratory investigation, chest x-ray, Arterial Blood
      Gases (ABG) and vital signs (hear rate, mean arterial blood pressure, arterial oxygen
      saturation and temperature) will be all measured.

      Patients will get nurse-controlled analgesia using morphine boluses of 1-2 mg intravenously,
      followed by a continuous infusion of 1 or 2 mg/h according to the protocol of the SICU team.
      CVP, sonographic measurement of (IJV/CCA) cross sectional area ratio and IVC diameter will be
      measured after admitting the patient to SICU as a baseline reading, second measurements will
      be after achieving CVP between (8-12 cmH2O).

      Data to be collected and measured

      Demographic data will be obtained from patient's notes and charts including

      1- Age, sex, body mass index, ASA physical status and type of surgery.

      Cardiorespiratory variables of the Patients include:

        -  CVP (CMH2O),

        -  Heart rate (beats/min),

        -  MAP( mmHg),

        -  Oxygen saturation (spo2 %),

        -  Urine output (ml/h),

      IVC measurements include:

        -  IVC Maximum Diameter (cm).

        -  IVC Minimum Diameter (cm).

      Internal jugular vein and common carotid artery measurements include:

        -  CCA Surface

        -  IJV surface at inspiration

        -  IJV surface at expiration

        -  IJV/CCA RATIO at inspiration

        -  IJV/CCA RATIO at expiration

      Data will be measured after admitting the patient to SICU as a baseline reading, second
      measurements will be after achieving CVP between (8-12 cmH2O).
    
  