
    
      Renal failure is a widespread life threatening problem affecting a variety of age groups that
      needs a replacement therapy either regular dialysis with its drawbacks or kidney
      transplantation. Kidney transplantation is the treatment of choice for suitable candidates
      with ESRD. Since the advent of kidney transplantation in 1954, allograft and patient survival
      in the world have markedly improved because of advances in surgical techniques and
      immunosuppression. Few studies have compared kidney transplant outcomes In different
      countries. Because of varying allocation policies, cultural differences influencing
      preferences for living vs deceased donation, and government-funded health care in some
      countries, it is possible that post transplant outcomes are vastly different in other
      countries. Many studies described the current status of kidney allograft and patient survival
      in different countries based on data from the 2014 Scientific Registry of Transplant
      Recipients (SRTR) Annual Data Report. These outcomes are compared with those from Australia
      and New Zealand (ANZ), Europe, and Canada, using the most recent published registry data. A
      study was conducted showing that a total of 17,814 adult kidney transplants were performed in
      the United States in 2014. Of these, 12,279 were from deceased donors and 5535 were from
      living donors. Deceased donor allograft survival rates have improved over time. The most
      recent SRTR annual report showed long-term outcome data on recipients who underwent
      transplant from 1991 to 2014. From 2010 to 2014, the unadjusted 1-year allograft survival
      rate for recipients of a first deceased donor kidney transplant was 93.4% . For second or
      subsequent deceased donor transplants, the 1- year unadjusted allograft survival rate was
      comparable at 92.5%. It is well established that living donor kidney transplants are
      associated with superior post-transplant outcomes compared with deceased donor transplants,
      and this was reflected in the SRTR data. In recipients undergoing a primary living donor
      kidney transplant, the 1-year unadjusted allograft survival rate was 97.2%. In those
      undergoing retransplant from a living donor (first transplant from deceased or living donor),
      1-year allograft survival was similar at 97.3%. Five-year unadjusted allograft survival rates
      for a first living donor kidney transplant and a second or subsequent transplant were 84.6%
      and 81.4%, respectively. Despite better outcomes, numbers of living donor transplants in the
      United States have decreased over the past 10 years; the largest decrease was in
      living-related donor kidney transplants, from 4340 in 2004 to 2693 in 2014.This underscores
      the ongoing need to encourage and support living donation. Potential explanations for the
      decline in living kidney donation include an aging U.S.A population such that potential
      donors are older, often have more comorbidity, and may not be medically suitable, financial
      disincentives, changes in organ allocation and donor selection criteria, and inadequate
      public awareness about the benefits of living organ donation.Although the recipient's health
      insurance covers the donor's donation related medical expenses, it does not reimburse for
      other expenses (eg, travel to the transplant center for predonation testing and surgery,
      lodging, lost wages during the post-surgery recovery period, especially for selfemployed or
      part-time workers, and higher premiums for health or life insurance or, difficulty obtaining
      it, after donation).The average out-of-pocket cost incurred by patients after living donation
      is reported to be $5000. In June 2014, the transplant community convened a Consensus
      Conference on Best Practices in Live Kidney Donation and issued several recommendations with
      the goal of making living donation financially neutral. Progress is being made as the Living
      Donor Protection Act was introduced in Congress in February 2016. A study showed that Patient
      Survival Recipients of living donor kidney transplants enjoy high survival rates, with little
      difference in outcomes for primary transplant and retransplant. The unadjusted 1-year patient
      survival rate was 97.0% for primary deceased donor transplant recipients from 2010 to 2014
      and 97.2% for retransplant recipients. Patient survival at 5 years was 86.1% for
      first-transplant recipients and 88.9% for retransplant recipients who underwent deceased
      donor transplant from 2005 to 2009. For living donor transplant recipients, patient survival
      at 1 year and 5 years was 98.7% and 93.1% (primary transplant) and 99.0% and 92.9%
      (retransplant), respectively. This likely reflects selection bias during the evaluation for
      retransplant, when patients who were non adherent (perhaps leading to allograft failure) or
      who have substantial comorbidity are usually not deemed candidates for retransplant. Kidney
      transplant before dialysis initiation is associated with better post-transplant outcomes than
      transplant after dialysis initiation. another study reported that less than 6 months of
      pretransplant dialysis was associated with a 17% higher risk of death-censored allograft loss
      compared with preemptive transplant. The risk of allograft loss increased with longer pre
      -transplant dialysis time, although the relative increase after 3 years of dialysis was
      minimal. Similarly, this study showed that 6 months or longer of dialysis pretransplant was
      linked to a higher risk of death post-transplant compared with preemptive transplant. Other
      advantages of preemptive transplant include lower rates of delayed graft function and lower
      overall ESRD treatment costs compared with maintenance dialysis. In 2014, 17.1% of U.S.A
      adult transplant recipients underwent a pre emptive transplant. Although the proportion of
      preemptive living donor transplants increased from 23% in 1995 to 32% in 2014, growth has
      been stagnant since 2004 despite recognition of the benefits and new paradigms, such as the
      Kidney First Initiative. Previously, deceased donor kidneys were classified as standard
      criteria donor (SCD) or expanded criteria donor (ECD). A study showed that U.S.A has the
      highest 1-year survival rate for both primary and retransplant cases as compared to Australia
      ,Canada and Europe .while Australia has the highest 5-year survival rates .Canada and Europe
      have the lowest survival rates.

      this study will be conducted on all recipient of living donor kidney transplantation in
      Assiut university urology &nephrology hospital to detect the outcome regarding survival rates
      of both grafts & patients, post-transplant quality of life and incidence of post -transplant
      complications.

      Survival may be short term meaning that the graft will be functioning only for the 1st year
      while long term survival for more than 1st year, at any time if the patient returns to
      regular dialysis this means failure of the graft. Quality of life will be evaluated regarding
      physical performance, appearance, anxiety , frustration, depression and burden of
      immunosuppressants , comparison between post-transplant and pre- transplant status.

      Complications of renal transplantation may be surgical or non surgical . Surgical
      complications may be urinary as (urinary leakage,urinary obstruction, urinoma ),lymphatic
      (lymphocele,lymphatic leakage and lymphatic obstruction)and vascular as ( renal artery
      stenosis , renal vein thrombosis,vascular aneurysms and rejection) . Non surgical as (
      rejection, side effects of Immunosuppressants as viral infections,nephrotoxicity,skin
      changes,malignancy,etc) .
    
  