
    
      5-FU has been the mainstay of chemotherapeutic agents for gastrointestinal malignancies. The
      use of weekly 24-hour infusion of HDFL produces high clinical response in a variety of
      cancers, including colorectal, gastric and breast cancers, with minimal chemotherapy-related
      toxicity. Gemcitabine is a synthesized deoxycytidine analogue that is metabolized to dFdCTP
      in tumor cells and results in inhibition of DNA synthesis and depletion of normal cellular
      nucleotide pool. It has been shown to be active in the treatment of pancreatic cancer and
      non-small cell lung cancer. Since the biliary tract and the pancreas share a common embryonic
      origin and cancers from both sites are characterized by resistance to most chemotherapeutic
      agents, we postulate that gemcitabine may also be effective for cancer of the biliary tract.
      In our institution we have devised a regimen of weekly gemcitabine and 24-hour infusion of
      HDFL for patients with advanced or metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. In 18 evaluable
      patients, 2 achieved a partial response and 3 minor response. The median duration of response
      was 4 months and the treatment-related toxicity was acceptable.

      The eligibility criteria are patients with advanced or metastatic carcinoma of the biliary
      tract who are not candidates for curative surgical treatment; good performance status; no
      prior chemotherapy; clinical measurable tumor; good organ function and good compliance. Each
      cycle of chemotherapy consists of 4 weeks. On days 1, 8 and 15, gemcitabine will be given by
      30-minute intravenous infusion and 5-FU and leucovorin by 24-hour continuous intravenous
      infusion. The dose of gemcitabine will be 1000 mg/m2. The doses of 5-FU will be 2000 mg/m2
      and leucovorin, 300 mg/m2. Treatment will continue until disease progresses or prohibitive
      toxicity develops. For patients with complete response (CR), chemotherapy will continue for 3
      additional courses after the documentation of CR. Estimated time for patient accrual is 3
      years.
    
  