
    
      The TB-TRUST is a phaseIII, multicenter, open-label, randomized controlled trial. The purpose
      of this study is to assess the feasibility of the ultra-short treatment regimen of all-oral
      anti-TB drugs among selected MDR-TB patients who are susceptible to fluoroquinolones.

      A total of 354 participants with MDR-TB will be recruited and followed up until 84 weeks
      after randomization. During randomization, eligible patients will be assigned to in a 1:1
      ratio to one of the following groups: The WHO standardized shorter regimen group and a PZA
      sensitivity guided ultra-short regimen group.

      WHO standardized shorter regimen group consists of 36-44 weeks with two phases of treatment.
      The first is an intensive phase of 16 weeks (extended up a maximum of 20 or 24 weeks in case
      of lack of smear conversion at the end of 16 or 20 weeks), and included moxifloxacin,
      amikacin, prothionamide, pyrazinamide, high-dose isoniazid, ethambutol, and clofazimine. This
      is followed by a continuation phase of 20 weeks with the following agents: moxifloxacin,
      pyrazinamide, ethambutol, and clofazimine.

      The PZA sensitivity guided ultra-short regimen consists of two periods of 24-36 weeks. During
      the first 4-8 weeks (waiting for pyrazinamide drug sensitivity test), the regimen consists of
      levofloxacin, linezolid, cycloserine, pyrazinamide, and clofazimine. Then based on molecular
      PZA drug sensitivity results, patients will be in divided into two sub-groups:
      pyrazinamide-susceptible (PZA-S) patients and pyrazinamide-resistant (PZA-R) patients. The
      Regimen for PZA-S patients, consisting of levofloxacin, linezolid, cycloserine, and
      pyrazinamide, are given until the 24th week (prolonged to 28 or 32 weeks if no smear
      conversion by end of 16th and 20th week). PZA-R sub-group regimen, consisting of
      levofloxacin, linezolid, cycloserine, and clofazimine given until 36th week (prolonged to 40
      or 44 weeks if no smear conversion by end of 16th and 20th week)

      The primary objective is to compare the treatment success rate without relapse between the
      WHO standardized shorter regimen group and the PZA sensitivity guided ultra-short regimen
      group.

      The secondary objective is to compare the median time to sputum culture conversion. Safety
      evaluations performed are the routine lab tests, blood glucose, hearing, vital signs,
      electrocardiograph (ECG), reporting of adverse events, peripheral neuropathy brief examining
      with the use of a Brief Peripheral Neuropathy rating scale(BPNS) and ophthalmologic
      examination, including assessment of visual acuity and color vision，physical examinations and
      chest CT. Adverse events will be monitored and promptly managed during the whole treatment
      course.
    
  