
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare progression-free interval (PFI) in patients undergoing surgical resection and/or
           ablation for hepatic metastases from colorectal cancer treated with adjuvant therapy
           comprising oxaliplatin and capecitabine with vs without hepatic arterial infusion of
           floxuridine.

      Secondary

        -  Compare overall survival and liver PFI between the two treatment groups.

        -  Assess toxicity in each of the treatment regimens.

        -  Compare self-reported symptoms between two treatment groups.

        -  Compare quality of life in each of the treatment regimens.

      Tertiary

        -  Examine the prognostic worth, in terms of PFI, of specific molecular markers in hepatic
           metastases.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to intended surgical
      technique (surgical resection alone vs cryoablation or radiofrequency ablation [RFA] alone vs
      combination of resection and ablation) and prior adjuvant chemotherapy regimen (chemotherapy
      with vs without oxaliplatin vs no chemotherapy). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

      All patients undergo surgical resection and/or hepatic cryoablation or RFA to remove a
      maximum of 6 colorectal hepatic metastases. Patients randomized to arm II also undergo
      intra-arterial catheter and if applicable, pump placement.

        -  Arm 1 (oxaliplatin and capecitabine): Within 4-6 weeks after surgery and/or ablation,
           patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral capecitabine twice daily
           on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 8 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm 2 (oxaliplatin, capecitabine, and hepatic arterial infusion of floxuridine): Within
           4-6 weeks after surgery and/or ablation, patients receive a continuous hepatic arterial
           infusion of floxuridine on days 1-14, oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 22, and oral
           capecitabine twice daily on days 22-35. Treatment repeats every 42 days for 4 courses in
           the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Beginning with course 5, patients receive
           oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14.
           Treatment with oxaliplatin and capecitabine repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, 4-6 weeks after surgery or ablation, approximately
      18 weeks after beginning of chemotherapy, and 4-6 weeks after beginning the last cycle of
      chemotherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 400 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  