
    
      Introduction:

      Infectious endocarditis (IE) is a rare disease (1500 cases per year in France) with a poor
      prognosis (20 % of mortality). Neurological complications participate in the initial
      morbimortality but their long-term impact is poorly known. The acute neurological
      complications are symptomatic in approximately a quarter of patients. Neurological lesions
      are frequently observed using systematic cerebral imaging. In the IMAGE study, systematic
      cerebral MRI in 130 patients performed during the acute phase of IE allowed found cerebral
      lesion in 82 % of the patients and in 79 % of patients without neurological symptoms. The
      evolution of cerebral lesion, including brain micro-bleedings and their impact prognosis are
      not known.

      Hypothesis: Cerebral lesions detected by MRI during the acute phase of infectious
      endocarditis may involve and may have an impact on functional prognosis.

      Primary objective: To describe the evolution of cerebral lesions in IE patients (comparing
      the proportion of patients with abnormal cerebral MRI in acute phase of IE and during
      follow-up).

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To compare frequency of different brain damages in acute phase of IE and during
           follow-up.

        -  To analyse the relationship between functional and cognitive status and cerebral
           lesions.

        -  To analyse the relationship between initial and follow-up cerebral lesions and initials
           characteristics (microorganisms, anticoagulation, echocardiographic characteristics,
           valve replacement surgery, type of valvular substitute, mycotic aneurysm embolization)

        -  To collect plasma during follow-up of IE

        -  To compare patient characteristics between patients who accept the functional
           exploration and those who patient refuse

        -  To describe oral health and oral condition
    
  