
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR) of avapritinib in patients with pathogenic
      CKIT or PDGFRA activating mutation-positive malignant solid tumors, as assessed by the
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the duration of response (DoR) to avapritinib in patients with pathogenic CKIT
      or PDGFRA activating mutation-positive malignant solid tumors.

      II. To evaluate the disease control rate (DCR) of avapritinib in patients with pathogenic
      CKIT or PDGFRA activating mutation-positive malignant solid tumors.

      III. To determine the safety and tolerability of avapritinib in patients with pathogenic CKIT
      or PDGFRA activating mutation-positive malignant solid tumors, as assessed by the National
      Cancer institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v5.0.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the overall survival (OS) of patients with pathogenic CKIT or PDGFRA
      activating mutation-positive malignant solid tumors receiving avapritinib.

      II. To evaluate the ORR and DoR of avapritinib in patients with measurable brain or central
      nervous system (CNS) metastases at baseline.

      III. To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with pathogenic CKIT or
      PDGFRA activating mutation-positive malignant solid tumors receiving avapritinib.

      IV. To evaluate the correlation between genomic mutations and clinical outcome. V. To
      evaluate time on treatment (including patients treated beyond progression).

      VI. To evaluate baseline genomics and circulating cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) and
      functional analyses of variants.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive avapritinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 8
      weeks.
    
  