
    
      Ovarian torsion is a relatively common gynecological emergency, usually presenting as acute
      lower abdominal pain. The underlying pathophysiology involves torsion of the ovarian tissue
      on its pedicle leading to reduced venous return, stromal edema, internal hemorrhage and
      infarction with the subsequent sequelae.

      The diagnosis of ovarian torsion is not an easy diagnosis to make and it is commonly missed.
      Signs and symptoms often mimic other disorders such as appendicitis, pyelonephritis, and
      nephrolithiasis. Abnormal arterial blood flow on ultrasound does not rule out ovarian torsion
      and not every patient will have a mass on imaging or a palpable mass on examination. Patients
      may have symptoms for several hours or days, and thus, may present even with a longer
      duration of symptoms. Due to patient's presentation diversity, the diagnosis is clinical and
      requires integration of different factors and the exclusion of other non-gynecological
      pathologies.

      Surgery is the definitive treatment and may still be effective after several hours of
      symptoms. Delay in treatment can impact fertility adversely. Conservative laparoscopic
      surgery for de-torsion is considered a safe procedure to preserve ovarian function in women
      with adnexal torsion and is mostly salvaged ovaries will maintain viability after de-torsion.

      Although the main reason for emergent operation is to rescue ovarian tissue in order to
      preserve future fertility, studies are scarce and mostly performed on animals models. Yasa et
      al, studied the ovarian reserve evaluated by antral follicle count and AMH levels in 11
      patients with ovarian torsion that underwent laparoscopic de-torsion rand found no
      significant change in serum AMH level at 1 and 3 months after laparoscopic de-torsion
      compared with the preoperative levels, however sample size was small. The aim of this study
      is to evaluate the change in anti mullarian hormone before and after laparoscopic de-torsion
      of the ovary in our medical center compared to controls.

      Material and methods This is a prospective case control study including all women admitted to
      the gynecological emergency room with high clinical suspicious of ovarian torsion, that are
      planned to go through laparoscopic surgery. Study group will include women that will be
      diagnosed with ovarian torsion during operation that will be compared to controls- women that
      ovarian torsion was not demonstrated.

      All women will sign informed consent before admitted to operation room after given
      explanation from one of the study researchers. During preparation to surgery, while inserting
      vein line and taking the customary blood samples, additional tube that will include 3 cc of
      blood, will be taken for Anti Mullarian Hormone (AMH) analysis in the endocrinology
      laboratories. All women will be coordinated by the study coordinator for a second visit in
      the gynecological ward, three month from operation for additional blood sampling that will
      include a single tube containing 3 cc of blood for analysis of AMH.
    
  