
    
      Background. Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disorder caused by a mutation in a gene that
      codifies for a chloride channel named "cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator" (CFTR). In
      the lungs this results in thick and dehydrated mucus that tends to cause obstruction of the
      bronchial lumen. Neutrophils and proinflammatory substances have been detected in
      bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of children with CF who have no bacterial infection. This
      inflammation conditions a vicious circle in which airways are colonized by bacteria that
      further increase inflammation. Persistent inflammation leads to irreversible changes in
      airways, which become distorted. Therefore, a key step in CF treatment is reduction of airway
      inflammation, for which long-term use of corticosteroids, ibuprofen or macrolides may be
      indicated.

      Glycine and its antiinflammatory effect. Glycine is the most simple aminoacid, but it is also
      an agonist of the glycine receptors (GlyR) that, when activated, cause that cells such as
      Kupffer cells, alveolar macrophages and neutrophils decrease their sensitivity to
      proinflammatory agents. Orally administered glycine has been used for some illnesses, and it
      has been noticed that it is well tolerated. Considering that children with CF have an intense
      inflammatory process in the airways, here we propose to use glycine as antiinflammatory
      agent.

      Problem statement. Can a glycine oral supplement decrease the airway inflammation in children
      with CF?

      Hypothesis. Compared with placebo, a daily supplement of glycine administered for 8 weeks to
      children with CF produce a statistically significant decrease of bronchial inflammation,
      measured by the concentration of neutrophils and inflammatory substances in sputum and
      peripheral blood, as well as by respiratory symptoms and spirometry.

      Main objective: To determine whether a daily supplement of 0.5 g/kg glycine for 8 weeks
      significantly decrease the concentration, including neutrophils, interleukin(IL)-1β, IL-6,
      IL-8, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), and myeloperoxidase, in sputum and peripheral
      blood of children with CF.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine if glycine can improve respiratory symptoms, including decreased amount and
           better fluidity of sputum.

        2. To determine if glycine can improve spirometric variables.

      Study design. This will be a randomized, placebo controlled, blinded, two-arms, cross-over
      clinical trial. Patients will receive glycine or placebo during the initial 8 weeks (initial
      phase), and after a 2 weeks washout period, they will receive the alternate treatment during
      another 8 weeks (second phase).

      Material and methods: Children with CF fulfilling the selection criteria will be studied if
      their parents accept their participation. They will be randomly assigned to one of two
      groups. The experimental group will receive glycine and the control group will receive
      placebo (sugar glass), both at doses of 0.5 g/kg divided in 3 doses per os dissolved in any
      liquid. At study entry and at weeks 4, 8, 10, 14 and 18 we will collect a 2 ml blood sample
      and a sputum sample, and the children will be submitted to spirometry. A daily symptom
      questionnaire will be filled by the parents.

      Statistical analysis: Each variable will be compared between experimental and control groups
      using Student's t test (or Mann Whitney U test if lacking normal distribution). Sample size:
      There are no previous studies that allow us to calculate a sample size. For convenience, it
      is estimated that 30 children can be included.

      Time to complete: 24 months.
    
  