
    
      While allergic diseases comprise the most common chronic disease in childhood, obesity is the
      most prevalent nutritional disorder among children throughout the world. In Europe, an
      estimated 20% of children and adolescents are overweight with one-third of these being
      considered obese. Moreover, escalation of these problems is expected in the future, since the
      velocity of propagation is highest in children. Although genetic factors can determine the
      propensity of an individual to become allergic or obese, these unlikely explain the recent
      and progressive worldwide increases in incidence. Rather, it would appear that the
      environmental changes more directly shape the risk during a critical period of life when the
      scene is set for the consolidation of the immune responder type. Prenatal environmental
      exposures may alter gene expression via epigenetic mechanisms, heritable changes in gene
      expression occurring without alterations in the DNA sequences.

      Specifically current research interest is directed towards health promotion and reducing the
      risk of disease evaluating the probiotic effects with specific foods and nutrients, and
      assessing their interactions in optimal combination and food matrix. For this purpose a
      series of interventions studies evaluate the both the optimal timing of probiotic
      intervention and the optimal mode of administration.

      Sections:

      Prenatal

      RCT 2 Randomized, parallel-design clinical trial of 3 groups. Pregnant women (n=256) from
      families with at least one member having an allergic disease have been recruited from
      maternal welfare clinics and randomly assigned to control group or one of the intervention
      groups. Mothers in the dietary intervention groups received dietary counselling with specific
      attention to the quality and quantity of fat in the diet. To promote the achievement of
      current dietary recommendations, mothers have been provided with foods which have a
      favourable fat composition (e.g. spreads). The subjects in the intervention groups have been
      further randomized (double-blind randomization) to receive either placebo or a probiotic
      preparation, 1010 cfu of both Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG and Bifidobacterium lactis and
      controls received placebo in a single-blind manner. Dietary food products and probiotic
      supplementation have been continued from the 1st trimester of pregnancy until the end of
      exclusive breast feeding, maximum of 6 months.

      Perinatal

      RCT 1 Randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 2 groups. Pregnant women (n=159)
      have been randomized into one of the study groups 2-4 weeks before term to receive placebo
      (microcrystalline cellulose) or probiotic Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (ATCC 53103; 1010 cfu).
      After delivery probiotics/ placebo were administered orally to the infants for 6 months.
      General information to prevent allergy has been given in written form to all: to breast-feed
      for at least 4-6 months; to begin solid foods at 4-6 months; no smoking by caretakers.

      RCT 3 Randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of 3 groups. Pregnant women
      (n=241) with a history of atopic diseases have been assigned to one of the treatment groups:
      to receive for 2 months before delivery and for 2 months thereafter, when they are
      breast-feeding, either placebo or Lactobacillus rhamnosus and Bifidobacterium longum or
      Lactobacillus paracasei and Bifidobacterium longum.

      Postnatal

      RCT 4 Randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 3 groups. Neonates (n=94)
      fulfilling the following criteria: gestational age at birth between 32nd and 36th weeks,
      weight over 1500 g and no congenital defects of gastrointestinal system or other defects that
      prevent enteral nutrition, have been randomized to receive either placebo (microcrystalline
      cellulose) or a probiotic preparation (Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG, ATCC 53103) or a prebiotic
      preparation (a mixture of Polydextrose and Galacto-oligosaccharideOS in a 1:1 ratio). The
      treatment continues for 2 months.

      RCT 5 Randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of 2 groups. 2-6 weeks old
      formula- and breast-fed colic infants (n=30), who cry without medical cause for 3h/d, for
      3days/week, have been randomized to receive either placebo (microcrystalline cellulose) or a
      probiotic preparation (Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG, ATCC 53103) for 4 weeks. Formula-fed
      infants receive extensively hydrolysed formula and mothers of breast-fed infants avoid cow's
      milk in their diet.
    
  