
    
      While cognitive impairment has long been recognized as a part of the fibromyalgia syndrome,
      as extensively reviewed by Glass, early research on the pathophysiology and clinical
      manifestations of this aspect were relatively limited, particularly in the field of imaging.
      Nonetheless, physicians dealing with FMS patients are well aware of the fact, that in the
      real-life situation, cognitive impairment can often be more devastating for the functional
      status of a patient than pain. Not infrequently, a patient may relate that he or she has
      grown accustomed to pain and knows how to manage it, but finds it impossible to continue
      working or studying because of severe difficulties with memory and concentration. Research
      has shown that so called "fibro-fog", a popular term referring to FMS - related dyscognition,
      is ranked by patients as one the most important complaints.

      Memory impairment appears to constitute an important aspect of the dysfunction typical of
      FMS. Characteristic disturbances have been demonstrated in FMS in various memory types,
      including semantic memory - the ability to recollect facts and general information and
      episodic memory - the ability to recall past events. Attention disturbances have been
      demonstrated in FMS as well, such as in working memory - the ability to temporarily hold and
      process information in mind, Distraction from target and Selective attention.

      The pathophysiology of cognitive impairment in FMS remains incompletely understood. Various
      modulators have been suggested, including sleep disturbances, mood disorders, medications and
      the salient symptom of FMS - chronic pain. While cognitive impairment remains after
      controlling for anxiety and depression or sleep disturbances, the levels of pain are
      consistently correlated with the severity of cognitive dysfunction in FMS. Notably, despite
      the clinical significance of cognitive impairment in FMS, and despite the above - mentioned
      evidence regarding the various aspects of memory impairment in this condition, the
      neuroscience underpinnings of these deficits have not been clearly elucidated; Moreover,
      neuroimaging studies demonstrating the interaction between pain and cognitive areas are
      strikingly few; One such study has recently demonstrated altered activations in the
      fronto-parietal network in FMS patients, while performing the N-back task - a frequently used
      working memory task.

      While the new American College of Rheumatology criteria for the diagnosis of FMS have
      incorporated cognitive impairment into the diagnostic scheme, as well as establishing a scale
      of symptom severity, the interplay between cognitive impairment and the other symptoms is not
      clearly understood. Thus, there is no clear data regarding the degree to which cognitive
      impairment is correlated with symptoms such as pain, fatigue, abdominal discomfort etc in
      individual patients and to what extent a longitudinal relationship is maintained between
      these parameters (i.e. to what extent an improvement or worsening of one symptom is
      correlated with others). From a practical, clinical view point, assessing the degree of
      cognitive impairment in FMS is extremely difficult and currently is usually left (at best) to
      the subjective report of the patients. This difficulty is compounded both by the fact that
      cognition is but one of a broad array of symptom realms in FMS and by the fact that
      clinicians dealing with FMS patients, e.g. rheumatologists, are not regularly involved in the
      implementation of cognitive assessment. Thus, there is a clear need for obtaining reliable
      and reproducible tools for the assessment of cognitive impairment in FMS. Such tools could be
      utilized as an objective biomarker for evaluation the clinical course and response to
      treatment as well as a tool for evaluating the interplay between cognitive impairment and
      other domains of the fibromyalgia syndrome.

      The purpose of the proposed study is to utilize a validated fully computerized cognitive
      assessment battery (Mindstreams; NeuroTrax Corp.) for assessing the correlation between
      cognitive impairments and clinical, self-reported, severity parameters in fibromyalgia
      syndrome. We aim to explore the relationship, if any, between reported subjective parameters,
      such as levels of pain, stress, depression and extent of adopting the 'sick-role' of patients
      with FMS, with indices of cognitive impairments. We hypothesize that the severity of
      subjective stress, rather than medical/clinical parameters of the syndrome, will be
      correlated positively with cognitive impairments.
    
  