
    
      Incretins, the analogs of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), improve glucose control in type 2
      diabetes mellitus and counteract obesity through mechanisms that are not completely
      understood. The investigators' preliminary data show that, in prediabetic human subjects and
      mice, GLP-1 analog therapy induces an increase in plasma interleukin-6 (IL-6), a cytokine
      activating signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling, which
      induces brown (beige) adipocyte differentiation in adipose tissue (AT). The investigators
      discovered that plasma IL-6 induction occurs through GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) stimulation in
      leukocytes. Interestingly, studies in rodents indicate that GLP-1 / GLP-1R signaling also
      induces AT beiging. Based on these observations, the investigators hypothesize that incretins
      induce AT browning in part via transient IL-6 / IL-6 receptor (IL-6R) / STAT3 signaling. The
      primary objective is to further elucidate the role of IL-6 and GLP-1 signaling in mediating
      beneficial metabolic effects of incretin therapy. Studies will be paralleled in a human
      clinical trial, a human cell culture model, and a mouse diet-induced obesity model. GLP-1
      analog therapy combined with an IL-6 blocking antibody will be used. Specific Aim 1 is to (A)
      investigate IL-6 induction / downstream STAT3 signaling and AT browning upon incretin therapy
      in prediabetic human subjects; and (B) validate mice as a model to study incretin-induced
      IL-6 signaling as a mediator of AT browning. Specific Aim 2 is to (A) investigate if GLP-1
      analog effects on beige adipogenesis depend on IL-6 signaling in human adipocyte progenitors;
      and (B) investigate if GLP-1 analog effects on beige adipogenesis depend on IL-6 signaling in
      mice. It is expected that 1) GLP-1 analog signaling via GLP-1R induces IL-6 secretion by
      leukocytes, and 2) GLP-1 analog therapy induces adipose tissue browning via both direct GLP-1
      / GLP-1R signaling and indirect incretin-induced IL-6 / IL-6R / STAT3 signaling. The results
      of this novel study will give critical insights on the anti-obesity mechanisms of GLP-1
      analogs and serve as the basis for developing more targeted therapies for diabetes and
      obesity. Understanding the anti-diabetic IL-6 effects will also be important for interpreting
      the results of IL-6 blockade, a therapeutic approach for patients with diabetes and other
      inflammatory conditions, which may need to be re-considered.
    
  