
    
      Patients eligible to be enrolled in this study are patients admitted to the Department of
      Neurology due to acute ischemic stroke up to 72 hours from the start of the stroke symptoms.

      After receiving written informed consent from the patient, patients will be randomized into
      the intervention and control groups (1:1). The intervention group will be tested for sleep
      apnea and C-PAP treatment will be initiated during the initial hospitalization. The control
      group will receive standard medical care. Control group patients will undergo sleep study at
      3 months following discharge and patients diagnosed with sleep apnea will be treated with
      C-PAP.

      All subjects:

        -  At the baseline, physical examination MRS and NIHSS will be performed by the
           neurologist.

        -  Sleep testing at the baseline with mobile sleep lab device (Watch PAT)

        -  Four questionnaires will be administered for all patients: Epworth Sleepiness Scale
           (ESS), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), quality of life (SF36), depression scale
           (Beck).

        -  Blood sample will be taken for CRP, TNF-alpha, IL-6 and IL1 beta, VEGF, HBA1C, LDL and
           markers of endothelial dysfunction. These blood tests will be repeated at 3 and 6
           months.

        -  At discharge from the Neurology Department, 3 months and 6 months all patients will
           undergo NIHSS assessment.

        -  Patients will be referred to the Soroka stroke clinic with rehabilitation program.

        -  All patients will undergo 3 brain MRI scans, at baseline hospitalization, 3 and 6 months
           after.

      Intervention group:

        -  In the intervention group, the mobile sleep lab device (Watch PAT) will be used to
           identify patients with sleep apnea.

        -  Treatment phase: Patients with (apnea hypopnea index) AHI≥15 will receive an in-hospital
           treatment with CPAP and continue CPAP treatment following discharge. The CPAP parameters
           will be titrated during the hospital stay.

      Control group:

        -  Patients will receive standard medical care. At three months, patients will undergo home
           sleep test with Watch-PAT device.

        -  Patients with (apnea hypopnea index) AHI≥15 will receive CPAP treatment with titration
           at home.

      TRIAL PROCEDURES 1. Patients eligible to be enrolled in this study are patients admitted to
      the Neurology Department due to stroke up to 72 hours after the showing of stroke symptoms.

      2. At the baseline, physical examination, MRS and NIHSS will be performed by one of the
      Neurology Department doctors.

      3. After receiving written informed consent from the patient, patients will be divided into 2
      groups. Study group will have detection and treatment in 72 hours after stroke. Control group
      will have detection and treatment 3 months after stroke.

      STUDY AND CONTROL GROUP

        1. The patient will answer four questionnaires: Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), Pittsburgh
           Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), "quality of life" (SF36) and "depression scale" (beck).

        2. Next, the mobile sleep lab device (Watch PAT) will be placed on the patient's finger
           which will provide the apnea-hypopnea Index (AHI) and respiratory disturbance index
           (RDI).

        3. Blood samples for circulating inflammatory biomarkers and endothelial dysfunction will
           be performed in the morning. Four tubes of peripheral venous blood will be drawn. Every
           study patient will be tested for the presence of pro-inflammatory state. Specifically,
           the investigators will measure the presence of high sensitive C Reactive Protein (CRP)
           and centrifuged sera will be tested (by ultra- sensitive ELISA), for levels of
           circulating TNF-alpha, IL-6 and IL1 beta. Sera will also be tested for vascular
           endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and markers of endothelial dysfunction; P-selectin.
           LDL, HBA1C.

        4. At discharge from the Neurology Department, the patient will undergo NIHSS assessment.

        5. Half of patients randomly chosen will be asked to join an "early treatment" group for 6
           months of C-PAP treatment. Patients from the other half will be asked for C-PAP
           treatment at 3 months (late intervention).

        6. All four questionnaires will be completed by all patients at the end of the follow up
           period.

        7. MRI scan will be done at three points: CVA admission, 3 and 6 months after.

        8. Six months after baseline hospitalization, patients from both groups will answer four
           questionnaires: Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI),
           "quality of life" (SF36) and "depression scale" (beck).
    
  