
    
      Background The 2015 release of a new "Follow-up Program for Gynecological Cancers" by the
      Danish Health Authority (DHA) marked a break with traditional follow-up. The conclusion,
      derived from a Health Technology Assessment report from 2009 assessing the value of follow up
      in patients with endometrial and ovarian cancer, was, that regular follow-up visits do not
      improve survival and may consume unnecessary resources from both patients and health care
      personnel. As a consequence, a need based program was proposed where the follow-up is planned
      individually and adjusted according to patient's needs, risks and resources. It was further
      emphasized that patient's self-care ability should be supported and that access to specialist
      assessment should be easy available.

      The new follow-up program was soon implemented in most national gynecological centers without
      previous evaluation in a pilot setting and with sparse evidence of benefits and harms.
      Further, as the recommendations from the DHA were broad, various forms of the model were
      introduced. Optimally, a national common professional agreement to standardize this
      transformation should be made. However, there is neither consistency nor sufficient knowledge
      about the optimal organizational follow-up model for gynecological cancer patients for this
      to be accomplished.

      Internationally, various follow-up models for patients with cancer have been tested over the
      past decade. In the gynecological setting, evidence of the most optimal organization of
      follow-up is sparse. In general, studies suggest that follow-up conducted in a nurse or
      general practitioner setting demonstrate similar survival and recurrence detection rates and
      similar or slightly better rates of satisfaction and quality of life as compared to follow-up
      in a conventional setting.

      From previous national studies on survivorship in Danish cancer patients it was learned
      learned that involvement of the general practitioners (GPs) in the follow-up process was not
      superior, and one in ten cancer patient was not satisfied with the contribution from their GP
      during the follow-up. Further, studies have shown that socioeconomic status had a significant
      impact on participation in rehabilitation activities of gynecological cancer patients with
      cervical and ovarian cancer patients being especially vulnerable. Unmet needs after cancer
      was found to be significantly associated with lower quality of life emphasizing the
      importance of need assessment. Preliminary data from a local randomized trial of follow up
      vs. no follow up in low risk endometrial cancer patients indicate that women report a higher
      degree of fear of recurrence after cancer treatment if they receive no follow-up as compared
      to a group receiving conventional follow-up. Hence, results obtained from prior studies on
      survivorship following gynecological cancer treatment indicate that follow-up to some extent
      seems needed and emphasize a need to develop new programs that facilitates self-management
      but at the same time embrace those most vulnerable. Question is how the patients needs are
      best accommodated with limited resources available. Comprehensive evaluation of effects,
      benefits and harms are essential before implementation of new initiatives.

      This randomized study suggests a strong focus on promotion of cancer patients' self-care
      ability, in this study conceptualized as empowerment. Empowerment has been described as "a
      process by which people, organizations, and communities gain mastery over their affairs" and
      empowerment processes as "processes in which attempts to gain control, obtain needed
      resources, and critically understand one's social environment are fundamental. The process is
      empowering if it helps people to develop skills so that they can become independent
      problem-solvers and decision-makers". Focus on improvement of patient empowerment may thus
      unify the need for patient involvement, promotion of self-care ability and re-allocate
      resources to those patients most vulnerable who are often neglected in the follow-up process.
      Further, by empowering patients to master the consequences of their cancer disease, they may
      have fewer unmet needs, which may altogether improve quality of life and reduce fear of
      recurrence.

      Use of electronic Patient Reported Outcome Measures (ePROMs) in the follow-up process has in
      selected populations shown to improve quality of life, reduce emergency room visits and
      hospitalizations, and improve quality-adjusted survival. Therefore ePROMs are suggested as
      important elements of future follow-up programs for cancer patients.

      By combining nurse-led, needs based and individually planned follow-up, support of patient
      empowerment to self-manage with use of ePROMS to provide a safe and efficient follow-up
      program, the extended model of follow-up of the present study may improve patient outcomes
      and reduce economic as well as human resourses.

      Study design Randomized, controlled study. Patients and health care professionals are not
      blinded, but randomization will be carried out centrally and the allocation sequence is
      computer-generated with varying block size and is kept unknown for all investigators. In
      addition, the patient's randomization status will be blinded during data processing and
      analysis.

      The study will be developed, implemented and results will be published in accordance with the
      CONSORT statement.

      Participants and Setting Women with cervical or endometrial cancer who are surgically treated
      at the Department of Gynecology at Odense University Hospital (OUH) are invited to
      participate. Women referred to oncological treatment post operative, who do not speak or read
      Danish, or where consent is unethical, i.e. caused by dementia, are not eligible. Patients
      will be recruited from 2019-2021.

      The project is carried out by project nurses and doctors of the Department of Gynecology at
      OUH, where inclusion of patients and follow-up are conducted. The department operates 350-400
      gynecological cancer patients annually, of which 50-70 with cervical cancer and 160-180 with
      endometrial cancer. Overall, about 60% (126-150 patients per year) will meet the inclusion
      criteria.

      Patients, who do not wish to participate or for other reasons are not included, are referred
      to the doctor led follow-up program, which was implemented as the new standard during the
      autumn of 2017.

      The project group consists of clinicians and researchers from the Department of Gynecology at
      OUH and Clinical Institute, Research Unit for General Practice, and Department of Psychology
      at University of Southern Denmark. In addition, patient representatives from the Danish
      "Patient Association of Women with Gynecological Cancer" are invited to give feedback on the
      proposed intervention, the questionnaires and all patient materials. In addition they will be
      asked to participate in the interpretation of the study results.

      Odense Patient data Explorative Network (OPEN) which is a non-profit research infrastructure
      of OUH and University of Southern Denmark, contribute to the management of the questionnaires
      and data collection by using the Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) technology.
      Further, OPEN provides data management assistance and statistical support.

      Study plan In the present study an innovative model is tested where specialized nurses handle
      the follow-up of endometrial and cervical cancer patients in the intervention group. The
      model is based on telephone consultations and developed to ensure timely identification of
      alarm symptoms and potential needs and support of the patient's empowerment to manage life
      after cancer.

      Until the intervention baseline at 4 months post operative, all patients receive the same
      follow-up. Hence, before randomization, all patients are offered a follow-up consultation
      with a nurse 4 weeks post operative, where a need assessment is conducted using the
      "Preparatory Form for the patient" as described by the Region of Southern Denmark in their
      "Guide to need assessment of patients with cancer". Further, a disease specific list of alarm
      symptoms prepared by working groups of the Danish Gynecological Cancer Group (DGCG) is
      reviewed with the patient. The patient is carefully instructed to be aware of and contact the
      department in case of symptoms from the list as they may indicate recurrence, and that access
      to clinical examination is available and provided when needed.

      All patients are eventually offered a follow-up consultation with a doctor 4 months post
      operative, where a clinical assessment is performed and the Preparatory Form and symptom list
      are reviewed as part of the needs assessment. If the patient meets the inclusion criteria,
      she is asked to participate in the study and is randomized if consent is obtained. The
      randomization status is immediately revealed. For control group patients a new appointment
      with the doctor is arranged if needed, and for patients in the intervention group a telephone
      follow-up with the attending nurse is arranged.
    
  