
    
      1. Introduction to investigational treatment(s) and other study treatment(s)

           1.1 Overview of gemcitabine Gemcitabine (29,29-difluoro 29-deoxycytidine, dFdC) which
           developed from cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) is an nucleoside analog used as
           chemotherapy. It was intended as an antiviral drug in initial, but preclinical testing
           showed that it killed leukemia cells and a spectrum of solid tumor in vitro. In cell,
           gemcitabine undergoes complex intracellular conversion to the active forms of
           nucleotides gemcitabine diphosphate (dFdCDP) and triphosphate (dFdCTP) that will
           influence DNA synthesis. dFdCTP competes with deoxycytidine triphosphate (dCTP) and
           dFdCDP is a potent inhibitor of ribonucleoside reductase (1). Gemcitabine is
           administered by the intravenous route with dose ranges from 0.6-1.2 g/m^2 of body
           surface area (2), and has been used in a broad spectrum cancer management including
           lung, breast, pancrease, and bladder (3).

           The toxic profile of gemcitabine was major in hematopoietic system especially
           neutropenia and thrombocytopenia (4). In NPC treatment, gemcitabine had been the focus
           of several reports, with interesting OR rates in the range of 23-48% and median
           progression-free survival (PFS) of between 3.6 and 5.1 months (5). In combination
           chemotherapy with cisplatin, the OR rate 42.7 to 73% had been reported and median PFS
           were 5.6 to 10.6 months (6). In combined with oxaliplatin, the OR rate was 56.1 % and
           median PFS was 9 months (6). In combined with vinorelbine, OR rate 36 to 37.7% had been
           reported and median PFS were 5.2 to 5.6 months. In multiple drugs combination with
           carboplatin, paclitaxel, 5-Fluoro-Uracil/LeucoVorin, high OR rate with 86% had been
           reported but with median PFS of 8 months (6). Still these trials were done in small
           series and lacking randomized large scale phase III trial.

           1.2 Valproic acid (VPA) Valproic acid (VPA), a branched short-chain fatty acid, is
           widely used in clinical as an antiepileptic drug and a mood stabilizer, primarily in the
           treatment of epilepsy, bipolar disorder, and prevention of migraine headaches (7). The
           antiepileptic properties of VPA have been attributed to inhibition of Gamma Amino
           Butyrate (GABA) trans aminobutyrate and of ion channels.

           VPA was recently classified among the Histone Deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors, acting
           directly at the level of gene transcription by inhibiting histone deacetylation and
           making transcription sites more accessible. Chromatin is formed of DNA packaged in
           nucleosome structures. The condensed form of chromatin (heterochromatin) is inactive in
           terms of transcription whereas the decondensed form (euchromatin) corresponds to an
           active form. The histone acetylation leads to relaxation of the nucleosome structure,
           releasing the DNA and allowing transcription. Inhibition of histone deacetylases (HDACs)
           promotes decondensed chromatin formation, thereby promoting the expression of genes (7).

           Valproic acid (VPA), as a HDAC inhibitor, can specifically target at class I a, I b, and
           II a HDACs (8). VPA also down regulates expression of proteins essential for chromatin
           maintenance: Structural Maintenance of chromatin (SMC), DNA methyl transferase-1
           (DNMT1), and heterochromatin protein-1 (HP1) (9). VPA had been shown to induce histone 3
           methylation which would increase transcriptional activity (8). VPA had been shown some
           anticancer effect, major through its HDAC inhibitor, in single agent or combined with
           other anticancer medication including myeloid and lymphoid malignancies, breast cancer,
           prostate cancer, and NPC (10-13) Long-term VPA treatment may cause central nervous
           system (CNS) dysfunction, liver toxicity, and coagulopathy including thrombocytopenia
           and platelet dysfunction (7).

           1.3 Ganciclovir (GCV) and Valganciclovir (VGC) GCV was an antiviral agent had been used
           in treatment or prophylaxis of cytomegalovirus infection in solid organ transplantation
           recipients or bone marrow transplantation (14). GCV is a synthetic analogue of
           2'-deoxy-guanosine and can be phosphorylated to ganciclovir triphosphate, a competitive
           inhibitor of deoxyguanosine triphosphate (dGTP) incorporation into DNA and
           preferentially inhibits viral DNA polymerases more than cellular DNA polymerases, by
           viral and cell kinase. In addition, ganciclovir triphosphate serves as a poor substrate
           for chain elongation, thereby disrupting viral DNA synthesis by a second route (15).

           VGC, a valyl ester prodrug of GCV, had a high oral bioavailability of about 60% with
           similar efficacy of GCV in management of cytomegalovirus infection (16). The most common
           side effect of IV GCV is fever and leukopenia (16).

           1.4 Combination of GEM, VPA and GCV in NPC treatment In EBV-related malignancy,
           antiviral drugs exhibit no direct effect on cancer cell except when used combined with
           epigenetically active agents (17, 18). Recently, Wildeman et al, had shown some efficacy
           by combining chemotherapy of GEM with VPA and GCV in control of locally
           advanced/metastatic NPC patients (13). In this article, both GEM and VPA could shift EBV
           from latent phase into lytic phase and had synergetic effect when combined used. Further
           adding GCV in this regimen could suppress virion formation. The combination therapy had
           been tested in three locally advanced/metastatic NPC patients showing promising results
           with tumor regressing/stable in image and plasma EBV DNA load monitoring with few side
           effects Similar manageable side effects of these three drugs combined treatment were
           also proved by Stoker et al (19). These results encouraged us to develop a more
           practical regimen in this trial.

        2. Test products, dosage, and mode of administration:

      2.1. Chemotherapy regimen: Gemcitabine (Gemmis injection，200 mg) (GEM, TTY) + Valproic acid
      (Depakine gastro-resistant tablet，200 mg) (VPA, Sanofi) for viral activation + Valganciclovir
      (Valcyte film-coated tablets，450 mg) (VGC, Roche) for antiviral medication

      2.2. Dosage GEM: 600~1250 mg/m^2, D1 & D8, intravenously. VPA: 12.5 mg/kg/day D1~14, per os.
      VGC: (2~3) x 450mg/day D9~15, per os.

        1. This treatment cycle of 28 days will be repeated maximum 6 times. (Q4wks/cycle, max: 6
           cycles)

        2. Four dosage of GEM combined with fixed dosage of VPA and VGC will be tested

        3. The rationale of seven days treatment duration of VGC come from (A) 7 days treatment
           duration of valacyclovir in herpes zoster in immunocompetent patients (20) (B) overlap
           side effect of myelosuppression between GEM and VGC(13).

        4. Efficient dose intensity chemotherapy (gemcitabine) is essential in this three combined
           drugs regimen (21) and this trial will be started with dose level 0 (Gemcitabine 800
           mg/m^2)

      2.3. Concomitant treatment

      2.3.1 Permitted: The related treatment for relieve symptoms caused from tumor.

      2.3.2 Prohibited:

        1. Radiation therapy, operation, and other chemotherapy for eradicating tumor

        2. Valganciclovir concomitant with Imipenem-cilastatin could result in convulsion; with
           zidovudine could result in neutropenia; with Probenecid would increase toxicity of
           ganciclovir

        3. Co-administration of valproate with amitryptyline/nortryptyline, and warfarin need to be
           adjusted if necessary

        4. Co-administration of valganciclovir with didanosine, Mycophenolate mofetil, and bone
           marrow suppression drugs (e.g., dapsone, pentamidine, flucytosine, vincristine,
           vinblastine, adriamycin, amphotericin B, nucleoside analogues, hydroxyurea) would need
           to be monitored more seriously because of their toxicity might increase

        5. All other drugs prohibited co-administration with valproic acid absolutely

      3. Duration of treatment: This treatment cycle of 28 days will be repeated maximum 6 times.
      (Q4wks/cycle, max: 6 cycles) A standard 3 + 3 phase I dose escalation study design was used
      (22). A minimum of three evaluable patients were to be treated at each dose level. According
      to Worst Toxicity CTCAE v4.03 Grade and FDA indication of gemcitabine, the dose limiting
      toxicity (DLT) of this trial was determined in the first treatment cycle.

      In the absence of DLT, patients were enrolled in the next dose level. If 1 of three patients
      had a DLT, the cohort was expanded to include six patients. If ≥2 patients experienced DLT,
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was exceeded and further enrollment at that dose level was
      stopped. MTD was defined as the highest dose level at which ≤1 of 6 patients experienced a
      DLT. Only DLT that occurred during the first treatment cycle were used to determine the MTD.

      4. Patient examination and re-evaluation: Laboratory data of complete blood count
      (CBC)/differential count (DC), creatinine, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) will be routine
      checked every weeks during the first 3 treatment cycles. During all treatment courses, if
      grade 4 neutropenia or grade 4 thrombocytopenia attacked, the laboratory will be checked
      every 3 days until recovered to pre-treatment baseline. Around 70% responsive and stable
      cases could be enrolled in the 4th treatment cycle will be routine checked the laboratory
      data before gemcitabine administration. Plasma EBV DNA copies number will be monitored before
      each cycle treatment. Systemic re-evaluation will be performed after every three cycles
      treatment. Re-evaluation including physical examination, image studies including CT/MRI for
      head and neck area, chest x-ray, abdominal echo, and Gallium whole body tumor scan, and blood
      exam including complete CBC count, biochemical profile, and plasma EBV DNA copies number.
    
  