
    
      186 patients in 4 centers will be enrolled in this study. Patients accord with the criteria
      of CAP with aspiration factors will be enrolled and randomized to one of the following
      groups. The treatment duration will range from 2 to 4 weeks.

      Study Group: Intravenous treatment with moxifloxacin 400mg i.v. OD. Based on investigator's
      decision, a switch can be made to moxifloxacin 400 mg OD, orally (Moxifloxacin injection will
      be used no more than 3 weeks consecutively) .

      Control Group: Intravenous treatment with levofloxacin 400mg i.v. OD plus metronidazole 0.5g
      i.v. bid. Based on investigator's decision, a switch can be made to levofloxacin 400mg OD
      plus metronidazole 0.2g tid, orally.

      Treatment should be continued until complete resolution of the radiological, clinical and
      laboratory alterations or until no further regression can be observed. Clinical,
      bacteriological, laboratory and radiological examinations will be performed pre-treatment.
      Swallowing/coughing reflection test will be used for aspiration factor diagnosis. Risk
      factors (Decreased level of consciousness, dysphagia, gastroesophageal reflux, neurologic
      disease, mechanical and device-related (e.g. nasogastric feeding tube) impairment of upper
      aerodigestive tract, vomiting, bronchial obstruction due to neoplasm or foreign body,
      bronchiectasis, pulmonary infarction, etc) will be evaluated before the treatment. Clinical
      and laboratory examinations such as blood routine(including Hb, differential blood count,
      etc), urine routine, biochemistry examination (including serum bilirubin, hepatic/renal
      function parameters, etc), coagulation examination will be repeated selectively. Radiological
      examination (e.g. chest x-ray) will be repeated at each visit for clinical monitoring after
      one week treatment. At the test-of-cure visit (7-14 days after the end of therapy)
      comprehensive clinical, bacteriological and laboratory examinations will be performed.
    
  