
    
      BACKGROUND Patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing maintenance hemodialysis (HD)
      have to adjust to complex treatment regimens, and experience frequent care transitions. This
      is compounded by a four-fold higher prevalence of comorbid depression than in the general
      population, which is strongly associated with poor patient-centered outcomes. Yet, depression
      is often not diagnosed when present, not treated when identified, and many HD patients are
      reluctant to accept treatment. This is likely a result of lack of high-quality evidence for
      the efficacy of different treatment options for comorbid depression in HD patients.
      OBJECTIVES Conduct an open-label, randomized controlled clinical trial among HD patients with
      comorbid depression to (1) compare the efficacy of an engagement interview with usual care in
      increasing acceptability of treatment (n=200); and (2) compare the efficacy of 12 weeks of
      cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) or anti-depressant drug therapy (sertraline) for reducing
      the severity of depressive symptoms, and other meaningful outcomes (n=120). METHODS HD
      patients in up to 50 dialysis facilities in three different regions (Albuquerque, NM; Dallas,
      TX; Seattle, WA) will be pre-screened for the presence of clinically significant depressive
      symptoms. Patients with a confirmed diagnosis of major depression or dysthymia will be
      randomly assigned to an engagement interview or usual care to determine efficacy in
      increasing acceptability of treatment (n=200). Individuals who agree to treatment will be
      randomly assigned to individual CBT or drug therapy. CBT will be administered in a dialysis
      facility by a trained therapist. Sertraline will be titrated to the maximum tolerated dose
      using Measurement Based Care, a model of shared-decision-making. Patient-reported outcomes
      will be measured by a single assessor for all three sites, blinded to the treatment
      assignment. The primary efficacy measure will be a change in severity of depressive symptoms;
      secondary outcome measures will assess other important patient-reported outcomes such as
      somatic symptom burden, functioning, and adherence with dialysis treatment, diet, and
      medications. The longitudinal evolution of symptoms in patients who refuse to accept any
      treatment either within or outside the clinical trial will also be studied (n=40). PATIENT
      OUTCOMES (PROJECTED) This study will provide answers to three questions faced by HD patients
      with clinically significant depressive symptoms: (1) "Given my preferences, what should I
      expect will happen to me?"; (2) "What are my options, and what are the potential benefits and
      harms of these options?"; and (3) "What can I do to improve the outcomes that are most
      important to me?" Oversight of study will be provided by separate Patient Council and
      Stakeholder Council to align with PCORI's mission of generating high-integrity,
      evidence-based information from research guided by patients, caregivers, and broader health
      care community.
    
  