
    
      Chloroquine (CQ) phosphate is an immunomodulatory drug that has been approved by the FDA for
      prophylaxis of and treatment of malaria, treatment of lupus erythematosus, and treatment of
      rheumatoid arthritis. Anecdotal data and in-vitro studies suggests potential benefit of
      chloroquine in treating COVID-19 patients. The use of CQ to treat COVID-19 patients have been
      demonstrated to be effective in inhibiting severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2
      (SARS-CoV-2). The use of CQ in health care workers with moderate to high risk of exposure to
      COVID-19 in could prevent symptomatic COVID 19 infections. 350 participants will be
      randomized (like a flip of a coin) to a 3 month chloroquine versus an identical course of
      placebo. A placebo is a sugar pill which has no active ingredient. will attend one in person
      visit during month 0 for screening and randomization, and if possible during the last visit
      at month 3. During month 1 and 2 the in person visits are optional and the PI can follow up
      with subjects through telemedicine or phone call. Informed consent, inclusion/exclusion
      criteria, demographic, medical/ disease history/ comorbidity/ medical records review, prior/
      concomitant meds and procedures, and adverse events will be collected from patient during
      screening visit 1 (month 0). Limited physical assessment, vitals, blood serum,
      investigational product compliance review, assessment of adverse events, serious adverse
      events, adverse events of special interest, and endpoint assessments are also collected
      during visit 1. Prior/concomitant medications and procedures, adverse events, study drug
      compliance review, adverse events of special interest, adverse events of special interest and
      endpoint assessments will be reviewed at every visit. Blood serum will be collected during
      visits 1 (month 0) and at visit 4 (month 3) if subject can come to the visit physically. By
      the end of the study, the investigators hope that there is decrease of symptomatic illness in
      at risk healthcare workers and a decrease in symptomatic COVID infection.
    
  