
    
      CSE is a widely used technique to provide analgesia in laboring patients. One of the
      disadvantages of the CSE is the delay in recognizing the mal-position of the epidural
      catheter, which is initially masked due to the effects of the spinal component. A
      mal-positioned epidural catheter can cause unnecessary maternal discomfort and
      dissatisfaction, as it requires a repeat procedure when the effect of spinal drug wears off.
      Additionally, in the event of emergency caesarean delivery, it would be advantageous to know
      that the catheter is properly placed. Low current electrical stimulation test, or the Tsui
      test, has been used successfully to confirm catheter location in the epidural space. Our
      objective in this study is to test the usefulness of the Tsui test to confirm the correct
      placement of the epidural catheter during CSE in laboring patients.

      Two groups of patients will be studied. In the first group, after the placement of the
      epidural catheter and noting the electric current required to elicit a motor response
      (maximum current used is 20 mA), a spinal needle is introduced one inter vertebral space
      below the space where the epidural catheter is inserted and 0.7 ml of 0.25% isobaric
      bupivacaine and 15 mcg of fentanyl is injected intrathecally. The epidural catheter is then
      re-stimulated and the magnitude of the current required to reproduce the motor response is
      noted. The stimulation is repeated after 5, 10, and 15 minutes. The second group consists of
      patients with accidental dural puncture. An intrathecal catheter is inserted and the Tsui
      test performed (maximum current used is 2 mA), followed by the injection of same mixture of
      local anesthetic and opioid as used in the first group. The Tsui test is repeated at 5, 10
      and 15 minute intervals, similar to what is done in the epidural group. After 15 minutes,
      patients in both groups are managed as per departmental policy. In both the groups, the Tsui
      test will be repeated after 120 minutes during the maintenance of labor analgesia to
      determine the change in intensity of current required to elicit the motor response.
    
  