
    
      More than 3 million people in the United States will experience a panic attack at some point
      in their lives. A panic attack occurs when a person experiences an intense feeling of sudden
      fear as well as physical sensations of breathlessness, rapid heart beat, and dizziness. Panic
      disorder, which is characterized by reoccurring panic attacks, often develops during
      childhood or adolescence and, if left untreated, can interfere with a child's normal
      development, relationships, school work, and psychological well-being. Cognitive behavioral
      therapy (CBT) with a panic control treatment (PCT) component is a type of psychotherapy that
      teaches new ways to control anxiety or panic attacks. It has been found to be effective in
      treating adults with panic disorder. However, more research is needed to determine if CBT
      with PCT, when adapted specifically for adolescents, is also effective in treating
      adolescents with panic disorder. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of CBT with a PCT
      component in treating adolescents with panic disorder.

      Participation in this study will last up to 18 months. All participants will first undergo
      baseline assessments that will include a behavioral/psychological assessment while wearing a
      heart-rate monitoring device; questionnaires relating to experiences of anxiety, fear, and
      depression; and parent and child clinical interviews. Participants will then be assigned
      randomly to receive either immediate CBT with PCT or delayed CBT with PCT, which will occur
      after a 12-week waitlist period. CBT with PCT for all participants will include 11 weekly
      individual sessions, lasting 60 minutes each. During sessions, participants will learn
      specifically designed ways for adolescents to reduce or overcome panic attacks. Throughout
      treatment, participants will keep daily records of their anxiety and will complete
      self-monitoring forms to monitor panic attacks. During the 12-week waitlist period, the
      waitlist group participants will complete the same daily records and self-monitoring forms.
      The waitlist group participants will also meet with a therapist once every other week to
      discuss the nature of any panic attacks or address any concerns. Once all 12 weeks have
      passed, they will begin CBT with PCT. All participants will repeat the baseline assessments
      at Months 3, 6, and 12 after treatment.
    
  