
    
      Multiple rare structural variants of relatively recent evolutionary origin are recognized as
      important risk factors for schizophrenia (SZ) and other neurodevelopmental disorders (e.g.,
      autism spectrum disorders, mental retardation, epilepsy) with odds ratios as high as 7-30. We
      have found a de novo structural rearrangement on chromosome 9p24.1 in two psychotic patients.
      One of the genes in this region is the gene encoding glycine decarboxylase (GLDC), which
      affects brain glycine metabolism. GLDC encodes the glycine decarboxylase or glycine cleavage
      system P-protein, which is involved in degradation of glycine in glia cells. Carriers of the
      GLDC triplication would be expected to have low levels of brain Gly, resulting in NMDA
      receptor-mediated hypofunction, which has been strongly implicated in the pathophysiology of
      schizophrenia.

      There is an extensive literature on the effects of NMDA enhancing agents on positive,
      negative, and depressive symptoms and on neurocognitive function. Although many studies have
      reported positive results in at least one symptom domain, the results of other studies have
      been negative or ambiguous. Factors likely to contribute to this variability include:
      mechanism of action of the agent, compliance, concurrent treatment with first- vs second
      generation antipsychotic drugs, baseline glycine blood levels, presence/absence of kynurenine
      pathway metabolic abnormalities and individual differences in brain glycine uptake and
      metabolism . Genetic variants that impact the synthesis and breakdown of glycine, glutamate,
      or other modulators of NMDA receptor function are also likely to have significant effects.
      Although DCS augmentation has shown variable efficacy in patients unselected for having a
      mutation that would be expected to lower brain glycine levels, the GLDC triplication in the
      two carriers in this study would be expected to result in unusually low brain glycine levels,
      supporting its therapeutic potential as an augmentation strategy.

      Thus, it is important to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of DCS augmentation in individuals
      in whom there is a high prior probability of therapeutic benefit and to characterize the
      neurobiology of this mutation in terms of brain metabolites, brain function, and the
      pharmacokinetics of glycine metabolism using well-established methods.
    
  