
    
      The pediatric obesity epidemic continues unabated. Its cardio-metabolic complications are
      undisputed, including inflammation, insulin resistance (IR), glucose intolerance and greater
      prevalence of type 2 diabetes (T2D) in youth. We contend an equally serious consequence of
      these obesity co-morbidities is their detrimental effects on bone development during
      adolescence, a critical time for mineral accrual and architectural modeling that underlies
      bone strength and fracture risk. This proposition has received little attention and the
      sparse results are mixed, with reports of augmented and impaired mineralization. In contrast,
      animal data demonstrates reduced mineral accrual and compromised architecture with insulin
      resistance and chronic inflammation. The conflicting results in youth are likely due to mixed
      samples and analyses that commingle obese youth with metabolic complications with so called
      metabolically healthy obese youth and the use of technology (i.e., dual energy x-ray
      absorptiometry, DXA) to measure bone outcomes that is confounded by the very changes that
      investigators seek to detect. We posit that the positive mechanical effect of excess
      adiposity on bone is countered by chronic low-grade inflammation and IR so that obese youth
      with these metabolic complications suffer impaired bone development whereas obesity in
      otherwise metabolically healthy youth augments development. A thorough understanding of the
      effects of adiposity and its co-morbidities on bone development is crucial to the development
      of efficacious interventions aimed at maximal mineral accrual and bone modeling. Thus, we
      propose primary aims designed to clarify the effects of obesity, insulin resistance and
      inflammation on bone around the time of peak height velocity. Adipose tissue (AT)
      distribution undoubtedly matters, especially abdominal visceral AT and skeletal muscle fat
      content, both strongly related to insulin resistance. Failure to characterize fat
      distribution is another important limitation of past studies. Consequently we will assess the
      effect of visceral AT and skeletal muscle fat along with whole body fatness and propose
      secondary aims designed to develop safe, cost effective methods that we and others can use
      for estimating AT distribution, a critical component of risk that has rarely been studied in
      youth relative to bone development.

      Primary Aims:

        1. Assess the associations of total and regional adiposity (visceral AT and leg muscle fat
           content), insulin resistance, and inflammation with bone mass, density, structure and
           strength in normal weight, overweight, and obese pre-menarcheal girls

        2. Assess the effects of total and regional adiposity, insulin resistance, and inflammation
           on bone development (i.e., 2 year changes in bone parameters) in normal weight and obese
           pre-menarcheal girls.
    
  