
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) (confirmed complete or partial response) by
      blinded independent centralized review (BICR) associated with selpercatinib (LOXO-292) in
      patients with previously-treated stage IV or recurrent RET fusion-positive non-small cell
      lung cancer (NSCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the duration of BICR-assessed response among BICR responders. II. To evaluate
      the frequency and severity of toxicities. III. To evaluate the investigator-assessed
      objective response rate (confirmed complete or partial response).

      IV. To evaluate duration of investigator-assessed response among patients with a response as
      determined by the local investigator.

      V. To evaluate investigator-assessed progression-free survival (IA-PFS). VI. To evaluate
      BICR-assessed PFS. VII. To evaluate overall survival (OS).

      VIII. Among patients with brain metastases at baseline:

      VIIIa. To evaluate the central nervous system (CNS) response rate (confirmed complete
      response [CR]).

      VIIIb. To evaluate the duration of intracranial response among patients with a CNS response.

      TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect, process, and bank cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) at baseline,
      progression, and end of treatment for future development of a proposal to evaluate
      comprehensive next-generation sequencing of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA).

      II. To establish a tissue/blood repository from patients with refractory non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive selpercatinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and
      then at the end of 3 years from date of sub-study registration.
    
  