
    
      Caliceal diverticula are non-secretory cavities which are connected to the remainder of the
      renal collecting system through narrow infundibulae. Calculi are associated with these
      cavities from 9.5 to 78% of cases (Liatsikos, et al 2000; Monga, et al 2000). This subset of
      stone-forming patients often presents with recurrent urinary tract infections and flank
      discomfort. The definitive treatment for this entity remains surgical, with shock wave
      lithotripsy (SWL), ureteroscopy (URS), percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PNL), and laparoscopy
      all serving as management options. However, multiple groups have demonstrated that PNL
      remains the treatment modality of choice secondary to its superior stone-free and symptom
      relief rates (Jones, et al 1991; Donnellan, et al 1999; Shalhav, et al 1998). Over time,
      technique modifications have been reported by other groups (Monga, et al 2000; Auge, et al
      2002) involving different methods of managing the infundibulum that connects the diverticulum
      to the rest of the renal collecting system. Our own surgical experience with percutaneous
      treatment of stone-bearing caliceal diverticula has resulted in various technique
      modifications as well, which we believe have continued to improve patient outcomes. To
      support our hypothesis, we will need to perform a systematic review our patient population to
      document these surgical outcomes.

      Another question surrounding this subset of patients involves the primary factor responsible
      for the formation of calculi within the diverticula. Unfortunately, the literature has
      provided conflicting data on this issue. Some groups attribute stone formation to underlying
      metabolic abnormalities (Hsu, et al 1998). Other groups have not found any metabolic
      problems, instead concluding that impaired urinary drainage from the diverticulum primarily
      contributes calculus formation (Liatsikos, et al 2000). By prospectively obtaining urines on
      our caliceal diverticula patients, we hope that detailed metabolic analyses will allow us to
      conclude definitively whether metabolic abnormalities are prevalent in this population.
    
  