
    
      Approximately two thirds of American adults are overweight (body mass index - BMI > 25), and
      nearly one third of American adults are obese (BMI > 30) with veterans exhibiting even higher
      rates of being overweight and obese than those in the general population. Obesity is a
      significant risk factor for a number of serious medical conditions, including diabetes, and
      is associated with high rates of morbidity, and mortality. Greater than 80% of individuals
      with diabetes are overweight or obese. Sixteen million Americans have been diagnosed with
      diabetes, and it has been speculated that this number will increase to 23 million by the year
      2010. Furthermore, there is a substantially higher prevalence of diabetes in the veteran
      population as compared to the general population, with nearly 16 percent of veterans being
      affected. This alarming increase has been associated with the increasing prevalence of
      obesity and sedentary lifestyles. In a conference conducted by the National Institute of
      Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases in 1999, it was concluded that a major research
      initiative was needed to address the growing problem with physical inactivity and obesity
      because of the major impact these behaviors have on the development and treatment of
      diabetes.

      The benefits associated with exercise in the diabetic population are extensive, and even
      though regular exercise is typically prescribed as a significant component of the diabetic
      treatment plan, compliance tends to be very poor. The overarching objective of this study is
      to adapt a low cost telephone intervention to be used to enhance exercise adoption in a
      population of overweight or obese veterans with type 2 diabetes. The primary aim of this
      study is to implement and evaluate the effectiveness of this telehealth intervention over a
      six month period. The secondary aim is to evaluate the impact this telehealth intervention
      has on weight and other diabetes relevant physical health parameters, quality of life and
      psychological distress. If the telehealth intervention is found to be efficacious, the
      tertiary aim will be to evaluate the cost effectiveness of the intervention. Over a 4-year
      period, 140 overweight or obese veterans with type 2 diabetes will be recruited from the VA
      Boston Healthcare System. All participants will be evaluated and provided with an exercise
      prescription for a home based walking program. Participants will be randomized to either the
      Exercise Prescription condition alone, or Exercise Prescription plus TLC-PED (Telephone
      Linked Care - Promoting Exercise for Diabetes), an automated telehealth intervention. TLC-PED
      will use interactive voice response and recognition telephone technology to provide
      individualized phone messages for participants with diabetes. It will be developed to
      incorporate theoretical principles that are known to enhance exercise adoption. Specifically,
      the intervention will use motivating principles based on the transtheoretical model of
      change. Those in the TLC-PED condition will receive weekly automated telephone calls for a
      six month period. It is hypothesized that overweight veterans with diabetes who receive the
      TLC-PED intervention (versus those who do not) during their six month participation in a home
      based walking program will be more likely to engage in regular physical activity and obtain
      improvements in self-reported physical activity, and maintain these changes over a twelve
      month period.
    
  