
    
      IOL master :

      Optical biometry by the IOL Master was introduced in the United Kingdom in 1999.Its
      technology is based on laser interfer-ometry with partial coherent light, termed as Partial
      Coherence Interferometry (PCI).The device uses the principle of PCI to measure the axial
      length of the eye.While uses a slit-beam photo-graphic technique for ACD measurements For
      keratometry measurement, six light spots are projected hexagonally on the cornea .The device
      records the reflection of these images measuring the separation of the opposite pairs of
      light spots and calculating the corneal radii and toroidal surface curvature. The mean of the
      taken measurements is considered the corneal power . The displayed K1 and K2 represent the
      average keratometry values at two major perpendicular meridians .For ACD measurement, the IOL
      Master directs a slit beam of light 0.7mm wide through the anterior segment at an angle of
      38ยบ to the visual axis.The internal software measures the distance between anterior pole of
      the cornea and the anterior surface of the lens to calculate the ACD . The device takes five
      ACD measurements in rapid succession; the mean of these readings are taken as the ACD value .
      For WTW measurement, a digital grey-scale photograph of the anterior surface of the eye is
      taken after focusing on the iris. The limbus is then detected automatically and the WTW
      distance is measured

      Pentacam :

      The Pentacam obtains images of the anterior segment by a rotating Scheimpflug blue Light
      Emitting Diode (LED) with a wavelength of 475nm. It acquires 50 images in a duration of
      approximately two seconds. It extracts about 2,760 true elevation points from the obtained
      images which in turn generates 1 38,000 true elevation points for the both front and back
      corneal surfacesand from limbus to limbus, including the central part of the cornea . There
      for, it calculates k-readings of the cornea. The Pentacam HR calculates ACD from the corneal
      endothelial layer along a line from the apex of the cornea to the anterior surface of the
      lens . Horizontal WTW was measured by manual placement of callipers on the Scheimpflug image
      of the horizontal plane of the examined eye; callipers are placed on the corneo-scleral
      junction then a line is automat-ically drawn between the two points . The length of this line
      represents the WTW value
    
  