
    
      The good clinical practice guidelines for the surveillance of workers after occupational
      exposure to lung carcinogens were approved by the Haute Autorité de la Santé (French National
      Authority for Health) and the Institut National du Cancer (French National Cancer Institute)
      in December 2015 and the Recommendation R12 of these guidelines concerns the setting-up of a
      trial of low-dose chest computed tomography (CT) lung cancer screening in subjects
      occupationally exposed to lung carcinogens at high-risk of lung cancer (Expert consensus).

      In LUCSO study, the investigators propose to conduct, under strictly defined conditions, a
      feasibility study of lung cancer screening in a population defined as being at high risk of
      lung cancer according to these good clinical practice guidelines. This population consists of
      smokers, aged from 55 to 74 years, currently or previously exposed to International Agency
      for Research on Cancer lung group 1 lung carcinogens.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the organization of lung cancer screening
      in the target population. This evaluation will focus on the following indicators:

        -  Screening activity indicator: screening coverage rate over two years

        -  Test quality indicator: validity of self-administered questionnaires to target the
           high-risk population

        -  Examination quality indicator: lung cancer detection rate, lung cancer detection rates
           by stage, validity of low-dose chest CT scan

        -  Follow-up indicator: smoking cessation rate, mortality rate

      The secondary objectives of the study are:

        -  Describe the population recruited in each step of the protocol

        -  Develop a tool to identify subjects exposed to pulmonary carcinogens and with high-risk
           of lung cancer

        -  Evaluate the impact of the proposed screening programme on smoking cessation at one, two
           and three years.

        -  Evaluate the social impact of the screening campaign

        -  Conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of the programme

      The proposed study will take place in multidisciplinary and specialized reference centers
      (SRC) in various French districts participating in the programme, to welcome patients
      participating. It is organized into six workpackages (WP):

        -  WP1: Methodology - Epidemiology

        -  WP2: Evaluation of occupational exposure

        -  WP3: Imaging

        -  WP4: Lung cancer follow-up strategy

        -  WP5: Smoking cessation

        -  WP6: Medico-economic analysis Six specialized reference centers are proposed in four
           different regions in order to test a potential region effect and to allow the
           recruitment by each SRC of about 200 to 600 new eligible subjects per year and per
           department according to the population and the age pyramid of each department

        -  SRC1: Centre Intercommunal de Créteil for the Val-de-Marne (94), Seine-et-Marne (77),
           and Essonne (91) departments

        -  SRC2: Bordeaux University Hospital for the Gironde (33) department

        -  SRC3: Rennes University Hospital for the Ille-et-Vilaine (35) department

        -  SRC4: Brest University Hospital for the Finistère (29) department

        -  SRC5: Caen University Hospital for the Calvados (14) department

        -  SRC6: Rouen University Hospital for the Seine-Maritime (76) department

      Each of these centers is voluntary and possesses the four essential prerequisites: an
      occupational health clinic - radiology team with specific skills in chest imaging -
      pulmonology team or network of pulmonologists specialized in lung cancer - smoking cessation
      team.

      In view of the complexity of this organization, it is proposed to initially test the
      feasibility and acceptability of the screening programme sequentially for the first two years
      (24 months) in two SRCs (SRC1 and SRC2): "Phase 1: 2018-2020". It is expected to extend the
      study to the other SRCs after two years: "Phase 2: 2020-2026". Ad hoc adjustments will be
      decided for the creation of SRCs in the third year on the basis of the data acquired in the
      two pilot departments, especially on the expected target population participation rate.
      Mortality will be monitored at least until 2025.

      The trial will be conducted in several steps:

        1. Identification of subjects currently or previously occupationally exposed to lung
           carcinogens by a screening invitation letter sent by Departmental Cancer Screening
           Centers to subjects aged from 55 to 74 years.

        2. Evaluation of occupational exposure to lung carcinogens

        3. Evaluation of the lung cancer risk level and verification of eligibility

        4. Screening procedure: Chest CT scans will be performed by centers specialized in chest
           imaging

        5. Lung cancer follow-up when an abnormality suggestive of lung cancer is demonstrated.
    
  