
    
      A5288 was an open-label phase IV, prospective interventional, strategy study in
      resource-limited settings (RLS) for HIV-1 infected participants with triple-class experience
      or resistance to nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), non-NRTIs (NNRTIs), and
      protease inhibitors (PIs) and who were failing their current regimen. The use of novel agents
      and contemporary clinical decision management tools that include standard genotyping and
      plasma HIV viral load (VL) monitoring were evaluated. The screening genotype results and
      antiretroviral (ARV) history were used to allocate potential participants to one of four
      Cohorts (A, B, C or D) and to select an associated ARV regimen based on the Cohort
      assignment. In brief, individuals assigned to Cohort A continued on the same PI as in their
      second-line regimen, with the ability to modify NRTIs. Those assigned to Cohort B who were
      negative for hepatitis B were randomized to receive RAL and DRV/RTV with either the best
      available NRTIs (Cohort B1) or ETR (Cohort B2). If they were positive for hepatitis B they
      were assigned to Cohort B3 and received RAL, DRV/RTV and either FTC/TDF or 3TC/TDF.
      Individuals assigned to Cohort C received RAL and DRV/RTV with the best available NRTIs.
      Those ineligible for Cohorts A, B or C were assigned to Cohort D and received the best
      available regimen that included study provided drugs and any locally provided drugs.

      At sites where feasible and relevant, the study evaluated an adherence support intervention.
      This involved a randomized comparison of a cell phone-based adherence support intervention
      plus local standard-of-care adherence support procedures (CPI+SOC) versus the SOC adherence
      support procedures.

      Participants enrolled to the study in Step 1. If a participant experienced a confirmed
      virologic failure (defined as two consecutive HIV-1 RNA measures >= 1000 copies/mL) at/after
      22 weeks on their Step 1 regimen, they had another genotype test performed and cohort/regimen
      selected for Step 2. With the exception of one additional visit 4 weeks after enrollment to
      Step 2, the visit schedule for Step 2 followed the participant's original Step 1 schedule
      throughout the remainder of follow up.

      Participants were followed in Steps 1 and 2 until 48 weeks after the last participant was
      enrolled to Step 1. During the first 48 weeks after Step 1 enrollment, clinic visits occurred
      at weeks 4, 12, 24, 36 and 48. After week 48, visits occurred every 12 weeks for adherence,
      safety and efficacy measures.

      Participants had a final step 1/2 visit between November 22, 2016 and February 13, 2017. At
      the final step 1/2 visit, participants taking RAL, ETR, or DRV who were unable to obtain
      these drugs locally (e.g., through local treatment programs), and were otherwise eligible,
      entered Step 3 and continued to receive these drugs through the study for up to 96 additional
      weeks. Step 3 participants were dispensed ARVs every 12 weeks and had clinical assessments
      every 24 weeks. The purpose of Step 3 was to assist participants with the transition back to
      local care.

      The primary analysis specified in the protocol and in the Statistical Analysis Plan was to
      estimate the proportion of participants in the overall study population who were
      virologically suppressed (HIV-1 RNA ≤200 copies/mL) at week 48 with a 95% confidence
      interval.
    
  