
    
      All patients with a diagnosed full thickness rotator cuff tear and symptomatic subacromial
      decompression will be consulted about arthroscopic subacromial decompression and rotator cuff
      repair. The possible risks and benefits will be discussed with the patient in detail by the
      operating surgeon. If a patient agrees to undergo surgical intervention (i.e. arthroscopic
      subacromial decompression and rotator cuff repair in the same surgical setting), they will be
      approached and informed regarding involvement in the study. This is a single blind study so
      participants will not know into which arm they have been randomized.

      Once consented, the subject will be randomized into one of two treatment arms. Those in Arm A
      will have subacromial decompression before repair of a complete rotator cuff and those in Arm
      B will have subacromial decompression after repair of a complete rotator cuff.

      Prior to surgical intervention all patients will complete two separate questionnaires in the
      waiting room. The results of the questionnaires will be later used to compare pre-operative
      and post-operative changes following shoulder surgery.

      On the date of surgery, the operative surgeon will ensure a full-thickness rotator cuff tear
      is present with an associated acromial spur. If both are present, the operative surgeon will
      perform the surgical intervention in the previously assigned order according to the patient's
      treatment arm. All acromial spurs will be burred to a level flush with the remaining
      non-pathologic acromion. The full-thickness rotator cuff will be repaired utilizing sutures
      and suture anchors. The specific pattern of repair will be determined intra-operatively. This
      is standard procedure for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair and subacromial decompression.
      There is no known risks within the orthopedic literature with performing subacromial
      decompression before versus after rotator cuff repair. As such, this study aims to identify
      any significance of the order of surgery if it exists.

      Post-operatively all patients will be placed within a Berg SlingShot®. All patients will
      undergo a period of immobilization within the sling. Patients will be evaluated at 2 weeks, 6
      weeks, and 12 weeks post-operatively. The shoulder range of motion and relative strength,
      compared to the contralateral limb, will be assessed. They will be prescribed formal physical
      therapy in the outpatient setting. At the 12 week visit each subject will complete the
      questionnaires once again. The scores will be tabulated and inserted in the Excel
      spreadsheet.

      The pre-operative and post-operative scores will be compared. The change in score from each
      treatment arm will be averaged and analyzed for statistically significant difference. Also,
      the pre- and post-operative forward flexion, abduction range of motion will be compared. The
      external and internal rotation strengths will be compared from the pre- and post-operative
      evaluations.
    
  