
    
      Pediatric cardiac arrest leads to significant productive years lost, and has a huge emotional
      impact on families and caregivers. High quality CPR is the most important predictor for
      outcome in cardiac arrest. Human visual observation is commonly used and important to
      evaluate CPR quality. Interestingly, the accuracy of healthcare providers' visual assessment
      of CPR quality is unknown.

      Primary Objective: To determine the accuracy of visual CPR assessment. Secondary Objective:
      1) To identify the optimal position relative to the patient for accurate CPR assessment. 2)
      To determine health care practitioners' accuracy in identifying CPR errors.

      Methods: We will videotape both good quality CPR and poor quality CPR in a simulated
      resuscitation. We will record 4 videos, one depicting high quality CPR, and 3 depicting the
      most common mistakes made when performing chest compressions, and these will be videotaped
      from the foot, head and side of the patient. Pediatric acute care professionals will be
      recruited to watch a randomized set of all 12 video clips, and fill out a brief and simple
      questionnaire on their assessment of the quality of the CPR being performed.

      To assess the accuracy of the CPR quality, quantitative data on the quality of the CPR being
      performed during each of the 4 videotaped events will be captured and confirmed using a
      Laerdal CPRcard© (depth and rate) and the paediatric simulator SimJr© (recoil).

      Operative definitions:

        1. Chest compression depth: defined as the maximum posterior deflection of the sternum
           prior to chest recoil. In order to be accurate a non-compressible surface must be
           beneath the patient. It is considered shallow is it is less than 50 mm and deep is
           greater than 60mm. Adequate chest compression depth is defined as being between 50-60
           mm.

        2. Chest compression rate: defined as the frequency of chest compressions per minute. It is
           considered slow if less than 100 chest compressions are performed per minute, and too
           fast if greater than 120 compressions are performed per minute. This rate will be
           calculated during 60 seconds intervals while chest compressions are provided. Adequate
           chest compression rate is defined as being between 100 and 120 compressions per minute.

        3. Incomplete release of compressions/Recoil: defined as "leaning" phenomenon in which
           force is not completely removed during compressions. This is best reported by a simple
           binary measure: complete or incomplete (>2500g residual leaning force). Adequate recoil
           will be complete chest wall recoil.

      Primary Outcome Measures: Proportion of healthcare providers who are accurate in their visual
      assessment of CPR quality.

      Secondary Outcome Measures:

        1. Proportion of healthcare practitioners who accurately report CPR quality from position
           in relation to the patient (head, side and foot of bed).

        2. Proportion of healthcare practitioners accurately identifying CPR errors (rate, depth,
           recoil).
    
  