
    
      Subjects will be randomized at baseline to either CAN-Stim or SNS InterStim® after inclusion
      and exclusion criteria have been met, 150 subjects will be randomized in to either arm of the
      study (89 subjects each arm).

      At the following visit, CAN-Stim subjects will be immediately implanted unilaterally with a
      permanent device (implantation side up to investigators discretion). During implantation, the
      subject should feel pulsation in their foot with or without toe flexion, confirming
      stimulation of the tibial nerve. Subjects not achieving this motor response will not have the
      device implanted and will be exited from the study. Implanted subjects will be educated on
      the use of the transmitter and programmer. Programming parameters will be set and therapy
      will be delivered for a minimum of 8 hours per day for 2 weeks. Programming changes can be
      done as needed during this time period to maximize clinical response. At the 2-week visit,
      diaries will be reviewed and confirmed for accuracy and discrepancies and the number of
      urgency incontinence episodes will be calculated and compared to baseline diaries. Subjects
      who are considered a responder at the 2-week follow-up visit (>50% improvement in urgency
      related incontinence episodes) will continue therapy and followed for a total of 12 months
      with primary outcomes assessed at 3 months. Non-responders will be offered an explant of the
      device and will exit the study. Subjects having less than 50% improvement may choose to keep
      the device. These subjects will be followed for adverse events with phone calls at 3, 6 and
      12 months.

      Subjects randomized to SNS will have their Stage I device implanted and tested during a
      2-week period. Stage I will have a tined, quadripolar lead placed in the S3 (preferred) or S4
      (alternate) foramen in the standard fashion using fluoroscopic guidance and motor response.
      Motor responses can include a contraction of the levators ("bellows" response) with or
      without plantar flexion of the great toe. Subjects who are not demonstrating an appropriate
      motor response will not have the device implanted and will be exited from the study.
      Subjects, who respond intraoperatively, will have the extension lead connected and
      externalized in the standard fashion. Subjects may have their InterStim® activated 24
      hours/day, but a minimum of 8 hours per day for 2 weeks is required to remain in the study.
      Programming changes can be done as needed during this time period to maximize the clinical
      effect. At the 2-week visit, diaries will be reviewed and confirmed for accuracy and
      clarified for discrepancies and the number of urgency incontinence episodes will be
      calculated and compared to baseline diaries. Patients achieving a clinical response (>50%
      improvement in urgency related incontinence episodes) will undergo implantation of a pulse
      generator and removal of the percutaneous extension lead. The IPG will be programmed in the
      standard fashion using settings that were working for the patient during the 2-week trial.
      Subjects implanted with the InterStim® device will be monitored for a total of 12 months with
      primary outcomes assessed at 3 months. Non-responders will be offered an explant of the
      device and will exit the study. Subjects having less than 50% improvement may choose to keep
      the device. These subjects will be followed for adverse events with phone calls at 3, 6 and
      12 months.
    
  