
    
      Background:

      Several studies of risk perception have demonstrated a common bias known as unrealistic
      optimism', in which individuals feel they are less likely than other people to experience
      unpleasant or harmful events in their lives, but more likely to experience pleasant or
      beneficial events. In a previous study, we showed that unrealistic optimism about adverse
      events in patients with schizophrenia was lower than in healthy controls.

      Objective:

      To compare unrealistic optimism bias in people with and without schizophrenia and/or drug
      dependence, and its association with actual risky behavior.

      Study Population:

      Adults with current diagnosis (DSM-IV criteria) of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder
      (n = 24), with current drug dependence (cannabis or cocaine) (n = 24), with both
      schizophrenia and drug dependence (n = 24), or healthy, non-drug-using controls (n = 24).

      Study Design:

      Subjects will have a single study visit, at which their psychiatric and substance use
      histories, current substance use (urine drug testing, expired breath CO), risk perception,
      risk-taking/impulsivity, sensation-seeking, insight, history of risky behavior, and cognitive
      function will be assessed.

      Outcome Measures:

      Scores on Risk Perception Questionnaire, Balloon Analog Risk Task, short form self-report
      assessments of risk perception, risk-taking/impulsivity and sensation-seeking, Revised Life
      Orientation Scale, Self-Mastery Scale, Zuckerman-Kuhlman Personality Questionnaire,
      Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status. South Oaks Gambling
      Screen-Revised, NORC DSM-IV Screen for Gambling Problems.

      Benefit:

      There is no direct benefit to subjects from study participation. Future benefits to society
      might be better understanding of risk perception biases associated with co-occurring
      substance abuse and schizophrenia, leading to development of more effective prevention and
      treatment programs and improved processes for obtaining informed consent.

      Risks:

      This study poses minimal risk to subjects, primarily boredom or anxiety from taking
      questionnaires and psychological tests and embarrassment from giving an observed urine
      specimen for drug testing.
    
  