
    
      Background: In the United States, stroke is the third most common cause of death and the
      leading cause of adult disability. Despite the many efforts to find effective treatment for
      stroke there is at present only one acute stroke therapy. A major fact that has hindered
      stroke diagnosis and treatment is the lack of understanding about the pathophysiology of
      acute stroke. The advent of new brain imaging techniques has allowed the identification of
      further pathophysiological insights. To date, however, there has been a lack of genetic and
      molecular information, in part because the brain is not amenable to biopsy unlike other
      organs in the body. One new approach to studying the processes involved in the evolution of
      stroke and stroke recovery is the use of gene chip technology. The attraction of this
      technology is that it may allow differentiation of neurological conditions by non-invasive
      peripheral blood sampling. Objectives: The objective of this study will be to determine if
      the gene expression profile in white blood cells can be used to fingerprint different stroke
      subtypes and outcome. Study Design: Microarrays will be examined in a loop design allowing
      isolation of the gene effect from confounding variables by analysis of variance. Samples will
      be acquired from 200 control volunteers and 640 patients with various stroke subtypes. The
      stroke patients will have sequential samples taken at the time of stroke and during stroke
      recovery. Individual gene up-regulation and down-regulation will be defined by a univariate
      t-test comparison with the control population. These isolated gene effects will then be
      compared by the use of Hamming distances to define global statistical differences and graph
      analysis for inter-structure distances. Outcome Measures: Groups of genes with significantly
      altered expression in relation to stroke compared to controls allowing further examination of
      gene classes activity as potential stroke and stroke recovery fingerprints.
    
  