
    
      Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a progressive disease and is characterised by
      atherosclerotic occlusion of the arteries in the lower limbs, resulting in a reduction of
      blow flow. Globally, it is estimated that 236 million people are living with PAD, with the
      number of cases increasing by 24% from 2000 to 2010 (Song et al., 2019). A classic symptom of
      PAD is intermittent claudication (IC), which is characterised by ischemic muscle pain
      precipitated by exertion and relieved by rest. IC is associated with various comorbidities
      such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension and dyslipidaemia as well as reductions in physical
      function, quality of life, and balance. National and international guidelines recommend
      exercise therapy as first line treatment for patients with IC, advocating two hours per week
      of a supervised exercise over a three-month period, with patients being encouraged to
      exercise to the point of maximal pain. Exercise therapy is also a cost-effective option, as a
      three month programme costs less than a tenth of the cost of angioplasty.

      However, despite the plethora of evidence demonstrating the benefits of SEP, less than half
      of vascular units in the United Kingdom (UK) have access one and patient uptake rates low. A
      lack of motivation has been shown as one of the primary reasons for poor adherence with
      claudication pain being suggested as a contributable factor. Indeed, exercise-induced pain
      has been shown as a major barrier to physical activity in this population and the level of
      pain prescribed during SEP influences completion rates. When exercise is prescribed at higher
      levels of pain, completion rates are lower. However, current evidence and guidelines advocate
      exercising to the point of near maximal pain, despite evidence to the contrary, suggesting
      that mild- or pain-free exercise improves walking ability. As such, it remains unclear which
      level of claudication is optimal for improving functional outcomes in patients with IC which
      can affect patient adherence, clinical practice and exercise prescription. The lack of
      adequately powered, randomised clinical trials investigating the effects of exercise
      prescribed at differing levels of claudication pain has also been highlighted in a recent
      scientific statement from the American Heart Association
    
  