
    
      Objective:

      Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the most frequent inherited fatal childhood disease.
      Antisense oligonucleotide (AON)-induced exon skipping is a promising therapeutic strategy for
      DMD that is currently being explored in clinical trials. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and
      ultrasound imaging methods are sensitive to key processes in dystrophic muscle such as edema
      and fat infiltration and therefore could serve as a biomarker of disease progression and
      therapeutic response. Our objective is to explore the potential of these imaging biomarkers
      for GSK2402968 (AON) effects in ambulatory boys with DMD. The primary objective is to assess
      longitudinal changes in skeletal muscle structural MRI measures reflecting fat and edema in
      the lower extremities in ambulatory boys with DMD receiving GSK2402968 or placebo

      Study Population:

      We aim to enroll up to 65 ambulatory boys with DMD. Healthy volunteer/control boys (up to 25)
      matched for the age-range will be recruited to obtain pilot data for imaging studies.

      Design:

      This prospective study of skeletal muscle, cardiac, and diaphragm imaging at the NIH will be
      offered to all subjects participating in a phase 2, double blind, exploratory parallel-group,
      placebo-controlled clinical study in ambulatory subjects with DMD resulting from a mutation
      that can be corrected by exon 51 skipping induced by GSK2402968 (parent study; DMD114876).
      Subjects will travel with a family member to the NIH for MRI and ultrasound assessments
      during the screening phase of the parent study or up to 3 weeks after randomization and
      additionally at the following time points in the parent study: at 12 weeks ( 3 weeks), and 24
      weeks ( 3 weeks) during the blinded treatment period; and finally, after completion of 24
      week post-treatment phase (at 48 weeks 4 weeks). If not randomized, the subjects will have a
      one-time evaluation during the screening phase of the parent study. Pilot data also will be
      obtained from healthy boys (matched for the age-range) for comparisons to allow exploration
      of MRI and ultrasound measures specific to pathology in the ambulatory boys with DMD.
      Subjects will not be treated with GSK2402968 or any other experimental drug at the NIH. There
      are no follow-up or termination procedures for this study.

      Outcome Measures:

      Primary Outcome Measure: MRI changes in skeletal muscle percent fat in the lower extremities
      using T1w GRE Dixon method at 24 weeks from baseline in the parent study in ambulatory boys
      with DMD receiving GSK2402968 or placebo. Secondary outcome measures: Differences in the
      following outcome measures between healthy boys and ambulatory boys with DMD at baseline; and
      changes in these measures over time in the parent study at 12 weeks, 24 weeks, and 48 weeks
      from baseline in ambulatory boys with DMD receiving GSK2402968 or placebo: 1. Skeletal muscle
      MRI: relative muscle fat/water quantified by T1w GRE Dixon imaging method in skeletal
      muscles; Muscle edema assessed by T2 imaging; Muscle fat/water content and edema additionally
      quantified by IDEAL-CPMG method; and 2. Cardiac MRI: Cardiac function (ejection fraction/ LV
      function) assessed by SSFP Cine MRI and manual planimetry of LV volumes and mass at end
      systole and end diastole; Myocardial fat content assessed by Multiecho Dixon Fat /Water
      Separation method; Myocardial edema assessed by T2 quantification; Myocardial T1 assessed by
      MOLLI (modified Look-Locker Inversion recovery).

      Exploratory Outcome Measures: MRI changes in muscle architecture and water diffusivity will
      be assessed by Diffusion EPI MRI. If well tolerated, then we will use a portable device
      (Ankle IntelliStretch device, RehabTek) to study the effects of exercise on selected MRI
      measures in leg muscles. Muscle ultrasound will be used to monitor changes in skeletal muscle
      volume, echogenicity and stiffness. Dynamic breathing MRI will be performed to measure
      diaphragm motion during free breathing and voluntary maximal inspiration and exhalation.
    
  