
    
      Approximately 700,000 strokes occur annually in the U.S. making it the third leading cause of
      death and the leading cause of permanent disability among adults. Over one third of strokes
      occur in the posterior circulation, the leading cause of which is vertebrobasilar occlusive
      disease secondary to atherosclerosis. Symptomatic vertebrobasilar disease (VBD) carries a
      high annual risk of stroke, averaging 10-15% per year despite medical therapy. This
      represents a potentially treatable high risk stroke etiology. Advances in endovascular
      angioplasty and stenting have created new treatment options, but these interventions carry
      significant risks, and the selection criteria for appropriate candidates remains uncertain.
      Determining predictors of stroke in this population is the first step toward identifying
      those high risk patients most suitable for consideration of intervention. Our preliminary
      studies suggest that the risk of stroke in VBD is strongly related to the extent to which
      intracranial blood flow is compromised.

      The objective is to conduct a longitudinal study of patients with symptomatic VBD. Our
      central hypothesis is that patients with symptomatic VBD who demonstrate limitation of blood
      flow on quantitative magnetic resonance angiography (QMRA) are at higher risk of stroke.The
      primary aim of this proposal is to test the hypothesis that among patients with VBD, those
      with distal blood flow compromise are at higher risk of subsequent posterior circulation
      stroke than those with normal flow.

      Secondary exploratory aims of the proposal are to determine:the correlation between large
      vessel flow measured by QMRA and tissue level perfusion measured by MR perfusion in the
      posterior circulation, and the predictive value of each; other predictive factors for stroke
      in this population; hemodynamic effects of varying degrees of vertebrobasilar stenosis;
      changes in hemodynamic status of patients on medical therapy over time; utility of QMRA as a
      non-invasive screening and monitoring tool in VBD.

      The study is a prospective multi-center observational cohort study of patients with
      symptomatic angiographically confirmed vertebrobasilar atherostenosis (≥ 50%), or occlusion).
      Upon enrollment, patients will undergo hemodynamic assessment with noninvasive MR imaging
      (including QMRA and MR perfusion), the results of which will be kept blinded from treating
      physicians and the patients. Patients will be prospectively designated as demonstrating
      compromised or normal distal cerebral flow based upon an existing validated algorithm of
      individual posterior circulation vessel flow measurements. Baseline demographic, clinical and
      laboratory data will be gathered. Subsequently, patients will have monthly clinical follow-up
      and be re-imaged with QMRA at 6 month intervals for a minimum of 12 months. The primary
      endpoint will be stroke incidence in the vertebrobasilar territory at one year. Survival
      analysis methods, with censoring of patients not achieving endpoint at the end of the study
      period, will be used for comparison of patients with compromised versus normal blood flow.

      The overall goal of the study is to define the population of patients with symptomatic VBD at
      highest risk of recurrent ischemic events. The information gained can significantly impact
      the selection criteria and likelihood for success of future clinical trials aimed at
      assessing the efficacy of endovascular or surgical interventions for the treatment of VBD.
      Moreover, the ability to define a low risk population in whom the risks of expensive invasive
      interventions would be unnecessary will have an equally important impact on the management of
      the disease both from a clinical and cost perspective. Data regarding the hemodynamic effects
      and changes over time of vertebrobasilar occlusive disease may also enhance our understanding
      of the basic pathophysiology and mechanisms of stroke in this morbid disease entity.
    
  