
    
      After the introduction of the second-generation drug-eluting stents (DES), the rates of
      device-related failure or target lesion failure such as restenosis and stent thrombosis has
      been markedly decreased, compared with the era of bare-metal stents or first-generation DES.
      Nevertheless, the risk of ischemic events including very late stent thrombosis after
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has still remained even though the use of
      second-generation DES. In this regard, the ACC (American College of Cardiology)/AHA (American
      Heart Association) and ESC (European Society of Cardiology) guidelines recommended that dual
      antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) should be considered for 12 months or longer in patients
      presented with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and for 6 months or longer in patients presented
      with stable ischemic heart disease (SIHD) after PCI with DES. In particular, patients
      presented with a high risk of ischemic events such as diabetes mellitus, myocardial
      infarction, or complex coronary lesions were associated with significantly increased future
      recurrent ischemic events after PCI with DES. In addition, maintenance of DAPT for 12 months
      or longer has been shown to reduce the recurrence of ischemic events up to 44% in patients
      treated with PCI for complex coronary artery lesion; therefore the current guideline
      recommended that prolonged DAPT might be considered when performing complex PCI. However,
      prolonged DAPT increases bleeding risk and cost. Endoscopic, dental, and surgical procedures
      are often delayed due to prolonged DAPT, which may affect the patient's quality of life.
      Therefore, to determine the optimal or minimal necessary duration of DAPT is very important.

      The other important issue is that which antiplatelet agent is more appropriate after DAPT.
      Aspirin monotherapy has been recommended traditionally. However, there is no randomized
      comparison study between aspirin monotherapy versus clopidogrel monotherapy after DAPT in
      patients undergoing PCI with DES. Furthermore, clopidogrel is also actively used as a
      monotherapy after DAPT in real-world practice. In CAPRIE (clopidogrel versus aspirin in
      patients at risk of ischemic events) trial, clopidogrel showed a superior efficacy in
      preventing ischemic events compared with aspirin. Moreover, the incidence of gastrointestinal
      bleeding was significantly lower with clopidogrel than with aspirin. Clopidogrel monotherapy
      can reduce ischemic events and bleeding risk compared with aspirin monotherapy.

      Therefore, the purpose of the SMART-CHOICE 3 (SMart Angioplasty Research Team: CHoice of
      Optimal Anti-Thrombotic Strategy in Patients Undergoing Implantation of Coronary Drug-Eluting
      Stents 3) trial is to determine the efficacy and safety of clopidogrel monotherapy as
      compared with aspirin monotherapy beyond 12 months after PCI with current-generation DES in
      patients being treated with DAPT at high risk for recurrent ischemic events.
    
  