
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine the way environmental factors (like the components
      of inner-city household dust) affect immune system development and symptoms of asthma in
      inner city children. The study is divided into three periods, as the subjects age from birth
      to 10 years old. Each age bracket will explore different objectives and endpoints.

      Study Objectives/Hypotheses:

        1. Subjects age 0 to 3 years old:

             -  Environmental factors in the inner city adversely influence the development of the
                immune system to promote cytokine dysregulation, allergy, and recurrent wheezing by
                age 3.

             -  Children who have had a viral lower respiratory infection and have developed
                cytokine dysregulation by age 3 are at increased risk for the development of asthma
                by age 6.

        2. Subjects age 4 to 7 years old:

             -  There is a unique pattern of immune development that is driven by specific urban
                exposures in early life, and this pattern of immune development is characterized
                by: 1) impairment of antiviral responses and 2) accentuation of Th2-like responses
                (e.g. cockroach-specific Interleukin-13(IL-13)). The clinical effects of these
                changes in immune development are frequent virus-induced wheezing and allergic
                sensitization by 3-4 years of age, and these characteristics synergistically
                increase the risk of asthma at age 7 years.

        3. Subjects age 7 to 10 years old:

             -  There are unique combinations of environmental exposures (cockroach allergens,
                indoor pollutants [Environmental Tobacco Smoke (ETS) and Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2)],
                lack of microbial exposure), and family characteristics (stress, genetic factors
                related to innate immunity) that synergistically promote asthma onset, persistence,
                and morbidity in urban neighborhoods. These exposures and characteristics influence
                immune expression and lung development during critical periods of growth, resulting
                in specific asthma phenotypes.

        4. Subjects age 10 to 16 years old:

             -  To determine the wheezing, asthma and atopy phenotypes in minority children growing
                up in poor urban neighborhoods as they develop from birth through adolescence.
    
  