
    
      the investigators includes patients aged at least 18 classified as ASA I and II. Patients
      with significant cardiovascular or central nervous system disease, as well as those with
      renal or liver failure and those who could not operate the PCA device were not eligible for
      our study.

      Exclusion criteria were patients that had incidents during the surgery such as: an allergic
      reaction, local anesthetic systemic toxicity or a surgical incident.

      Patients were randomized into two groups: Group Gabapentine ( G group) received 600 mg of
      Gabapentin (two tablets) two hours prior to surgery and saline solution before induction of
      spinal anesthesia and group Ketamine ( K group) received two placebo tablets and an injection
      of ketamine at a dosage of 0.15 mg/Kg before induction of spinal anesthesia.

      Upon arrival in the operating room, patients were monitored using mean blood pressure, heart
      rate and peripheral oxygen saturation monitors.

      The surgery was performed under spinal anesthesia. Each patient received 10 mg of hyperbaric
      bupivacaine mixed with 5 µ of sufentanil.

      Immediately after the intervention, the patients were transferred to the post anesthesia care
      unit (PACU) where analgesia was arranged through morphine titration.

      After the motor block is lifted, patients were transferred to surgery department where they
      were connected to a PCA device that provided 1 mg IV bolus injection of morphine at a lockout
      interval of 7 minutes and with a maximum four-hour limit of 0.5 mg/Kg.

      During the hospital stay, acute post-operative pain assessed through the visual analog scale
      (VAS) at rest and at motion, every 15 minutes in the PACU and then at H2, H6, H12 and H24
      postoperative.

      The morphine consumption was noted as well as its first demand. Sedation was assessed using
      the Ramsay score. The occurrence of adverse effects such as nausea and vomiting, dizziness,
      diarrhea, hallucination and pruritus was also noted.

      The first night sleep quality was evaluated through the Spiegel score. After hospital
      discharge, patients were contacted at one month and three months. The incidence of
      post-operative neuropathic pain was detected by the DN4 questionnaire. The effect the pain
      had on their daily activities was also judged.

      Statistical analysis:

      According to available data (30% occurrence of post-operative chronic pain after inguinal
      hernia repair (2)), to decrease by 25% this number with a power of 80%, 28 patients were
      needed in each group.

      Statistical analysis was performed with SPSS in its 20 version. Results were expressed as
      mean, standard variation or median. χ2 test, fisher's exact test and Mann-Whitney test were
      performed. A P value of < 0.05 was considered as statistically significant.
    
  