
    
      Micturition time-charts, frequency-volume charts and bladder diaries are inexpensive,
      non-invasive tools that allow the assessment of lower urinary tract symptoms (Konstantinidis
      et al. 2011); with a large proportion of women giving them low burden scores (Vella et al.
      2012).

      A micturition time chart records 'the times of micturitions, day and night, for at least 24
      hours' (Abrams et al. 2002), whereas frequency-volume charts record 'the volumes voided as
      well as the time of each micturition, day and night, for at least 24 hours' (Abrams et al.
      2002) and a bladder diary 'records the times of micturitions and voided volumes, incontinence
      episodes, pad usage and other information such as fluid intake, the degree of urgency and the
      degree of incontinence' (Abrams et al. 2002). However, the three terms are often used
      interchangeably in the literature, purely meaning documentation of void time, volume and +/-
      urgency.

      Frequency-volume charts are used to record patients' symptoms before and after therapeutic
      interventions and in bladder training, to assess the success of the treatment (Abrams and
      Klevmark, 1996).

      NICE (2013) states that men with bothersome lower urinary tract symptoms should complete a
      urinary frequency-volume chart as part of their initial assessment. They provide information
      on: daytime frequency, nocturia, 24-hour frequency, 24-hour production, polyuria, nocturnal
      urine volume, nocturnal polyuria and maximum voided volume (Abrams et al. 2002).
      Frequency-volume charts can help to distinguish between nocturnal polyuria and detrusor
      overactivity by assessing the volume of urine voided (NICE, 2013).

      Frequency-volume charts provide an insight in a patient's voiding patterns in their own
      environment and during their usual daily activities (Konstantinidis et al. 2011). A high
      test-retest reliability been shown for frequency-volume charts (Jimenez-Cidre et al. 2015;
      Yap et al. 2007), demonstrating their dependability.

      The use of a frequency-volume chart can reduce recall error (Locker et al. 2001), as when
      retrospectively assessed >50% of patients overestimated daytime frequency in comparison to
      their frequency-volume chart (Stav et al. 2009).

      Electronic diaries have been trailed in other areas of healthcare, most with success.
      Electronic diaries used to monitor asthma symptoms (Jiang et al. 2009), pain (Stone et al.
      2003), headaches (Allena et al. 2012), amongst others showed to have a higher compliance
      compared to paper diaries.

      Stone et al. (2003) compared the completion of a paper and electronic pain diary. The paper
      diary was fitted with a hidden device to track the opening and closing of the binder, to help
      monitor completion. It was found that on 32% of study days the paper diary was not opened,
      yet the compliance for these days was >90%. This suggests there has been backfilling of data,
      questioning the reliability of the data. This is further confirmed by Gaertner et al. (2004)
      who demonstrated more retrospective fabrication of data in the paper diary.

      Broderick (2008) suggested that the time taken for data analysis is significantly reduced
      when using an electronic diary compared to a paper diary. However, the time for software
      installation and training should be taken into consideration.

      A pain monitoring study showed that electronic diaries had a higher rate of compliance and
      less back dating of information (Stone et al. 2003).

      Despite a number of patients lacking experience in the use of computers, patient satisfaction
      was higher for the electronic diary in a number of studies (Gaertner et al. 2004; Broderick,
      2008), with many saying it was easy to understand and to use (Allena et al. 2012)

      This is a single centre, two-way cross over, prospective study to compare the outcomes and
      experience of patients completing a paper bladder diary and an electronic
      version.Participants will attend an introduction appointment within the Urology Department at
      Royal Hallamshire Hospital. The room will ensure privacy for the patient. The participant
      will complete the bladder diaries at home. The participant will complete the questionnaire at
      the Royal Hallamshire hospital, in private.Participants will be asked to complete the
      electronic diary for three days and the paper diary for three days. Half of the participants
      will complete the digital diary first, the other half will complete the paper diary first,
      and this will be done by alternating consecutively.

      Patients will be asked to record the time and volume of voids, any incontinence or urgency
      episodes and sleep-wake times. Patients return one week later with their electronic and paper
      diaries. Patients will be asked to complete a short questionnaire regarding their opinions.
      Clinicians should analyse the data as usual. Introduction and follow-up appointments will try
      to be arranged around patients' hospital appointments to avoid additional visits. Patients
      will be provided with an ELAROS electronic bladder diary as the electronic diary.
    
  