
    
      The Investigator hypothesize that Dapagliflozin will improve EPC number and function AND
      Saxagliptin in addition to Dapagliflozin may have an additive effect to improve EPC number
      and function even more than Dapa alone, compared to placebo.

      In this proposal the investigator plan to conduct a placebo matched study with type 2
      diabetes subjects on any doses of metformin or Insulin or a combination of both and has no
      history of DPP4 ( Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4) DPP4 inhibitor, incretin mimetic or SGLT2 inhibitor
      intake history. Participants will have known macrovascular complications (such as
      Cardiovascular Disease (CVD), Cerebrovascular Accident (CVA), and Peripheral Vascular Disease
      (PVD).

      3 STUDY OBJECTIVES

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      CELLULAR BIOMARKER OF ENDOTHELIUM

      The primary objective is to ascertain if 16 weeks of Dapa or Dapa+Saxa Combo therapy will
      improve :

      CD34+ cell number, CD34+ migratory function and CD34+ gene expression in type 2 diabetes with
      CVD.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      ARTERIAL STIFFNESS AND RENAL FUNCTION, NON-CELLULAR MARKERS OF ENDOTHELIUM To determine
      whether use of Dapa or Dapa+Saxa Combo alters markers of endothelial function such as:
      arterial stiffness measures (via tonometry), biochemical measures derived from plasma,
      pertaining to endothelial function (hs-CRP, IL-6, TNF-alpha), renal function such as
      proteinuria (microalbumin/creatinine ratio) and urine exosome study to determine podocyte
      health. The secondary measures are indirect measures of endothelial inflammation in early
      type 2 diabetes patients.

      Effect on Arterial Stiffness:

      I. Pulse Wave Analysis and Vascular Flow will be assessed using SphygmoCor CP system from
      ATCOR as a measure of central arterial pressure and arterial stiffness.

      II. Vessel health will be assessed by degree of arterial stiffness, using arterial tonometry.

      III. The central and the aortic pressure is assessed by pulse wave analysis (PWA) and pulse
      wave velocity (PWV).

      Effect on Blood Biochemistry:

      The Investigator believes cell based biomarkers are superior to traditional serum and plasma
      biomarkers and the outcome report will be stronger if one can show positive correlation
      between the two outcome measures. The Investigator therefore will be looking at:

      I. Inflammation, apoptosis and anti-oxidant protein levels: Highly selective C-reactive
      protein (hs-CRP), IL-6, TNF-alpha.

      II. Plasma SDF1 alpha (ELISA) and GLP-1 and Ghrelin (ELISA) will be estimated to assess
      endothelial health and factors that may influence CD34+ cell chemotaxis III. Podocyte health
      via urine exosome analysis. IV. The glomerular filtration rate (GFR) will be estimated by
      MDRD equation.

      a. GFR = 141 X min (Scr/κ,1)α X max(Scr/κ,1)-1.209 X 0.993Age X 1.018 [if female] X 1.159 [if
      African American]; where Scr is serum creatinine (mg/dL), κ is 0.7 for females and 0.9 for
      males, α is -0.329 for females and -0.411 for males, min indicates the minimum of Scr/κ or 1,
      and max indicates the maximum of Scr/κ or 1.32

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVE:

      METABOLISM MARKERS The tertiary objective is to determine whether use of Dapa or Dapa+Saxa
      Combo alters body composition, fasting lipid profile, and levels of insulin, glucose, and
      appetite controlling hormones.

      Effect on Blood Biochemistry:

      The Investigator believes cell based biomarkers are superior to traditional serum and plasma
      biomarkers and the outcome report will be stronger if one can show positive co-relation
      between the two outcome measures.

      I. Fasting glucose, and insulin. a. Glycemic control will be evaluated by measuring fasting
      blood glucose, insulin levels and HbA1c. Fasting blood glucose, insulin and lipid profile
      will be used to assess insulin resistance.28,31 II. Lipid profile III. Appetite controlling
      hormones via LabCorp: Leptin, Adiponectin IV. Appetite controlling hormones, via ELISA: GLP1,
      Ghrelin

      Effect of Dapa and Dapa+Saxa Combo on Body Habitus (Determination of body composition and
      visceral fat) The Investigator plans to study cardio-metabolic effect of Dapa and Dapa+Saxa
      Combo.

      I. Using body composition scale:

        1. Height and weight will be measured and the body mass index (BMI=kgm2) used as an
           indicator of relative weight.

        2. The body composition scale calculates body fat%, total body water%, fat free mass, etc.,
           in addition to BMI.

           The secondary outcome markers (arterial stiffness and renal outcome measures) and
           tertiary outcome markers (serum biochemistry) are crucial in order to corroborate the
           cellular findings with currently accepted clinical efficacy outcome measures such as
           arterial stiffness and serum biochemistry. This design is similar to our recently
           published manuscript on Saxagliptin and cellular outcome measures.

           4 INVESTIGATIONAL PLAN

           STUDY DESIGN AND DURATION

           +/- 6 day window for visits

           *Assessed at week 0, 8 and 16: Primary, Secondary & Tertiary Outcomes.

           Week 20: A telephone call to subjects will be made 4 weeks after last dose of study
           medication to determine if there have been any adverse events.
    
  