
    
      This study is a single center, single-arm prospective cohort pilot study with a primary aim
      of determining the feasibility, safety, and cost associated with a preoperative VLED for
      obese rectal cancer patients. Efficacy of preoperative VLED in this study population will be
      assessed through measures of mesorectal fat volume with MRI at two separate time points,
      prior to commencing a pre-operative VLED diet and immediately prior to patients undergoing
      laparoscopic low anterior resection for rectal cancer, to objectively quantify the proportion
      of mesorectal fat loss in response to VLED. Secondary aims include an assessment of whether
      preoperative weight loss contributes to improved intraoperative outcomes including operative
      time, blood loss, and rate of conversion to open procedure. Furthermore, postoperative
      outcomes including rates of 30-day complication rate, hospital stay, among others will be
      evaluated.

      Optifast 900 will be administered to enrolled patients over a 3-week period immediately prior
      to their scheduled elective operation date. Compliance will be measured with a food diary.
      Two MRIs of the rectum will be obtained: one prior to the commencement of VLED and one
      following the completion of the VLED before the scheduled operation date. The first MRI will
      be a clinically indicated preoperative staging investigation, while the second MRI will be
      used purely for research purposes. Patients will be enrolled in an enhanced recovery after
      surgery (ERAS) for colorectal surgery program. All patients will be followed by their surgeon
      as per that individual surgeon's postoperative surveillance schedule. At the routine
      one-month follow-up visit, patients will see the surgeon as well as a study investigator who
      will complete a standardized follow up questionnaire, focusing on adverse events and
      functional independence. Research personnel and study investigators will follow patients
      throughout their postoperative course in hospital and note any secondary outcomes including
      laboratory tests or adverse events through the electronic patient chart.

      Ultimately, the investigators seek to provide evidence that may inform the development of a
      standardized preoperative weight loss protocol in obese rectal cancer patients.
    
  