
    
      This will be a single centre prospective experimental study, involving seven orthopaedic
      surgeons and their patients undergoing total knee replacement (TKR). A consecutive sample of
      elective primary TKR patients will be invited to participate from London Health Sciences
      Centre, University Hospital, London, Ontario, Canada. Additionally, patient hospital charts
      will be accessed to establish the concordance between co-morbidities recorded in patient
      history and self-report measures of co-morbidities.

      Interested patients will be randomized into one of two groups. Group 1 (intervention) will
      receive the e-learning educational intervention in addition to the current method of patient
      education. It will commence at the pre-admission clinic and continue to the study end-point
      of 1-year postoperative. Group 2 (control) will receive the current, existing method utilized
      by each of the seven orthopaedic surgeons for their patient education. At pre-admission,
      patients are provided a 31 page hard copy of My Guide to Total Knee Joint Replacement
      (Revised January, 2008) and they are made aware of an electronic copy of this document
      available at the following website: http://www.jointreplacementinstitute.com/patients.html

      The assumption is that patients can and will read this document to educate themselves about
      their TKR surgery. The interactive e-learning patient education intervention extends beyond
      simple accessibility to information and includes interactive features. The intervention spans
      surgery and rehabilitation aftercare with patients undergoing TKR. Measurements will take
      place at pre-admission before any preoperative education takes place and at 6 weeks, 3 months
      and 1 year after TKR surgery. Patients will have the option of completing questionnaires
      online using Empower or hard copy sent by mail. They will also receive reminders by email or
      phone about completing the questionnaires.
    
  