
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether the Integrative Oncology group (IO) has increased disease-free survival
      (time to recurrence) than the standard of care control group (SC).

      II. Compare group differences over time in biological pathways including: immune function,
      endocrine function, insulin and glucose metabolism, cancer-related pathways (from peripheral
      blood), antioxidant capacity, and nutrient levels.

      III. Examine group differences in overall survival. IV. Compare group differences over time
      in dietary patterns and fitness levels. V. Determine whether the IO group has improved
      patient reported outcomes including fatigue, sleep disturbances, radiotherapy toxicity
      (dermatitis, skin ulceration, pruritis, etc.), gut microbiome, other aspects of Quality of
      Life (QOL), mental health, social support, and measures of positive growth.

      VI. Compare group differences over time in heart rate variability. VII. Determine
      cost-effectiveness analysis and work and/or home productivity.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare group differences over time in healthy breast tissue biomarkers acquired from fine
      needle aspirations.

      II. Compare group differences in spouse or caregiver work productivity.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo up to 7 different IO intervention sessions per week during their
      6-week course of radiotherapy for between 1 and 3 hours each session, in addition to, up to 6
      aerobic training sessions per week and one grocery store trip during the course of the
      program. IO intervention programs consist of nutritional coaching, behavioral therapy, yoga
      and meditation practice, resistance training, and a weekly meal sharing and cooking class.
      Patients then have weekly meetings with the study psychologist on the computer for 6 months,
      followed by a monthly meeting on the computer from 6-12 months, and 2 hour meetings at all
      follow-up appointments during the first year after radiotherapy.

      ARM II: Patients undergo standard of care.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 and 12 months and then
      annually for up to 4 years.
    
  