
    
      The long term goal of this research program is to develop detailed intervention options for
      physical therapy treatment of very young preterm infants at risk for disability. The ability
      of infants to start reaching marks the beginning of an infants' ability to independently
      explore objects, and impacts development across multiple domains, including cognitive,
      language, and social. The aim of this study is to determine if bi-daily movement training
      will advance the reaching abilities of infants born preterm as compared to non-movement
      trained controls.

      Movement Training Group:

      Parents/Caregivers will be instructed to improve their infants' awareness and ability to
      reach for toys with their arms and legs by performing two sets of 10 minutes of daily
      exercises with them. The first 10 minutes will focus on improving awareness of their arms and
      toys (such as bells on their wrists). The second 10 minutes of activity that focuses on
      introducing infants to a task-space they rarely experience at this age, the task-space
      required for midline reaching (such as moving the infant's arm to a midline toy). An
      experimenter will visit each family in their homes every other week (the week that is not a
      testing week) to assure correctness of training, encourage full participation and answer any
      questions.

      Social Training Group:

      To control for increased social interaction that accompanies the enhanced training, parents
      of infants in this group will serve as a control group. Parent/Caregivers will be asked to
      perform 2x a day of 10 minutes face-to-face social interaction with their infants. Parents
      and infants will receive a 10 minute audio tape of popular kids' songs. They will be
      instructed to place infants supine or in a bouncy seat and interact with the infant visually
      and verbally during this time period along with the music.

      After the study is completed, each group will be offered the training booklet that the
      opposite group received.
    
  