
    
      Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is characterize by and excessive and uncontrollable worry
      that is present more days than not. The disorder is best described as a chronic condition
      with periods with more or less symptoms. The disorder is highly disabling with low quality of
      life for the individual and is associated with and high costs for society. Previous studies
      on internet-based cognitive behavior therapy for GAD has shown positive effects but there are
      still room for improvement.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate two different internet-based treatments as well as two
      types of support through the use of a factorial design. The participants will be recruited
      trough advertising. After registration on the study's website the potential participants will
      be asked to answer screening questionnaires and demographic data for an initial screening.
      Those meeting inclusion criteria will be contacted for a diagnostic interview based
      Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (M.I.N.I.). If meeting the study's inclusion
      criteria and not the exclusion criteria the participant will be included in the study and
      randomized to one of the four arms. The four arms are: Predetermined treatment program with
      weekly support, Predetermined treatment program with support on demand, Self-selected
      treatment with weekly support, Self-selected treatment with support on demand.

      The predetermined treatment program is designed for treatment of worry and generalized
      anxiety disorder. It is based on newer forms of cognitive behavior therapy and includes
      mindfulness and acceptance. In the self-selected treatment the participants will select
      treatment interventions with the help of a manual and encouraged to choose interventions that
      they feel address their specific problems. The interventions that will be available are all
      based on standard cognitive behavior therapy techniques. The weekly support will be scheduled
      and delivered by clinical psychology students under supervision. This contact will be based
      on reports from the participants on the weeks work with the program and exercises. The
      support on demand will be also be delivered by clinical psychology students under
      supervision. This support takes place if and when the participant ask for support. Treatment
      will be 8 weeks long and both treatments will be delivered through the same platform. Contact
      with the participants will be trough written messages on a secure platform.

      After the eight weeks of treatment the participants will be asked to answer the same measures
      as before the treatment as well as questions regarding how they experience the treatment.
      Follow up data will be collected at later points.
    
  