
    
      In recent years, a growing number of investigators have noticed a curious finding when
      summarizing the research literature on pain treatment: Most effective pain treatments show
      very similar effects on global pain intensity, despite vast differences in patient samples,
      and in presumed mechanisms of action (e.g., Collins et al., 2000; Gutierrez-Alvarez, 2007;
      Wiffen et al., 2005). As the list of available treatments for various pain conditions grows,
      and to the extent that only global measures of pain are used to assess outcomes, it is
      becoming increasingly difficult for any one treatment to stand out from the others; to
      understand when it might be chosen over other treatments for the management of any one
      patient's pain problem.

      One way to better understand how treatments differ is to determine the effects of those
      treatments on pain quality. That is, to determine if treatment A is more effective for
      "aching" and "deep" pain than treatment B, which might be more effective for "electrical" and
      "surface" pain than treatment A. By systematically measuring the effects of pain treatments
      on different pain qualities, it becomes possible to begin to distinguish the effects of
      different treatments from one another.

      To do so requires investigators to include measures of pain quality as secondary outcome
      measures in clinical trials. The NPS and PQAS (which includes the 10 NPS items) are
      increasingly used in clinical trials to detect the effects of pain treatments on pain
      qualities. Moreover, a growing body of research supports the validity of these measures for
      identifying the specific pain qualities impacted by different pain treatments. However, it is
      not entirely clear that either measure could be used for making labeling claims. The most
      recent draft of the FDA's guidance for industry for patient-reported outcomes specifies a
      number of criteria that measures must meet in order to be able to use them for making
      labeling claims. Although the NPS and PQAS meet many of those requirements, they do not meet
      three critical ones. First, the guidelines specify that a measures' items need to be
      generated with patient involvement. The NPS and PQAS items were generated from (1) the
      clinical experience of the measures' authors and (2) reviews of the literature concerning the
      pain qualities most often identified by patients with various chronic pain conditions.
      However, these items have not yet been directly checked using patients input (to clarify that
      the items reflect the most important and most common pain quality domains). Second, the
      guidelines specify that patients should be interviewed to help determine the readability and
      understanding of the items. These interviews then should be analyzed, and actions taken to
      delete or modify items in accordance with those interviews. Finally, the FDA recommends that
      the instrument development process include "… the generation of a user manual that specifies
      how to incorporate the measure into a clinical trial in a way that minimizes administrator
      burden, patient burden, missing data, and poor data quality." To date, no manual has been
      written for the NPS or PQAS.

      To address these concerns, the current proposal seeks to address the limitations of the PQAS
      (and because the PQAS incorporates the NPS items, this would also address the limitation of
      the NPS) by performing cognitive testing of the PQAS instructions and items in two samples of
      patients with chronic pain, modify the PQAS/NPS as needed, and write a manual for the
      PQAS/NPS. The procedures would allow for critical testing and improvement of the PQAS and
      NPS, making these measures even more useful for understanding the impact of different pain
      treatments. In this way, these measures could be even more useful than they already are for
      identifying the unique advantages of new, and already developed, pain treatments.
    
  