
    
      This study will involve approximately 100 parents of pediatric patients who have received a
      solid organ transplant at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta (CHOA) between January 1st, 1988
      and December 31st, 2004. Within this sample, pediatric patients who are 11-18 years of age
      will be invited to participate in a separate component of the project, involving
      approximately 50 adolescents.

      ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA:

      For a parent to participate in this study the child must have had a solid organ transplant at
      CHOA, patient is 5-18 years of age, patient lives with the parent(s) in the home, and
      informed consent can be obtained. For a child to participate in this study, the child must
      have had a solid organ transplant at CHOA, patient is 11-18 years of age, patient lives with
      the parent(s) in the home, and informed assent can be obtained. Family exclusionary criteria
      are as follows:

        -  patient has not lived with parent for at least 6 months

        -  patient's medical records are not accessible through the CHOA system.

      All participants will be referred by the respective transplant coordinator or one of the
      physicians in this study. Parents will be provided with the findings upon request and
      referrals for psychological services will be made as necessary.

      RECRUITMENT:

      To recruit participants for the proposed study, children and adolescents who received a solid
      organ transplant at CHOA between January 1st, 1988 and December 31st, 2004 will be identified
      by the transplant coordinators or physician for each solid organ. Although multiple methods
      of recruitment will be used, each family will only be contacted once.

      Clinic recruitment with the investigator present:

      Any patient family who is scheduled for an upcoming clinic visit will be approached by the
      transplant coordinator or other clinic-affiliated individual. The investigation will be
      briefly described and interest in participating will be solicited.

      The parent will sign a letter of interest stating either:

        1. They are interested in learning more. The form will also ask them to provide contact
           information (home address and telephone number) or

        2. They are not interested and do not want to be contacted further.

      Only letters indicating interest will be given to investigators. If a family signs the letter
      indicating interest, an investigator present at clinic will approach the family to describe
      the investigation and obtain consent/assent. The family will have the option to:

        1. conduct the interview during the present clinic visit,

        2. schedule a future time to conduct the interview at the clinic, or

        3. conduct the interview via telephone.

      Clinic recruitment with the investigator not present:

      If an investigator is not present at the clinic, the transplant coordinator or other
      clinic-affiliated individual will give the letters indicating interest to an investigator to
      contact the family via telephone to describe the study. If after the telephone conversation,
      a parent is interested in participating, 2 copies of the consent form will be sent to the
      parent's home with a self-addressed envelope to return one signed copy. Following receipt of
      this form, the parent will be contacted to schedule either:

        1. an interview at the clinic or

        2. an interview via telephone.

      Mail recruitment:

      Any patient family who is not scheduled for an upcoming clinic visit will be contacted via
      mail from the transplant coordinator and transplant physician. The letter will briefly
      describe the investigation and a letter of interest will be included. Included will be a
      postage-paid envelope to return directly to the transplant team. The transplant coordinator
      or other clinic-affiliated individual will give the letters indicating interest to an
      investigator to contact the family via telephone to describe the study. If after the
      telephone conversation, a parent would like to participate, 2 copies of the consent form will
      be sent to the parent's home with a self-addressed envelope to return one signed copy to the
      investigator. Following receipt of this form, the parent will be contacted to schedule
      either:

        1. an interview at the clinic or

        2. an interview via telephone.

      Telephone recruitment:

      If a parent is not seen in the clinic and does not return a letter of interest, the
      transplant coordinator or other clinic affiliated individual will call the family to briefly
      describe the investigation and obtain verbal consent for an investigator to contact them via
      telephone. If they indicate that they are not interested in participating, they will not be
      contacted further. If a parent verbally consents to being contacted to learn more about the
      study, an investigator will contact the family via telephone. If after the telephone
      conversation, a parent would like to participate, 2 copies of the consent form will be sent
      to the parent's home with a self-addressed envelope to return one signed copy to the
      investigator. Following receipt of this form, the parent will be contacted to schedule
      either:

        1. an interview at the clinic or

        2. an interview via telephone.

      If the family is called three times with no success in reaching them, this will be considered
      passive refusal and will not be contacted further.

      INTERVIEW PROCEDURE:

      The interview with each parent will consist of verbal consent and verbal administration of
      the PEDS-TX Survey, Parent Version 1.0, the Medical Adherence Measure (MAM), the Child Health
      Questionnaire-Parent Form 50 (CHQ-PF50), the SF-12 Health Survey (SF-12), the Family
      Relationship Index (FRI), and demographic questions. The interview with each participating
      adolescent patient will consist of verbal assent and the PEDS-TX Survey, Adolescent Version
      1.0, the Medical Adherence Measure (MAM), the Child Health Questionnaire-Child Form 80
      (CHQ-CF80), the Adolescent Risk Taking Survey (ARTS), and the Family Relationship Index
      (FRI). Each interview will be conducted by research assistants and/or graduate students in
      psychology. They will be trained in all research procedures by the principal investigator.
      Training will include observed practice of procedures and skills taught, focused on building
      rapport with and being sensitive to parents and patients with solid organ transplants,
      verbally administering the assessment questionnaires in an accurate and comfortable manner,
      giving answers to questions from parents and patients in an instructive manner that do not
      bias the research, and lastly, being culturally and socioeconomically sensitive when greeting
      and interviewing families.

      The data for this study will likely be obtained over a 6-9 month period, with data from a
      specific parent and adolescent patient pair occurring within less than a week period (ideally
      during the same phone call). Each interview will last approximately 45-75 minutes.

      MEASURES:

      The measures for this investigation are as follows:

        -  Clinician Derived Measures

             -  Medical Record Review

             -  Prescription Refill records

        -  Self-Report Measures

        -  Demographic Information

        -  PEDS-TX Survey, Parent and Adolescent Version 1.0

        -  Medical Adherence Measure

        -  Child Health Questionnaire-Parent Form 50

        -  SF-12 Health Survey

        -  Family Relationship Index

        -  Child Health Questionnaire-Child Form 80

        -  Adolescent Risk Taking Survey.
    
  