
    
      Keywords：chronic kidney disease , Day care, Traditional Chinese Medicine(TCM)

      Background and purpose:

      The annual report of USRDS shows than Taiwan has the highest prevalence of
      end-stage-renal-disease globally resulted in high prevalence dialysis rate. The major factors
      associated with chronic renal failure are age, diabetes, hypertension, chronic
      glomerulonephritis, metabolic syndrome, smoke, hepatitis C, painkiller and herbals. Chronic
      kidney disease may lead to various metabolic, cardiovascular and neurological diseases. And
      these possible prognostic factors associating with the disease progression and ultimately
      increase the morbidity and mortality. End-stage renal failure is an irreversible course often
      with clinical manifestations of edema, fatigue, anemia and uremic pruritus. Patients often
      use Chinese medicine or acupuncture to help them to ease the symptom.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the efficacy of combined Western medicine and
      traditional Chinese medicine daycare model for chronic kidney disease patients. The study
      approach to investigate whether combination of Western medicine and traditional Chinese
      medicine daycare model can improve the clinical symptoms and quality of life as well as the
      laboratory biochemistries data.

      Material and methods:

      A total of 60 volunteers of patients with chronic kidney disease will be recruited from the
      Chinese medicine or Western medicine clinics. After diagnosis by nephrology physician, 30
      patients will be distributed to combinational Western and TCM daycare model, one time a week,
      for 12 weeks (12 treatment in total). Another 30 patients will enter Western daycare model.
      The assignment depends on the patients' own will. The TCM day care model will be provided by
      a team work clinical care system organized by doctors, nurses, pharmacists and case managers.
      This model will provide a comprehensive TCM care system for every visit. Laboratory
      biochemistries analysis and other questionnaires including SF36 health survey, Pittsburgh
      Sleep Quality Index, Beck Depression Inventory-II, FACIT-fatigue Scale and the 5-D itch scale
      will be completed at baseline, 6weeks, and 12 weeks after join this study. Instrumental
      examinations including heart rate variability and traditional Chinese medicine four
      examinations will be given before and after intervention.

      Predict results:

      The investigators expect that the efficacy of this combined western medicine and traditional
      Chinese medicine day care model will be superior to the "pre-ESRD prevention and education
      program" which execute since 2006 in improving edema, fatigue, physical function and quality
      of life. The effectiveness of combined therapy can be measured by questionnaires. Moreover,
      the investigators will further speculate the mechanism by analyzing laboratory data.
    
  