
    
      1. Significance or Clinical Relevance of Project:

           Numerous women undergo pelvic organ prolapse surgery every year. The most common reasons
           for surgical management of POP include symptoms immediately related to the prolapsing
           organs, such as pelvic pressure, vaginal bulge sensation, vaginal mucosal irritation, as
           well as defecatory dysfunction, limitations on sexual intercourse, and aesthetic
           dissatisfaction. When counseling patients about possible surgical management of POP,
           clinicians would be remiss if they did not address the potential quality of life
           improvement surgery may provide from a urinary standpoint, as well as possible decreased
           risk of renal failure. Stress and urge incontinence and urinary urgency are frequently
           alleviated by restoration of the pelvic floor support, however, nocturia may be treated
           as well.

        2. Relevant Research of Others:

           Several case reports exist describing urinary obstruction, bilateral hydronephrosis, and
           acute or chronic renal failure that can occur with severe pelvic organ prolapse. No
           larger scale prospective descriptive studies exist, however, demonstrating the urinary
           symptoms or pathophysiology behind the urinary tract obstruction that may accompany
           pelvic organ prolapse. Also, no prospective studies exist to evaluate the improvement in
           those symptoms and relief of physiologic obstruction after surgical correction of pelvic
           organ prolapse.

        3. Methods/Materials:

      Women referred to the urogynecology clinic for management of apical Stage III-IV POP with
      bothersome nocturia as noted in their initial urogynecologic evaluation who opt for surgical
      management will be identified for inclusion in the study. In addition to routine
      urogynecologic and pre-operative work-up, after consenting for the study, they will be asked
      to complete pre- and post-operative Nocturia, Nocturnal Enuresis, and Sleep interruption
      Questionnaires (NNES-Q) (appendix), voiding diaries (appendix), and awake and asleep renal
      nocturia urine panels. Women will serve as their own pre- and post-operative control
      subjects.

      Enrolled patients will be educated on how to perform the voiding diary and awake and asleep
      renal nocturia urine panel. The voiding diary will require the patient to measure the date,
      time, voided urine amount (using a urine hat placed over a toilet), degree of incontinence
      (dry, moist, soaked), presence or absence of urge to urinate, activity immediately prior to
      urination episode, and fluid intake for three non-consecutive twenty-four hour periods. The
      awake and asleep renal nocturia urine panels will require the patient to collect her urine
      output into two laboratory provided basins for one twenty-four hour period. The "renal
      nocturia, awake" urine panel will be obtained from urine collected from 0600-1800. The "renal
      nocturia, asleep" urine panel will be obtained from urine collected from 1800-0600, ie
      through the following day.

      Six to thirteen weeks post-operatively, enrolled patients will be asked to repeat the NNES-Q
      questionnaire, voiding diary, and awake and asleep renal nocturia urine panels as described
      above.

      Patients who complete all of the aforementioned questionnaires and studies will be reimbursed
      with a $25 check. This compensation will be disclosed to potential study candidates prior to
      enrollment in the study.

      The data obtained will be de-identified and then entered into SPSS v. 20 software for
      statistical analysis.
    
  