
    
      This mixed methods pilot study builds on completed interviews with 13 participants in 2012
      (Study 1, S1) and delivery of a community-based intervention to 13 participants in 2013 (over
      2 days; Study 2, S2). The proposed research draws on these two studies, S1 (REB#H-05-12-04)
      and S2 (REB#H-05-12-04B), both of which were approved by the uOttawa REB. S2 included the
      same intervention as the one proposed herein, but in a compressed format. It was delivered in
      Ottawa, with positive feedback received from all 13 participants.

      Administration of the intervention will draw upon the team members' expertise (Hamilton,
      Hack) with interventions for people with cancer, a program of research in hope interventions,
      and Thomas' work with women with breast cancer related LE as well as S1 and S2. The
      intervention will follow a group-based workshop format. The intervention workshops will be
      offered weekly over 8 sessions (2 hours per session, one per week). After an introductory
      workshop, the second session will involve viewing the video, created by PI Thomas
      interviewing men and women who have lymphedema and group discussion of its themes, based on
      the principles of video modelling (e.g., how do participants' experiences, hope strategies
      compare?). This is an approach used successfully in other areas of research with marginalized
      peoples.

      Our program will follow Herth's theoretical foundations and goals (e.g., identifying support
      systems, developing plans to maintain hope in the future) along with established approaches
      to supportive care in chronic illnesses and LE international best practice guidelines.
      Briefly, workshops include modules addressing the building of a supportive community;
      orienting to hope and identifying threats to hope/coping; positive self-talk and
      affirmations; creative practices for exploring experiences and hope; and identifying and
      mobilizing resources. The modules also incorporate the completion and discussion of creative
      projects (e.g., writing exercises), mini-lectures by rehabilitation professionals, and SLC
      resources. All of these components were reviewed positively (satisfactory or above) by the
      majority of participants in S2. All activities are drawn from Herth's intervention, prior
      research, and the success of S2. This content was approved by the uOttawa REB, as noted
      previously. Four questionnaires administered to the IG/CG will be used to assess the
      potential impact of the intervention. Please see Study Protocol for summary of data
      collection.

      SUMMARY OF QUESTIONNAIRES

        1. The Meaning of Illness Questionnaire, (MIQ) Factor II and IV: Factor II addresses loss,
           stress, and function. Factor IV addresses hope as well as positive attitude and
           motivation. These 2 factors will be used to screen participants prior to the study.

           The full version of the MIQ will be administered at all timepoints once the study
           begins, along with the other questionnaires.

        2. The Herth Hope Index (HHI) is a 12-item (4 point) Likert scale that delineates 3 factors
           of hope: a) temporality & future, b) positive readiness & expectancy, and c)
           interconnectedness. (32) Summative scores range from 12-48, with a higher score denoting
           greater hope. The HHI was piloted in and deemed to be acceptable in S2. Participants
           encountered few difficulties with completion.

        3. Short Form 12, (SF-12): is a QOL scale that measures seven concepts, including physical
           functioning, role limitations due to health problems, and social functioning. It is a
           shorter but valid alternative to the SF 36 and includes psychological aspects of illness
           (e.g., feeling energetic) not addressed by other instruments but relevant to S1 and S2
           participants ;

        4. Lymphedema Quality of Life, LYMQOL: is a validated measure for the impact of UL/LL LE.
           (110) The instrument includes 28 UL items and 27 LL items for LE. Importantly, questions
           address physical LE symptoms, emotional impact, and activities of daily living.

        5. Demographic and Symptoms Questionnaire - contains 16 questions pertaining to age, family
           size, income and employment, and SLC symptoms. This questionnaire will only be
           administered at T0.

      DATA COLLECTION

      The IG will meet weekly for 2 hours for 8 weeks. All workshops will be recorded and
      transcribed, then analyzed qualitatively. The questionnaires (Meaning of Illness, MIQ; Herth
      Hope Index, HHI; Short Form 12, SF-12; Lymphedema Quality of Life, LYMQOL) will be
      administered by phone at the following timepoints: approximately 3 days prior to the first
      workshop (T0), between workshop 4 and 5 (T1) and approximately 3 days following the final
      workshop (T2). The questionnaires will also be administered at 4 weeks post-intervention (T3)
      and 8 weeks (T4) post-intervention. All participants will also complete a demographic
      questionnaire at T0, developed in S2.

      For the Montreal site, the intervention (and post intervention data collection) will be
      administered by Chad Hammond (PhD, Psychology), a postdoctoral fellow who has worked
      extensively with cancer survivors. For Saint John, a qualified postdoctoral fellow will be
      hired by Co-PI Hamilton through the University of New Brunswick. Both will be trained by the
      Co-PIs.

      The CG will receive LE treatment as usual, without the hope intervention. Participants will
      be asked to refrain from joining similar, group-based workshops over the duration of the
      intervention. The measures will be administered the same questionnaires (by phone) as the IG
      at the same timepoints. Montreal and Saint John (ethics approval to be obtained from McGill
      U, UNB, and Health Horizon) has been selected for the current proposal as workshops were
      already completed in Ottawa (S2).

      At each site (Montreal and Saint John) potential participants (n=46) will be screened for
      eligibility based on Factors II and IV from the MIQ. The individuals scoring in the top ~30%
      (n=16) in terms of hope will be excluded from the study. The remaining 30 individuals scoring
      the lowest level of hope as per the MIQ will be admitted into the study. This initial
      appraisal will be brief, conducted over the phone, and therefore not too burdensome for
      potential participants. The investigators have chosen not to administer the full version of
      the MIQ (or other instruments) in order to screen efficiently and avoid potential practice
      and carryover effects in the administration of our other outcome measures. Towers (Montreal
      Co-I) and Tilley (Saint John Co-I) will approach potential participants in their LE clinics
      and their names/contact information will be forwarded to Dr. Chad Hammond, postdoctoral
      fellow (PDF) at the University of Ottawa for screening and randomization to the IG or CG.

      Questionnaires: S1 data and prior SLC research informs the selection of hope as the main
      outcome measure, using the HHI.

      EVALUATING THE INTERVENTION

      The impact of the intervention will be measured by assessing changes in outcomes over an
      2-month period. Questionnaires will be administered at intake (T0), midpoint (i.e., between
      workshop 4 and 5, T1), 3 days post-completion of the 8-week program (T2), 4 weeks
      post-intervention (T3), and 8 weeks post-intervention (T4). All participants will also
      complete a demographic questionnaire (T0), developed in S2. IG data will be collected via
      phone at all timepoints. A workshop evaluation form will also be administered to the IG at
      T2.

      CG data will be collected by phone at all timepoints (however, the workshop evaluation is
      irrelevant to the CG and will not be collected). The follow-up period is consistent with
      studies in systematic reviews and meta-analyses of psychosocial interventions for people with
      cancer. Participants who leave the study early will be asked to complete a telephone exit
      interview to explore and moderate completion (acceptability) issues for future programming
      and research. Notes from these interviews will be compiled as part of the assessment of
      feasibility.

      ASSESSING FEASIBILITY

      S2 used a convenience sample, with posters displayed in clinicians' offices. Based on this
      limited advertising and resulting timely accrual the investigators are confident that the
      investigators can achieve our target of 30 participants within 12 weeks as the investigators
      will be approaching SLC patients directly through 2 LE clinics (Montreal, QC and Saint John,
      NB). Using this screening measure, the investigators will endeavour to enroll equal numbers
      of men and women as well as those with UL/LL. The # approached, # meeting inclusion criteria,
      and reasons for declining will be documented. As this is a pilot, the investigators will
      proceed to the intervention phase whether or not the groups represent equal numbers of
      men/women and upper limb (UL)/lower limb (LL). However, data gathered will be used to inform
      adjustments that might be required for a future full trial. Consistent with RCTs and in
      preparation for a full trial, a participant flow diagram (# assessed for eligibility, #
      excluded, # refuse to participate, # randomized, # allocated to IG and CG, # lost to
      follow-up, # discontinued, # analyzed, # excluded from analysis) will summarize statistics
      for recruitment and retention. Participants will be considered to have left the intervention
      when they are absent from 25% (2/8) of the workshops and will be asked to complete a short
      exit interview by telephone.

      To assess the feasibility (and acceptability) of data collection, the investigators will
      address adherence to timepoints and barriers and facilitators to data collection. At the
      conclusion of the pilot, the impact of the intervention will be examined with an assessment
      of timeline data to determine whether all timepoints are feasible. If more than 50% of the
      sample requires more than 3 points of contact (phone and/or email) to schedule data
      collection, our team will modify the study design for a subsequent proposal (e.g., increase #
      of potential participants). Adherence to timepoint data will be generated through completion
      of a process log documenting dates of data collection for each participant as well as the #
      of points of contact required to schedule data collection. Descriptive statistics
      (frequencies, means, SD) will be generated to assess the feasibility of the timelines. Based
      on the data generated, timelines will be reviewed and adjusted if necessary before our
      subsequent CIHR proposal. Survey completion rates will be calculated, and % missing data will
      be noted. To provide additional data about acceptability, as in S2, IG participants will be
      encouraged to write notes on the hard copies of surveys (3 days prior Workshop 1 - T0;
      Intervention midpoint/between Workshop 4 and 5 - T1; Intervention completion/3 days following
      Week 8 - T2) to indicate any issues. These data will be transcribed, compiled, and analyzed.
      All of the above data will be triangulated to assess data collection feasibility.
    
  