
    
      The study is a two-phased intervention study .

      Participants with PSA will be randomized into three self-guided intervention groups and one
      delayed waiting list group as follows:

      Group 1: receiving VR intervention (3 weeks)

      Group 2: receiving VR intervention (3 weeks) + text-based exposure program (T-B-Exp) (3
      weeks)

      Group 3: receiving text-based psychoeducation and exposure program (T-B PE + T-B Exp) (6
      weeks)

      Group 4: Waitlist (3 weeks) + receiving text-based psychoeducation (T-B PE) (3 weeks)

      Interventions:

        1. The VR intervention is a self-guided and home-based VR intervention that lasts for three
           weeks and focuses on exposure training. The VR group will receive the VR headset
           personally, in addition to instructional text about how the VR intervention works, how
           to use the VR application and how often to train. They will be instructed at least 5
           tasks weekly during the intervention program.

        2. The text-based Psychoeducation intervention is a three weeks program with three modules.
           One module will be assigned weekly, together with the weekly assessments, which will be
           same for all participants. The participants will receive a notification on text message
           when a module has been assigned to them. Module 1 will include information about the
           intervention program, psychoeducation about public speaking anxiety, cognitive therapy
           and case formulation. Module 2 will focus on catastrophic beliefs; how to recognize, how
           they develop, how they contribute to maintaining the anxiety and how they can be tested.
           Module 3 focuses on safety strategies; what they are, how they contribute in maintaining
           anxiety, and how to identify them.

        3. The Text-based exposure intervention is a three weeks program with 3 modules. One module
           will be assigned weekly, together with weekly assessments. The modules will focus on how
           to practice exposure in real life (in vivo) and relapse prevention.

        4. The waitlist group will be in waitlist mode for three weeks while the intervention
           groups are in phase 1. They will still receive weekly assessments during phase 1.
    
  