
    
      Appalachian Kentucky has one of the highest incidence rates of lung cancer in the United
      States. The disproportionately high incidence is not explained by tobacco alone. Preliminary
      analysis of trace element content in toenail samples reveals higher levels of arsenic,
      chromium and nickel in Appalachian Kentucky residents than elsewhere in Kentucky. Trace
      elements are known to promote carcinogenesis by increased oxidative stress, inflammation, DNA
      damage, and reduced DNA repair efficiency. These findings justify further investigation of
      the role that trace elements play in the development of lung cancer in this region.
      Hypothesis: The unexpectedly high rate of lung cancer in Appalachian Kentucky is associated
      with exposure to environmental carcinogens that increase oxidative stress and DNA damage.

      Specific Aims Aim 1: Conduct a case-control study of lung cancer and matched controls in the
      5th Congressional District of Kentucky to compare rates of moderate to high arsenic in lung
      cancer cases and controls.

      Aim 2: Create a specimen repository of biologic and environmental samples from these subjects
      and their residences for analysis of DNA repair markers and, in the future, markers of
      oxidative stress and inflammation.

      Aim 3: Fund four pilot projects which will utilize collected data from Aim 1 to develop
      investigators focused on lung cancer research in this study population and to generate
      preliminary data that will lead to independent funding.

      Study Design: This is a population-based, case-control study encompassing the 5th
      Congressional District of Kentucky.

      Relevance: This translational research and repository will fundamentally improve our
      understanding of the causes of the disproportionately high incidence of lung cancer in
      Appalachian Kentucky, foster collaboration among scientists dedicated to the study of lung
      cancer and provide a permanent resource to be used for future research.
    
  