
    
      Double blind, randomized, controlled, Phase 2 clinical trial in hookworm-unexposed adults
      living in the metropolitan area of Washington, DC. Subjects will receive three doses of the
      assigned vaccine formulation, or saline placebo, delivered intramuscularly on approximately
      Days 0, 56, and 112.

      Subjects will be challenged with 50 infectious N. americanus larvae 4 weeks after 3rd
      vaccination. Fecal samples will be collected weekly starting 4 weeks post-challenge.
      Albendazole will be administered 20 weeks post-challenge to cure infections. Subjects will be
      followed until 10 months after their final vaccination.

      Safety of vaccination will be measured from the time of each study vaccination (Day 0)
      through 14 days after each study vaccination by the occurrence of solicited injection site
      and systemic reactogenicity events. Safety of CHHI will be measure from the time of larval
      application (Day 140) through the first day of treatment with albendazole (Day 280).

      Unsolicited non-serious adverse events (AEs) will be collected until approximately 1 month
      following each study vaccination and from study Day 140 (day of CHHI) through Day 280.

      New-onset chronic medical conditions and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) will be collected from
      the time of the first study vaccination through approximately 10 months after the third study
      vaccination (final visit). Clinical laboratory evaluations for safety will be performed on
      venous blood collected approximately 14 days after each vaccination and CHHI.

      Immunogenicity testing will include IgG antibody responses to Na-GST-1, by a qualified
      indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), on serum obtained prior to each study
      vaccination and CHHI, and at time points after each vaccination and after CHHI (see Appendix
      A); the affinity of vaccine-induced antibodies against Na-GST-1 using Surface Plasmon
      Resonance; the functional activity of vaccine-induced antibodies via in vitro enzyme
      neutralization assay; antigen-specific memory B cell responses; and, the innate immune
      responses to each of the TLR receptor immunostimulants.

      Parasitological testing will include microscopic fecal egg detection by a qualified saline
      flotation technique, fecal egg counts by the McMaster method, fecal PCR for hookworm DNA, and
      peripheral eosinophil counts.

      Recruitment and enrollment into the study will occur on an ongoing basis, with each group
      being recruited and vaccinated in sequence.

      48 subjects will be enrolled into 4 groups of 12. Subjects will be enrolled sequentially and
      upon enrollment will be randomized to one of the following IP assignments in a double-blind
      fashion:

        -  Group 1 IP allocation (n=12 subjects): 12 subjects will receive 100µg
           Na-GST-1/Alhydrogel® delivered by IM injection in the deltoid muscle.

        -  Group 2 IP allocation (n=12): 12 subjects will receive Na-GST-1/Alhydrogel® plus 500µg
           CpG 10104 delivered by IM injection in the deltoid muscle.

        -  Group 3 IP allocation (n=12): 12 subjects will receive Na-GST-1/Alhydrogel® plus 5µg
           GLA-AF delivered by IM injection in the deltoid muscle.

        -  Group 4 IP allocation (n=12): 12 subjects will receive sterile saline delivered by IM
           injection in the deltoid muscle.
    
  