
    
      TRIAL DESIGN:

      Mono-centric, pragmatic, double-blinded, randomized clinical trial (RCT) with split-mouth
      design. The trial will have a one year of duration.

      PRIMARY OUTCOME:

      - Change in BoP: change in percentage of sites positive to bleeding on probing.

      SECONDARY OUTCOMES:

        -  Change in Plaque Index (PI): change in percentage of sites with presence of plaque.
           Baseline values will be compared to the values recorded at follow-up visits.

        -  Change in Residual Plaque Area (RPA): Post-treatment percentage of tooth area with
           residual plaque, visualised via plaque disclosing agent. This will be calculated with
           computer software analysis (ImageJ) on clinical photographs.

        -  Change in Periodontal Attachment Level (PAL): change in mean value for each patient will
           be calculated. Baseline values will be compared to the values recorded at follow-up
           visits.

        -  Change in (Pocket Probing Depth) PPD: change in mean value for each patient will be
           calculated. Baseline values will be compared to the values recorded at follow-up visits.

        -  Duration of the treatment: calculated in minutes. Time will be recorded starting from
           the opening the randomisation envelope until the clinician is satisfied with the
           clinical result.

        -  Comfort of the patient: an anonymous questionnaire will be administered at baseline and
           each recall appointment.

        -  Sensation of cleanliness: an anonymous questionnaire will be administered at baseline
           and each recall appointment.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      41 Systemically healthy patients affected by gingivitis will be included in this study.
      Presence of gingivitis is defined as: absence of Probing pocket depth (PPD) > 4mm and
      presence of BoP >25%.

      INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        -  Patients affected by gingivitis (BoP >25%);

        -  Patients with at least 5 teeth per quadrant;

        -  Systemically healthy;

        -  Age > 18 years;

        -  Smoking less than 10 cigarettes a day.
    
  