
    
      Hereditary Hemorrhagic Telangiectasia (HHT) is a rare systemic autosomal dominantly inherited
      disorder of angiogenesis. Its major feature is the occurrence in 90% of patients of
      spontaneous and recurrent epistaxis responsible for iron deficiency and chronic anemia.
      Various conservative and interventional treatments have been described for these conditions,
      but no optimal therapy exists. Inhibiting angiogenesis process is an interesting therapeutic
      option. Propranolol, a non-cardio-selective beta-blocker, could represent a new candidate for
      the therapy of HHT telangiectasia as it suppresses angiogenesis in vitro. This
      anti-angiogenic property is well-known in pediatric dermatology, since C. Léauté-Labrèze and
      al. have demonstrated a great improvement of infantile hemangioma undergoing propranolol
      treatment. At the University Hospital Center of Bordeaux, the investigators assessed in a
      preliminary study the efficacy of propranolol for HHT epistaxis. Nine of ten patients
      receiving propranolol for cardiologic or neurologic indications, retrospectively analyzed,
      significantly improved their Epistaxis Severity Score. Ten patients were then prospectively
      included and after 3 months of propranolol treatment, the median duration of epistaxis per
      month significantly decreased (p=0,007) as well as the number of epistaxis episodes per month
      (p=0,015).

      To confirm these results, the investigators would like to study the efficacy of propranolol
      given per os at the dose of 40 mg twice a day for a three-months period, in comparison to a
      placebo. Throughout the study, patients will complete specific grids recording the number of
      epistaxis episodes per month and the cumulative duration of nose bleedings. A follow-up of 6
      months will be done (4 visits after inclusion), recording clinical and biological data and
      monitoring the tolerance of treatment.
    
  