
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety of paclitaxel and ifosfamide followed by carboplatin and etoposide
           with stem cell support in patients with unfavorable germ cell tumors with unfavorable
           prognostic factors and resistance to cisplatin.

        -  Determine the efficacy of this regimen as salvage therapy in these patients.

        -  Escalate the dose of carboplatin based on a target area under the concentration time
           curve and renal function, and determine the pharmacokinetics of carboplatin in selected
           patients.

        -  Determine the qualitative effects of paclitaxel and ifosfamide on hematopoietic
           progenitors in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of carboplatin.

        -  Part A: Patients receive paclitaxel IV continuously on day 1 and ifosfamide IV over 4
           hours on days 2-4. Autologous peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are harvested on days
           11-13. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is administered subcutaneously (SC) twice daily beginning 6
           hours after completion of paclitaxel and ifosfamide infusions and continuing until the
           last day of leukapheresis. Treatment continues every 2 weeks for 2 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Before beginning the first
           course of chemotherapy, autologous bone marrow (ABM) is harvested, if possible, in case
           insufficient peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are harvested. Patients who were unable
           to undergo harvest of ABM before the first course of chemotherapy undergo harvest of ABM
           before beginning the second course of chemotherapy.

        -  Part B : Beginning 2 weeks after completion of regimen A, patients receive etoposide IV
           over 2 hours and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1-3. PBSC are reinfused on day 5.
           G-CSF is administered SC twice daily beginning 6 hours after completion of etoposide and
           carboplatin infusions and continuing until blood counts recover. G-CSF is held on the
           morning of PBSC transplantation and restarted beginning 6 hours after completion of PBSC
           transplantation. Treatment continues every 2 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with insufficient PBSC for the
           second course receive PBSC combined with ABM. Patients with insufficient PBSC for the
           third course receive ABM.

      During the second part, cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of carboplatin until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which 3 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      After completion of parts A and B, some patients may undergo resection of residual masses.
    
  