
    
      This is a small feasibility study to be conducted at a single research site, a special school
      for sensory and physical needs. The study is intended both to trial the research methodology
      and to estimate the effect size likely to be found if a larger study were carried out.

      Intensive Interaction is a form of behavioural intervention developed by Nind and Hewett and
      extensively practised in schools and other institutions caring for people with profound
      intellectual disability who require special support in order to develop (non-verbal)
      interpersonal communication. Whilst the term Intensive Interaction can describe the attitude
      and behavioural style of staff throughout their contact with subjects, it can also, as in
      this study, refer to specific scheduled times in which the approach is adopted by staff with
      individual pupils or service users.

      The subjects of this study are among those for whom Intensive Interaction is most beneficial,
      as assessed by the speech and language therapist at the research site. As these pupils would
      normally receive this intervention on account of their assessed needs, Intensive Interaction
      is designated the 'active comparator' (otherwise known as 'treatment as usual').

      Since in the experimental condition two staff support each subject simultaneously, there is a
      need to distinguish effects attributable to the additional music from those attributable to
      the behaviour of the primary interactors. By treating Intensive Interaction as the active
      comparator it is hoped any effects of added music may be isolated.

      Improvised music is in this study being trialed as an adjunctive therapy to Intensive
      Interaction. Previous research suggests that music improvised music therapist can under
      certain conditions facilitate the development of interpersonal interaction between subject
      and support worker. To replicate the conditions under which the previous study found this to
      be the case, the musical intervention has been manualised to guide the 2 music therapists who
      will provide the improvised supportive music. They will add music from session 5 of a total
      of 16, having observed the progress of Intensive Interaction without music during the first 4
      sessions in order to make a detailed assessment of needs and how music might meet them.

      A standardised assessment instrument, the Pre-Verbal Communication Schedule (PVCS), will be
      administered before each subject's first session of Intensive Interaction, and again after
      her/his 16th session to obtain a global view of non-verbal communicative behaviour. Pre- and
      post-test scores will be compared. The theoretical basis of both Intensive Interaction and
      the specific use of adjunctive improvised music is primarily affective, but it is important
      that any benefits should also be detectable in functional terms, hence the choice of PVCS
      rather than a more affectively orientated measure.

      Additionally, qualitative data on the therapeutic process will be extracted from post-session
      notes and observations of video recordings of the sessions by those involved in the work with
      each participant.

      Should the effectiveness of the specialised musical-clinical approach be supported by the
      results, a larger study could then establish the approach as an additional psycho-social
      resource for developing the interpersonal interaction skills of those with profound
      intellectual disability. The approach requires a modest level of additional training for a
      registered music therapist, but no additional qualification.
    
  