
    
      Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and the chronic, often lifelong, use of antisecretory
      medication have great clinical and economical implications for the patient, practicing
      physician and society in general. The currently available medication in GERD is very
      effective against heartburn, but less against the symptom of regurgitation. Surgical
      antireflux treatment offers a good alternative. The current surgical approach, a laparoscopic
      fundoplication, is safe and effective (a 90% reduction in use of antireflux medication), but
      in a significant subgroup of patients new symptoms arise (dysphagia, bloating) and
      perioperative morbidity, as well as financial costs are relatively high.

      An endoscopic suturing system has been developed, offering a minimally invasive antireflux
      treatment, which can be performed in an outpatient setting. The procedure aims to create an
      endoscopic fundoplication, and could possibly serve as an alternative to antireflux
      medication and surgery. Recent, uncontrolled studies, have shown that the results of the
      endoscopic suturing system are satisfactory and that the procedure is safe.

      This single-center, double-blinded, randomized, sham-controlled trial was conducted to
      evaluate the efficacy of endoscopic gastroplication by the Endocinch suturing system. Sixty
      patients with daily symptoms of GERD and abnormal esophageal 24-hr pH monitoring were
      randomly assigned to three endoscopic gastroplications (n = 20), to a sham procedure (n = 20)
      or to observation (n = 20). Primary endpoints were proton pump inhibitor use and GERD
      symptoms. Secondary endpoints were quality of life, 24-hr esophageal acid exposure,
      esophageal manometry and the occurrence of adverse events. Follow-up assessments were
      performed at 3 months. The research nurse and patients in the active and sham groups were
      blinded to the procedure assignment.
    
  