
    
      Basal joint arthritis of the thumb is a common condition associated with considerable
      morbidity. Many non-operative and operative treatments have been described but few
      multi-center prospective evidence based trials comparing standard treatments have been done.
      This continuing search for consensus of best clinical practices has been reviewed in a
      thorough meta-analysis of operative treatments for basal joint arthritis. Through the
      systematic collection of data regarding patient-specific characteristics, treatment
      interventions, and longitudinal functional outcome measurements the investigators believe
      patient outcomes and satisfaction can improve through the elucidation of risk factors for
      disease progression, and the timing and selection of treatment modalities, either
      conservative or surgical, for any particular patient. The establishment of a multi-center
      clinical registry will greatly facilitate these goals. By establishing standardized outcome
      measures and collecting data prospectively from the time of initial presentation through all
      treatment interventions it will be possible to directly compare treatments during the
      conservative and operative care of basal joint arthritis of the thumb. This proposed
      multi-center registry will identify those specific procedures or conservative treatments that
      have the most potential to be studied in subsequent focused and well-designed randomized
      control trials.

      Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis and the second most frequent cause of
      long-term disability in North America. Osteoarthritis of the basal joint of the thumb is a
      debilitating disease that affects a large segment of the adult population, although no large
      epidemiologic studies on the prevalence of basal joint arthritis have been performed in the
      United States.

      The pathogenesis of osteoarthritis remains multi-factorial but most researchers agree that it
      is a degenerative process resulting from mechanical, biochemical, and genetic factors that
      destabilize the normal balance of degradation and synthesis of articular cartilage and
      subchondral bone.

      Although there are some excellent studies with randomized, prospective design showing good
      outcomes with several surgical techniques, it is still unknown which procedures are the most
      appropriate for a particular patient to achieve the optimal functional outcome and long-term
      success with minimal surgical trauma. Optimal immobilization type and duration is also not
      known. The effect of metacarpalphalangeal joint hyperextension on long-term outcomes and the
      optimal treatment method for this adjacent joint is also unknown. This proposed study will
      allow prospective data collection from multiple institutions across the country and engage
      recognized experts, all of whom treat basal joint arthritis with different clinical
      protocols.

      Millions of people in the U.S. have or will develop basal joint osteoarthritis, which is the
      most commonly affected joint in the upper extremity that requires surgical intervention. The
      demand for a more efficacious and cost effective form of operative and non-operative
      treatment of this disabling disease is considerable. Identifying safe and effective
      treatments from among the numerous treatment modalities available would likely lead to
      significant improvements in the quality of life for a large segment of this population. If
      future studies show less involved reconstructions, such as trapeziectomy alone, are as
      effective as more complicated ligament reconstructions with tendon interposition, many
      patients may benefit from this less complex surgery. This trial would increase clinician and
      patient awareness and confidence in effective treatment regimens.

      This study hypothesizes that there exist effective non-operative and operative treatments for
      certain patient populations with basal joint arthritis of the thumb. There also exists a
      functionally superior, cost effective, and low risk non-operative or minimally invasive
      operative treatment regime to alleviate pain and slow the progression of disease in those
      with less advanced disease. Likewise, there is a significant functional, health utility, and
      economic advantage to surgically treating advanced basal joint arthritis of the thumb with
      one of the popularized procedures currently in practice.
    
  