
    
      This add-on open-label randomised controlled pragmatic trial.

      Sample size is calculated based on planned regression analysis. We believe an annual GFR
      benefit of 5 ml/min/1.73m2 is deemed significant clinically. 118 patients are therefore
      needed to offer a power of 70% to detect a GFR difference of 5 ml/min/1.73m2 over 48-week
      allowing 15% attrition rate for this study with a significance level of alpha equals to 0.05.

      A trial management committee (TMC) formed by PA, Co-As and RA will centralise all the data of
      the trial. Co-As and RA will collect, clean and send the data of patients to TMC on a weekly
      basis. All data will be double entered to computer and cleaned before analysis to prevent
      data entry errors. All data transfer will be encrypted to protect patients' confidentiality.
      TMC will have regular meetings monthly with experts to discuss the progress of the trial. An
      independent Data Monitoring Board (DMB) will be invited to monitor the progress of the trial.
      DMB will advise ethics committee to terminate the trial if data is showing extreme benefits
      or harm. Detailed guidelines will be discussed and set by DMB.

      Missing values will be imputed with last observation carried forward. Patient without a
      postrandomisation assessment for a particular efficacy endpoint will be excluded from the
      analysis of that endpoint.

      Regression analysis will be used to compare the adjusted mean of eGFR, UACR, HbA1c, FBG, and
      other biomarkers at week 48 between groups and statistical significance. The adverse events
      will be analysed in a narrative manner. The percentage of all adverse events and the rate of
      attrition due to adverse events will be compared between intervention groups and control
      groups.

      To minimise Type I error inflation, the analysis will follow a hierarchical approach in the
      order of 1) comparison of baseline to end of treatment on eGFR and UACR; 2) comparison of
      baseline to end of treatment on other outcome measurements; 3) comparison of baseline to
      treatment midpoints on eGFR and UACR and 4) comparison of baseline to treatment midpoints on
      other outcome measurements.

      Subgroup analysis will be performed for different age groups, gender chronic kidney disease
      stage and severity of albuminuria.

      The dependent variable is the treatment response which is categorised into:

        1. Improved or stabilised renal function, defined as eGFR after 48-week treatment being
           higher or equal to baseline.

        2. Non-responder, defined as patients having eGFR decreased at a rate of less than 5
           mL/min/1.73m2 after 48-week treatment compared to baseline.

        3. Rapid deteriorating renal function, defined as eGFR of more than 5 mL/min/1.73m2 after
           48-week treatment compared to baseline.

      Potential prognostic variables (baseline values) include:

        1. Demographics and past medical history: Age, gender, body mass index (BMI), systolic
           blood pressure, history and duration of smoking and alcohol consumption and others

        2. Chinese medicine diagnosis: presence of Chinese medicine syndromes (e.g. spleen and
           kidney qi deficiency) based on the presentation of standardised and commonly documented
           signs and symptoms

        3. Biochemical profile
    
  