
    
      Annually, up to 280,000 people in Canada and 42 million worldwide experience a mild traumatic
      brain injury (mTBI). In patients with mTBI, symptoms experienced following injury usually
      resolve within 3 months. However, up to 25% of patients will experience persistent
      post-concussion symptoms (PPCS), which can continue up to 1 year following injury. Common
      symptoms include headaches, dizziness, fatigue, irritability, depression, anxiety, emotional
      lability, concentration or memory difficulties, insomnia, and reduced alcohol tolerance
      (ICD-10 post-concussion syndrome diagnostic criteria). To date, there is no "cure" for PPCS
      and current treatment entails trial and error with behavior management, environmental
      modifications and medications. Consequently, there is a significant need for new approaches
      to symptom management in order to help improve functional impairment and disease burden,
      associated with treating PPCS. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has a high degree of
      safety and has been studied as an intervention for many mental health and neurological
      conditions, including major depression and migraines, and even showing initial promise for
      PPCS. The investigators propose to study this further in a randomized sham controlled trial
      of TMS for PPCS.

      RESEARCH QUESTIONS AND OBJECTIVES

      The overall aim is to study the application of rTMS treatment to the left dorsal lateral
      prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in patients with PPCS to improve overall symptom burden and to
      explore biomarkers of response, specifically functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS).

      Specifically the objectives are:

        1. Primary Objective: To determine whether patients with PPCS have significant improvement
           to a 20-day high frequency rTMS treatment protocol of the left DMPFC compared to
           patients with PPCS receiving a sham rTMS protocol as measured by the Rivermead
           post-concussion symptom questionnaire at 1, 3 and 6 months post-treatment.

        2. Secondary Objective: To determine what secondary outcomes such as quality of life,
           headaches, anxiety, and depression also improve with the TMS treatment in individuals
           suffering with PPCS. Quality of life will be measured via the Quality of Life after
           brain injury questionnaire (QOLIBRI), headache intensity will be measured via the
           Headache intensity Test - 6 (HIT-6), feelings of depression will be measured via the
           PHQ-9 and anxiety via the GADS-7 at 1, 3 and 6 months post treatment.

        3. Third objective: To explore whether fNIRS would be a useful biomarker of TMS-response in
           patients with PPCS.

      METHODS

      This study will be a double-blind, sham-controlled, concealed allocation, randomized, cross
      over clinical trial.

      Clinical Assessments: Demographic information will be collected two weeks prior to starting
      the study including age, sex, education, headache history, concussion history, past medical
      history, medication use, and family medical history. Baseline questionnaires will be
      completed including Headache Impact Test - 6 (HIT-6), Rivermead PPCS questionnaire, British
      Columbia post-concussion symptom inventory (BC-PSI), Montreal cognitive assessment (MoCA),
      quality of life after brain injury questionnaire (QOLIBRI), patient health questionnaire-9
      (PHQ-9), generalized anxiety disorder scale-7 (GADS-7), Repeatable battery for the assessment
      of neurological status (RBANS), and the post traumatic stress disorder checklist for DSM-5
      (PCL-5). Patients will keep a two-week baseline symptom diary before treatment, 2 weeks
      during treatment, 2 weeks following rTMS, and for 2 weeks at the 1, 3, and 6 month follow up
      assessments (total of 12 weeks). Patients will be reassessed at the completion of their rTMS
      treatment, and at 1, 3, and 6 months post-treatment. The questionnaires including: Rivermead
      PPCS questionnaire, HIT-6, BC-PSI, QOLIBRI, PHQ-9, GAD-7 and RBANS will be completed at all
      follow up visits.

      TMS Protocol: Patients will engage in a four-week treatment protocol (20 treatments). This
      was chosen as it is the midpoint between typical depression and migraine protocol durations.
      If available, patient MR brain scans will be loaded and processed using the Brainsight TMS
      neuronavigation software and stereotaxic data for localization of the TMS stimulation site
      will be determined through a co-registration method between the TMS coil position and the
      projected site on the MR brain scan. If not available, a standardized atlas brain with
      Montreal neurologic institute (MNI) coordinates will be used for navigation. The DLPFC will
      be located through MNI coordinates (-48, 26, 36) vs. (-41, 21, 38). The intensity of the rTMS
      will be 100-120% of resting motor threshold amplitude, with a frequency of 10 Hz, 10 trains
      of 60 pulses/train (total of 600 pulses) and inter-train interval of 45s. In the sham
      condition, a sham coil will be applied to the scalp after the resting motor threshold is
      determined. Patients will be able to hear the sound and feel the vibration of sham coil, but
      will not experience any effective stimulation. Previous sham studies have demonstrated
      efficacy of the blinding method.

      Imaging: Functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) scans will be recorded at baseline,
      immediately following rTMS, and at one month post-rTMS to investigate changes in brain
      physiology associated with rTMS treatment. fNIRS data will be recorded over the
      frontoparietal cortex at a sampling rate of 3.91 Hz, using the NIRScout fNIRS system (NIRx
      Medical Technologies, Berlin, Germany). Each recording will consist of a 5 min rest period,
      followed by a finger tapping exercise, and a graded working memory task. The fNIRS data will
      be processed and analyzed for task-evoked activation using an ordinary least squares method
      of general linear modeling, as implemented in the NIRS Brain AnalyzIR Toolbox.

      Statistical Analysis: Outcome parameters within each specific group (rTMS, sham, sex) will be
      analyzed by a one-way repeated measures analysis of variance (RM-ANOVA).
    
  