
    
      Background

      There have been many antibiotic regimens used to minimize the risks of infections and
      consequently, increasing the survival rate of dental implants. Initially, it was recommended
      to give antibiotics at least 1 hour before implant placement followed by daily doses for 10
      days. A survey of private dental practices in UK found that there was a wide variation of
      antibiotic regimens: prophylactic, postoperative, and combination of both pre-and
      postoperative antibiotics. A recent survey showed that there is no consensus among oral and
      maxillofacial surgeons in the U.S. Consequently, in order to prevent the overuse of
      antibiotics and the potential emergence of drug-resistant bacteria, it would be advisable to
      find an optimal protocol including an antibiotic therapy with a minimal duration while the
      implant survival rate would remain unchanged. A recent systemic review reported that a single
      preoperative dose compared to no antibiotic or placebo decreased significantly implant
      failure. However, the included trials presented high and unclear risk of bias.Therefore,
      there is a need to carry out well controlled clinical trials that are placebo-controlled and
      include patient-based outcomes in order to increase the quality of evidence supporting the
      use of preoperative antibiotics to increase dental implant success.

      More specifically, it was recommended by the latest Cochrane review that 2 g of amoxicillin,
      a commonly used penicillin antibiotic in dentistry, be prescribed before dental implant
      placement to prevent implant failure. However, allergies to penicillin and its derivatives
      have been reported by 8% of the U.S. population. Another limitation of penicillin antibiotics
      is their short half-life, which is about one hour. On the other hand, azithromycin has shown
      promising results as an adjunct to periodontal therapy and exhibits low toxicity, few side
      effects, excellent tissue penetration and a long half-life of about 68 hours. It has also
      anti-inflammatory properties. These characteristics make this antibiotic an interesting
      alternative to amoxicillin for allergic patients and could potentially demonstrate higher
      efficacy at preventing peri-implant bone remodeling after implant placement and decreasing
      postoperative complications.

      Therefore, the primary objective of this study is to determine whether giving preoperative
      antibiotics to healthy patients undergoing straightforward platform-switched implant
      placement will significantly influence crestal bone loss around dental implants. The test
      group will receive one dosage of azithromycin before implant placement. The control group
      will receive an identical placebo preoperatively. Questionnaires for pain and interference
      with daily activities assessment will be distributed to participants and will be filled for
      the first postoperative week. Signs of postoperative morbidity will be recorded at 1 week
      following the surgery and both clinical and radiographic data will be collected at 4 months
      postoperative to assess the implants status. A radiographic and clinical follow-up will be
      done 1 year after the surgery.

      Objectives and research hypothesis

      Main objective : To determine whether giving preoperative azithromycin before implant
      placement will significantly influence crestal bone change around implants.

      Secondary objectives :

        1. To assess the patient's perception of the post-operative healing process.

        2. To assess the surgeon's perception of the post-operative healing process.

      Null hypothesis: The study's null hypothesis is that there is no difference in crestal bone
      loss around implants between azithromycin and the placebo.

      Materials & Methods

      Subjects in this randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial will be divided
      in two groups: one group will receive 500 mg of azithromycin 1 h prior surgery; the second
      group will receive an identical placebo 1 h prior surgery.

      Dental implant(s) (Astra Tech Implant EV System™, Dentsply Sirona Co., York, PA, USA) will be
      placed in a one stage procedure, without simultaneous bone grafting, and will be inserted
      either at Dr. Durand's practice (Le Groupe des Parodontistes, 2222 boul. René-Lévesque O.,
      suite #200, Montreal, QC H3H 1R6, Canada) or at the implantology clinic of the Université de
      Montréal - Faculty of Dentistry (CRIP), Montreal, QC, Canada by one of two board-certified
      specialists and implant surgeons (minimum of 5 years of experience). All participants will be
      instructed to rinse with chlorhexidine gluconate 0.12% for 1 min. just before surgery and to
      take 600mg of ibuprofen and 500mg of acetaminophen. A third party will give an envelope to
      the patient containing the antibiotic or identical placebo to be taken preoperatively and the
      patient's study number so both the surgeon and the patient will be unaware of the antibiotic
      regimen. Subjects will be randomly distributed to one of the two study groups:

      Test group: 500 mg of azithromycin taken 1 hour preoperatively; Control group: Identical
      placebo taken 1 hour preoperatively.

      Randomization will be stratified by number of implants (one vs. more than one), using a block
      size of four. Randomization will be done by a statistician using a computer-generated
      sequence (SAS proc plan) and it will be sealed in consecutively numbered opaque envelopes.
      The subjects will receive from a research assistant the envelopes containing either the
      preoperative placebo or the antibiotic. All participants will have to take the antibiotic (or
      placebo) and analgesics (ibuprofen 600mg and acetaminophen 500mg) under the supervision of
      the research assistant. They will have to fill the questionnaires to evaluate their medical
      and socio-demographic status, as well as preoperative pain and anxiety levels using
      self-reported questionnaires and a 10-cm visual analog scale (VAS). Measures of asepsis will
      include the use of sterile drapes over the supine body of the patient. Screw-type, root-form,
      two-pieces rough surfaced dental implants will be placed using a standard surgical protocol,
      following the manufacturers' recommendations under local anesthesia. Mucoperiosteal flaps
      will be used to access underlying alveolar bone for all implant surgeries. The healing
      abutment will be inserted, and soft tissues will be sutured with interrupted sutures. A
      standardized periapical radiograph will be taken perpendicular to the crestal bone to assess
      the baseline crestal bone level on the mesial and distal aspects of the implant using a bite
      registration material (Blu-Mousse®, Parkell Inc., Edgewood, U.S.A.) adapted to a paralleling
      device (XCP film holding system, Dentsply Rinn, Elgin, U.S.A.) for each participant. The
      customized bite registration will be kept for each patient in a cool room in a locked cabinet
      with the participant study identification number for the subsequent 4 months and 1-year
      radiographic evaluations. The duration of the surgery and length of the incision will be
      recorded by the surgeon. The participants will be asked to refrain from performing mechanical
      plaque control in the surgical area and be advised to remain on a soft diet during the first
      postoperative week. They will be prescribed 600mg of ibuprofen to take as needed. They will
      also be prescribed an emergency analgesic (500mg acetaminophen) to take if needed and a 0.12%
      chlorhexidine gluconate rinse to use twice daily until the sutures are removed 1 week later.
      After receiving the standardized verbal and written post-operative instructions, participants
      will be given questionnaires to assess postoperative pain and interference with daily
      activities for the first postoperative week. The patient will be asked to keep a pain
      medication diary to keep track of the number of analgesics (ibuprofen and acetaminophen)
      taken for the first postoperative week. The patient will be asked to record his/her
      experience with the interference with their daily activities using a 10-cm VAS questionnaire
      with end points being "none" and "extremely much" and will have to attribute a numerical
      value to his/her pain intensity experienced using the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS-11), with 0
      representing "no pain" and 10 "intolerable". The patient's pain experience will be assessed
      immediately before surgery and will also be assessed with the daily pain medication intake
      diary. Since anxiety has been positively associated with pain experience after surgery, VAS
      of Anxiety will be given to patients before and after surgery and at the 1-week follow-up.
      Daily activities will include their ability to chew foods they want to eat, to open their
      mouth wide, talk, sleep, go to school or work, carry on a regular social life and participate
      in their favorite recreational activities. The subjects will be asked to bring back to the
      research assistant the pain and daily interference questionnaires as well as the pain
      medication diary and the envelope and drug containers to ensure their compliance with the
      prescriptions. At the end of the first postoperative control appointment, one calibrated
      examiner (IA) unaware of the antibiotic prescribed will collect the daily diary, will ask the
      patient to quantify his/her anxiety using a VAS, and will evaluate swelling, bruising, pus
      exudate and wound dehiscence as described elsewhere. Postoperative swelling will be graded as
      follows: 0 = No swelling, 1 = Mild swelling, 2 = Moderate swelling, 3 = Severe swelling.
      Postoperative bruising, suppuration and wound dehiscence will be evaluated using Boolean
      variables: 0 = None; 1 = Present. The examiner will then measure the modified plaque index
      (PI) at four sites per implant (mesial, distal, buccal, lingual). The PI is graded as
      follows: 0 = no detection of plaque, 1 = Plaque only detected by running a probe (PCP-UNC15;
      Hu-Friedy Mfg Co., Chicago, U.S.A.) along the smooth surface of the healing abutment, 2 =
      Plaque can be seen by the naked eye, 3 = Abundance of soft matter. The PI will be also
      measured at the 16-weeks and 1-year examinations. At the 16-weeks evaluation, the implants
      will be re-assessed both clinically and radiographically to confirm osseointegration and the
      modified PI by an investigator. In addition, probing depth (PD) on 4 sites per implant and
      bleeding upon probing (BI index) will be measured. This appointment will coincide with the
      impression for restoration of the implant. The same calibrated examiner unaware of the
      antibiotic taken will verify if the implants are osseointegrated by taking a standardized
      periapical radiograph to verify the presence or absence of infection and evaluate crestal
      bone loss using the standardized bite registration and paralleling device. The examiner will
      also assess implant mobility using the handles of two blunt dental instruments
      (osseointegration = immobile, failure = mobile) and the presence or absence of any symptom
      related to infection (suppuration), inflammation (erythema, bleeding on probing) or
      neuropathy (paresthesia, dysesthesia, anesthesia). One year after the implant placement, a
      standardized radiograph will be taken to measure crestal bone loss. The PD and BI will be
      redone at the 1-year follow-up as well as presence or absence of infection assessment by the
      calibrated examiner. Crestal bone level changes (mm) will be measured on mesial and distal
      aspects of implants using superimposed images and a software (Adobe Ilustrator CC 2017 (Adobe
      systems Inc. San Jose, CA, U.S.A.) by one investigator who is unaware of the antibiotic
      regimen taken by the participants.

      The primary outcome measures will be crestal bone loss at the mesial and distal aspects of
      each implant. The secondary outcomes will be the presence or absence of peri-implant
      radiolucency, patient's pain and anxiety experience (intensity (VAS) and number of analgesics
      taken), surgeon's perception of healing (intensity of swelling and presence/absence of
      bruising, pus exudate and wound dehiscence), modified PI, PD, BI, presence or absence of
      implant mobility, presence or absence of pain, infection, neuropathies, and presence or
      absence of pus exudate.

      Statistical analysis

      The trained and calibrated examiner will perform all clinical measurements and take the
      radiographs. An intra- and inter-reliability study will be done to compare with a gold
      standard examiner. One calibrated examiner will perform the radiographic analysis. Cohen's
      kappa, intraclass correlation coefficient and Bland and Altman graphs will be used to
      evaluate reliability. Normality of data distribution will be assessed using the Shapiro-Wilk
      test. Crestal bone loss, PD and patient's pain and anxiety perception (VAS) will be analyzed
      with repeated measures ANOVA or nonparametric ANOVA-type statistic, with time as a repeated
      measure (7 days) and groups as a between group measure. Groups will be compared regarding
      postoperative swelling with Mann-Whitney U test. Groups will be compared regarding implant
      survival at 4 months, bruising, suppuration, wound dehiscence, mobility, presence of pus
      exudate, PI, BI, presence of peri-implant radiolucency on the radiographs, and presence of
      persistent signs/symptoms with the Fisher's exact test. Analyses will be conducted in
      conformity of the intention to treat principles.
    
  