
    
      This is a randomized un-blinded clinical trial for comparing uterine contractions frequency
      in FET cycles between two medicated protocols of uterine lining programming. This study does
      not involve any new medications, nor mode of administration, but merely a designed array for
      evaluation of two existing well-established protocols.

      Women undergoing Frozen embryo transfers (FET) at the blastocyst stage at the Toronto Centre
      for Advanced Reproductive Technologies (TCART) will be approached to take part in this study.

      Pre-study Screening and Baseline Evaluation:

      Study subjects will be recruited voluntarily at TCART clinic. The attending physician will
      screen and identify potential female patients undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF)
      blastocyst FET cycles. The staff physician will explain the general rational. The protocol of
      the study and further explanations as well as the actual recruitment will be performed by a
      nurse or a fellow who are not part of the treating team. If the patient gives her consent,
      she will be randomized (computer generated block randomization) into one of the treatment
      groups (vaginal P4 or IM P4).

      FET medicated cycle protocol includes ten days of Estrace (micronized 17b-estradiol) starting
      on day 3 of the cycle at a dose of 4 mg daily for 5 days followed by 8 mg daily for 5 days.
      Routine monitoring takes place after the 10th treatment day - cycle day 13 - and involves a
      longitudinal scan of the uterine cavity for endometrial thickness and pattern. This is not a
      study visit but a routine one that is part of the investigators standard of care. The study
      patients' monitoring will include one additional measurement (uterine contraction frequency
      counted by number of contractions per minute). After achieving sufficient endometrial
      proliferation (≥7 mm thickness with a triple layer pattern) with estrogen exposure, the
      patient starts progesterone use.

      Patients randomized into the vaginal progesterone arm will start treatment with 200mg P4
      suppositories 3 times a day. Patients randomized into the IM progesterone arm will start
      treatment with 50mg P4 IM injection once daily.

      Blastocyst transfer is performed on the 6th day of P4 exposure. Standard of care is not
      subjected to any change in this study. The usual management though does not include a repeat
      Ultrasound imaging on the day of transfer: for the purpose of this study, ultrasound
      monitoring will be performed just before the embryo transfer and will document endometrial
      thickness, endometrial pattern and endometrial contractility (waves) as counted by number of
      contractions per minute. For uniformity of measurement purposes and objectivity, the
      monitoring will be performed at TCART by 2 highly qualified ultrasound technicians who are
      not involved in patient management and who will be blinded as to the route of P4
      administration.

      Routine management will follow the embryo transfer procedure: all patients will continue
      Estrace and Progesterone. All of the patients (study and control) will resume vaginal
      progesterone (200mg P4 suppositories 3 times a day).
    
  