
    
      The principal aim of this project is to conduct a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) to
      examine whether adding a twelve-session Multi-Component Yoga Intervention (MCYI) to the
      treatment regimen of Australian Vietnam Veterans suffering chronic Posttraumatic Stress
      Disorder (PTSD) leads to a significantly greater clinical improvement than conventional
      psychiatric treatment alone. Include 12 sessions with each session 3 hours duration- 4 days
      per week for 3 weeks i.e. total of 36 hours. The Multi-Component Yoga Intervention (MCYI)
      consisting of specific poses, breathing techniques, information about yoga techniques and
      practices, group processes, psychoeducation, relaxation procedures and meditation techniques
      in Vietnam War Veterans with chronic Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) resistant to
      treatment has been developed. This project aims to evaluate MCYI through RCT method.

      It is hypothesised that Yoga augmentation will lead to: (1) reduced symptoms of PTSD and
      Depression; and (2) reduced alcohol intake. A secondary aim of the proposed RCT is to
      evaluate putative mediating variables. Benefits include that it is low cost and easy to
      apply. Done at home, non threatening and additional to standard psychiatric treatment for
      PTSD.

      A comparable method with a different emphasis is currently the subject of a United States
      grant application by another group to formally test American War Veterans from Afghanistan
      and Iraq. The chief investigators (Assistant Professor Gerbarg and Associate Professor Brown)
      are collaborating with The Bay Pines Veterans Administration Medical Center in Florida to
      develop a study utilising a specific Yoga breathing technique called Sudarshan Kriya Yoga
      (SKY) for treatment of American veterans returning from Afghanistan and Iraq. Elements of
      this method have been widely tested on individuals suffering with Acute Stress Disorder and
      Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (Gerbarg and Brown 2005 Direct communication) and have been
      reported to have relieved posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in large groups of people
      affected by mass disasters such as: war (Kosovo, Bosnia, Iraq and Sudan) (Biswas 2004; Joseph
      2004; Luedemann 2004); terrorism (New York City 9/11) (Anonymous 2001b), (Kashmir, India,
      Israel); and natural disasters (Gujurat earthquake, Iran flood and the Asian Tsunami)
      (Gujurat earthquake, 2000) (Anonymous 2001a). Pilot studies conducted by the Principal
      Investigator using similar techniques showed positive health results for Vietnam Veterans
      with PTSD in Australia (Carter and Byrne 2004).

      (Kessler, Sonnega et al. 1995) studied the disabling effect of PTSD in their NCS study and
      conclude that PTSD and Major Depression are the two most substantial causes of burden of
      disease by psychological disorder. The Australian national epidemiology study (Creamer,
      Burgess et al. 2001) support this in analysis of work days lost per month (2.8 days per
      month.

      Generally, evidence from a well-designed Random Controlled Trial (RCT) is accepted as having
      a high level of strength for efficacy. From the literature review, none of the outcome
      studies investigating the efficacy of yoga treatment for PTSD have been conducted by using
      RCT design. Most of the studies lack treatment control subjects and rely on data from only
      one program. Thus, it is expected the Multi-Component Yoga Intervention (MCYI) will be the
      first RCT study conducted internationally and will contribute significantly to the field of
      mental health and psychiatry.

      However, although a randomized clinical trial has been performed for depression with good
      effect (Janakiramaiah, Gangadhar et al. 2000), there are as yet no randomized clinical trials
      testing the efficacy of a yoga intervention for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder in Vietnam
      Veterans. Accordingly, it is proposed to apply a Multi-Component Yoga Intervention (MCYI) for
      a group of Australian Veterans.
    
  