
    
      Participants recruited will have type 1 diabetes treated with CSII. Each participant will be
      required to attend on 5 separate occasions. The first visit can take place at any time of
      day. At this first visit formal, written consent will be obtained for participation in the
      trial. Following this an assessment will be made of VO2 MAX(maximal oxygen uptake during
      exercise) using the Balke-Ware treadmill protocol. Once this is finished the first visit will
      be completed.

      The other 4 visits will all take place 2 hours following a lunch containing 60 grams of
      carbohydrate. Advice will be given about how this can be achieved. On arrival a cannula will
      be inserted in the dorsum of a hand and blood samples taken. The hand will be armed to allow
      the taking of arterialised blood samples. Further blood samples will be taken after 30, 60
      and 90 minutes and then exercise will commence. Participants will be asked to reduce their
      basal insulin infusion rate to 50% of usual either immediately after the cannula has been
      inserted or 30 minutes later (1 hour prior to exercise), 60 minutes later (30 minutes prior
      to exercise) or 90 minutes later (at the start of exercise). These four conditions will be
      presented to each participant in a randomised order. Participants will exercise for 60
      minutes at 50% VO2 MAX on an electronically braked cycle ergometer. At the end of exercise a
      set of blood samples will be taken. Participants will then rest for 30 minutes and a final
      set of blood samples will be taken. After this the cannula will be removed and the study
      visit will be complete. A snack will be offered.

      In the event of hypoglycaemia identified on point of care testing a blood sample will be
      taken for laboratory confirmation. Participants will be given 15 grams of carbohydrate but
      permitted to continue exercising unless they feel that the exercise has become significantly
      more difficult, they feel unwell or the investigator has any concerns. Participants will be
      given 15 grams of rapid acting carbohydrate, repeated every 10-15 minutes until blood glucose
      levels rise above 4mmol/l.
    
  