
    
      Deep retinal capillary ischemia (DRCI) is a recently described entity in patients presenting
      with an acute-onset paracentral scotoma. Subclinical macular lesions of DRCI were formerly
      best visualized on near-infrared reflectance imaging. The development of optical coherence
      tomography angiography (OCTA) has facilitated studies of the retinal capillary structures.
      The multiplanar superficial capillary plexus is located in the inner plexiform layer (IPL)
      and contains synapses between bipolar and ganglion cells as well as amacrine cells. The deep
      capillary plexus (DCP) is located in the outer plexiform layer (OPL), which is thinner than
      the IPL. The DCP is composed of synapses of photoreceptors, bipolar cells, and horizontal
      cells. This area is also at the border of the oxygen diffusion from the choroid. It is likely
      that the oxygen coming from the choroid has been completely consumed by the photoreceptors
      because of the low partial pressure of oxygen level in the outer nuclear layer (ONL). The DCP
      supplies both the bipolar cells and the synaptic structure of the OPL and Henle ﬁbers.

      Deep retinal capillary ischemia is an ischemic event in the middle and deep layers of the
      retina due to various systemic or local vascular pathologies. It is obvious in the
      intraretinal hyper-reflective bandlike zone located superior or inferior to the OPL
      conjointly on in a structural cross-sectional B-scan of the spectral domain optical coherence
      tomography (SD-OCT) examination along with an acute-onset paracentral scotoma and subjective
      complaints of the patient. Ophthalmologists often face a significant diagnostic challenge
      because of a lack of noticeable changes in the appearance of the retina.

      DRCI has two different appearances on B-scan SD-OCT exams according to the level of the
      involved DCP. If the hyper-reflective bandlike zone is located on the outer plexiform
      layer-inner nuclear layer (OPL-INL) junction, then it is termed "Paracentral Acute Middle
      Maculopathy (PAMM)" or type-1 deep retinal capillary ischemia. If the hyper-reflective band
      is seen on the OPL-ONL junction, then it is termed as type-2 deep retinal capillary ischemia.
      This might be a new variant of "Acute Macular Neuroretinopathy (AMN)". These intraretinal
      hyperreflective zones are seen as patchy areas of various patterns on en-face OCT image, and
      atrophic areas in the inner and the outer nuclear layer respectively are developed in the
      late stage of the diseases. The pathophysiologic features of DCP ischemia is considered to be
      ischemic hypoxia leading to cell death with swelling of the middle retinal tissues. This may
      lead to severe vision loss and permanent paracentral scotoma depending on the underlying
      cause and depth of ischemia. It can also be observed by slowing metabolic activity in
      photoreceptors and neural retina. The metabolic slowdown is defined as a dormant phase in
      photoreceptors and OFF mode in the neural retina.

      The retinal deep capillary plexus is a single monoplanar capillary plexus located in the OPL.
      It has the lowest vessel density-this is a signiﬁcant ﬁnding that might be used to evaluate
      retinal vascular diseases accurately. For this reason, the changes in the percentage of the
      vessel density in DCP during the follow-up were preferred as an assessment parameter of the
      treatment modalities used in this prospective clinical study.

      Platelets are anucleated cells that contain many types of growth factors including
      platelet-derived growth factor(PDGF), transforming growth factor-β(TGF-β), vascular
      endothelial growth factor(VEGF), and epidermal growth factor(EGF) in alpha granules. Thus,
      the supplementation of growth medium with autologous platelet-rich plasma (aPRP) could be
      desirable for clinical applications and could lead to some functional improvement.

      High-frequency repetitive electromagnetic stimulation (rEMS) has promising therapeutic
      potential in ischemic neurological patients. The rationale of rEMS is that it modulates
      neural excitability and increases neural plasticity; thus, it improves the functional
      outcome. These neuroprotective effects of rEMS are dependent on the increase in the level of
      brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), VEGF, and increased tyrosine kinase A, B, and C
      (TrkA, TrkB, and TrkC) receptor activation. Therefore, high-frequency rEMS might be a
      promising therapeutic strategy for ischemic retinal disorders such as DRCI.

      There is no known and proven specific treatment for DRCI to date except for systemic
      check-ups and treatment of the underlying diseases or predisposing factors. The aim of this
      preliminary clinical study is to investigate the efficacy of high-frequency rEMS alone or in
      combination with sub-tenon fresh aPRP as a treatment modality in the treatment of DRCI. To
      the best of our knowledge, this is the first prospective clinical trial on this subject in
      the ophthalmic literature.
    
  