
    
      Any hospitalized patient receiving UFH in the intensive, cardiac surgery and medicine
      departments of the participating centres will be offered the study by investigator. It will
      be included in the study after validation of the selection criteria and after collecting its
      non-opposition. This participation will not change the medical care of the participants.

      Patients will be divided into four groups:

        -  Group 1: patients with cardiac surgery with CBP. Blood samples in the operating room, 5
           to 10 minutes after neutralization of heparin by protamine.

        -  Group 2: patients who had cardiac surgery with CBP, between day 1 and day 5 after
           surgery.

        -  Group 3: hospitalized patients in intensive care unit, including patients on
           extracorporeal life support (ECLS).

      Group 4: patients hospitalized in a medical non-intensive care ward.

      The response to heparin treatment varies considerably depending on the clinical situation.
      The results found in one indication are not transposable to another indication. The 4 patient
      groups will provide a comprehensive response to situations in which heparin is used.

      For each patient, during the usual follow-up of anti-Xa activity, and only once per patient,
      3 to 4 additional blood tubes - 1 citrate tube (0.109 M) of 5 mL or 2 citrate tubes of 3 mL
      and 2 tubes CTAD (Citrate-Theophylline, Adenosine, Dipyrioledam) of 3 mL - will be taken
      during a blood test carried out in common practice. Thus, no additional invasive gestures are
      added by this search. CTAD contains, in addition to citrate, a platelet activation inhibitor
      and thus limits the in-vitro activation of platelets and thus the release of PF4.

      Blood samples will be handle according to the usual procedures of each centre. All plasma
      will be aliquoted and stored at -80oC, until the end of inclusions in the hematology
      laboratories of each center.

      At the end of the inclusion period, the aliquotes will be sent to the hematology laboratories
      of the Necker University Hospital and the University Hospital of Rennes for centralized
      testing.

      The measurement of anti-Xa activities will be carried out on frozen-defrosted citrate and
      CTAD plasma with with 4 reagents:

        -  STA-Liquid anti-Xa (STAGO) (not containing dextran)

        -  Biophen Heparin LRT (Hyphen) (containing dextran)

        -  Berichrom (Siemens) with dextran

        -  Berichrom (Siemens) without dextran

      The dosage of platelet factor 4 and beta-TG will be performed on frozen-defrosted plasma with
      CTAD with asserachrom PF4 and Asserachrom beta-TG (Diagnostica Stago) kits.
    
  