
    
      Periodontal disease is considered to be an infection disease. Specific microorganisms
      especially the gram-negative anaerobic bacteria gain predominance in periodontal pockets and
      challenge the host. Lipopolysaccharides of the bacteria and other virulence factors will
      interact with macrophages and active cells to synthesis large quantities of IL-1, TNF, PgE2
      and matrix metalloproteinases and lead to the degradation of the collagen and bone
      destruction. It has been shown that the genetic or environmental factors can modulate the
      initiation and progression of periodontal disease. Recent evidence supported the role of
      smoking as a potent risk factor for the development of periodontal disease. However, the
      effect of another oral habit, betel quid chewing on periodontal tissues has not been well
      determined. Earlier epidemiological studies have shown a detrimental effect on periodontal
      tissues. Higher prevalence of periodontal disease among betel chewers than among non-chewers
      was found, even when subgroups of similar oral hygiene were compared. In vitro studies also
      support the nut extract has a cytopathologic effects on gingival fibroblast. The extract or
      the major betel nut alkaloid, arecoline, can inhibit the growth, attachment and matrix
      protein synthesis of gingival fibroblast. Study also showed that ripe and tender extract can
      reduce the antibacterial activity of neutrophils in vitro. However, most earlier
      epidemiological studies did not adjust the potentially confounding variables such as age,
      socioeconomic status, oral hygiene. Besides, most chewers are also smokers and drinkers,
      whether the higher periodontal index may contribute from the smoking habit, or betel quid
      chewing or the combination of both habits cannot be determined. Conversely, it is also found
      that the betel nut has an antibacterial properties and prolonged exposure can suppress the
      salivary organisms. It is also used for treating bleeding gums in ancient Indian medicine.
      Inhibitory effect on Streptococcus mutans, Streptococcus salivarius, Fusbobacerium nucleatum
      was shown, but there are no any data concerning the effect on the periodontal pathogens.
      Since the challenge of the bacteria is essential to initiate the disease process, the
      presence of more virulence types of plaque bacteria may increase the risk and the rate of
      progression of periodontal disease. It is not known whether the extract can affect the
      composition of the dental plaque through changing the oral ecology such as the pH value of
      the saliva, a direct inhibitory effect on the periodontal microorganism or through inhibiting
      the colonization of the Streptococcus, and then prevent the further succession of another
      bacterial complex. The purpose of the present study is to analysis the role of bacteria on
      the periodontium in the betel quid chewers. Plaque samples will be collected from betel quid
      chewers and the occurrence of periodotopathogens will be analyzed Since most chewers also
      smokers, plaque samples from age matched smokers but not betel chewers and non-smokers will
      analysis for comparison. An in vitro test is also performed to evaluate whether the extract
      has a direct inhibitory effect on common periodontal pathogens, such as Porphyromoans
      gingivalis, Bacteroides forsythus, Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans.
    
  