
    
      This study received permission from Dokuz Eylül University Medical Faculty Ethics Committee
      and informed consent was obtained from the patients. Sixty-six patients above the age of 65
      with American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physiological classification group I-III,
      undergoing elective surgery and with indications for laryngeal mask placement participated in
      this prospective, and double bland study.

      Patients taken to the operating room were monitored for heart rate (HR), systolic blood
      pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), mean blood pressure (MBP),
      electrocardiography (ECG-Derivation II), and peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) before
      anesthesia induction. Depth of anesthesia was evaluated with a bispectral index monitor. The
      patients were preoxygenated with 6 L.min-1 oxygen through a face mask for 3 minutes. For
      anesthesia induction 0.02 mg.kg-1 midazolam, 1-2 μg.kg-1 fentanyl and 1-2 mg.kg-1 propofol
      were used. Afterwards patients were given mask ventilation with 100% oxygen. Before laryngeal
      masks were inserted they were prepared by being lubricated with water-based gel and the cuffs
      were completely deflated.

      After induction agents were administered when BIS values were between 40-60 and sufficient
      chin relaxation was obtained LMU was inserted according to the standard methods determined by
      Brain. The LMU size was chosen based on the patient's body weight; those from 30-50 kg used
      no. 3, from 50-70 kg used no. 4 and those from 70-100 kg used no 5 LMU. During attempts
      depending on the patient reaction and to keep the BIS values 40-60, an additional dose of 0.5
      mg/kg propofol was administered.

      The cuffs of the laryngeal mask were inflated and held at 60 centimeters of water. After the
      operation before the LM was removed the cuff inner pressure was measured again and recorded.
      The success of the first attempt at insertion of the laryngeal mask was recorded. During
      placement in cases with 3 unsuccessful attempts, patients were intubated to provide airway
      management.

      Anesthesia was maintained with a 50% O2/air mix with 1.5-2.5% sevoflurane. Concentration of
      sevoflurane was set to keep the bispectral index value below 40.

      Systolic arterial pressure (SAP), diastolic arterial pressure (DAP), mean arterial pressure
      (MAP), heart rate (HR) and bispectral index values (BIS) were recorded before anesthesia
      induction, before LM insertion and in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 5th minutes after LM insertion
      was confirmed.

      The time for successful insertion was defined as the duration from mouth opening to first
      successful ventilation and recorded. The number of insertion attempts and ease of insertion
      were recorded.

      Criteria indicating successful laryngeal mask placement:

        1. Waves with square shape on capnogram

        2. Easy ventilation with respiration balloon and observed chest movement

        3. No ventilation leak with approximately 20 centimeters of water positive pressure
           Evaluation of ease of insertion based on likert scala (1-4 point from easy to
           unsuccessful).

      After laryngeal mask insertion, the oropharyngeal leak test was conducted by a researcher
      unaware of whether the patients had teeth or not. To complete the test after the expiring
      valve was shut fresh gas flow was reduced to 3 L.min-1. When the sound of a leak was heard
      from the mouth the airway pressure value (OLP) was recorded. During this test airway pressure
      was not allowed to rise above 40 centimeters of water. From the start of the operation to the
      end, the patients were monitored for hypoxia (SpO2 falling below 90%) and laryngospasm. In
      cases where the third attempt at LM insertion was unsuccessful, if the SpO2 values fell below
      90% at any time in the study or if laryngospasm developed, the patients were excluded from
      the study.

      The duration of use of laryngeal mask (duration from insertion to removal) in both groups
      were recorded. After the laryngeal mask was removed it was evaluated for traces of blood.
      When leaving the recovery unit and 24 hours later throat pain, dysphonia and dysphagia were
      evaluated. Throat pain was evaluated using the VAS-10 (visual analogue scale).
    
  