
    
      The patient was adequately sedated by intravenous administration of midazolam with or without
      meperidine. ESP and pancreatic duct stent insertion were undertaken using two methods:
      conventional and wire-guieded ESP. The conventional ESP method was performed as in the
      follows. After placing the tip of the duodenoscope on the tumor, the snare was deployed so
      that it grasped the base of the tumor. Constant tension was applied to the snare loop during
      excision until the lesion was transected. Excision was performed with a small sized
      electrosurgical snare. A pancreatic duct stent was or was not inserted immediately after the
      excision. The wire-guided ESP method was performed as follows. An ERCP catheter was inserted
      into the pancreatic duct. Then, a 0.035-inch guidewire was inserted through the catheter and
      deep into the main pancreatic duct. After the ERCP catheter was removed, the loop of an
      electrosurgical snare with a maximum sheath diameter of 1.8 mm was passed over the guidewire,
      in monorail fashion, and the snare was closed lightly. The snare was introduced next to the
      guidewire into the accessory channel of the duodenoscope. After the tip of the duodenoscope
      was placed on the tumor, the snare was deployed so that it grasped the base of the tumor.
      Constant tension was applied to the snare loop during excision until the lesion was
      transected. After the excision was completed, a pancreatic duct stent was immediately passed
      over the guidewire previously placed in the pancreatic duct and was positioned across the
      pancreatic-duct oriﬁce. ESP was performed by using the blend mode or endocut mode setting on
      the electrosurgical generator. A straight or single pigtail type, 3- to 9-cm, 3 to 7F
      polyethylene pancreatic duct stent was used. Post-papillectomy bleeding was treated with
      argon plasma coagulation (APC) and/or endoscopic clipping or epinephrine injection. APC was
      carried out with a power setting of 60 W and a gas flow of 2 L/min. One to seven days after
      stent placement, a plain abdominal radiograph was obtained to determine its position. If it
      had not passed spontaneously, it was removed endoscopically from those patients with no
      evidence of pancreatitis.
    
  