
    
      Obesity and its comorbidities are major public health challenges. To combat the obesity
      pandemic, many weight-loss strategies have been studied, often emphasizing either high
      carbohydrate (low fat) diets or high fat (low carbohydrate) diets. Mean weight loss
      differences between high-carbohydrate and high-fat diets that induce equal caloric deficits
      have been reported to be small; however, the individual weight loss response varies
      substantially within diet groups, suggesting that different individuals react differently to
      high-carbohydrate or high-fat diets. This assumption is supported by retrospective data
      showing that participants with carbohydrate-responsive polymorphisms lost 2-3 times more
      weight when assigned to a high-carbohydrate diet compared to a high-fat diet, and vice versa
      for those with dietary fat-responsive polymorphisms. Conversely, a recent randomized clinical
      trial aimed to determine the effect of a healthy high-fat diet (high in unsaturated fats) vs.
      a healthy high-carbohydrate diet (high in whole-grain foods) on 12-month weight change but
      did not find significant differences between the two groups and failed to find the
      hypothesized association between genotype patterns and weight loss induced by diets that
      varied in fat and carbohydrate content. However, an important caveat of their approach is
      that the single nucleotide polymorphisms selected by the investigators had not been
      previously associated with obesity or with dietary responses, which may explain their lack of
      predictive value in identifying differences in inter-individual responses. In addition, the
      fat composition of the diets was relatively high in both high- and low-fat groups. The
      inconsistent findings in the literature indicate a need for further research to determine if
      genetic factors affect weight loss when exposed to diets that vary in carbohydrates and
      dietary fats.

      The purpose of this randomized controlled parallel arm trial is to test the following
      hypotheses.

      Hypothesis 1 will test if participants assigned to the diet that corresponds to their
      genotype lose more weight than those assigned to a diet inconsistent with their genotype.

      Hypothesis 2 will analyze the fat responders and carbohydrate responders separately.

        -  Hypothesis 2a: Fat responders will lose more weight on the high-fat diet vs. the
           high-carbohydrate diet.

        -  Hypothesis 2b: Carbohydrate responders will lose more weight on the high-carbohydrate
           diet vs. the high-fat diet.

      Carbohydrate responders and fat responders will be randomized to one of the following two
      diets:

        1. A high-quality high-carbohydrate diet that is rich in whole-grain foods, or

        2. A high-quality high-fat diet that is rich in unsaturated fats and oils
    
  