
    
      Face/neck: Using a 900 pulse 4.0cm2 Total Tip, 450 pulses will be placed on one half of
      face/neck on average-large size face, 450 on the other half. Pulses to be placed using
      several initial passes throughout the treatment zones followed by any remaining pulses to
      problem areas, as determined by the Investigator. On a petite-small size patient, less pulses
      may be used on each half of treatment area, at the discretion of the Treating Investigator.
      Treatment will be performed in the standard manner titrating energy to a subjective
      discomfort of 2-3 on a 4-point scale, using generous amounts of coupling fluid, and placing
      return pad on the lower back.

      Eyes: Plastic corneoscleral protective lenses will be ised when the eyelids are treated.
      Using a 450 pulse 0.25cm2 eye tip, 225 pulses will be placed on one eye, 225 on the other
      eye. Pulses to be placed using several initial passes throughout the treatment zones,
      followed by any remaining pulses to problem areas, as determined by the Investigator.
      Treatment will be performed in the standard manner titrating energy to a subjective
      discomfort of 2-3 on a 4-point scale, using generous amounts of coupling fluid, and placing
      the return pad on the lower back.

      Photographs will be obtained by a professional photographer. Images will be captured at
      Baseline, and 1, 3, and 6 months post treatment. Treatment outcomes will be assessed at each
      visit by Subject Global Assessment Improvement Scale (SGAIS), Physician Global Assessment
      Improvement Scale (PGAIS) abd by blinded assessment of photographs by an independent
      reviewer. Subjects will be assessed by the Treating Investigator (live) and the non-treating
      investigator (photographs) using a quartile scale as in the previously published Thermage
      eyelid trial. Subject satisfaction will also be measured with questionnaires.
    
  