
    
      Patients with interstitial lung disease require an adequate tool for diagnosis and
      monitoring. Traditionally, the diagnostics are done by CT and lung-function tests. Follow-up
      of these patients include regular CT-Imaging and LFT to monitor disease progress to visualize
      possible complications early. Every examination exposes the patient to ionizing radiation,
      and LFTs alone are not sensitive enough to visualize local changes. Therefore, it is
      desirable to switch from these two diagnostic tools to a less harm-full and a more sensitive
      one: MR-Imaging. MR-Imaging allows for a non-invasive and more sensitive illustration of lung
      morphology as well as local ventilation and perfusion for early detection of lung function
      alterations without the exposure of the patient to ionizing radiation.

        1. Ojective To demonstrate the value of MR-Imaging as a valuable, radiation-free method to
           visualize lung morphology and pathologic lung changes in patients with interstitial lung
           diseases quantitatively and qualitatively. A positive result would allow using MR as an
           additive or alternative method in the assessment of parenchymal lung changes to detect
           early parenchymal changes as well as to monitor the course of disease, especially for
           medical treatment.

        2. Objective Quantitative and qualitative validation of MR-Imaging in the assessment of
           local lung ventilation and perfusion compared to lung function tests.

      Prospective, single-centre, non-randomised, non-blinded trial with MR-Imaging of patients.
      All of the patients undergo MR-Imaging as well as the two standard diagnostic procedures: CT
      and lung function tests.

      Inclusion criteria: patients with interstitial lung disease scheduled for CT and LFT, written
      consent, ≥ 18 years.

      Exclusion criteria: claustrophobia and impossibility to lie in the MR for more than 30
      minutes, pregnancy, and the generally valid contraindications for MRI.

      The study participants will obtain a MRI of the thorax with one of the institutions MR
      machines (Philips Achieva 1.5T, GE Discovery 3T, MRI Siemens Skyra 3T, and GE SIGNA Artist
      1.5T). The study participant will be asked to lie in the MR scanner for about 30 minutes
      while the images will be acquired. The image acquisition with the above-mentioned MR machines
      is authorised in Switzerland and the application is done according to the product
      information.
    
  