
    
      Skin cancer prevention is a public health priority. Over 3.5 million cases of non-melanoma
      skin cancers (NMSC) occur annually and melanoma rates have doubled in the last 30 years,
      burdening the nation's health system. Increasing evidence points to the need for prevention
      programs to be targeted to young adults as invasive melanoma of the skin is the third most
      common cancer among adolescents and young adults (ages 15-39) in the U.S. Skin cancer is
      preventable as excess exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UVR), the primary risk factor, is
      modifiable and a number of public health campaigns have been developed to increase awareness
      about skin cancer risk and to promote sun safety. Despite these efforts, skin cancer rates
      continue to rise. Many adults still forget to apply sunscreen, do not pre-apply prior to sun
      exposure, fail to reapply, do not use clothing or wide-brimmed hats that physically block UVR
      and do not use shade. 4.2% of US adults engage in indoor tanning. It is well established that
      continued efforts are needed to promote skin cancer prevention. Concurrently, approximately,
      25% of American adults have a tattoo with younger adults more likely to have tattoos than
      older adults. The popularity of tattoos continues to grow in the general population and
      particularly among members of the military. Individuals with tattoos need to take extra
      precaution when exposed to the sun not only to protect themselves from harmful UVR rays but
      also to reduce damage to their tattoos. Klein Buendel, Inc. (KB) proposes to develop and test
      Sun Safety INK (SSI), a skin cancer prevention program targeted to clients of licensed tattoo
      studios. The studios have been selected as the venue for this study because tattoo salons, at
      times, promote sun protection for new tattoos to keep them from fading, and offer a unique
      opportunity to reach younger adults who have high sunburn rates and are often less likely to
      practice sun protection. The studios provide a unique and compatible environment for sun
      safety promotion. Further, a number of successful programs have promoted health practices
      through similar venues such as beauty parlors and barber shops. Exploratory research with the
      tattoo community determined that: (1) tattoo studios were receptive to a skin cancer
      prevention program; (2) tattooed individuals had high rates of sunburns and low rates of sun
      protection but were open to receiving sun safety information and (3) a prototype SSI! program
      confirmed feasibility for recruitment and implementation. Based on these results, KB proposes
      to fully develop SSI! to include an online sun safety training for artists, a website, and
      additional sun safety education materials (e.g., social media). KB will work with the
      Alliance of Professional Tattoo Artists and the National Tattoo Association to recruit 30
      licensed studios to participate in a group-randomized pair-matched pretest-posttest
      controlled quasi-experimental design. The primary outcomes of the study will be to evaluate
      the effectiveness of SSI! at: (1) increasing full-body comprehensive sun protection
      practices; (2) decreasing sun burning and tanning; and, (3) decreasing positive attitudes
      regarding tanning and tanning attractiveness.
    
  