
    
      Hypertension (HBP) is an important risk factor for cardiovascular disease and has become a
      common public health problem world wide due to increased longevity. The challenge for next
      decades is to improve the adherence of patients with chronic degenerative diseases. It is
      detected that hypertension has been considered a risk factor for determining the incidence of
      cardiovascular diseases, which directs it to the high cost of treatment in Brazilian public
      health, therefore the prevention of impairment to health is a priority. Many patients with
      hypertension do not make the required behavioral changes in your lifestyle, do not forget to
      take medications or taking medication to fulfil the effective control of the disease. The
      present study aims to assess the impact of a health promotion program using the Therapeutic
      Communication and Educational Technology associated of the telemedicine (E-Care of
      Hypertension) in the performance improvement of patient adherence to treatment. This study
      aims to evaluation the impact of health promotion program on therapeutic compliance in
      hypertensive patients, of difficult control of blood pressure levels, with individual
      guidance through nursing consultation every 20 days, using the approach of "Therapeutic
      Communication" associated "Educational Technology" for a period of 120 days. For this study
      will be conducted with 60 patients randomly divided into four groups, according to the care
      of new cases registered in Ambulatory Hypertension Unit of Heart Institute at Medical School
      of São Paulo University. The sample will be selected for convenience in accordance with the
      established day of the week depending on availability of researchers and patients' consent.
      This approach may be associated or not with the use of educational technology in a virtual
      learning environment (VLE) for distance learning (DL).This was a prospective randomized
      clinical study conducted with the following 4 groups of hypertensive patients: This was a
      prospective randomized clinical study conducted with the following 4 groups of hypertensive
      patients: Embracement: Group receiving individual orientation required by an embracement
      strategy characterized by 7 nursing visits at 20-day intervals, for 4 months; Group VLE using
      a technological education strategy (E-Care of Hypertension) for distance learning (DL) and
      making 7 nursing visits at 20-day intervals, for 4 months; Control Group that performed 1
      nursing visit at baseline and 1 after 120 days.). Group E-blended learning using a
      technological education strategy (E-Care of Hypertension) which is evaluating the influence
      of the use of educational technology associated with face-to-face consultation with the
      health professional (Blended E-learning) and making 7 nursing visits at 20-day intervals, for
      4 months. At baseline and after 120 days, the following tools were applied: The Spielberger
      State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), the Morisky test, WHOQOL, and ambulatory blood pressure
      monitoring (ABPM). The VLE group had remote access to the "E-Care of Hypertension" site (6
      specific educational modules).The E-BLENDED Group had acess to "E-Care of Hypertension" site
      (6 specific educational modules) with the presence of the nurse.
    
  