
    
      The aim of this research is to gain a better understanding of factors that relate to the
      increased health and effective functioning of older adults. Specifically, efficiency of
      psychomotor performance declines with advancing age leading to profound effects on older
      adults' quality of life. For this reason, researchers have focused on the influence that
      individual lifestyle habits have on the aging process. One lifestyle choice that has been
      found to positively contribute to the efficiency of older adults' psychomotor performance is
      cardiovascular exercise. This relationship appears to be especially significant when older
      adults are challenged with more complex or effortful tasks. Previous research has led
      investigators to believe that aging has a specific, rather than generalized, impact on
      cognitive functioning. Also, prolonged participation in cardiovascular exercise has been
      found to maintain the cognitive functioning critical for healthy aging.

      Therefore, the purpose of this research is to examine the role of an organized 6-month
      cardiovascular exercise intervention trial on electrocortical (event-related brain potential)
      and behavioral measures (reaction time) of executive control. In addition, a
      non-cardiovascular exercise control group that participates in a 6-month stretching and
      toning program will be used for comparison. Participants will be measured before and after
      exercise training during engagement in several tasks designed to elicit different executive
      functions (e.g., discrimination, task switching, inhibition). Each task also contains a
      non-executive condition that will be used for comparison to examine the specificity of
      exercise participation of cognitive functioning. A secondary aim of this project is to
      determine the effects of an acute bout of exercise on cognitive functioning. Both groups will
      participate in several bouts of exercise followed by immediate measurement on the tasks
      outlined above to determine whether acute exercise has beneficial effects on executive
      processes. The significance of this research may include the increased understanding of
      factors related to the amelioration of age-related decrements in central nervous system
      functioning and recommendations for the maintenance of cognitive health during the later
      stages of life.
    
  