
    
      The study is randomized interventional non inferiority study that will enroll 30 adults aged
      18 or older with the diagnosis of cystoid macular edema secondary to non-infectious uveitis.
      Potential subjects will be recruited from the retina and uveitis clinics at the Casey Eye
      Institute, Oregon health and science University(OHSU). Potential recruits will be asked to
      sign and date the informed consent and a copy will be given to subject prior to any study
      procedure. Subjects will have a screening visit before the injection procedure so that the
      study doctor can decide if they meet the criteria to be in the study. This study requires 6
      visits to the clinic and will take 6 months to complete. During the screening visit, medical/
      surgical/ ocular history and will be collected from the subject and medical records.
      Laboratory tests will be performed to rule out infectious uveitis if the subject has not
      already had infectious types of uveitis ruled out since the time of diagnosis of uveitis.
      Urine collection for pregnancy test for females of childbearing potential will be done.
      Examination of subjects will include measurement of visual acuity, examination of the front
      and back part of the eye, measurement of the eye pressure . A scan of the retina will be
      obtained by spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). During the injection
      visit, history, examination, and pregnancy tests will be repeated in addition to receiving
      the injection. Subjects will be randomized to either injecting the study drug by intravitreal
      or subtenon routes. Examination after injection will be performed to rule out immediate
      complications. Then subjects will have 4 follow-up visits (2 weeks, 1 month, 3 months and 6
      months). During each visit, subjects will be asked about adverse events, concomitant
      medications, how their eyes feel in addition to obtaining a clinical examination and OCT.
    
  