
    
      Severe neurological injuries, such as those observed in neurologically deceased donors,
      trigger a pro-inflammatory state that activates the immune system, increases vascular
      permeability, and recruits and activates immune cells in solid organs. The rapid and intense
      increase in circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-1, IL-6, TNF-α) following
      neurological death, has been referred to as the cytokine storm, one condition that is not
      seen among living donors. Interestingly, increased expression of TNF-α in the kidney and
      liver at the time of transplantation has been associated with reduced graft survival and
      acute rejection. Moreover, numerous studies have suggested that miRNA biomarkers can be
      targeted as diagnostic or therapeutic molecules in the field of organ transplantation.
      However, current models of graft injury fail to consider the epigenetic effects of
      physiological stressors that occurred in neurologically deceased donors. Although several
      biomarkers have been associated with graft dysfunction, the changes within the donor's
      inflammatory state, the mechanism underlying these events in donors, and the impacts on
      recipients are only poorly understood.

      The investigators propose a multicenter prospective cohort study with the main objective of
      assessing the pro-inflammatory status of neurologically deceased donors by examining both
      miRNAs and circulatory cytokines and investigating its association with graft function in the
      recipient. Blood specimens will be collected at various time points in neurologically
      deceased liver and kidney donors in 5 organ recovery centres. The investigators hypothesize
      that in donors, Peak plasma concentration of pro-inflammatory cytokines and related miRNAs
      targets (between consent and recovery) are associated with an increase in kidney delayed
      graft function and liver early graft dysfunction in the recipients. Considering that there is
      a therapeutic arsenal for treating donor cytokine storms( e.g., immunosuppressants) and that
      new targets based on a highly personalized mechanism could be developed we believe that the
      knowledge acquired in this research program will make it possible to improve the rate of
      livers and kidneys recovered from potential donors as well as enhance graft function in
      recipients.
    
  