
    
      Sexual violence perpetration is robustly associated with social contexts that support high
      levels of alcohol consumption. Beginning in 2007, the Arizona Department of Health Services
      (ADHS) developed and field-tested the Safer Bars curriculum with support from the CDC Rape
      Prevention and Education (RPE) funding program. Safer Bars is a bystander prevention training
      for staff of alcohol serving establishments. This application proposes a theory-driven,
      quasi-experimental effectiveness evaluation by an independent team at The University of
      Arizona. Our approach is significant because few evaluations have measured behavioral
      outcomes as well as the mediators that explain the observed changes in bystander behavior, or
      community-level outcomes associated with such interventions. Specific Aims: the specific aims
      are to: (1) Test a hypothesized mediational model of individual-level behavioral outcomes
      based on the Theory of Planned Behavior; (2) assess the effect of the program on bar-level
      risk management safety policies; and (3) examine the community-level impact of the Safer Bars
      program on reducing the number of police dispatches in areas with high densities of
      alcohol-serving establishments. Methods: A cluster-randomized trial design with crossover to
      randomize participants at the bar level into intervention and delayed intervention arms is
      proposed. Assessments are at baseline, completion of training, and at three and six months
      post-training. The sample bars will be selected using Geographical Information System (GIS)
      mapping of "hot spots" for police dispatches within a three-mile radius of the three major
      Arizona universities, all of which have a high density of alcohol-serving establishments
      adjacent to campus. ADHS will focus their program delivery on bars within these identified
      geographic parameters. Our analytical model will assess a hypothesized moderated mediational
      model based in the Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB). Outcomes of interest include: (a) the
      extent to which Behavioral Intent, the central construct of TPB, mediates bar staff
      performance of intended bystander behaviors at three-month follow-up and the extent to which
      this relationship is moderated by personal characteristics and bar environment; (b) the
      effects of the program on bar-level risk management patron safety policies; and, (c) the
      community-level effects as demonstrated by number of police dispatches in areas with a high
      density of alcohol-serving establishments at baseline and at the end of the project using GIS
      data. With evidence of efficacy, Safer Bars is feasible for scale-up without excessive
      financial burden in other states, which all receive RPE funding.
    
  