
    
      Cryptosporidium parvum, an intracellular protozoan parasite, is a frequent cause of chronic
      diarrhea in HIV-infected patients, causing significant morbidity and mortality. Highly
      effective antiparasitic treatment for this infection is not currently available. Paromomycin
      and azithromycin have some efficacy and have been used in combination in a small number of
      patients. Immune reconstitution with highly active antiretroviral therapy appears to be the
      most effective therapy, but this is not possible for all patients. Interferon gamma
      expression is strongly associated with control of cryptosporidiosis, and IL-12 is the
      cytokine primarily responsible for stimulation of interferon gamma expression in vivo. It is
      hoped that treatment with recombinant human IL-12 can result in stimulation of an intestinal
      cytokine response in AIDS patients with cryptosporidiosis and that response combined with
      chemotherapy can lead to the elimination of detectable numbers of Cryptosporidium oocysts
      from the stools.

      All patients receive azithromycin and paromomycin, and patients are randomized to add either
      IL-12 or placebo. IL-12 (or placebo) injections are given twice a week. Patients take their
      study medications for 4 weeks. During this time, they will be asked to record bowel movements
      and any symptoms they experience. Patients return to the clinic at least twice a week to
      receive IL-12 (or placebo) injections. At Weeks 2 and 4, patients are seen by one of the
      principal investigators. Blood samples are obtained for viral load measurements and CD4
      count, as well as routine urinalysis. Patients undergo upper endoscopy with jejunal biopsy
      and colonoscopy with ileal biopsy between Weeks 2 and 4 of therapy for assays of intestinal
      cytokine expression. A final clinic visit occurs 12 weeks post-therapy for a physical exam
      and blood tests.
    
  