
    
      Large, sessile, colonic polyps of ≥ 20 mm are at increased risk of progressing to colorectal
      cancer (CRC). Most colonic polyps are small and pedunculated and can be safely removed by
      conventional polypectomy. Treatment of large polyps however, is challenging but very
      important in preventing development of CRC, the second leading cause of cancer deaths
      worldwide. Early detection and treatment of these polyps, possible through vigilant CRC
      screening via colonoscopy, shows significant reduction in incidence of CRC.

      Over the last decade, endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) has been recognised as a safe and
      reliable alternative to surgery to remove large, sessile colonic polyps of ≥ 20mm. The
      benefits of EMR over traditional surgery include reduced risk of peri- and post-operative
      complications from surgery (particularly in elderly patients with multiple co-morbidities),
      less health expenditure and reduced length of hospital admission. The majority of patients
      can be managed safely as outpatients post EMR.

      EMR has been proven to be a safer alternative to traditional surgery, but is a technically
      challenging procedure. The most common complication post procedure is non-specific abdominal
      pain, which occurs in 10-20% of cases. The cause is often innocent such as simple luminal
      distension during the procedure. The advent of improved EMR techniques, for example using
      carbon dioxide instead of air insufflation, significantly reduces incidence of abdominal pain
      and subsequently need for admission.

      Colonic perforation during colonoscopy rates range from 0.06 to 0.1%. Advanced age, female
      gender, having a colonoscopy indication of abdominal pain or Crohn's disease, result in a
      statistically higher risk of colonic perforation. In addition, ICU inpatients have
      substantially greater odds of perforation. A recent study, conducted over twelve years in a
      total of 110,785 patients undergoing diagnostic and therapeutic colonoscopies, showed one
      case of colonic perforation associated with EMR.

      Currently, it remains difficult to delineate innocent abdominal pain from more serious
      complications. There are no standard algorithms used in clinical practice to stratify risk
      post EMR according to patient's symptoms and there are no data supporting previously proposed
      pain algorithms. There is also a paucity of data regarding pain scales employed in the past
      to show significant correlation between pain level and risk of perforation or bleeding. The
      100mm Visual Analog Scale (VAS) has been documented to have sound correlation in patients
      presenting to the emergency department with an acute abdomen and could be a useful aid in a
      formal assessment based on pain post EMR.

      With the prospectively recorded data in this study, we aim to validate an algorithm to
      provide decision support in first stage recovery of Endoscopy Departments. This algorithm on
      assessment and management of post EMR pain, will identify patients at risk for more serious
      complications, and will allow health carers to recognize these complications and act more
      accurately. Ultimately, this will improve patient's outcomes.
    
  