
    
      In December 2019, the Wuhan Municipal Health Committee in China identified an outbreak with
      viral pneumonia cases of unknown cause. Coronavirus RNA was identified as the causal agent.
      The disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 has been named COVID-19. While most people with COVID-19
      develop uncomplicated illness, approximately 14% develop severe forms of the disease and 5%
      are critically ill, potentially leaving survivors with non-fatal sequelae. To date, the
      long-term burden of COVID-19 and patients' perspectives and needs have been left unaddressed.
      As compared to 2003 SARS outbreak, one can anticipate persisting disability in COVID-19
      survivors, including specific post-COVID and non-specific post-intensive care syndromes. The
      investigators hypothesize that dramatic COVID-19-specific and non-specific mid- and long-term
      disabilities would persist in people surviving COVID-19.

      The main objective will be to provide a deep understanding of non-fatal health outcomes in
      people surviving COVID-19, by comprehensively and systematically mapping and monitoring,
      within the WHO ICF framework, disability levels and profiles, in the mid and long terms in
      people surviving COVID-19.

      Disability levels will be assessed at 9 (±3), 18 (±3) and 24 (±3) months using:

        -  Parts 1a (impairments of body functions) and 2 (activity limitation and participation
           restriction) of the WHO ICF checklist v2.1, administered by a health care provider, and

        -  Self-administered 36-item WHO Disability Assessment Schedule 2.0 (WHODAS 2.0)

      A. The secondary objectives will be to describe COVID-19 specific and non-specific
      impairments, activity limitations and participation restriction at 9 (±3), 18 (±3) and 24
      (±3) months in people surviving COVID-19:

        -  Impairments, participation restrictions and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) at 9
           (±3) , 18 (±3) and 24 (±3) months will be assessed using online specific
           self-administered questionnaires and face-to-face specific tests

        -  Non-pharmacological / pharmacological treatments at baseline, 9 (±3), 18 (±3) and 24
           (±3) months will be self-reported

        -  Total costs, cost drivers and estimated Years-Lived with Disability (YLDs) at 24 (±3)
           months will be calculated B. Another secondary objective will be to assess the burden of
           the patient's SARS-CoV-2 infection on the patient's close relative, between M9-inclusion
           and M24 patient visits

        -  The burden on patient's close relative will be assessed using specific printed
           self-administered questionnaires
    
  