
    
      This is a prospective, placebo-controlled, double-blinded randomized two-way cross-over
      single site study in adult subjects (18 to 65 years) who demonstrate a grass pollen specific
      Immunoglobulin E (IgE) reactivity and have a history of grass pollen induced allergic
      rhinitis/rhinoconjunctivitis with or without controlled asthma. In the cross-over setting
      Coldamaris akut nasal spray will be evaluated compared to Coldamaris sine nasal spray.

      Visit 1 - Screening:

      At least one week prior to first treatment block, subjects will be screened for appropriate
      allergic response. A total nasal symptom score (TNSS) of at least 6 points out of 12 with a
      single symptom score for "nasal congestion" ≥ 2 within the first two hours in the grass
      pollen challenge chamber is required to be included into the study. If a screening for
      appropriate allergic response was done during the last 6 months, results from this allergy
      challenge can be used to fulfil the respective inclusion criteria.

      Visit 2 - Inclusion:

      In addition to the screening provocation the medical and allergic history, safety lab as well
      as retrieving inclusion and exclusion criteria will be assessed via anamnesis. Furthermore,
      all safety assessments will be conducted.

      Note: Visit 1 and visit 2 could be done on the same day!

      Visit 3: Day1 of first treatment period Eligible subjects will be randomly assigned to one of
      the two treatment arms (fully blinded) in the order of appearance and their screening numbers
      assigned at visit 1. Subjects will enter the study site about one hour ahead of the start of
      allergen provocation. After positive completion of all study relevant assessments, subjects
      will be randomized and enter the allergy challenge chamber for 6 hours. About one hour
      forty-five minutes after entry (after the eighth subjective score), the first treatment with
      the respective nasal spray will take place under staff supervision.

      The subjective nasal symptom score will be recorded every fifteen minutes during a 6-hour
      allergen exposure challenge. Anterior rhinomanometry will be performed regularily.

      Visit 4: Day1 of second treatment period Subjects will enter the study site about one hour
      ahead of the start of allergen provocation. In the following Visit 4 will be done in the same
      way as Visit 3.

      Between the respective study treatments, a wash-out period of at least 7 days must be adhered
      to allowing complete symptom relief from previous challenge. After the wash-out period,
      subjects change to the second treatment block.

      During the entire trial, subjects will be asked to monitor for adverse events (AEs), and they
      will record the use of concomitant medications on the provided form.

      One week after the final provocation session, subjects will complete the trial after their
      follow up visit.

      The trial design is appropriate for the indication studied. Validated methods of data
      collection, analysis, and evaluation will be used for the trial.
    
  