
    
      Congestive heart failure (CHF) affects nearly 5 million people in the United States and is
      steadily increasing in prevalence. It is the single most expensive diagnosis for CMS in the
      United States, responsible for one million hospitalizations per year. There is a wealth of
      evidence based management strategies for the long term care of the patient with chronic,
      stable heart failure. Unfortunately, there is a dearth of evidence for the management of the
      patient with acutely decompensated heart failure. By way of illustration, the American
      College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) issued a voluminous
      guideline for the management of chronic CHF; to date no recommendations for the management of
      ADHF have been issued by the ACC/AHA.

      As this is an observational study, the experimental portion is solely data collection. The
      research team will not attempt to guide clinical care. Demographic data, vital signs at
      presentation, medical history, advance directive status, laboratory values on admission (BNP,
      BUN, Cr, troponin), use of intravenous vasoactive medications, laboratory values if
      discharged alive (discharge BNP, BUN, Cr), critical care utilization, final discharge
      diagnosis, and hospital length of stay will be collected. Patients will be contacted by phone
      at 30 days from initial presentation to assess survival, ED usage, and rehospitalization.

      Specific Aim #1: We will evaluate the performance of the three factor model (BUN > 43 mg/dL,
      systolic blood pressure < 115 mmHg, Cr < 2.75 mg/dL) using a prospective cohort of all
      patients admitted with a primary diagnosis of ADHF to predict ICU utilization and hospital
      length of stay.

      Specific Aim #2: We will test the ability of the model to predict an expanded combined
      endpoint of mortality, readmission to an Emergency Department, and readmission to an
      inpatient or observation setting within 30 days of presentation with ADHF.

      Specific Aim #3: We will incorporate and test additional variables into the Fonarow model to
      derive a rule to predict the 30 day combined endpoint of death, readmission to an Emergency
      Department, and readmission to an inpatient or observation setting within 30 days of
      presentation with ADHF.
    
  