
    
      Goals-

        1. Increasing step count as measured by a pedometer in hospital employees. The overall goal
           is for each participant to reach 10,000 steps a day at the end of the 12 weeks of
           intervention.

        2. Comparison of increase in steps in participants who undergo an implementation intentions
           intervention in addition to a goal setting intervention to those who receive the goal
           setting intervention alone, to those assigned to pedometer without goal setting
           intervention. The goal setting intevention includes setting weekly goals with the
           investigator, and receiving weekly tips.

           The implementation intention group will fill out an action planning form 3 times during
           the course of the intervention.

           The pedometer only group will receive a pedometer and instructions as to it's use.

        3. Examining the effect of self-efficacy on increasing the amount of steps among program
           participants.

        4. Examining the effect of the program on a measure of burnout in the workplace among
           program participants.

        5. Examining the impact of a program designed to increase physical activity (through
           walking) on self-report of nutrition behavior.

        6. Examining the correlation between emotional self-regulation as measured on a self-report
           measure and success in increasing steps.

        7. Examining the effect of the program on physiological measures: BMI, blood pressure,
           pulse, and waist circumference.

      Target population- Hadassah Medical Center employee and volunteers

      sample size- 180 Hadassah employee and volunteers to be enrolled in the program, using the
      first to enroll method. The sample size was calculated based on an expected 1000 step
      difference between the intervention groups with implementation intentions vs the group
      without implementation intentions. change in the number of steps per day between the control
      group and the intervention groups, as shown in previous studies. Under a 2350 Sd assumption,
      a sample size of 87 participants in each group would provide a power of 80% to detect a 5%
      significance level change.
    
  