
    
      INTRODUCTION: Type 2 diabetes is a metabolic disease characterized by partial insulin
      deficiency or insulin resistance in peripheral tissue. Type 2 diabetes, which has a very high
      prevalence worldwide, is a socially serious health problem. Complications seen with the
      disease negatively affect human health. Physical activity and regular exercise are shown in
      the first place with pharmacological treatment and diet approaches in the treatment of Type 2
      diabetes. Exercise has beneficial effects on the glycemic profile, such as decreased glycemic
      hemoglobin (HbA1c) level, increased maximum oxygen consumption (VO2max) and improved insulin
      sensitivity in diabetes patients. When the literature is examined, it is seen that exercise
      is also effective in improving metabolic health. Although the metabolic benefits of exercise
      have been shown, there is no study of which type of exercise is more beneficial in what time
      of day in individuals with Type 2 diabetes. Circadian rhythm plays an important role in
      clarifying this issue because the circadian rhythm is impaired in the glucose metabolism of
      individuals with type 2 diabetes.

      AIM: The aim of this study is to investigate which exercise is more effective in which time
      period for individuals with Type 2 diabetes.

      METHOD: 30 people with Type 2 diabetes in accordance with the criteria for inclusion in
      Koşuyolu Medipol University Hospital Internal Medicine Policlinic will be included in our
      project. Individuals who have been diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes between the ages of 35-65,
      who are between the ages of 35-65, who have body mass index between 25 and 30, who have HbA1c
      value> 6.5%, who have fasting blood glucose>126 mg/dl, who have Type 2 diabetes between 5-10
      years, who have inactive physical activity, who independently can walk and volunteer to
      exercise for at least 3 days a week will be included in our project. Type 1 diabetes
      individuals, diagnosed with Latent Autoimmune Diabetes in Adults (LADA), having diabetic
      Ketoacidosis coma, orthopedic or surgical problems to prevent walking and exercising, foot
      ulcers, individuals have any neurologıcal problem and individuals with cardiac, pulmonary or
      systematic diseases that will cause contraindications will not be included in the study.
      Blood sample evaluations, circadian t rhythm evaluation, anthropometric measurements, muscle
      strength assessments, 6-minute walking test, 30-second sit to stand test, balance assessments
      with the Berg Balance Scale, quality of life assessment with Ferrans&Powers Quality of Life
      Index, sleep quality assessment with Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index of the individuals
      included will be carried out 6 weeks before starting the exercises, starting the exercises
      and 6th and 12th weeks after the exercise. Participants will be divided into two groups,
      morning and evening chronotypes, according to their circadian rhythms. The first group will
      have a total of 12 weeks of aerobic exercise for the first 6 weeks in the morning and the
      next 6 weeks in the evening. In the second group, 12 weeks strengthening exercises will be
      done in the first 6 weeks in the morning and 6 weeks in the evening. Evaluation measures of
      both groups will be compared in the middle and after the treatment. Based on the results to
      be obtained, what is the most suitable exercise type for individuals with Type 2 diabetes and
      the effectiveness of the exercises given in accordance with the circadian rhythm will be
      proved.
    
  