
    
      As the 9th leading cause of death worldwide, suicide is a major public health concern. One of
      the groups as highest risk of death are those that have previously made a suicide attempt.
      Effective treatment following a suicide attempt is imperative for reducing the risk of
      suicide, with increasing evidence showing treatments that target suicide behavior are more
      effective at reducing risk over treatments that target related mental health difficulties
      (e.g., depression). However, these treatments are resource intensive and are difficult to
      access in Manitoba, and many individuals who have made a suicide attempt do not receive any
      mental health treatment. In order to ensure timely access to treatment following a suicide
      attempt, we have created a non-resource intensive psychoeducational skills class grounded in
      evidence-based suicide-specific treatment. The primary aim of this study is to examine the
      safety and effectiveness of a novel, 12-week cognitive behavior therapy-based, virtual
      psychoeducational skills class (Living with Hope) in reducing suicidal thoughts and behaviors
      among adults who have made a recent suicide attempt, and determine whether changes
      post-treatment are maintained at over time. The secondary aim is to determine whether this
      intervention also results in improvements on related mental health outcomes, and whether
      changes on these constructs mediate improvements on suicidal thoughts and behaviors.

      Adults ages 18 years and older who have been referred to the Living with Hope class over the
      2 year study period will be invited to participate in the proposed study (anticipated n=60).
      Individuals are eligible for referral if they have made a suicide attempt in the past 3
      months and are either seeking mental health crisis services. Participants will complete
      standardized measures of primary (suicidal thoughts and behaviors) and secondary outcomes
      (hopelessness, depressive symptoms, emotion regulation difficulties, and quality of life) at
      pre-treatment, mid-way through the 12-week class, post-treatment, 1-month follow-up, and
      3-months follow-up. Mixed-effects linear regression will determine whether there are
      significant differences on outcome measures at any of these five time-points, as well as
      whether secondary outcomes mediate improvements on primary outcomes. All research
      participation will be conducted through virtual means.

      The proposed study would be the first in Canada to examine the effectiveness of a low-cost,
      targeted psychoeducational skills class in reducing suicidal thoughts and behaviors among
      individuals who have made a recent suicide attempt. This will set the stage for future
      linkage with administrative data and randomized controlled trials aimed at determining
      whether the Living with Hope class results in reduced suicide attempts and deaths compared to
      treatment as usual. If proven safe and effective through these rigorous evaluations, the
      Living with Hope class could be widely disseminated in the public health system to provide
      care to a large number of Manitobans, with the long-term goal of increasing access to timely,
      targeted treatment, and in turn, reducing suicides in Manitoba.
    
  