
    
      Recently, oximeter, detecting the spectral response at wavelengths of 660nm and 940nm, is
      widely used to measured oxygenation status. Its low spatial resolution and limited
      penetration depth in human skin, however, restrict the oximeter in clinical application
      especially for early detection of cancer. In early-stage cancer development, angiogenesis and
      oxygen depletion around tumor are two important indicators of tumor growth. If an
      angiogenesis and low oxygenation status can be identified simultaneously, the investigators
      can point out the early-stage tumor from normal tissue easily.

      The investigators has been working towards the development of third harmonic generation
      microscopy systems and reported the success of revealing morphology in human skin specimen.
      Since THG process is based on virtual transition without energy deposition, THG microscopy
      enables imaging ex vivo specimens without extra label and invasive procedure. To further
      investigate biological process of biomaterials, the investigators develop a sTHGM where THG
      spectrum is partitioned to analyze during imaging process. In this project, the investigators
      aim to elucidate oxygenation concentration of red blood cells through the srTHG microscopy
      system.

      The srTHG is using a Cr:forsterite excitation with a central wavelength and bandwidth of
      1266nm and 92nm. A broadband excitation cover a wide range of THG signals so that the
      spectral response from oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin can be retrieved and analyzed.
      Three long-pass filters and three band-pass filters are used to partition the THG signals
      into three channels to analyze spectral responses of the specimen. The signals are amplified
      by photomultiplier tube (PMT) and pseudo-coloured blue, green, and red for channels A, B and
      C respectively. The abilities to reveal structure morphology and its corresponding biological
      information in situ would provide a assistant to diagnose early-stage of tumor as well as a
      potential support in clinical treatment.
    
  