
    
      Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the airways. Chronically inflamed airways are
      hyperresponsive; they become obstructed and airflow is limited (by bronchoconstriction, mucus
      plugs, and increased inflammation) when airways are exposed to various risk factors. Asthma
      causes recurring episodes of wheezing, breathlessness, chest tightness, and coughing
      particularly at night or in the early morning.

      NO is an important endogenous regulatory molecule that is widely distributed throughout the
      body. The detection of NO in exhaled air was first reported in 1991, and, soon after it was
      shown that the levels NO in exhaled air are elevated in patients with asthma. There is now
      much evidence showing that measurement of the concentration of NO in exhaled air offers a
      useful non-invasive method of assessing inflammatory airway disease.

      Exhaled NO is not increased during bronchospasm unless there is coexisting inflammation.
      Exhaled NO may have a valuable role in differentiating between the inflammatory and
      bronchospastic components of clinical asthma, and is also useful for guiding the therapeutic
      use of steroids and other anti-inflammatory agents.

      A study on asthmatics and non-asthmatics subjects has shown that substantial equivalence
      exists between the stationary device NIOX速 and the hand held device NIOX MINO速 when comparing
      NO measurements, when similar conditions are considered and examinations are made as
      consistently as possible.

      In a study with the stationary device NIOX速, exhaled NO was measured before and after two
      weeks of inhaled corticosteroid treatment in unstable steroid-na誰ve adult and paediatric
      asthmatic subjects. The result was a 50.5% mean reduction of exhaled NO. The change in
      exhaled NO was also compared to change in standard asthma outcome measures, asthma symptoms
      and spirometry.
    
  