
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the optimal dose schedule, safety and tolerability as measured by the
      incidence of significant toxicity of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS in immunocompetent patients with
      metastatic and/or recurrent endometrial cancer (EC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the toxicity profile of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS (alone and in combination with
      ruxolitinib phosphate [ruxolitinib]).

      II. To determine the time course of viral gene expression and virus elimination, and the
      biodistribution of virally infected cells at various times points after infection with
      VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS (alone and in combination with ruxolitinib) using Tc-99m pertechnetate
      planar and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)/computed tomography (CT) or
      fluorine F18 tetrafluoroborate (TFB)-positron emission tomography (PET) imaging.

      III. To assess virus replication, viremia; viral shedding in urine and respiratory
      secretions; and virus persistence after intravenous (IV) administration of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS
      (alone and in combination with ruxolitinib).

      IV. To monitor humoral responses to the injected virus. V. To estimate the tumor response
      rate and overall survival.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of VSV-IFNbeta-NIS in patients with EC by
      measurement of VSV-IFNbeta-NIS in blood by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction
      (RT-PCR).

      II. To characterize the pharmacodynamics (PD) of VSV-IFNbeta-NIS by way of measuring serum
      interferon-beta and also VSV-RT-PCR of VSV-IFNbeta-NIS listed above.

      III. Assess CD8+ T cell (both general and VSV-IFNbeta-NIS specific) and natural killer (NK)
      cell responses.

      IV. Gene expression analysis pre- and post-virotherapy. V. Evaluate transcription of
      interferon mediated genes (protein kinase R, the death receptor-TRAIL, 2'-5'
      oligoadenylate/RNAse L proteins, heat shock proteins [Hsp 60/70/90], major histocompatibility
      class antigens and IRF-7).

      VI. Assess presence of VSV in tumor and normal tissues subsequent to administration of IV
      VSV-IFNbeta-NIS.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS. Patients are randomized to 1 of
      2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS IV over 60-90 minutes on day 1. After 2 days,
      patients receive technetium Tc-99m sodium pertechnetate IV, and about 30 minutes later,
      undergo whole body planar imaging and SPECT/CT imaging or receive fluorine F18
      tetrafluoroborate IV and undergo TFB-PET imaging. If previous imaging data are positive,
      patients receive technetium Tc-99m sodium pertechnetate IV and undergo another planar and
      SPECT/CT imaging or fluorine F18 tetrafluoroborate IV and undergo another TFB-PET imaging
      between 7-10 days and on 15 days if needed after VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS infusion. Biopsy of
      accessible NIS image-positive tumors may occur after any imaging. Patients also undergo
      image-guided biopsy of accessible tumor on day 29.

      ARM B: Patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days -3 to 9.
      Patients also receive VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS IV over 60-90 minutes on day 1. After 2 days, patients
      receive technetium Tc-99m sodium pertechnetate IV, and about 30 minutes later, undergo whole
      body planar imaging and SPECT/CT imaging or receive fluorine F18 tetrafluoroborate IV and
      undergo TFB-PET imaging. If previous imaging data are positive, patients receive technetium
      Tc-99m sodium pertechnetate IV and undergo another planar and SPECT/CT imaging or fluorine
      F18 tetrafluoroborate IV and undergo another TFB-PET imaging between 7-10 days and on 15 days
      if needed after VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS infusion. Biopsy of accessible NIS image-positive tumors may
      occur after any imaging. Patients also undergo image-guided biopsy of accessible tumor on day
      29.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at day 29, every 3 months until
      disease progression and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.
    
  