
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with advanced pheochromocytoma
      and paraganglioma (APP) receiving temozolomide (dose dense) and olaparib to that of patients
      receiving temozolomide (pulse dose) alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the overall survival (OS) of patients with APP receiving temozolomide (dose
      dense) and olaparib versus (vs.) temozolomide (pulse dose) alone.

      II. To compare the objective response rate (ORR) associated with temozolomide (dose dense)
      and olaparib vs. temozolomide (pulse dose) alone in patients with APP.

      III. To evaluate and compare the toxicity profile of temozolomide-based combinations
      (temozolomide [dose dense] and olaparib vs. temozolomide [pulse dose]) in patients with APP
      using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and Patient-Reported Outcomes
      (PRO)-CTCAE.

      OTHER OBJECTIVE:

      I. Results of the primary analysis will be examined for consistency, while taking into
      account the stratification factors and/or covariates of baseline quality of life (QOL) and
      fatigue.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess biochemical response: serum catecholamines and metanephrines; urine
      catecholamines and metanephrines.

      II. To assess biomolecular markers associated with clinical outcome: germline succinyl
      dehydrogenase (SDH) mutations and tumor status of the repair enzyme
      methylguanine-deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methyltransferase (MGMT).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) and olaparib PO twice daily
      (BID) on days 1-7. Treatment with temozolomide repeats every 21 days for up to 13 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cycles of olaparib repeat every
      21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive temozolomide PO QD on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for
      up to 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients discontinuing treatment due to reasons other than disease progression are followed
      every 8 weeks until disease progression, then every 6 months until 5 years after start of
      treatment. Patients discontinuing treatment due to disease progression are followed every 6
      months for 5 years after start of treatment.
    
  