
    
      After the initial physician consultation and investigations have been completed, the
      treatment options will be reviewed with the patient. If the patient chooses to proceed with
      an abdominal myomectomy, then she will be offered participation in the study.

      If she chooses to participate, the patient will undergo routine pre-operative assessments
      including either transvaginal ultrasound or pelvic MRI. The pre-operative hemoglobin level
      will be measured within at least 2 weeks of the operative procedure.

      Randomization to either the vasopressin group or the placebo group will be carried out in the
      operating room by assigning each recruited patient a consecutively numbered, sealed opaque
      envelope, which will contain the designated treatment as determined by a computer-generated
      series of random numbers. The randomization will be performed by an independent member of the
      division that is not involved in the study.

      At the time of induction of anesthesia, a sealed envelope will be opened by the research
      fellow. At the time of induction of anesthesia, the sealed envelope will be opened to reveal
      the randomization to only the research fellow. The attending physician will remain blinded.
      The research fellow will prepare either the placebo solution or the vasopressin and will be
      responsible for performing the paracervical injection. The attending physician will be
      responsible for recording the surgeon rate of bleeding, the total ebl, and the total
      operating time.

      In the both groups, one vial (20 units) of vasopressin will be diluted to 40mL with normal
      saline solution. Not more than 16mL (8units) of vasopressin will be used. This dose was
      chosen as there is no standard vasopressin dose routinely used. The dose is well below the
      maximum amount of vasopressin used, and at a level that few complications have been seen in
      the past.

      Given it is standard practice for all patients to receive intramyometrial vasopressin
      injections, both groups will have the medication ordered and prepared. In the patients
      randomized to paracervical vasopressin, 8mL (4mL per side of the cervix) will be injected
      using a 22F spinal needle. An additional 8mL (4 units) will be injected in intramyometrial as
      this is standard of care in our practice. In the patients randomized to no paracervical
      vasopressin, 16mL (8 units) will then be used to inject vasopressin intramyometrial prior to
      the myomectomy. This will help determine if the routine of delivery of vasopressin will aid
      in decreased blood loss.

      The operative case will otherwise proceed in the standard fashion. The total ebl, total
      operative time, and myomectomy operative time will all be recorded. The myomectomy operative
      time will be recorded from the time of the first incision on the uterus, to complete closure
      of any uterine defects.
    
  