
    
      Background

      1. Background Acute urinary retention is one of the most common complications after surgery
      and anesthesia. It can occur in patients of both sexes and all age groups and after all types
      of surgical procedures. It is linked to several factors including increased intravenous
      fluids, postoperative pain and type of anaesthesia 1.

      Micturition depends on coordinated actions between the detrusor muscle and the external
      urethral sphincter. Motorneurons of both muscles are located in the sacral spinal cord and
      coordination between them occurs in the pontine tegmentum of the caudal brain stem.
      Motorneurons innervating the external urethral sphincter are located in the nucleus of Onuf,
      extending from the S1 to the S3 segment. The detrusor smooth muscle is innervated by
      parasympathetic fibers, which reside in the sacral intermediolateral cell group and are
      located in S2-4. Sympathetic fibers innervating the bladder and urethra play an important
      role in promoting continence and are located in the intermediolateral cell group of the
      lumbar cord (L1-L4). Most afferent fibers from the bladder enter the sacral cord through the
      pelvic nerve at segments L4-S2 and the majority are thin myelinated or unmyelinated.

      Unlike spinal anesthesia, which is an all or none block, epidural anesthesia has applications
      ranging from analgesia with minimal motor block to dense anesthesia (differential blockade).
      Because epidural anesthesia can be performed at various levels of the spinal cord, it is
      possible to block only a portion of the spinal cord (segmental blockade). Therefore it can be
      assumed that epidural analgesia within segments Th 4-6 to Th 10-12 has no or minimal
      influence on the micturition reflex.

      There are few studies on the urodynamic effects of various anaesthetic agents 2-8, focused on
      lumbar epidural anaesthesia. Under the influence of epidural analgesia, patients may not feel
      the urge to urinate, which can result in urinary retention and bladder overdistension.
      Overfilling of the bladder can stretch and damage the detrusor muscle.

      For example, the use of lumbar epidural analgesia for labor and delivery has frequently been
      implicated as a causative factor for postpartum urinary retention. This is supported by the
      fact that these patients demonstrate a difficulty voiding 7. Spinal and epidural opioid
      administration influence the function of the lower urinary tract by direct spinal action on
      the sacral nociceptive neurons and autonomic fibres 9.

      Long acting local anesthetics administrated intrathecally rapidly block the micturition
      reflex. Detrusor contraction is restored approximately 7-8 hours after spinal injection of
      bupivacaine 10. For this reason, bladder catheterisation is a common practice in patients
      with spinal or epidural anesthesia.

      The use of a transurethral catheter is associated with significant morbidity such as patient
      discomfort, urinary tract infections, urethral trauma and stricture. The risk of infection
      with a single catheterization is 1-2% and can rise by 3 to 7 % for every additional day with
      a indwelling catheter 11. Traumatic or prolonged catheterization may lead to urethritis and
      to urethral strictures 12. There has yet been no consensus for appropriate catheterisation
      strategy 13-15 during regional anesthesia.

      Urodynamic changes under thoracic epidural anaesthesia are still unknown. The aim of this
      study is to compare lower urinary tract function before and during thoracic epidural
      analgesia within segments T2 to T10 for postoperative pain treatment in patients undergoing
      thoracotomy or sternotomy. We expect that a better knowledge on the bladder function under
      epidural analgesia could lead to a more restrictive use of perioperative transurethral
      catheters.

      Objective

      The aim of this study is to compare lower urinary tract function before and during thoracic
      epidural analgesia within segments T2 to T10 for postoperative pain treatment in patients
      undergoing thoracotomy or sternotomy. We expect that a better knowledge on the bladder
      function under epidural analgesia could lead to a more restrictive use of perioperative
      transurethral catheters.

      Hypothesis Thoracic epidural analgesia does not influence urinary micturition in the male and
      female. Therefore transurethral catheterisation is not mandatory for all patients with
      thoracic epidural analgesia undergoing thoracic surgery.

      Methods

      Prospective, open, observational, follow up study. Setting: Department of thoracic surgery,
      University Hospital Bern

      Study population A total of 26 patients (13 men and 13 women per group) undergoing thoracic
      surgery who receive thoracic epidural anesthesia perioperatively will be needed.
    
  