
    
      Objectives

      Primary objective

      The primary objective is to determine the diagnostic performance and the clinical impact of a
      variety of tests, including conventional radiographs, computer tomographies (CT), abdominal
      ultrasound, serum tumour markers (AFP, beta-HCG and LDH) and clinical signs and symptoms
      aimed at early detection of relapse after curative therapy with documented complete
      remission.

      Secondary objectives

      Diagnostic performance:

        1. To determine the rate of relapses detected on chest x-ray in seminoma patients.

        2. To determine the rate of false positive abnormalities on CT scan and of false positive
           tumour marker elevations not due to seminomatous or non-seminomatous germ cell tumour
           relapses but due to other processes.

        3. To determine the modality to rule out testicular cancer relapse in patients with false
           positive index tests.

           Pattern of care:

        4. To assess patient characteristics at baseline and at the time-point of relapse
           detection.

        5. To determine the rate of stage I seminoma and non-seminoma patients undergoing active
           surveillance.

        6. To obtain an overview of treatment and follow-up strategies in germ cell cancer patients
           in Switzerland.

           Outcome:

        7. To collect data on treatment sequelae following testicular cancer treatment in terms of
           organ function, cardiovascular risk factors, sexual health and socioeconomic aspects.

        8. To determine the rate of intermediate and poor-prognosis disease at relapse.

        9. To determine the rate of offspring spontaneously conceived after testicular cancer
           treatment.

      Design

      Prospective cohort study

      Centres All urologists, radiooncologists and oncologists are motivated to enrol their
      patients. We will aim at enrolling the majority of patients treated and followed in private
      practice.

      Patients Consecutive patients with testicular cancer of any type and any stage (incident
      cases). Testicular cancers are generally classified as seminomatous (seminoma) and
      nonseminomatous germ cell tumours (non-seminoma) of the testis. Mixed germ cell tumours
      belong to the group of non-seminomas. The stage of disease and the choice of treatment
      (active surveillance vs. chemotherapy vs. radiotherapy) define the risk of relapse, the
      pattern of relapse and the long-term toxicities. Staging in testicular cancer is performed
      according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) primary tumor, regional nodes,
      metastasis (TNM) staging system for testis cancer. Metastatic testicular cancers are
      classified according to the International Germ Cell Cancer Collaborative Group (IGCCCG) risk
      groups.

      Clinical outcome

      Relapse of testicular cancer will be defined as rising concentrations of serum
      alphafetoprotein (AFP) above the upper limit of normal (typically > 13 μg/l) and/or human
      chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) above the upper limit of normal (typically > 5 U/l) and/or
      lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) above the upper limit of normal and confirmation of this rise in
      a second test four weeks later and/or radiographic evidence of metastatic disease in typical
      locations, and/or the presence of active germ cell tumour established by biopsy, whatever
      comes first.

      Index tests

      The following tests will be performed (ordered according to their burden for patients and
      cost): symptom assessment, physical examination, tumour marker measurement, chest x-ray,
      abdominal ultrasound and CT scan of abdomen and pelvis.

      Procedures

      Follow-up will be performed according to the mandatory follow-up schedule by a physician who
      has substantial experience in the treatment and surveillance of patients with germ cell
      tumours. Follow-up comprises thorough assessment of medical history and patients' symptoms
      with a focus on pain, appetite, fatigue, sexual function and activities of daily living;
      physical examination includes lung auscultation, abdominal, axillary, supra- and
      infradiaphragmatic regional lymph nodes and testicular palpation; serum tumour marker
      measurement: AFP, HCG and LDH; chest x-ray and abdominal ultrasound or CT scan. Even though
      the role of LDH in the follow-up is debatable, due to limited sensitivity and specificity and
      a high rate of false-positive tests, it can contribute to identify relapse in a significant
      number of cases, as shown in a recent publication. All the laboratory and radiological tests
      are performed independently and results are not made available to the investigator prior to
      symptom assessment and physical examination. In addition we will ascertain cardiovascular
      risk factors (smoking status, lipid profile, bodymass index, fasting glucose etc.), renal
      function, testosterone level, follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) level, lutenizing hormone
      (LH) level, and socioeconomic characteristics (education, employment, partnership) in annual
      intervals.

      Statistics

      Sample size considerations

      There are approximately 400 newly diagnosed testicular cancer patients in Switzerland per
      year. In Germany the annual testicular cancer incidence is about 4000. We aim at including
      approximately 300 patients per year in Switzerland over a duration of 3 years, with a total
      number of 900 patients. We are also aiming at registration of 2000 patients per year in
      Germany. Looking at the Swiss cohort, with an estimated 15% rate of relapses over a follow-up
      duration of two years, this will yield approximately 135 cases with relapse. This number will
      yield satisfactory statistical precision. An assumed sensitivity of 50% and a specificity of
      95% for Beta-HCG, for example, to detect a relapse will yield a positive likelihood ratio
      (LR) of 10 and a negative likelihood ratio of 0.53. Corresponding 95% confidence intervals
      will be 42 to 58% for sensitivity, 93 to 97% for specificity, 7.0 to 14.2 for the positive
      likelihood ratio and 0.44 to 0.62 for the negative likelihood ratio. An assumed sensitivity
      of 37% and a specificity of 99% for CT scans, for example, to detect a relapse will yield a
      positive likelihood ratio of 37 and a negative likelihood ratio of 0.64. Corresponding 95%
      confidence intervals will be 29 to 45% for sensitivity, 98 to 100% for specificity, 17.7 to
      77.4 for the positive likelihood ratio and 0.56 to 0.72 for the negative likelihood ratio.

      Measures of diagnostic accuracy will be determined in relation to the occurrence and
      timepoint of diagnosis of a relapse as specified above. Tests that were positive within the
      previous 8 weeks of established diagnosis of relapse will be considered as true positives,
      tests that remained negative during this time period as false negatives. Conversely, tests
      that were positive before this time period will be considered as false positives, and tests
      that were negative before this period as true negatives. We will use a multi-level model with
      random effects at the level of patients and time-points to estimate sensitivities and
      specificities and likelihood ratios, with the data organised in long format, with each test
      outcome (positive or negative) at each time-point represented by one line in the dataset,
      determining for each time-point whether it is within the 8-week time-period previous to the
      time-point of established diagnosis of relapse. The model takes into account the correlation
      of multiple time-points and tests within patients. The positive LR indicates how much more
      likely it is to find a positive test in patients with a relapse (sensitivity) as compared
      with those without relapse (1-specificity). Conversely, the negative LR specifies how much
      less likely it is to find a negative test in patients with relapse (1-sensitivity) as
      compared to patients without (specificity). A test will be considered to provide clinically
      relevant power to rule in or out a relapse if the positive and negative LRs are above 5 or
      below 0.2, respectively. The test will be considered to have a strong power to rule in or out
      a relapse if LRs are above 10 or below 0.1, respectively.

      As measures of the clinical impact of the addition of more extensive tests, we will examine
      the net re-classification improvement and the integrated discrimination improvement. The net
      re-classification improvement through the addition of a more extensive test is defined as the
      improvement of the probability of the appropriate classification of patients according to
      relapse status (presence or absence of a relapse), which is afforded by the addition of the
      more extensive test. This corresponds to the sum of differences in proportions of individuals
      classified positive minus the proportion classified negative for individuals who develop
      events, and the proportion of individuals classified negative minus the proportion classified
      positive for individuals who do not develop events. The integrated discrimination improvement
      is defined as the improvement in average sensitivity afforded by the addition of the more
      extensive test minus the potential loss in specificity afforded by the addition of the more
      extensive test. All analyses will be done using Stata, Release 11 (Stata Corp LP, College
      Station, TX).
    
  