
    
      The pandemic of COVID-19, a newly upcoming viral disease caused by SARS-CoV-2, puts the whole
      worlds health system under pressure.

      Patients suffering from this disease mainly develop respiratory symptoms, which can lead to
      severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) necessitating ICU admission in 10-20% of
      the cases admitted to hospital. In addition to these symptoms, patients show lymphopenia,
      cardiac symptoms and altered coagulation profiles. Although those patients are treated in the
      ICU the mortality there is more than 20% due to multiorgan failure.

      One of the recent insights in this disease is its effect on the coagulation system. Meanwhile
      we know that the coagulation system gets activated. Furthermore, it seems that clot formation
      takes place in the pulmonary micro-vasculature which could contribute to the widely observed
      gas-exchange impairment. Therefore, many centers apply empiric anticoagulation for their
      COVID-patients. At the moment, we at HMC, also apply an empirical anticoagulation protocol as
      our standard approach. However, this is a symptomatic treatment without good proof.

      Bivalirudin is a well-known agent which is used in HMC for cases in which anticoagulation is
      needed, but a contraindication for heparin exists (i.e. HIT syndrome). This drug has an
      interesting pharmacologic profile. It acts independent of antithrombin (AT), the
      physiological compound which enhances heparin effects under normal circumstances. This lack
      of dependence on AT, makes Bivalirudin an attractive choice in light of the contradictory
      reports on the levels of AT during COVID infection. If AT levels are decreased during the
      infection, heparin (as well as LMWH) cannot work efficiently, which would render our
      treatment less effective. Luckily, bivalirudin acts without the support of AT, so we could
      bypass this problem. In addition, bivalirudin has some fibrinolytic activities. It inhibits
      clot-bound thrombin which as a result destabilizes the clot rendering it more susceptible to
      thrombolysis. This property partially supports the dissolving of clots and could support
      re-opening the pulmonary microcirculation.

      Objectives:

      To prove the positive effect of anticoagulation with bivalirudin intravenously on
      gas-exchange in patients with COVID-19 and respiratory failure on invasive mechanical
      ventilation.
    
  