
    
      Background: The presence of lymph node metastasis is an important factor in determining the
      appropriate treatment plan in patients with OSCC. However, detection of lymph node metastases
      by means of current imaging modalities is limited. 20-30% of patients with a clinically
      negative neck (cN0) harbour lymph node metastasis that were not detected during clinical
      diagnostic workup, which are referred to as occult lymph node metastasis. Personalized
      management of the neck would benefit greatly from staging techniques that increase the
      accuracy of the assessment of nodal disease. In addition, visualizing the pattern of
      lymphatic spread can possibly lead to more targeted neck dissections and thereby reduce
      morbidity. Clearly, there is need for additional diagnostic tools in order to identify lymph
      node metastasis and thereby support the decision making for treatment of the neck.

      Optoacoustic imaging is a novel imaging method in which an ultrashort laser pulse is used to
      irradiate biological tissue. Consequently, optoacoustic or photoacoustic waves are generated
      which can be measured by wideband ultrasonic transducers. Optoacoustic imaging has been shown
      to address clinically relevant aspects of various cancers by enabling visualization of
      targeted tumor-specific biomarkers by detecting optoacoustic waves. We hypothesize that
      accumulation of cetuximab-800CW can be detected in lymph node metastasis, enabling better
      visualization of regional metastatic disease compared to current imaging modalities. This
      approach can improve detection of lymph node metastases and thereby supports decision making
      for treatment of the neck.

      Objectives: The main objective of this study is to evaluate if EGFR-positive cervical lymph
      node metastasis can be detected non-invasively using the MSOT Acuity Echo with
      cetuximab-800CW as contrast agent in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma.

      Study design: The current study is a single center, prospective, cross-sectional, proof of
      concept study. The study will be carried out by the out at the University Medical Center
      Groningen, Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and Department of Nuclear Medicine
      and Molecular Imaging. Further analysis of sections of the lymph node metastasis will be done
      at the Department of Pathology.

      Study population: 20 patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma that have been included in
      the ICON-study (NCT03134846) and are scheduled for treatment of the neck will be included.

      Patient related study procedures: Prior to tracer administration as part of the ICON study,
      optoacoustic imaging is performed. Two-four days later, surgical procedure will take place.
      One day prior to surgery, the patient is admitted to the hospital and optoacoustic imaging is
      performed with cetuximab-800CW as contrast agent.

      Main study endpoints: Quantification of the cetuximab-800CW optoacoustic signal and tracer
      distribution observed by multispectral optoacoustic imaging using the MSOT Acuity Echo in
      vivo in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma.

      Burden, risks and benefit to participation: Time investment: Patients need to visit the UMCG
      2-4 days before their planned surgery according to the ICON-study which will take
      approximately 2 hours. For the first imaging session, the imaging procedure will take 20-30
      minutes and therefore the visit is prolonged with 20-30 minutes. Usually patients are
      admitted one day prior to surgery. Therefore the second imaging on this day will not require
      extra time investment, although the imaging procedure takes 20-30 minutes Extra procedures:
      Two imaging procedures, prior to tracer administration and on day of admission. Both imaging
      procedures will take 20-30 minutes.

      Several measures described below have been taken to reduce the risk of injuries to an
      absolute minimum. The residual risk of MSOT is slight, reversible reddening and temperature
      increase of the skin.

      Patients will have no direct benefit from this study.
    
  