
    
      Shift work has become increasingly common as the 24/7 global society has required more and
      more workers to do their jobs at irregular hours. According to the National Health Interview
      Survey in 2010, approximately 28.7% of the American workforce is engaged in work outside a
      regular day shift (outside 7 AM-to 6 PM). Working irregular hours poses a serious threat to
      the shift worker's physical, mental, and psychosocial health due to circadian misalignment
      and misplaced sleep. The most severe problems faced by shift workers are sleep disturbances
      and excessive sleepiness. The disruptions caused by shift work are recognized as a circadian
      rhythm sleep disorder in the International Classification of Sleep Disorders, 3rd Edition,
      and is called Shift Work Disorder [SWD]. SWD is characterized by excessive sleepiness (ES)
      during wakefulness, accompanied by a reduction of total sleep time and/or insomnia. Several
      studies have shown that 10-43% of shift workers are diagnosed with SWD, dependent on the
      criteria used.

      Studies have shown that wake promoting agents can be used to treat ES in shift workers,
      ranging from caffeine to prescription pharmacological agents. Current Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA)-approved options for SWD patients with ES are modafinil and armodafinil.
      A three-month, double-blind trial of 209 randomized SWD patients showed that modafinil
      improves wakefulness and the ability to sustain attention working night shifts without
      negatively affecting daytime sleep. Furthermore, SWD patients who received modafinil had an
      improvement in clinical symptoms, reduced levels of sleepiness during night shift and during
      commute home, and proportionally fewer patients reported motor vehicle accidents or near
      accidents while commuting home. Czeisler and colleagues also performed a 12-week randomized,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter study, which showed that
      armodafinil was well-tolerated and improved clinical conditions, wakefulness, attention and
      memory during night shifts in SWD patients without jeopardizing daytime sleep and reduced
      sleepiness during the commute home.

      All these previous studies were described in SWD patients working night shifts, yet
      approximately 3 times as many individuals work shifts that start in the early morning
      compared with those who work night shifts. These early-morning shift workers are a unique,
      high-risk group because their early work start times (3:00 AM to 6:00 AM) require the workers
      to wake up in the middle of the night, close to their circadian nadir, resulting in curtailed
      sleep and commuting to work during times of high sleepiness. Previous research has shown that
      early-morning shift starts in particular are associated with increased sleepiness. To the
      investigators' knowledge, no studies have addressed the use of wake promoting agents for ES
      in early-morning shift workers.

      In this clinical trial, the investigators will test whether Solriamfetol (SUNOSITM), a drug
      approved for the treatment of ES in patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and
      narcolepsy, is effective in: (1) decreasing sleepiness without reducing sleep duration or
      sleep quality; (2) improving work functioning; and (3) improving quality of life in
      early-morning shift workers diagnosed with ES associated with SWD.
    
  