
    
      AF catheter ablation success rates are still limited to around 70% with a large proportion of
      patients requiring to have further procedures to remain in normal heart rhythm. The current
      strategies that are used in catheter ablation of AF involve targeting the pulmonary veins
      that enter the left sided upper chamber of the heart. The supportive evidence in targeting
      other areas beyond the pulmonary veins remains mixed. Thereby with the existing mapping
      systems other sites that potentially drive AF have not been effectively identified. Further
      to this, it has also been suggested that these sites are intermittent and mobile in nature
      making it more difficult to effectively map. With this in mind the investigators have
      developed STAR mapping, a novel mapping system that takes these factors into account. The
      purpose of this study is to use this mapping system prospectively to effectively map and
      ablate drivers of AF as identified by termination and/or slowing of AF during the catheter
      ablation.

      Participants that have documented AF that has been present all the time for less than 24
      months i.e. early persistent AF and that have been referred for catheter ablation for AF by
      an Electrophysiologist will be recruited into the study.

      Participants will undergo consenting for the procedure and their involvement in the research
      study. The procedures will be conducted either under local anaesthetic/sedation or general
      anaesthetic depending on the clinical needs of the patient. During the procedure tubes will
      be passed into the left upper chamber of the heart through the groin. Through these tubes
      catheters will be used to create a geometry of the heart chamber. Following this, in half of
      the participants a basket catheter with 64 electrodes will be positioned in the upper chamber
      whilst conventional catheters will be used in the other half of the participants. This is to
      demonstrate that this mapping system can effectively be used with a variety of mapping
      catheters. The signals collected will then be used in the novel mapping system to identify
      sites as potential drivers of AF. These sites will then be targeted and the response to
      ablation will be recorded particularly looking at slowing and/or termination of the AF, which
      will support these sites identified as drivers.

      As part of the validation phase of the study participants that have been scheduled for a
      catheter ablation for AT by their Electrophysiologist will be enrolled into the study. The
      STAR maps generated in these cases will be compared to the maps generated by the conventional
      system. This will enable validation of the STAR mapping system.

      The mapping system used for this study will be CARTOFINDER (CARTO, Biosense Webster, Inc,
      CA). Analyses using this mapping system will allow a sub-study on identifying mechanisms of
      AT and drivers in AF using the CARTOFINDER system.
    
  