
    
      Current treatment modalities for uveitis associated with Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA)
      including corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive agents are associated with significant
      side effects. These treatments are not effective for all children. A soluble tumor necrosis
      factor receptor (TNFR:Fc) named Etanercept, may inhibit the inflammatory response of uveitis.
      This randomized double-masked phase I/II clinical trial will provide limited safety and
      efficacy information regarding the use of Etanercept for the treatment of uveitis associated
      with JRA. Fifteen patients will be randomized with a 2 to 1 randomization plan (10 to receive
      Etanercept, 5 to receive placebo) and followed for 6 months. After the 6 month visit, all
      patients will receive open label Etanercept for an additional 6 months. Patients will be
      switched to open label Etanercept, or withdrawn from study therapy prior to 6 months, if they
      a) experience a greater than 10 letter or greater drop in visual acuity due to inflammation,
      for patients using the ETDRS chart (a 2 line drop due to inflammation, for patients using the
      B-VAT method) or b) develop a sight-threatening inflammatory ophthalmic or joint lesion
      requiring immediate increase in systemic anti-inflammatory therapy or a periocular injection
      of corticosteriods or c) at 4 months, have greater than 1 plus anterior chamber cell grade in
      either eye and are receiving topical corticosteroids on a schedule of TID or more frequently.
      Investigators will remain masked to original treatment assignment unless warranted by
      clinical care considerations. Primary safety outcomes include the occurrence of any severe
      adverse event at least possibly related to study therapy, including a two step increase in
      anterior chamber cells, or the occurrence of serious infection or sepsis. Primary ophthalmic
      outcomes include measures of anterior chamber cells and a change in topical or systemic
      anti-inflammatory medications used to treat uveitis. Primary ophthalmic and JRA outcome
      analysis will be performed at 6 months, and again at 12 months. Patients unmasked or switched
      to open label Etanercept prior to month 6 or withdrawing from the study drug prior to month
      12 will be considered failures.
    
  