
    
      The investigator will conduct a tau PET scan in cognitively normal older adults enrolled in
      the National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center (NACC) study at the University of Pennsylvania's
      Penn Memory Center/Alzheimer's Disease Core Center (PMC/ADC).

      Study Duration: Study duration will generally be a one-day study visit, but all subjects will
      be followed annually as part of their participation in the NACC study.

      Participants may be asked to obtain a longitudinal follow-up scan approximately 2-3 years
      after the baseline scan.

      Study Center(s): Penn Memory Center/Alzheimer's Disease Core Center at Perelman Center for
      Advanced Medicine, UPHS.

      Objectives: To collect Tau PET imaging in cognitively normal older adults adults and patients
      with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), in the NACC study to determine relationship to
      clinical, cognitive, and other biomarker data. In particular, the investigator will examine
      relationship of tau PET to structural and functional measures of medial temporal lobe (MTL)
      subregions. Findings from this study will likely provide insight into the mechanisms and
      distinctions of age-related cognitive decline and that of preclinical Alzheimer's Disease.

      Number of Subject: 200, approximately 150 cognitively normal older adults and 50 with mild
      cognitive impairment.

      Diagnosis and Main Inclusion Criteria Eligible subjects will be NACC cohort participants who
      have received a consensus conference designation of "Cognitively Normal and patients with
      Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI)". All participants must have had their annual NACC clinical
      and cognitive examination within 6 months of the tau PET imaging and an MRI scan (including
      high resolution imaging of medial temporal lobe regions) and amyloid PET within 12 months.

      Study Design: This is a cross-sectional study using the radiotracer 18F-AV-1451 to determine
      the relationship of tau pathology to both cross-sectional and longitudinal clinical and
      biomarker data of NACC cohort participants who are Cognitively Normal and patient with mild
      cognitive impairment . All subjects will already be part of the longitudinal cohort study,
      known as the "NACC" cohort, of the PMC/ADC. For the current protocol, participants will
      provide informed consent before beginning any study procedures. After screening assessments,
      participants will undergo PET scan imaging with 18F-AV-1451 and again 2 to 3 years after the
      baseline scan.

      Study Drug Administration: Subjects will receive a single IV bolus injection target dose of
      approximately 370 MBq (10 mCi ± 20%) of 18F-AV-1451 At approximately 75 minutes post dose,
      scanning will begin. An approximately 30-minute acquisition (six 5 minute intervals) will be
      performed.

      Adverse events will be monitored continuously during the imaging session. Subjects who
      experience any adverse event during an imaging session will not be discharged until the event
      has resolved or stabilized.

      Statistical Methodology This is a data gathering protocol to obtain molecular imaging data in
      a cohort of older adults without cognitive symptoms. However, specific analyses will include
      quantitative measures of 18F-AV-1451 within the medial temporal lobe (MTL) and its
      relationship to volume and thickness of MTL subregions measured with high-resolution MRI.
      Additional correlation and regression analyses will be performed to determine relationships
      between 18F-AV-1451 and cross-sectional and longitudinal measures acquired as part of each
      individuals participation in the NACC longitudinal cohort study, including, but not limited
      to, MRI imaging, neurocognitive testing, demographic information, genetic data, and clinical
      outcomes.
    
  