
    
      Alcohol misuse refers to alcohol consumption that causes harm to the drinker, others, and/or
      greater society. Internet-delivered cognitive behaviour therapy (ICBT) shows considerable
      promise as a convenient treatment for alcohol misuse. The overall goal of ICBT for alcohol
      misuse is typically behavioural change measured in terms of reduction of drinks consumed, as
      opposed to abstinence. The design of these interventions may differ in whether the user works
      alone (self-guided) or along with an individual who guides treatment (e.g., therapist/health
      educator). Guided ICBT involves completing online lessons over several weeks coupled with
      support from a guide in the form of emails, online messages or brief telephone calls.
      Self-guided ICBT allows users to complete lessons by themselves without any contact with a
      guide. In some studies, guided-ICBT has shown greater reductions in alcohol consumption than
      self-guided ICBT. Further, some research on alcohol treatment shows that assessment in itself
      may have an effect on alcohol consumption, a phenomenon referred to in the literature as
      "assessment reactivity". It is believed that verbalizing one's drinking problems to another
      person might lead to greater realization of the problem extent and severity, which in turn
      can lead to initiation of the change process. Experimental studies have shown that extended
      and frequent assessments lead to greater alcohol reductions compared to brief and infrequent
      assessments.

      Although ICBT for alcohol misuse is an attractive treatment option, it is not often available
      to clients as part of routine care. The Online Therapy Unit at the University of Regina is
      currently exploring extending services to include guided ICBT for alcohol misuse. The Unit
      has been providing treatment in ICBT for depression and anxiety as well as various health
      conditions since 2010 and has offered treatment to ~4200 individuals. The purpose of this
      study is to evaluate ICBT for individuals with alcohol misuse, and to investigate ways to
      optimize future modes of delivery. Of specific interest in this study, is how outcomes vary
      depending on whether or not weekly guidance from a health educator is available and whether
      or not an initial extended assessment telephone call is included or not compared to a briefer
      screening telephone call.

      Clients will be recruited online, through use of Google Ads and/or Facebook ads. Clients may
      also learn of the course from providers/organizations who will be informed of the study
      through posters, emails, and phone calls. All interested clients will be directed to the
      study website (www.onlinetherapyuser.ca) to complete an online screening questionnaire. As
      part of this questionnaire, they will be presented with a consent form explaining the
      screening protocol. After consent is given, clients will be assessed for eligibility using an
      online screening questionnaire. The online screening questionnaire captures demographic
      information (e.g., sex, ethnicity, location), contact details (e.g., telephone number, email
      address), information about alcohol, depression and other mental health issues, and
      background information needed to deliver therapy (e.g., medical history, mental health
      history, symptoms).

      Once clients have been assessed for eligibility through the online screening questionnaire,
      they will be asked to book a telephone interview with unit staff. During the telephone
      screening interview, clients will be asked a series of follow-up questions to the online
      screening questionnaire to ensure eligibility as per exclusion criteria. Clients who meet any
      of the exclusion criteria during the online telephone screening interview will be referred to
      more appropriate mental health services. Clients who are excluded in the screening
      questionnaire by reporting a low score on either TLFB or AUDIT, or a high score on PHQ-9,
      will be informed about relevant treatment options and will be offered unguided ICBT with no
      assessment interview. Clients who are included in the study, will be randomized by the
      interviewer, while the client is still on the phone, to one of four conditions. The two
      factors in the trial are:

      Factor 1: Guidance (yes or no)

      Factor 2: Assessment interview (yes or no)

      As this is a factorial trial with two factors, each client will be randomized to one of four
      conditions:

      Condition 1: Assessment interview and Guidance Condition 2: Assessment Interview and No
      Guidance Condition 3: No Assessment Interview and Guidance Condition 4: No Assessment
      Interview and No Guidance

      After the randomization those randomized to either condition that includes assessment
      interview will receive this interview immediately. The assessment interview consists of the
      Alcohol Use Disorder section of Structured Clinical Interview for the Diagnostic and
      Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders 5 (SCID5). Clients will then be provided a user-name
      and temporary password, Those randomized to conditions with no assessment interview will be
      provided user-name and password immediately after the randomization.

      All clients will have access to the ICBT course on the second Monday after the screening
      interview, regardless of whether they have been randomized to assessment interview or not.

      Before accessing the ICBT course with user-name and password, clients will be presented with
      a consent form that explains the nature of treatment, as well as a pre-treatment
      questionnaire, where participants will complete questions about alcohol consumption in the
      preceding week, depression and motivation to change.

      All clients will receive the Alcohol Change Course, an internet intervention targeting
      alcohol misuse. The course is an adaptation of a program originally developed in Switzerland.
      The program has been adapted to better fit the programs that are commonly used at the Online
      Therapy Unit (8 weeks in length, gradual time release, downloadable exercises, wide range in
      age). Patient partners have also studied the program and provided feedback, which has led to
      additional changes. It comprises 12 online lessons (1 to 2 lessons per week over 8 weeks),
      and the content is based on cognitive behaviour therapy and relapse prevention. Materials are
      presented in a didactic (i.e., text-based with visual images) and case-enhanced learning
      format (i.e., educational stories demonstrate the application of skills). All clients are
      presented with worksheets at the end of each lesson that contain exercises that facilitate
      skill acquisition. In all conditions, lessons will be released gradually in a standardized
      order over 8 weeks with regular automatic emails informing clients about upcoming lessons.
      Clients will complete outcome questionnaires at screening, baseline (pre-treatment), 8 weeks
      (post-treatment) and at 3, 6 and 12 months after treatment.
    
  