
    
      Previous research has shown combined protein pacing and intermittent fasting (PP-IF; 1-2 days
      per week) combined with moderate (20-30%) caloric restriction (CR) favorably enhance weight
      loss, body composition, cardiometabolic disease risk, oxidative stress, and toxin levels
      compared to a heart healthy diet in obese individuals following both weight loss and weight
      loss maintenance (Arciero et al. 2016; He et al. 2017; Zuo et al. 2016). However, less is
      known about whether a low sugar intake with this dietary pattern induces other significant
      health improvements, such as enhanced brain health (mood state), as well as gut microbiome
      and anti-aging indices, compared to a heart healthy diet. The novelty of the current proposal
      is of particular relevance and importance given the heightened popularity of low sugar
      dietary patterns shown to enhance health status. Most notably, among these low sugar diets
      touting the health benefits, are the ketogenic, paleolithic and Mediterranean diets. In
      addition, there is a great deal of public health emphasis on reducing overall carbohydrate
      intake, especially simple sugars, to improve cardiometabolic, gut, and body composition
      health. The dangers of high simple sugar intake are numerous, including increased risk for
      cardiometabolic disease (high blood lipids, hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, systemic
      inflammation, oxidative stress, obesity, elevated visceral fat, etc.). Thus, improvements in
      body composition and reductions in disease risk provides compelling evidence to pursue this
      study with vigor so as to generate a viable and healthy weight and fat loss strategy over the
      long term.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the effects of a low sugar protein pacing,
      intermittent fasting (PP-IF) diet versus a heart healthy (HH) diet on indices of body weight,
      total and regional body composition, mood state, anti-aging, and cardiometabolic outcomes,
      and the gut microbiome during weight loss (0-8 weeks). Specifically, this study aims to
      compare a PP-IF diet comprised of a calorie-restricted (1500 calories/day women; 1800
      calories/day men) protein pacing diet (PP, 4 meals/day women, 5 meals/day men) followed by a
      fast (IF, ~350-450 kcals/day) compared to an established calorie-restricted (1200
      calories/day for women; 1500 calories/day men) heart healthy (HH) diet. The PP-IF group will
      be divided into two subgroups for weeks 1-4. One subgroup will consist of five days of PP and
      two days of IF, and the second subgroup will consist of six days of PP and one day of IF. For
      weeks 5-8 both subgroups will follow 6 days of a PP diet and 1 day IF.
    
  