
    
      We plan to collect Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples for thrombin activity assay in order to
      test whether there is a difference in thrombin activity in the CSF between CJD
      (Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease) and non-CJD patients. CSF samples will be obtained from two
      sources 1. Patients with familial or sporadic CJD and control patients with other
      neurodegenerative disorders (e.g. SDAT**, NPH) that will be evaluated in Sheba Medical Center
      2. From our collaborating group of Prof. Zerr in the German Prion Referral Center at the
      University of Gottingen which has a collection of thousands of CSF samples from patients with
      familial and sporadic CJD as well as ideal controls with other degenerative brain disease.

      The study has 2 sections:

        1. Prospective part in which we plan to recruit 25 patients with CJD and 25 patients with
           other types of dementia from Sheba Medical Center (SMC). Prior to inclusion in the study
           a senior neurologist will interview the patient and will verify that he fully
           understands the objectives of the study and he is mentally qualified to sign the
           informed consent form (severely demented patients who will not be able to adequately
           consider the participation in the study will be excluded).

           Cognitive performance will be evaluated using the Mini-mental Status Examination and
           Frontal Assessment Battery scales.

           No clinical data other than the cognitive assessment and those needed for the clinical
           work up will be especially collected for this study.

        2. Retrospective part in which CSF samples from CJD patients and patients with other type
           of dementia will be shipped to us from our collaborators in Germany ans will be assayed
           for Thrombin activity. We plan to recruit to this part of the study 100-200 CJD patient
           CSF samples and a same number of samples from age matched controls.

      Thrombin activity (for samples from both parts of the study) will be assayed as follows: CSF
      sample will be placed in a black 96 well dish (10 per well). Thrombin activity will be
      measured by a fluorometric assay, quantifying the cleavage of the synthetic peptide substrate
      Boc-Asp(OBzl)-Pro-Arg-AMC*** (I-1560, Bachem, Switzerland, 13 molar final concentration).
      Measurements will be performed by the Infinite 2000 microplate reader (Tecan, infinite 200,
      Switzerland) with excitation and emission filters of 360±35 and 460±35 nm, respectively. CSF
      testing for thrombin activity will be conducted in Professor Chapman's laboratory in Sheba.
      This laboratory is actively engaged in research on the role of thrombin and PAR-1 in diseases
      of the nervous system and is fully equipped to perform the biochemical and protein levels
      experiments.

      The assay has the potential for commercialization as a diagnostic test for CJD. In addition,
      there is the potential to develop therapeutic agents targeting excessive thrombin activation.

      **SDAT=Senile Dementia of Alzheimer Type

      ***AMC= Amino Methyl Coumarin
    
  