
    
      Prevention is key for combating obesity, but few programs have prevented future increases in
      BMI and onset of overweight/obesity, particularly during late adolescence when youth often
      assume responsibility for dietary intake and exercise choices. One exception is a brief 6-hr
      dissonance-based program (Project Health) wherein participants make small lasting incremental
      lifestyle changes to dietary intake and exercise to reach energy balance, and discuss costs
      of obesity, an unhealthy diet, and sedentary behavior, and benefits of leanness, a healthy
      diet, and exercise, which prompts them to align their attitudes with their publicly displayed
      behavior. These activities promote the internalization of health goals and executive control
      over lifestyle behaviors. Late adolescents randomized to Project Health showed fewer
      increases in BMI and a 41% and 43% reduction in overweight/obesity onset over 2-yr follow-up
      compared to a version of the program lacking dissonance induction activities and an obesity
      education condition. Project Health appears to be the first program to produce these key
      obesity prevention effects relative to an alternative intervention, but it is critical to
      increase effects. A dissonance-based prevention program was more effective when implemented
      in single- versus mixed-sex groups, theoretically, because it promoted greater participation
      in dissonance-inducing discussions. Aim 1a is to test whether the weight gain prevention
      effects will be larger when Project Health is implemented in single-sex groups; the
      investigators will randomize 450 17-20-year-olds to complete Project Health in female, male,
      or mixed-sex groups, assessing outcomes at pretest, post-test, and 6, 12, 24, and 36-month
      follow-ups. Aim 1b is to test whether greater participation in dissonance-inducing
      discussions and group cohesion mediate the effect of condition on any superior weight gain
      prevention effects. Adolescents who show greater fMRI-assessed reward and attention region
      responsivity to food images exhibit elevated future weight gain, implying that reducing this
      responsivity may reduce future weight gain. In a pilot trial, late adolescents who completed
      go/nogo, stop-signal, and respond-signal computer training in which they repeatedly inhibit
      responses to high-calorie foods and respond to low-calorie foods, and dot-probe and
      visual-search computer tasks that train attention away from high-calorie foods and to
      low-calorie foods, showed a greater reduction in reward and attention region responsivity to,
      palatability rating of, and willingness to pay for, high-calorie foods, suggesting reduced
      valuation and attentional bias, as well as greater fat loss over 1-yr follow-up versus
      controls who completed the training with non-food images. Aim 2a is to test whether adding
      food response and attention training to Project Health will produce larger weight gain
      prevention effects. Participants in the 3 conditions will be randomized to complete response
      and attention training for 25-mins after each of the 6-sessions with either food or non-food
      images. Aim 2b is to test whether reduced palatability ratings of, willingness to pay, and
      attentional bias for high-calorie foods mediate the effect of training condition on any
      superior weight gain prevention effects.

      During the COVID-19 shelter-at-home order, the investigators will not measure in person only
      outcomes including BodPod assessments, and height and weight measurement for BMI calculation
      for all participants that have assessments due during this order. The investigators will
      continue to conduct intervention groups that will be administered on a virtual platform.
    
  