
    
      This is a phase I/II clinical trial. In phase I part, the primary objective is To determine
      the recommended dose of the combination of lapatinib with oral vinorelbine in patients with
      ErbB2 positive metastatic breast cancer. In phase II part, the primary objective is
      progression free survival of the combination of lapatinib with oral vinorelbine as first line
      chemotherapy in patients with ErbB2 positive metastatic breast cancer. The secondary
      objectives are safety profile and the response rate

      Lapatinib, an oral inhibitor of EGFR and HER2, have been shown to be an effective treatment
      in HER2/neu overexpressing metastatic breast cancer patient who refractory herceptin, taxane,
      and anthracycline treatment. In pre-clinical studies, the highest synergism between anti-Her2
      treatment (trastuzumab) and cytotoxics was seen with the platinum compounds and with
      vinorelbine. The oral vinorelbine has similar efficacy to that of the injection formulation
      and has demonstrated generally favorable tolerability. We are interested in lapatinib plus
      oral vinorelbine as 1st line treatment in Her2+ MBC, to which we believe this convenience
      treatment offer a good response rate with satisfactory life quality.

      For phase I part, we plan to use the standard phase I 3-patient cohort (''3 + 3'') design. Up
      to 18 patients may be enrolled. For phase II part, the expected progression-free survival of
      the protocol treatment in first line treatment of ErbB2 positive metastatic breast cancer is
      more than 6 months. With type 1 and type 2 errors of 0.05 and 0.1, respectively, this design
      calls for 29 patients at the first stage. If 20 or more progression disease is observed after
      6 months of treatment, then the study will be terminated. Otherwise, additional 25 patients
      will be entered at the second stage. The treatment will be rejected if a total of 37 or more
      progression disease are observed out of 54 patients after 6 months of treatment. With the
      estimated dropout rate of 10%, 32 patients will be accrued in the first stage and 28 in the
      second stage.
    
  