
    
      Osteoarthritis is a very common pathology, especially in an aging population, and a source of
      disability. Based on standard radiography, the diagnosis is performed late because it is
      based on the loss of cartilage thickness. In this context, prosthetic replacement of the
      joint is a frequent outcome. New diagnostic biomarkers and new therapeutic targets are
      therefore logically research priorities identified up today by the European League Against
      Rheumatisms, osteoarthritis ad hoc committee .

      The strictly mechanical nature of osteoarthritis is currently being questioned. Indeed, the
      primitive role of inflammation in the development of this pathology is more and more
      discussed. This inflammation is today studied at the cellular level and essentially in
      animals. Since inflammatory and vascular phenomena are closely intertwined, medical imaging
      of the subchondral bone vascularization appears interesting.

      The dynamic contrast-enhanced T1 Dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging
      (DCE-MRI) technique allows the identification of changes in the osteoarthritic subchondral
      bone vascularization. In osteoarthritic animals, these changes could be identified before the
      cartilaginous lesions became visible, and could be correlated with the severity of
      osteoarthritis.

      In humans, a preliminary investigator study has recently shown that these changes correlate
      with the importance of osteoarthritic lesions in patients with advanced osteoarthritis. Up to
      date, no clinical study has so far been initiated to evaluate the diagnostic value of
      vascularization markers of subchondral bone in early knee osteoarthritis.

      In this context, this prospective monocentric study aims to define the role of DCE medical
      imaging in the diagnosis of early (non-surgical) patella-femoral osteoarthritis.

      This study would be the first to correlate subchondral bone perfusion measurements (performed
      with the DCE sequence) with early cartilaginous lesions, identified by non-invasive MRI (T2
      mapping) in humans. This examination will be performed on a 3 Tesla MRI.

      If a correlation is demonstrated in the early stages of osteoarthritis in both humans and
      animals, then infusion of subchondral bone could become a biomarker of osteoarthritis, and
      serve as a follow-up evaluation of future treatments.
    
  