
    
      Streptococcus suis is a zoonotic agent which can cause severe systemic infection in humans
      exposed to infected pigs or pig derived products. Over 700 cases have been reported
      worldwide, most of them were in China and Vietnam in the last few years.

      In Vietnam, S. suis infection in adults is common, and patients with S.suis are often
      admitted to the National Hospital for Tropical Diseases (NHTD), a tertiary referral hospital
      for infectious diseases in northern Vietnam. In 2007, 50 laboratory confirmed cases with
      S.suis were reported at this hospital, and in 2010, 65 laboratory confirmed S.suis cases have
      been identified by September. Pig breeding and pork consumption is popular in Vietnam, with
      the majority of pigs and meat supply channelled from small-scaled un-controlled farmers and
      slaughterhouses, which pose a great potential health risk to people involved in the chain. A
      case-control study conducted in southern Vietnam showed that occupational exposure, raising
      pigs at home and consuming high-risk dishes from pigs significantly increased the risk of S.
      suis infection.

      It has been suggested that the incidence of human S. suis cases is possibly linked to the
      occurrence of Porcine Respiratory and Reproductive System (PRRS) virus outbreaks in northern
      Vietnam. In 2010, the disease has spread to over 30 provinces over the country, with many
      outbreaks reported in northern provinces in the period from April to July. Field observations
      in other countries showed that PRRS virus infection increased pig's susceptibility to S. suis
      infection, including serotype 2 and 7. Therefore, PRRS virus outbreaks might have increased
      the risk of S. suis transmission to humans through exposure to pigs with PRRS virus infection
      and concomitant S. suis disease. Nevertheless, sufficient data are not available to confirm
      or refute this hypothesis. Knowledge of spatial and temporal relationships between human
      S.suis infections and disease outbreaks in pigs can increase our understanding of risk
      factors for human S.suis infection and support disease prevention and preparedness in the
      community.
    
  