
    
      Supervision of HAIs was carried out in the neurosurgery unit in 2003-2017 in St. Luke
      Provincial Hospital in Tarnów, Poland. The department offers 42 hospital beds (including 6
      intensive supervision beds, where mechanical ventilation is also used). Patients in very poor
      clinical condition do not stay in this department as they are generally sent to a separate
      general intensive care unit. Active surveillance of infections was implemented in the
      hospital in 2001 and the experiences concerning the neurosurgery unit were already the
      subject of previous general analyses not including trend analysis or detailed analyses of
      various HAI clinical forms [Wałaszek NCH 2015]. The Infection Control Team consists of a
      doctor, who is employed on a 1/3 full-time equivalent basis and 4 full-time epidemiological
      nurses.

      The data analysed involve the time when the unit in question began targeted, active
      surveillance of infections, initially: 2003-2012, using tools (definitions, protocols) in
      accordance with the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) [Emori, NNIS], then from 2012,
      HAI recognition methodology and HAI record-keeping has followed the Surveillance Network
      (HAI-Net), European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) [ECDC 4.3, 2012; HAI-Net
      ICU 1.02. ECDC; 2015]. For the purposes of this analysis, HAI cases originally qualified in
      2002-2012 according to the NHSN criteria were retrospectively subjected to reclassification
      according to the ECDC definitions from 2012 (they concerned BSI, PN and UTI), hence, all HAI
      cases were qualified into individual HAI categories according to the ECDC case definition
      keeping the division into: catheter-related BSI and BSI secondary to another infection, five
      subcategories of PN and three forms of SSI. The surgeries performed were stratified by type
      of operation conforming to the International Classification of Procedures in Medicine ICD
      9-CM, according to the NHSN code (International Classification of Diseases) (Supplementarty
      Material, Table 1).

      Beginning in 2003, changes were being implemented as regards supervision of infections by the
      Infection Control Team together with the staff of the departments (neurosurgery, operating
      block and infection control team), which encompassed, among others:

        1. hospital admission rules for shortening of the pre-operative stay and optimal patient
           preparation for surgery to limit emergency surgery; preparation of the surgical team

        2. work organization of the operating block: among others, preoperative checklist, surgical
           hand hygiene, preparation of the operating field and surgical drape, application of
           antiseptic to the edges of the wound before sewing it;

        3. perioperative procedure: patient preparation for surgery, among others, bathing the
           patient immediately prior to surgery, hair removal, changing the bed linen and patient's
           clothing immediately before surgery, patient care during the postoperative period, and
           above all, the 5 moments for hand hygiene and post-operative dressing and wound control.

      In addition: regular analysis and feedback have also been implemented.
    
  