
    
      Hypertension is an important modifiable risk factor for the prevention of ischemic stroke.
      Whether specific antihypertensive medications confer an added benefit for recurrent stroke
      reduction beyond their ability to lower blood pressure remains a controversial subject.
      Because of their varied mechanisms of action, and their potential role as neuroprotective
      agents, there has been particular interest in drugs that affect the
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS). Several large multi-national randomized clinical
      trials have suggested a unique benefit of these agents, namely angiotensin converting enzyme
      (ACE) inhibitors and ARBs, for the prevention of vascular events. Even with the very modest
      reductions in blood pressure achieved in the HOPE trial, ramipril was found to have a
      significant benefit on recurrent stroke prevention (Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation
      Study Investigators, 2000). In the LIFE study, losartan was shown to be more efficacious for
      the prevention of recurrent strokes in hypertensive patients than atenolol, despite nearly
      identical reductions in blood pressure (Dahlöf et al, 2002). This is an area of some debate,
      however, as some data may support the lowering of blood pressure in general over the use of
      specific agents such as ACE inhibitors for the prevention of recurrent stroke (PROGRESS
      Collaborative Group, 2001). More recently, the ACCESS study showed a benefit of early
      treatment with candesartan cilexetil on 12-month mortality and the number of vascular events
      in patients who had suffered an acute stroke (Schrader et al, 2003). The mechanisms that
      underlie this are uncertain, but the study suggests that early treatment of blood pressure in
      acute stroke may have long-term benefits, presumably independent of hemodynamic factors.

      The use of antihypertensives in the setting of an acute infarct is an area of great interest.
      A transient rise in blood pressure is frequently seen in acute stroke patients (Semplicini et
      al, 2003). Although blood pressure typically normalizes within one week without treatment,
      about one-third of patients remain hypertensive (Britton et al, 1986; Harper et al, 1994).
      Currently, there is insufficient data for a clear recommendation on deliberately altering
      blood pressure in these acute ischemic stroke patients (BASC, 2004). That being said,
      hypertension in acute stroke has been associated with poor outcome (Warlow et al, 1996),
      although the relationship may be a 'J'-shaped curve, with both low and high mean blood
      pressures being detrimental (Leonardi-Bee et al, 2002). The potential mechanisms that
      underlie the association between hypertension and poor outcome in acute stroke are several,
      but may include an increase in peri-infarct edema and an increased risk of hemorrhagic
      transformation. The potential benefits of the early treatment of high blood pressure in acute
      stroke must be weighed against the theoretical risk of worsening ischemia in compromised
      neural tissue. The INWEST trial showed increased mortality in patients actively treated with
      a calcium-channel blocker within 72 hours of an acute stroke (Wahlgren et al, 1994), an
      effect that may be related to the lowering of diastolic blood pressure (Ahmed et al, 2000).
      This data is in keeping with the long-standing hypothesis that impaired autoregulation in the
      ischemic brain tissue renders cerebral blood flow purely pressure-dependent. A decrease in
      systemic blood pressure would then translate to decreased local perfusion to vulnerable
      tissue in the ischemic penumbra. It is in this setting that drugs that modulate the RAAS may
      have a unique role. In recent years, animal and human data has accrued that suggests CBF is
      maintained with these agents, even in the face of decreased systemic blood pressure.

      There are human data regarding cerebral blood flow and drugs that affect the RAAS, in both
      normal patients and those with recent ischemia. Studies with ACE inhibitors have demonstrated
      a moderate lowering of blood pressure in hypertensive patients, without a corresponding
      decrease in CBP, as measure with xenon CT (Minematsu et al, 1987; Waldemar et al, 1990).
      Dyker et al (1997) used Doppler ultrasound to show that cerebral blood flow is maintained in
      the setting of acute stroke when systemic blood pressure is lowered with perindopril. A
      similar result was seen in hypertensive stroke patients with moderate to severe internal
      carotid artery stenosis or occlusion (Walters et al, 2001). When losartan was introduced in
      hypertensive patients within 2-7 days of a mild ischemic stroke, there was no adverse effect
      on global or region cerebral blood flow, as measured by carotid Doppler and brain
      hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime single photon emission computed tomography (HMPAO SPECT; Nazir
      et al, 2004). There is no published data on the effects of these drugs on cerebral perfusion
      as measured with MRI, nor on changes in infarct volume as measure by DWI.

      Brain imaging with MRI is available at all major centers that admit patients for the care of
      ischemic stroke. Diffusion-weighted imaging is considered the 'gold standard' for the
      detection of ischemia in the acute setting, with restricted diffusion being visible within 30
      minutes of symptom onset (Fisher and Albers, 1999). Semi-quantitative measures of cerebral
      blood flow can be obtained with perfusion-weighted imaging (PWI) with only a minimal increase
      in the total scanning time. The acquisition of perfusion data with MRI is more readily
      available than such modalities as PET, SPECT, or xenon CT. Data is ongoing to identify
      analysis regimens for PWI that best represent true cerebral perfusion. We will use these
      techniques to assess brain perfusion before and after the lowering of blood pressure with
      valsartan.

      We hope to show that valsartan can be used safely in the setting of acute stroke to lower
      elevated blood pressure. There are novel properties of this class of drug (an
      angiotensive-receptor blocker or ARB), and promising human and animal data, that would
      suggest this drug can be safely used to lower blood pressure in the setting of acute stroke
      without compromising brain blood flow (i.e. cerebral perfusion). If this is proved to be the
      case, this compound could potentially be used routinely in this setting, with the hope of
      improving outcome. This pilot study may pave the way for a larger randomized trial looking at
      outcome measures in stroke patients. Further, a positive result in the this pilot study will
      serve as proof of concept that ARBs maintain cerebral perfusion while decreasing blood
      pressure, an overall favorable property.
    
  