
    
      Data will be collected and stored at the department of surgery of Montreal Heart Institute.
      Only the principal investigator and study coordinators will have access to the database.

      The primary analysis will be an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis comparing the POAF rate in
      the PleuraFlow® group to the POAF rate in the control group. Based on findings from our
      institutional clinical database at the Montreal Heart Institute, the local incidence of POAF
      after cardiac surgery is approximately 25% (control group). The proportion in ACT group (the
      treatment group) is assumed to be 0,2500 under the null hypothesis and 0,1500 under the
      alternative hypothesis. Group sample sizes of 254 in each group achieve 80% power to detect a
      difference between the group proportions of 0,1000 using a Chi-Square test with a
      significance level of 0.0476. This significance level is computed using the O'Brien-Fleming
      method and accounts for the interim analysis that is planned after 300 randomized subjects
      have completed their 30-day follow-up.

      POAF and intervention to treat RBS rates and all other categorical event rates will be
      compared using chi-square tests. Multiple logistic regressions to adjust for potential
      confounding factors will also be used. Odds ratio and associated 95% confidence intervals
      will be computed for descriptive purpose. Goodness of fit will be checked using
      Hosmer-Lemeshow statistics. Quantitative endpoints will be investigated using Student
      t-tests. Analysis of covariance may also be used to account for potential confounding
      factors. Nonparametric tests or data transformation may be used if quantitative endpoints are
      not normally distributed. Correlations and associated 95% confidence intervals will be
      computed for descriptive purpose. An interim analysis will be conducted on the first 300
      randomized subjects completing their 30-day follow-up. The primary endpoint (POAF rate) will
      be compared between the PleuraFlow® group and the control group using a chi-square test. The
      significance level for this test will be 0.0076, as computed using the O'Brien-Fleming
      method. If the p-value of the chi-square test is below this bound at the interim analysis,
      the study will be stopped for efficacy. Otherwise, the study will continue up to the planned
      508 patients. As a result of this interim look, the final analysis of the primary endpoint
      would require a p < 0.0476 to be declared statistically significant. Analysis of the
      secondary endpoints and other outcomes will be conducted at the 0.05 significance level.
    
  