
    
      Study IPI-549-01 is a first-in-human multicenter, open-label, up to five-part Phase 1/1b
      dose-escalation study designed to evaluate safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), and
      pharmacodynamics (PD) of IPI-549 monotherapy and IPI-549 in combination with nivolumab in
      subjects with advanced solid tumors.

      Approximately 175 subjects will receive IPI-549, either as a monotherapy or in combination
      with nivolumab. Subjects will receive IPI-549 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is
      achieved or until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Part A (QD dosing) (and Part B (BID dosing) if necessary) a dose escalation part of the study
      will evaluate the safety and tolerability, PK, and PD of IPI-549 as a single agent in
      subjects with advanced solid tumors. Part A/B will determine the recommended phase 2 dose
      (RP2D) for IPI-549 single agent that is going to be administered in Part D as a single agent
      and Part C in combination with nivolumab.

      Part C a dose-escalation part of the study will evaluate the safety and tolerability, PK, and
      PD of IPI-549 when administered in combination with IV nivolumab 240 mg every 2 weeks (Q2W)
      in subjects with advanced solid tumors. Part C will determine the RP2D for the combination of
      IPI-549 and nivolumab (combination RP2D).

      Part D will evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, PD, and preliminary clinical activity of
      IPI-549 administered as a single agent in a cohort of subjects with advanced solid tumors.
      Part D, Cycle 2 will also include a pilot food (a high-fat meal) effect evaluation that will
      have 8 subjects out of the entire cohort of subjects participating in the Part D.

      Part E will evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, PD, and preliminary clinical activity of
      IPI-549 in combination with intravenous (IV) nivolumab 240 mg Q2W in a cohort of subjects
      with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), a cohort of subjects with melanoma and a cohort of
      subjects with Squamous Cell Cancer of the Head and Neck (SCCHN). One or more cohorts of
      subjects with additional tumor types may be enrolled if supported by data generated in dose
      escalation or earlier expansion cohorts. To be eligible for enrollment in Part E, subjects
      must have received an anti-PD1/PD-L1 as their most recent treatment prior to study entry. The
      dose level to be administered in Part E will be the combination RP2D as determined in Part C.

      Part F will evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, PD, and preliminary clinical activity of
      IPI-549 in combination with intravenous (IV) nivolumab 240 mg Q2W in a cohort of subjects
      with triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). One or more cohorts of subjects with additional
      tumor types may be enrolled if supported by data generated in dose escalation or earlier
      expansion cohorts. To be eligible for enrollment in Part E, subjects must have no prior
      anti-PD1/PD-L1 therapy. The dose level to be administered in Part E will be the combination
      RP2D as determined in Part C.

      Part G will evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, PD, and preliminary clinical activity of
      IPI-549 in combination with intravenous (IV) nivolumab 240 mg Q2W in a cohort of subjects
      with adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) and a cohort of subjects with mesothelioma who have
      received at least first line available therapy. One or more cohorts of subjects with
      additional tumor types may be enrolled if supported by data generated in dose escalation or
      earlier expansion cohorts. The dose level to be administered in Part E will be the
      combination RP2D as determined in Part C.

      Part H will evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, and preliminary clinical activity of
      IPI-549 in combination with IV nivolumab 240 mg Q2W in subjects with advanced cancer with
      high-circulating MDSCs (ie, ≥ 20.5% as measured by Serametrix CLIA-certified assay); other
      indication(s) are to be determined. For subject's with a microsatellite instability-high
      tumor, or tumor type for which anti-PD-1/anti-PD-L1 therapy is considered standard of care,
      that subject must have previously received an anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 therapy.
    
  