
    
      CPP affects up to 24% women worldwide accounts for 20% of UK gynaecological clinic referrals
      and has a considerable impact on patients' quality of life and their income. CPP costs the
      NHS € 3.3bn per year. Despite costly interventions CPP is often resistant to surgical and
      medical treatment. Multifactorial psychological and somatic causes require a multidimensional
      approach. Psychological and somatic causes require a multidimensional approach, which is not
      routinely offered in gynaecology clinics.

      Randomized Control Trial (RCT-) evidence suggests that primary inclusion of psychological
      interventions may be superior to primary surgery. Although psychological treatment is
      provided across the NHS, mostly in the context of primary care Improving Access to
      Psychological

      Therapies there are problems with capacity, waiting times and overall number of patients
      being able to access services. Alternatively, patient self-management (PSM) is now recognised
      as a tool empowering patients to cope better with their condition.

      Mindfulness meditation is a potentially valuable PSM tool in CPP.

      The investigators conducted a systematic search of literature (07/2013, updated 12/2013) and
      found no RCTs on mindfulness meditation in CPP. However, two small pilot trials, one in CPP
      and one in endometriosis patients with promising results.

      The investigators decided to undertake a systematic review on the effect of mindfulness
      meditation and extend the search to other chronic pain conditions (e.g. back pain, headache,
      fibromyalgia and diabetic neuropathy) because previous systematic reviews had number of
      limitations, such as not reporting effect size. Two independent reviewers assessed the risk
      of bias systematically using Review Manager (RevMan) 5.2 software. Out of 472 citations 9
      RCTs were finally included. Most studies were of moderate quality; sample sizes were
      generally small.

      Mindfulness meditation had positive effects on depression in chronic pain patients (SMD
      -0.28; 95%CI -0.53, -0.03; p = 0.03). A trend in reduction of anxiety and affective pain and
      a trend towards better QUOL, especially the mental health component and better pain
      acceptance was observed. Only one of the included studies reported the important measure of
      pain acceptance. If a larger sample size had been available it would have been likely that
      this and other health outcomes would have shown significant improvements, as was seen in
      depression (which was studied on n=259 patients), rather than trends. It is the investigators
      intention to add results to the body of research from a future full-scale trial.

      Currently Mindfulness-based treatment is creating lively research interest. Two recent
      systematic reviews report positive effects on somatisation disorders and psychological
      stress. Although there is no ongoing study on patients with CPP, other chronic diseases with
      strong psychological components of depression and anxiety such as COPD and the RFPB-funded
      pilot study PATHWAYS on Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension are underway.

      Of particular interest, due to the similarities in study design to MEMPHIS, is a recently
      closed pilot study, MIMS (UKCRN ID 13105) that investigated adjustment to multiple sclerosis.

      In MIMS meditation teaching was delivered by videoconference. Web-based delivery has also
      been explored and shown to be feasible for reducing stress, anxiety and depression; both
      options are lacking the flexibility of a smartphone app, which is being proposed. There is
      evolving work on care pathways through primary secondary and tertiary levels for patients
      with CPP and recently mindfulness meditation has been introduced in Dorset, albeit delivered
      face-to-face. This could be replaced by cheaper and more flexible app-delivered meditation
      training.

      This study will address the knowledge gaps and provide by:

        1. Providing feasibility data for a large multicentre RCT aimed at rigorously testing
           Mindfulness meditation in CPP

        2. Establishing whether this app could be seamlessly integrated into CPP pathways
    
  