
    
      Combination antiretroviral therapy has resulted in significantly decreased morbidity and
      mortality, incidence of opportunistic infections, and hospitalizations in HIV infected
      people. However, because of long-term toxicities associated with long-term use of
      antiretrovirals and the persistence of virus in latent reservoirs, it is unclear when it is
      best to initiate therapy in recently infected individuals. This study compared the virologic
      outcomes of adults recently infected with HIV who received emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil
      fumarate (FTC/TDF), coformulated as Truvada, and lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/RTV), coformulated
      as Kaletra [immediate treatment (IT arm)], with those who received no treatment [deferred
      treatment (DT arm)].

      The original study lasted 96 weeks. Participants were randomly assigned to one of two groups
      (IT arm vs. DT arm). For the first 36 weeks of the study, IT arm participants received
      FTC/TDF once daily and LPV/RTV twice daily. Some IT arm participants received a different ART
      regimen as determined by the participant and study staff, if appropriate. DT arm participants
      received no treatment for the duration of the study. At Week 37, participants from both arms
      were offered treatment continuation or initiation until Week 96 if they had a high viral
      load, low CD4 count, or experienced HIV-related symptoms (Step 2). Study visits occurred at
      screening, Weeks 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, 32, 36, 37, 38, 40, and every 4 weeks
      thereafter. Clinical assessment and blood collection occurred at all visits. Urine tests
      occurred at selected visits. Participants were asked to complete an adherence questionnaire
      at Weeks 12, 24, and 36.

      Per the recommendations the DSMB review in June 2009, this protocol was terminated as
      originally written with the exception of those participants in the IT arm in the middle of
      the first 36 weeks of treatment. Those participants were to continue on treatment until the
      end of the 36 weeks. At that point treatment decisions were made on best practice guidelines.
      In addition, the study duration was extended to include a 5 year follow up of participants
      who did not initiate long-term antiretroviral therapy (Step 3).

      The study was reviewed by an SMC on December 8, 2010. The SMC recommended the study close to
      long term follow-up because only very few participants enrolled in this portion of the study.

      All the results except for the CD4 analysis and time to treatment initiation and deaths were
      based on the database frozen on July 2, 2009. The results for the CD4 analysis and time to
      treatment initiation and deaths were based on the database frozen on January 30, 2012.
    
  