
    
      This is a biomarker study with the goal of measuring changes in protein and RNA expression.
      This study is not intended for use in diagnosing, mitigating, treating, curing, or preventing
      disease.

      66 women at high risk for breast cancer (gail risk >/= 1.66% for 5 year risk, or personal or
      family history)will be recruited and enrolled. 22 women will be randomized into each arm,
      with anticipation of 2 women in each group will not be evaluable, leaving 20 in each group
      for evaluation.

      A combination of vitamin D and celecoxib act synergistically to decrease breast cancer risk
      by decreasing cell proliferation in the mammary epithelium through their action on
      prostaglandin synthesis and metabolism.

      Specific Aims:

      In women at increased breast cancer risk, determine the effect of vitamin D, with or without
      celecoxib, on

        1. PG synthesis and metabolism, through the measurement of 15-PGDH, COX-2, and PGE2 in the
           breast

           Rationale: 1,25(OH)2D, the active form of vitamin D, has been shown in vitro to decrease
           PGE2 both by interfering with its production and by increasing its breakdown, leading to
           lower cell proliferation. Celecoxib potentiated the antiproliferative effect, allowing a
           much lower dose of each agent when used in combination than in isolation.

        2. Proliferative activity in the breast, as measured by Mammary Ductoscopy (MD) cell
           morphology

           Rationale: Both MD and Nipple Aspirate Fluid (NAF) contain ductal epithelial cells, but
           MD samples contain more cells for cytologic review than NAF. Findings on MD cytology
           correlate with likelihood of breast cancer (2), NAF cytology relates to breast cancer
           risk and improves risk stratification (3), and bioactive food components can alter NAF
           cytology (4).

        3. Circulating levels of 25(OH)D, 1,25(OH)2D, and celecoxib, and determine if the levels of
           these compounds correlate with response to markers of PG synthesis and metabolism or
           cell proliferation.
    
  