
    
      Description of the project: The main objective of this prospective biological single center
      study (non interventional) is to identify non invasive biomarkers able to diagnose acute GVHD
      and/or predict outcome of patients with acute GVHD. The primary objective of the study is
      double: (1): to evaluate markers as diagnostic markers of GVHD (2): to evaluate the potential
      of the markers as risk factor for steroid-refractory acute GVHD occurrence. Secondary
      objectives are: -to evaluate the markers as risk factors for GVHD -to evaluate the potential
      of these markers as prognostic factors of 6-month non-relapse mortality in patients with
      acute GVHD-to evaluate the additional value of the biomarkers to predict GVHD or
      steroid-refractory GVHD as compared to other known and routinely used risk factors (clinical
      grading system, performance status, albuminemia...). Stools and blood will be on day 7, 14,
      21, 28 after transplantation and the first day of digestive GVHD. Management of patients will
      not differ from the usual care. Fecal calprotectin and alpha 1 anti-trypsin, plasmatic RER3a,
      IL-8, Elafin, TNFaR1, IL-2R alpha, HGF will be measured at each points by ELISA tests. 315
      patients would be sufficient to estimate the area under the ROC curve with a half-width of
      the 99% confidence interval of 0.05, assuming 60% of patients would develop acute GVHD, and
      normally distributed markers. The diagnosis and prognosis values will be analyzed separately.

      Expected results: If some biomarkers are found significantly associated with diagnosis or
      prognosis of acute GVHD, they will be compared with the current clinical, biological and
      histological markers. Indeed, these markers have a clinical potential impact only if they
      give similar or better information than routine currently available markers, ie: clinical
      GVHD grading system, performance status, gut endoscopy and histology. The non-invasivity of
      these biomarkers should also be taken into account (in comparison to histology).

      Identification of diagnostic markers will avoid useless treatment with high dose
      corticosteroids in patients without GVHD Identification of prognostic markers will comfort
      the decision of a second-line treatment sooner than usually, ie: at GVHD onset. Indeed, the
      onset of a second-line treatment after a steroid-refractory GVHD varies from 3 to 21 days
      depending on clinical evolution of patients. If some prognostic markers are available at
      diagnosis, delay in second-line treatment can be shortened and the patient can consequently
      have an increased chance to response to an early treatment.

      Identification of prognostic markers will also guide the corticosteroids decrease in patients
      with good prognosis GVHD
    
  