
    
      This is an open-label immunogenicity and safety study of live attenuated Measles Vaccine
      (Attenuvax) and Measles-Mumps-Rubella (MMR-II) vaccine administered to healthy children at 6
      (n=70), 9 (n=70), or 12 (n=70) months of age. Attenuvax (Measles Virus Vaccine Live, Merck &
      Co., Inc) and MMR-II (Measles-Mumps-Rubella Virus Vaccine Live, Merck & Co., Inc) will be
      delivered as 0.5 mL per dose, administered subcutaneously. Both vaccines are licensed for use
      in infants in the United States. MMR-II is recommended as part of the childhood immunization
      schedule by the AAP and ACIP, and Attenuvax is recommended for use as a single component
      vaccine in infants 6-11 months particularly for foreign travel and in measles outbreaks79.
      Infants vaccinated with Attenuvax at 6 or 9 months receive MMR-II at 12 months of age as
      recommended for follow-up vaccination. Immunization against measles is given as a trivalent
      formulation with mumps and rubella and is indicated as a primary dose at 12-15 months of age
      with a second dose recommended routinely at time of school entry, 4-6 years of age, but can
      be given at any earlier age provided that the interval between the first and second doses is
      at least 4 weeks .

      Two hundred and ten healthy children attending the Palo Alto Medical Clinic will be recruited
      into one of three cohorts over a five year period. (Table 1). All children in cohort 1 and 2
      (6 and 9 month old infants) will receive Attenuvax as part of their participation in this
      study followed by MMR-II at 12 months of age as part of their routine WCC and not as a study
      vaccine. Infants recruited into cohort 3, (twelve month old infants) will receive one dose of
      MMR-II at 12 months. All infants in the study (cohort 1, 2 or 3) are receiving MMR-II at 12
      months as part of their routine childhood vaccines. The vaccination schedules is summarized
      in Table 1. Other immunizations as required for routine WCC will be administered
      simultaneously. Participation will entail 2-4 visits, 2-3 blood samples, and 1-2
      immunizations and will end after the 9-18 month visit, totaling 3 to 12 months time of
      participation for a subject depending on cohort and if participants opt for a second
      follow-up blood sample.
    
  