
    
      50-100 PCOS and 50-100 normal women matched for age (<37 yr) and BMI (<35) will be studied.
      PCOS and normal women in the mid-follicular phase (day 5-7) of the menstrual cycle will
      receive an iv injection of hCG as previously described (see Experimental Design). Basal and
      stimulated blood samples will be assessed for 17OHP, androgens, gonadotropins and AMH.
      Detailed 3-D ultrasound imaging will be done prior to hCG stimulation (see Experimental
      Design). Ovarian morphology will include volume, antral follicle number, and the size of each
      follicle visualized.

      Screening 100 women with PCOS and 100 normal women will be studied.

      PCOS will be defined according to NIH criteria:

        -  <8 spontaneous menses per year

        -  hyperandrogenism clinically (Ferriman-Gallway score≥8 or total testosterone>0.5ng/ml).

        -  Absence of CAH, hyperprolactinemia, thyroid disorder, Cushings syndrome, hypothalamic
           anovulation.

      Subjects will have a screening visit to establish eligibility and to sign the informed
      consent. They will have a history and physical examination performed which will include a
      urine pregnancy test, a transvaginal ultrasound, thyroid studies, a fasting chemistry panel,
      and a hemoglobin.

      Experimental Design Phase 1 (Pretreatment)

        1. In all subjects images of the both ovaries will be obtained using 3D technology and the
           number, size, and spatial arrangement of ovarian follicles will be noted for both
           ovaries in each subject.

        2. Normal subjects will be studied during the mid-follicular phase of the cycle (Days 5-9)
           while PCOS women will be anovulatory and will not have a cycle day parameter.

        3. On study day one, recombinant-hCG (r-hCG) will be administered intravenously at a dose
           of 25 micrograms.

        4. Blood samples will be obtained at 1 hour before (T = -1), immediately prior (T = 0), and
           24 hours after (T = +24) iv hCG injection.

        5. Sera will be assayed at all time points for steroid and peptide hormones including
           17OHP, androstenedione, testosterone, estradiol, progesterone, LH, FSH, and AMH.

        6. All subjects will undergo an oral glucose tolerance test. Each will be placed on a
           300-gram carbohydrate diet for three days before the study. On the day of testing each
           subject will ingest 75 gm of a glucose solution and blood samples for glucose and
           insulin will be obtained at 0, 15, 30, 60, 120 and 180 minutes after the glucose load.

      Phase 2 (Posttreatment)

        1. Each PCOS subject will be administered metformin, 1500 mg/day for 3 months. All subjects
           will be encouraged to maintain same dietary and exercise activity throughout the course
           of study.

        2. After 3 months of treatment, all tests as described in Phase 1 will be repeated.
    
  