
    
      A total of 188 evaluable male subjects are required. Taking into account a dropout rate of
      approximately 10%, a total of 208 healthy male subjects who meet the required entry criteria
      will be randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups in a 1:1:1:1 ratio to receive a
      single IV infusion of HLX04, EU Avastin® or US Avastin®. The first 8 subjects (with at least
      2 subjects receiving HLX04) will be dosed as a maximum of 1 subject per day. Prior to
      administration of study drug to the next subject, the safety findings of the preceding
      subject must be reviewed by the Principal Investigator. Each subject will be required to
      remain in the study center for 96 hours after dosing (overnight) for safety evaluation. After
      the first 8 subjects are evaluated and the experimental drug deemed safe, the Principal
      Investigator will decide the continuous enrollment in the four parallels according to the
      Phase I clinical trial unit capability.

      The duration of participation for each subject is expected to be approximately120 days
      starting with a 21 day screening period, followed by administration of study drug and a 99
      day follow up period.

      After the follow up visit on Day 99, subjects who are confirmed positive for anti drug
      antibody (ADA) will be followed for 12 months after study drug administration or until 2
      consecutive samples are tested negative for ADA.

      The start of study is considered the date of the first subject providing informed consent and
      the end of study will be the last subject's last scheduled visit (Day 99 or early
      termination). Additional follow up visits for subjects who are positive for ADAs or have
      ongoing/resolving adverse events (AEs) will be conducted and recorded separately.

      Subjects who meet all eligibility criteria and have signed the informed consent form (ICF)
      will be admitted to the Phase I clinical trial unit the day prior to dosing (Day 1) and will
      be discharged 96 hours postdose on Day 5. Then after, subjects will be followed up and
      continue participation in the study on an outpatient basis for further safety assessments,
      for blood sampling for PK and to test for ADA and neutralizing ADA (NADA) at selected visits.
    
  