
    
      For breast cancer patients who are candidates to receive chemotherapy, concurrent use of
      temporary ovarian suppression with gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists (GnRHa) can be
      offered as ovarian protection. A recent meta-analysis of individual patient data from the
      largest randomised clinical trials in women with early breast cancer indicated beneficial
      effects of GnRHa ovarian suppression in reducing POI risk and increasing post-chemotherapy
      pregnancy rates with no negative effect on patients' outcomes. However, it should not be
      considered as an alternative to cryopreservation strategies in fertility preservation.

      Because ovarian stimulation for oocyte cryopreservation is usually performed using a GnRH
      antagonist protocol and typically involves final oocyte maturation triggering with a GnRH
      agonist, the investigators designed this study to explore the feasibility of combining the
      final oocyte maturation trigger and the start of ovarian suppression. Replacement of the
      0,2mg triptorelin trigger by a GnRH agonist depot has potential to provide this dual action.
      However, the protracted action of the GnRH agonist depot will result in prolonged stimulation
      of multiple corpora lutea, which will lead to enhanced production of steroids (estradiol and
      progesterone) and growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor. Consequently,
      GnRH agonist-induced stimulation of multiple corpora lutea is potentially unsafe in a patient
      with breast cancer because of the impact of estradiol and progesterone on breast tumour
      cells. In addition, VEGF may increase the risk of OHSS, which will lead to postponement of
      cancer treatment. Therefore, short-term cotreatment with GnRH antagonists is needed to induce
      rapid luteolysis.

      To demonstrate the safety of GnRH agonist depot triggering followed by daily GnRH antagonist
      luteolysis, this pilot study is set out to analyse the endocrine profile and ovarian
      morphology of this novel protocol.

      Patients will be randomized before start of stimulation to either DEPOT group (group A) or
      control group (group B), only after patient eligibility has been established and patient
      consent has been obtained.
    
  