
    
      Based on modern knowledge about the neuro-plastic changes that occur immediately after brain
      injuries, rehabilitation should be more effective when started soon after brain damaged.
      Besides, knowledge about one of the factors that determine efficacy of rehabilitation is the
      commencement of treatment, as well as on the time interval from stroke to initiate voluntary
      movement. Therefore, many studies had reported that the effectiveness of functional
      electrical stimulation (FES) and transcutaneous electrical nerves stimulation (TENS), which
      induce stimulation and the excitability, were widely applied in rehabilitation for patients
      with stroke. However, many investigations about the effects of FES or TENS on motor recovery
      for the stroke patients mainly focus on the chronic stage as well as compared each of two
      different kinds of stimulation separately. Hence the investigators will study the impacts of
      TENS and FES on the motor recovery for the stroke patients from the acute stage. Bedsides,
      the investigators also study that whether patients after stroke in the acute stage who
      received adding TENS experienced similar impacts on motor recovery to those who received
      adding FES.

      This was a single-blind randomized control trial study. The study recruited 40 subjects from
      stroke center of National Taiwan Hospital (NTUH) within 3 days after first stroke onset. All
      subjects were in stable medically control and assigned randomly to 1 of 3 groups including
      (1)Functional electrical stimulation (FES) + standard rehabilitation (SR) ,(2) Transcutaneous
      electrical nerves stimulation (TENS) + SR or (3)SR only (control group).The application of
      FES and TENS was used for 30 minutes per day, 5 days per week for 2 weeks. The surface
      electrodes of two dual channels were applied on tibialis anterior and quadriceps for FES and
      TENS group. All groups received SR including neuro-facilitation and functional task training
      etc.

      Outcome measurements were analyzed with repeated measure analysis of variance using SPSS to
      compare the main effects before, during, and after treatment, followed by post-hoc tests with
      Bonferroni correction to compare treatment effects among the 3 groups. For categorical
      variables, a X2 test was used. The significance level was set at 5% (2-tailed).
    
  