
    
      The study will incorporate mixed methods: formative (qualitative) research, and a stepped
      wedge cluster randomized intervention trial and process evaluation. It is anticipated that
      the results of this study will provide data for policy level actions on newborn survival in
      Cambodia and in other settings with similar health outcomes. The study may contribute to the
      potential scale up of a linked model of community-facility care for newborns.

      Globally, infection causes approximately 35% of all newborn mortality [1]. Verbal autopsy
      data collected in Svay Rieng province in 2009 show that bacterial sepsis is the likely cause
      in 40% of newborn deaths, by far the largest category (exceeding the next highest cause by
      17%) [2].

      The NICCI intervention addresses a number of barriers identified by the Royal Government of
      Cambodia and USAID to improving neonatal survival, including the capacity and performance of
      health providers to deliver newborn care through strengthened training; upgrading hygiene
      through enhanced infection control in facilities; and increasing community engagement in the
      demand for and delivery of health services for newborns through improving referral processes
      and addressing barriers to timely care seeking. The proposed study will address the crucial
      gap in post-natal care by linking the community (via Village Health Support Groups) with
      Health Center staff to follow mothers and newborns during the first week of life

      Quality Assurance: Investigators will include provision for the management of all data
      collection and will include appropriate procedures in a Standard Operating Practices
      document. Training of data collectors at the start of the study will ensure quality and
      consistency and supervisory monitoring of data collection will occur monthly.

      Data Checks and Data Source Verification: Data will be collected, checked, and entered into a
      data management system at the National Institute of Public Health. All participants will be
      identified by a unique identifier which will be the link for all databases. All study data
      will be collected by project staff so outcomes do not depend on subject compliance other than
      refusal to answer project surveys (although study participants always have a right to decline
      to answer a survey based on informed consent principles). Data collected in the community
      will be transferred to central databases at NIPH and entered into a database using REDcap or
      a comparable program that is compatible with data management capacity at NIPH. The
      investigators will use special screens with filters for invalid entries and identification of
      missing values for data entry verification. Analysis will be conducted in SPSS and/or SAS.

      Sample Size: Using all cause newborn mortality as the primary outcome and stepped wedge
      design sample size calculation (power analysis) for cluster randomized trials, the
      investigators required a total sample size of 1,938 subjects based on 80% power, 5%
      significance level, and 10% rate of loss-to-follow up to detect a 20% reduction with a
      baseline neonatal mortality of 40 deaths/1,000 live births in target provinces and an
      intra-class correlation coefficient of 0.0007256.

      Withdrawal from the Study: Study subjects may withdraw voluntarily from participation at any
      time. Participants may also voluntarily withdraw from receiving the study intervention at any
      time. The study team will attempt to follow those who withdraw from the study in order to
      collect safety data if applicable.

      Termination of Study: Although very unlikely, discontinuation would occur if a statistically
      significant increase or decrease in neonatal deaths was detected in the intervention area and
      reasons for that correlated in any way to the content of the intervention.

      Formative Study:

      The investigators will conduct qualitative data collection from FGD with staff from 15 health
      centers, one-on-one interview with 20 VHSG and with 30 mothers of newborn. The study will
      allow us to get an overall knowledge on the knowledge and practices on newborn by HC and
      community before the implementation phase.

      The baseline data will be collected from the comparison cluster during the course of
      intervention phase, environmental assessment checklist used in the health facilities which
      the investigators will use before the start of the intervention and during the interventions,
      and the planned formative research.

      Intervention Study:

      Determine the 1st HC for conducting the intervention. The investigators will randomly select
      one health center (HC) from among the 16 HCs. For the second and the subsequent HCs, the
      investigators will select the HC which is close to the first HC, and the investigators will
      continue this process until all the 16 HC are selected.

      Training HC Staff: during the training for the first HC (which will be happening in the first
      month of the intervention phase), MCH (Maternal and Child Health) Focal Person and SC will
      conduct the training and HC Coordinators/other project staff will observe the training.
      Subsequent training for the HC staff will be conducted by HC Coordinators with the
      supervision support from Provincial Health Department (PHD) MCH Focal Person and SC. NICCI
      will conduct training for one HC each month. Before each training starts, the trainers will
      introduce a HC Data Form (only the relevant parts) to collect baseline data from the
      trainees. This training will go over a period of 16 months for the 16 health centers.

      Training VHSG: during the first month of the intervention phase, the investigators will also
      organize training for VHSG under the HC's coverage (one HC at a time). This training will go
      over a period of 16 months. Before each training starts, the trainers will introduce VHSG
      Data Form (only relevant parts) to collect baseline data from the trainees.

      Blood Samples from Sick Newborn: The investigators anticipate that pathogenic bacteria will
      be isolated in about 10% of the 200-300 blood samples to be tested over the 2 year period of
      the intervention-control study.

      HC Coordinators Conduct Supportive Supervision to HC Staff in Intervention Clusters: the two
      HC Coordinators will jointly conduct monthly supportive supervision to the HC under the
      Invention Cluster. During the supervision, the HC Coordinators will perform the following:

      Check whether NICCI's training/education materials for HC are available and used by HC staff;
      discuss with HC staff whether the staff recall 6 newborn danger signs and hygiene messages
      (hygiene for mothers/newborn/home and hygiene for HC staff themselves including knowledge on
      infection control); re-enforce HC staff (observe if applicable) to provide education to
      mothers on newborn care, newborn danger signs, and hygiene at home; re-enforce the practice
      of infection control according to NICCI training materials, and check whether HC staff have
      the skill and the materials/supplies to implement the infection control activities as written
      in the training materials; review birth register and ANC registers to assist HC staff in care
      coordination and assist VHSG Coordinators in pregnant women enrollment, e.g. HC communicate
      more effectively with VHSG; check whether HC staff, who provide ANC services, ask the
      pregnant women about meeting with VHSG in their villages, if the pregnant women have not met
      VHSG, HC needs to provide information about the pregnant women to relevant VHSG (call VHSG
      telephone), HC Coordinators can assist in this activity by comparing the name of pregnant
      women in the HC ANC register with the enrollment list; check whether the HC staff have done
      their work on care coordination with VHSG (e.g. call VHSG after the mother/newborn leave the
      HC) and inform VHSG on pregnant women enrollment as they have been trained; re-enforce this
      practice or confirm the HC staff if the HC staff have done properly; check whether the HC has
      an update enrollment list (so that HC staff know whether a woman come for delivery is the
      study participant). HC Coordinators need to work with VHSG Coordinators to ensure that HC
      staff have an up to date list (e.g. up to a month preceding the month in which HC Coordinator
      conduct the supervision).

      The two HC Coordinators must have a supportive supervision book to record what activities the
      HC Coordinators have done during each supervision visit, with a clear supervision date and
      name of the HC. The record for each supervision visit should be ended by a summary of the
      finding and follow up actions.

      HC Coordinators Conduct Weekly Visit to Each HC Under Comparison Clusters: the purpose of the
      visit is to collect information about the enrolled participants who have birth delivery in
      the HC so that the project has the information to interview the mothers/newborn in their
      villages on the 14th and 28th day after the delivery. In the visit, HC Coordinators collect
      the information and share the information with Data Manager. The Data Manager registers the
      information in the database and provide information to VHSG Coordinators for the VHSG
      Coordinators to meet each mother/newborn on the 14th day and on the 28th day. The information
      include: participant name and ID, and date of delivery. During the visit, HC Coordinators
      will also provide up to date enrollment list to the HC. It is also an option if the HC
      Coordinators think that they can secure this activity without visiting the HC and with only
      communicate with the HC through mobile phone

      VHSG Coordinators Conduct Supportive Supervision to VHSG in Intervention Cluster: each VHSG
      Coordinator will be assigned to be responsible for approx. 54 villages, and needs to conduct
      supervision to each village every two months; the supervision will be conducted only for
      villages where VHSG have already been trained by NICCI. With the guidance from SC, VHSG
      Coordinators will develop a written schedule for VHSG supervision (two monthly schedule,
      which is equal to one round of supervision). During the supervision to each eligible village
      (meeting VHSG), the VHSG Coordinators will perform the following:

      Check VHSG Pregnant Women Register to see whether VHSG has conducted proper registration:
      complete the register correctly, seem to register all the pregnant women (according to the
      estimated number of pregnant women in each village) Check VHSG whether they have communicated
      with their relevant HC on: mother coming home and other care coordination, and whether HC
      informed them about pregnant women in their villages and who have not been registered or
      contacted by the VHSG.

      Discuss with VHSG about their knowledge, re-enforce their knowledge on: 6 newborn danger
      signs, newborn care as in the training/education materials, home hygiene by the family,
      message on care seeking; and check whether the VHSG have and use the NICCI's
      training/education/thermometer materials and re-enforce the use of the education materials
      when necessary.

      Discuss whether VHSG conduct the three visits to mother/newborn: 24hours, 3rd, and 7th day,
      and discuss with VHSG whether they understand and use the VHSG Home Visit's materials.

      Enroll/interview new pregnant women (using Consent Form and the Enrollment and Baseline
      Form), provide the completed forms to the Data Manager.

      Each VHSG Coordinator must have a supervision record book, recording activities they have
      done during each supervision visit to each village (with name of VHSG), with a summary of the
      findings and clear follow up actions. SC will design this supervision Record Book for the
      VHSG Coordinators.

      VHSG Coordinators Enroll Pregnant Women in Comparison Clusters: each VHSG Coordinator will
      travel to their designated villages under the comparison cluster every two months. During
      each visit, the VHSG Coordinators will perform the followings:

      Discuss with VHSG to assist them in completing the pregnant women registration Meet with
      pregnant women (with the support from VHSG) who meet the criteria of enrollment (e.g. at
      their last semester of pregnancy) to enroll the pregnant women using Consent Form, and the
      Enrollment and Baseline Form.

      HC Coordinators Conduct Data Collection from HC: the two HC Coordinators will jointly conduct
      the data collection from each HC every six months, using HC Data Collection Form. After
      completing, the HC Coordinators send the Form to Data Manager for his/her verification and
      data entry. SC and Data Manager will work closely with and assist HC Coordinators in the
      development of data collection plan for each data collection round (one round lasts for six
      month). The Data Manager will help SC to closely monitor HC Coordinators in adhering to the
      data collection plan and provide prompt feedback to SC and HC Coordinators.

      VHSG Coordinators Conduct Data Collection from VHSG: each VHSG Coordinator will conduct
      interview with VHSG who work in their designated villages (approx. 50 village per VHSG
      Coordinator) every six month, using VHSG Data Form. After completing the Form, VHSG
      Coordinators send the completed Form to Data Manager for his/her verification and data entry.
      SC and Data Manager will work closely with and assist VHSG Coordinators in the development of
      data collection plan for each data collection round (one round lasts for six month), the Data
      Manager will help SC to closely monitor VHSG Coordinators in adhering to the data collection
      plan and provide prompt feedback to SC and VHSG Coordinators.

      VHSG Coordinators Conduct Data Collection from Mothers/Caretakers: each VHSG Coordinator
      ensures that all registered mother/newborn (in his or her designated villages) are
      interviewed on the 14th and the 28th day after delivery. To know whether VHSG Coordinator has
      a mother/newborn to interview for a month, the VHSG Coordinator needs to work closely with
      the data manager who will generate the list of mother/newborn to visit on the 14th and on the
      28th day.
    
  