
    
      Within this definition, patients can further be defined as having silent, potential, or
      latent celiac disease. The term silent celiac disease refers to patients fulfilling the
      definition above, but presenting no symptoms. Typically, such diagnoses are made by screening
      asymptomatic individuals, who are at increased risk for celiac disease. The term potential
      celiac disease describes patients who have specific serum autoantibodies and may or may not
      have symptoms consistent with celiac disease, but lack evidence of the autoimmune damage to
      the intestinal mucosa. A final category of celiac patients is represented by the so-called
      latent celiac disease: individuals with normal mucosal morphology (like the potential) but
      known to have had a gluten-dependent enteropathy at some point in their life .

      Malabsorption results from injury to the small intestine with loss of absorptive surface
      area, reduction of digestive enzymes, and consequential impaired absorption of micronutrients
      such as fat-soluble vitamins, iron and potentially B12 and folic acid. In addition, the
      inflammation exacerbates symptoms of malabsorption by causing net secretion of fluid that can
      result in diarrhea. The failure of absorption of adequate calories leads to weight loss, and
      the malabsorption results in abdominal pain and bloating .

      A positive family history is a risk factor for celiac disease. The frequency of celiac
      disease is higher among first- and second-degree relatives of persons with celiac disease,
      although prevalence estimates range from 5 to 20 percent . Frequency of celiac disease is
      also higher among persons with other autoimmune diseases, such as type 1 diabetes mellitus,
      inflammatory luminal gastrointestinal disorders, Down syndrome, Turner's syndrome, IgA
      deficiency, and IgA nephropathy .

      Gastrointestinal and extra-intestinal manifestations of celiac disease include diarrhea,
      abdominal pain, abdominal distention, anorexia, vomiting, constipation, failure to thrive,
      chronic fatigue, anemia, osteoporosis, aphthous stomatitis, elevated liver enzymes,
      joint/muscle pain, epilepsy, and peripheral neuropathy .

      Clinical practice guidelines recommend to starting with the serum anti-tissue
      transglutaminase IgA antibodies (anti-tTG IgA) test as a diagnostic testing for celiac
      disease. The tTG IgA test is the standard method of testing for celiac disease . Clinical
      practice in guidelines the United States and Europe recommend intestinal biopsy to confirm
      the diagnosis of celiac disease (e.g., based on presence of villous atrophy hyperplasia of
      crypts, and increase of intraepithelial lymphocytes) and to distinguish celiac disease from
      other disorders affecting the small intestine. Intestinal biopsy may also be performed if
      clinical suspicion for celiac disease is high but serologic tests are negative . It has been
      suggested that a combination of serologic tests could be used to establish celiac disease
      diagnosis as an alternative to biopsy, but it is unclear how frequently celiac disease is
      diagnosed in the absence of biopsy in clinical practice.
    
  