
    
      AMR is one of the most challenging adverse events following kidney transplantation and a
      major cause of graft dysfunction and graft loss. AMR is triggered by donor-specific
      antibodies (DSA).Transplant glomerulopathy is a known consequence of persistent DSA
      positivity which results in graft failure and return to dialysis with attendant consequences
      for the patient and financial costs for the health care system.

      The time from transplantation to onset of clinical symptoms of AMR varies largely between
      individuals. An early AMR (<30 days post-transplant) is commonly classified as active AMR and
      most often triggered by an immunological recall response with pre-existing DSA. A late AMR
      (>30 days post-transplant) is classified as either active or chronic active AMR and is caused
      by either a recall DSA response or newly developing naïve immune response associated with de
      novo DSA production.

      There is no currently approved therapy for AMR and patients are often treated with a
      combination of therapies i.e., high dose IVIg +/- rituximab, PE with low dose IVIg +/-
      rituximab, and eculizumab which makes analysis of efficacy of any single agent difficult.
      Hence, there is a large unmet clinical need for new therapies to treat AMR.

      Imlifidase is an IgG-degrading enzyme of Streptococcus pyogenes that cleaves all four human
      subclasses of IgG with high efficacy and specificity. The rapidity of the IgG cleavage by
      imlifidase is considered a major advantage as compared with PE, which often requires several
      rounds over several days to achieve a sufficient DSA reduction. Within a few hours after
      imlifidase dosing, the entire pool of IgG is completely cleaved and thereby a window where
      IgG levels are kept very low for approximately one week is created.

      The short-term efficacy and safety of imlifidase in active and chronic active AMR is being
      investigated in a randomized, open-label, multi-centre trial, using PE as an active control
      (i.e. the feeder study: 16-HMedIdeS-12). A total of 30 subjects will be included in this
      study (20 in the imlifidase arm and 10 in the plasma exchange arm). The primary objective is
      to investigate the efficacy of imlifidase in removing DSA in patients who are experiencing an
      AMR episode after kidney transplantation.

      While a rapid removal of DSA by imlifidase might be expected, DSA is likely to rebound unless
      well-controlled by concomitant immunosuppressive therapy. Therefore, there is also a need to
      address the long-term outcome of imlifidase as an AMR therapy. This will be studied during an
      extended follow-up period of 3 years in this study. Data for parameters such as kidney graft
      survival, patient survival, kidney function, treatment of rebound of donor specific
      antibodies (DSA) and anti-drug antibodies (ADAs) will be collected.
    
  