
    
      A convenience sample of 30 runners from the United States Military Academy (USMA) at West
      Point, New York (NY) who are recovering from a lower-extremity injury and are interested in
      participating in a return to run program. Acceptable lower-extremity injuries can include
      stress fractures proximal to the ankle, anterior chronic exertional compartment syndrome
      (CECS), patella-femoral pain syndrome, osteoarthritis of the lower-extremity, iliotibial band
      syndrome, chronic lower-extremity pain and or any participant that may benefit from the
      following; shorter stride, increased step rate, reduced knee loading, and reduced ground
      reaction force average vertical loading rates (AVLR). All participants will be screened via
      questionnaire and physical assessment for inclusion / exclusion from the study. Upon
      enrollment runners will be randomized into two groups. Regardless of group, all runners will
      have their running form and foot strike pattern analyzed using an instrumented treadmill and
      high-speed motion capture initially and at week 10. Kinetic and kinematic data including
      AVLR, impulse, foot strike pattern (FSP), contact time, step length, and step rate will be
      recorded at these time points. Additionally, all runners will receive the same graduated
      return to run intervals and 4-week home exercise program. Runners randomized to the
      intervention group will receive additional video tele-health instruction on how to transition
      to a non-rearfoot strike (NRFS) running pattern. Runners in the intervention group will have
      additional tele-health follow-ups at weeks 1, 2, 4,6, 8, and 10 using a tele-conferencing
      program and the Hudl Technique application. At each tele-health video follow-up participants
      will be emailed a questionnaire assessing their progress and function. At month 6 a final
      data collection session to include video analysis will be performed.
    
  