
    
      Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) is a heterogeneous autoimmune disease that occurs in one in three
      people with the skin disease psoriasis. PsA can cause arthritis (joint inflammation),
      enthesitis (tendon and ligament inflammation), sausage digits (swollen entire finger or toe),
      spondyloarthritis (spinal inflammation). Skin involvement by psoriasis is also highly
      variable in terms of psoriasis type and location. Through combined skin and musculoskeletal
      involvement, psoriatic disease has a significant life impact with decrease quality of life
      including uncomfortable symptoms, ability to participate in life and functioning. Medications
      used to treat PsA have sometimes an uneven effect on the various PsA manifestations where
      some are more effective for skin while others more effective for the joints. In this context,
      clinical care and treatment of PsA is a complex process which balances disease activity with
      medication risks and benefits as well as patient priorities. Professional PsA treatments
      guidelines state that PsA treatment goals are disease remission or low disease activity.
      Several studies to date have shown that physicians tend to overestimate remission and low
      disease activity in PsA patients when compared to disease activity indices. Also patients and
      physicians frequently do not align on perceptions of remission or low disease activity. In
      the proposed study the investigators aim to identify predictors of successful treatment from
      a patient perspective on a range of disease measures including psoriasis, arthritis,
      enthesitis, dactylitis, patient reported outcomes, and laboratory assessments which are
      routinely collected in the clinical care of PsA. Secondary endpoints are to quantify
      longitudinally how stable a state of treatment success is from a patient perspective, and to
      define score ranges for disease measurements, including health-related quality of life
      measures, that correspond to treatment success from a patient perspective. The impact of this
      research is that the investigators will be able to define parameters predictive of achieving
      treatment success from a patient perspective, which will then inform goals of care for
      psoriatic arthritis.
    
  