
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of RAD001
      and once daily PTK787 when given in combination. (Cohort IA) II. To describe the toxicities
      associated with the combination of RAD001 and once daily PTK787. (Cohort IA) III. To evaluate
      the therapeutic antitumor activity of the combination of once daily PTK787 with RAD001.
      (Cohort IA) IV. To determine the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximally tolerated dose
      (MTD) of RAD001 and twice daily PTK787 when given in combination. (Cohort IB) V. To describe
      the toxicities associated with the combination of RAD001 and twice daily PTK787. (Cohort IB)
      VI. To evaluate the therapeutic antitumor activity of the combination of twice daily PTK787
      with RAD001. (Cohort IB) VII. To determine the MTD-Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) based on
      the MTD for Cohorts IA and IB. (Cohorts IA & IB) VIII. To investigate the biological activity
      of the combination of PTK787 with RAD001 at the MTD-RP2D. (Cohort II) IX. To evaluate the
      therapeutic antitumor activity of the combination of PTK787 with RAD001 at the MTD-RP2D.
      (Cohort II) X. To evaluate pharmacogenetic, metabolic and clinical markers that may predict
      for hypertension induced by anti-VEGF therapy. (Cohort II) XI. To obtain pilot data on
      efficacy outcomes in patients with metastatic kidney cancer, neuroendocrine cancer, NSCLC or
      melanoma. (Cohort II)

      OUTLINE:

      Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 cohorts, according to their disease (cohort IA, IB, or IIA
      [any histopathologic diagnosis] vs cohort IIB [metastatic kidney cancer, neuroendocrine
      cancer, melanoma, or non-small cell lung cancer). Patients are initially enrolled into
      cohorts IA and IB until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D)
      are determined. Once the MTD/RP2D of everolimus and vatalanib are determined, subsequent
      patients are enrolled and treated in expansion cohorts IIA or IIB.

      Cohorts 1A or 1B (dose escalation cohorts; closed to enrollment as of 12/6/06): Patients
      receive oral vatalanib once (cohort 1A) or twice (cohort 1B) daily on days 1-28 and oral
      everolimus once daily on days 15-28 of course 1. For all subsequent courses, patients receive
      oral vatalanib once (cohort 1A) or twice (cohort 1B) daily and oral everolimus once daily on
      days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Cohort IIA (expansion cohort treated at the MTD/RP2D): Patients receive oral everolimus once
      daily for 14 days followed by a 7-day rest period. Patients then receive oral vatalanib twice
      daily on days 1-28 and oral everolimus once daily on days 15-28 of course 1. For all
      subsequent courses, patients receive oral vatalanib twice daily and oral everolimus once
      daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohort IIB (expansion cohort treated at the MTD/RP2D): Patients receive oral vatalanib twice
      daily on days 1-28 and oral everolimus once daily on days 15-28 of course 1. For all
      subsequent courses, patients receive oral vatalanib twice daily and oral everolimus once
      daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 3 months.
    
  