
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of preoperative fludeoxyglucose F 18
      positron emission tomography (FDG-PET)/CT scanning and ferumoxtran-10 MRI scanning in
      identifying metastases to abdominal (common iliac, para-aortic, and paracaval) lymph nodes in
      patients with locoregionally advanced cervical carcinoma.

      II. Determine the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of preoperative FDG-PET/CT scanning
      and ferumoxtran-10 MRI scanning in identifying metastases to retroperitoneal abdominal lymph
      nodes in patients with high-risk endometrial cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of preoperative FDG-PET/CT scanning
      and ferumoxtran-10 MRI scanning in identifying metastases to pelvic lymph nodes and pelvic
      and abdominal lymph nodes combined in patients with locoregionally advanced cervical
      carcinoma or high-risk endometrial cancer.

      II. Compare the additive diagnostic value of CT fusion (PET/CT scan) vs PET scanning alone in
      identifying metastases to pelvic, abdominal, and combined (all regions) lymph nodes in these
      patients.

      III. Compare the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of PET/CT scanning vs ferumoxtran-10
      MRI scanning in identifying metastases to pelvic, abdominal, and combined lymph nodes in
      these patients.

      IV. Compare the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of ferumoxtran-10 MRI vs MRI alone, in
      terms of size criteria in the abdomen and pelvis, in these patients.

      V. Determine the percentage of patients with locoregionally advanced cervical cancer or
      high-risk endometrial cancer who have biopsy-proven disease outside the abdominal or pelvic
      lymph nodes detected by PET/CT scanning.

      VI. Determine the accuracy of MRI in determining the depth of myometrial invasion and
      involvement of cervix in patients with high-risk endometrial cancer.

      VII. Determine the complications associated with extraperitoneal or laparoscopic abdominal
      and pelvic lymphadenectomy in patients with locoregionally advanced cervical cancer.

      VIII. Determine the cause(s) of delay in the initiation of radiotherapy or interruption in
      radiotherapy in patients with locoregionally advanced cervical cancer.

      IX. Collect data on the adverse effects of ferumoxtran-10 in patients with locoregionally
      advanced cervical carcinoma or high-risk endometrial cancer.

      X. Compare the size of lymph nodes in pre- and post-ferumoxtran-10 MRI's in a subset of forty
      patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG) IV followed 60 minutes later by positron emission
      tomography (PET)/CT scanning on day 1. Patients also receive ferumoxtran-10 IV over 30-45
      minutes on day 1 (or 24-36 hours before MRI) and undergo MRI on day 2. Patients undergo
      extraperitoneal, laparoscopic, or trans-peritoneal lymphadenectomy with pelvic and abdominal
      lymph node biopsy within 2 weeks after PET/CT scan. Patients diagnosed with metastatic
      disease prior to lymph node biopsy proceed directly to primary treatment. Patients with
      cervical cancer undergo chemoradiotherapy within 4 weeks of PET/CT scan.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 6 weeks, 6 months, every 3 months
      for 2 years, and then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  