
    
      Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a leading cause of cardiovascular death and continues to be a
      major public health issue in the United States. The cornerstone of current VTE treatment is
      anticoagulation, typically given for ≥ 3 months during the acute phase of thrombosis.
      Afterwards, extended-duration anticoagulation can be considered for selected higher-risk
      patients. Treatment options for VTE have expanded substantially in recent years, most notably
      through the availability of direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs). Yet there are many remaining
      gaps in the understanding of how to manage VTE to maximize net clinical benefit.

      The long-range objective of this project is to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated
      with VTE in adults and evaluate contemporary treatment patterns and long-term outcomes after
      VTE. This initial phase of the study will assemble an observational cohort of adults with VTE
      diagnosed between 2010-2018. Study subjects will be identified from two integrated healthcare
      delivery systems (Kaiser Permanente Northern California and Kaiser Permanente Southern
      California) and followed until December, 2019. Data will be obtained from administrative and
      electronic health records, supplemented with a cross-sectional patient survey.

      The first two aims will be to compare the rates of recurrent VTE and hemorrhage between (1)
      extended anticoagulation vs. no extended anticoagulation after VTE; and (2) DOAC vs. warfarin
      treatment of VTE. The third specific aim is to describe patient-defined outcomes in adults
      with VTE in the current treatment era. This will be accomplished by surveying subjects with
      VTE to collect data on generic and disease-specific quality-of-life as well as on
      anticoagulant treatment satisfaction. Combining clinical, outcome, and survey data with
      administrative data will create a contemporary cohort of VTE patients that can serve as a
      rich source of information for use in facilitating comparative effectiveness research
      addressing optimal VTE management within real-world practice settings.
    
  