
    
      Background: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused a
      pandemic of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) with many patients developing severe hypoxic
      respiratory failure. Many patients have died, and healthcare systems in several countries
      have been or will be overwhelmed because of a surge of patients needing hospitalisation and
      intensive care. There is no proven treatment for COVID-19; the care is supportive, including
      respiratory and circulatory support. For other patient groups with similar critical illness
      (acute respiratory disease syndrome and septic shock), corticosteroids are used because they
      reduce the duration of mechanical ventilation, length of stay in the intensive care unit, and
      potentially also mortality. Corticosteroids have been used in some patients with COVID-19,
      but the recommendations in clinical guidelines differ; some suggest their use, others
      against.

      Objectives: We aim to assess the effects of low-dose intravenous hydrocortisone on the number
      of days alive without life-support in adult patients with COVID-19 and severe hypoxia.

      Design: Multicentre, parallel-group, centrally randomised, stratified, blinded, clinical
      trial.

      Population: Adult patients with documented COVID-19 receiving at least 10 L/min of oxygen
      independent of delivery system OR mechanical ventilation.

      Experimental intervention: Continuous IV infusion of hydrocortisone 200 mg daily will be
      given for 7 days in addition to standard care.

      Control intervention: Continuous IV infusion of matching placebo (0.9% saline) will be given
      in addition to standard care (no corticosteroids).

      Outcomes: The primary outcome is days alive without life support (i.e. mechanical
      ventilation, circulatory support, or renal replacement therapy) at day 28. Secondary outcomes
      are serious adverse reactions (i.e. anaphylactic reaction to hydrocortisone, new episode of
      septic shock, invasive fungal infection or clinically important gastrointestinal bleeding);
      days alive without life support at day 90; days alive and out of hospital at day 90;
      all-cause mortality at day 28, day 90 and 1 year; and health-related quality of life at 1
      year.

      Sample size: A total of 1000 participants will be randomised in order to detect a 15%
      relative reduction in 28-day mortality combined with a 10% reduction in time on life support
      among the survivors with a power of 85%.
    
  