
    
      A multi-center, randomized, open-label, placebo controlled Phase Ⅲ trial. The subjects must
      be histopathologically diagnosed, naïve intermediate-risk NMIBC patient. The screening period
      is 6 weeks prior to treatment.

      The trial including 2 stages:

      • First stages: The subjects are randomly assigned to receive APL-1202 single-agent oral
      treatment or intravesical instillation of Epirubicin hydrochloride at a ratio of 1:1. At this
      stage, an interim analysis will be performed after the first 100 subjects enrolled completing
      the 6-month visit (completing the second cystoscopy), and the Independent Data Monitoring
      Committee (IDMC) conducted a preliminary evaluation of the safety. If approved by the IDMC
      after the safety evaluation, the trial will proceed to the second stage. Before the result of
      the interim analysis are obtained, subjects receiving APL-1202 will continue to be given
      continuous administration if they have completed the 6-month visit (V4). After the interim
      analysis, if the safety of continuous administration is as expected, subjects receiving
      APL-1202 will continue to do the same, otherwise it will be adjusted to the administration of
      APL-1202 at every 3-month interval which is proven to be safe and tolerable.

      • Second stage: After the interim analysis of the first stage, the subjects of the second
      stage will be enrolled, and the subjects were randomly assigned to receive APL-1202
      single-agent oral treatment or intravesical instillation of Epirubicin hydrochloride at a
      ratio of 1:1. For treatment, according to the results of the interim analysis, if the safety
      of continuous administration reaches the expected level, subjects receiving APL-1202 will
      continue to do the same, otherwise it will be adjusted to the administration of APL-1202 at
      every 3-month interval which is proven to be safe and tolerable.

      In this trial, the APL-1202 dosing regimen will continue until subjects exit the trial early
      for any reason, complete 24 months' treatment or the trial is terminated early.

      Cystoscopy will be performed every 3 months in the enrolled subjects. If there is no
      recurrence in the enrolled subject during the treatment period (2 years after enrollment),
      cystoscopy will be performed every 6 months during the follow-up period until recurrence or
      the end of the clinical trial.

      Safety assessment will be performed every 3 months during the treatment period.
    
  