
    
      1. Introduction:

      Nifedipine is one of the first calcium-channel blockers that are widely used in the treatment
      of hypertension. Because of its long-term application experience and safety profile,
      traditional nifedipine has been remodeled as a sustained released formulary of Nifecardia
      SRFC. Nifecardia SRFC is a new formulary designed of zero-order kinetic release system that
      maintain a constant plasma concentration of nifedipine and achieve the target of once daily
      application. Nifecardia SRFC is bioequivalence in efficacy with that of Adalat OROS which is
      also a sustained released type of calcium-channel blockers. In this study, the efficacy and
      safety profile of Nifecardia SRFC and Adalat OROS will be evaluated with randomized
      head-to-head design to treat the patients with hypertension.

      2. Objective:

        1. To evaluate the antihypertensive efficacy of two brands of nifedipine (30mg) in patients
           with hypertension.

        2. To assess the safety of 8 weeks of therapy with two brands of nifedipine (30mg) in
           patients with hypertension.

        3. To study flow-mediated dilatation and oxidative stress in nonsmoker with essential
           hypertension but without diabetes mellitus or dyslipidemia.

      3. Study Design:

        1. Head-to-head, randomized and parallel design.

        2. A total of 60 patients with a clinically confirmed diagnosis of hypertension will
           provide 30 available patients in each treatment group.

           Inclusion criteria are:

             -  Male or non-pregnant female patients aged 18-70 years.

             -  Patients had hypertension with sitting systolic blood pressure 140-180 mmHg, or
                diastolic blood pressure 90-110 mmHg.

             -  Patients must give written informed consent to participate in this study.

           Exclusion criteria are:

             -  Women who are pregnant or nursing.

             -  Patients have the evidence of secondary or malignant hypertension, history of
                severe heart disease, cerebrovascular accident within one year, or myocardial
                infarction within six months.

             -  Patients receiving more than one anti-hypertensive agents or one antihypertensive
                agent with maximal recommended dosage before entrance into the trial.

             -  Patients with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus.

             -  Patients had known hypersensitivity or contraindication to nifedipine, other
                calcium channel blockers or other beta-adrenergic antagonists.

             -  Patients have the evidences of hepatic dysfunction (AST, ALT> 3 times upper limit
                of normal value), renal dysfunction (serum creatinine concentration>1.5 mg/dl),
                pulmonary dysfunction, mental disorders or other concurrent severe disease.

             -  As to the study of flow-mediated dilatation and oxidative stress, patients with
                diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, body mass index >27, and smokers will be excluded.

        3. The drugs and dosage will be as follows:

      Group A: nifedipine 30-60mg once daily (Nifecardia, CCPC) Group B: nifedipine 30-60 mg once
      daily (Adalat OROS, Bayer)

      4. Method:

      After washout period, the eligible patients will randomly be allocated to receive two brands
      of nifedipine 30 mg once daily. Each patient will receive two times of ambulatory blood
      pressure measurement (ABPM) at both entrance and final stages of the study. The patients will
      also undergo complete clinical evaluation. Therapy dosage will be started at a dose of
      nifedipine 30 mg once daily. Dosage will be adjusted if systolic blood pressure greater than
      140 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure greater than 90 mmHg by office measurement after 4 weeks
      of treatment. Nifedipine will be increased to 60 mg once daily. The Ambulatory blood pressure
      measurement will be set to take reading at 1-hour intervals during the 24 hours assessment.

      Physical examination included the measurement of heart rate and blood pressure. The value
      will be read on Visit 1 and 3-12 hours after the last dose of nifedipine. Routine laboratory
      test includes hematology, blood chemistry and urinalysis. Hematology test and fasting blood
      chemistry test will be measured immediately before the start of treatment and after 8 weeks'
      treatment or at time of discontinuation. Thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) in
      patient plasma were measured for oxidative stress and endothelium-dependent flow-mediated
      vasodilation will also be evaluated. Possible concomitant medication will remain constant
      throughout the study. The physician will question the patients as to their compliance at each
      visit. If compliance dose not reach 80%, the subject will be dropped out.

      Withdrawal of a subject is based on the following three assessments: (1) not compliant with
      study protocol, (2) occurrence of severe symptoms or complications, (3) unacceptable side
      effects with the study drug.

      5. Adverse event and Safety evaluation:

      All adverse events will be recorded in the adverse event section of case report form (CRF).
      Serious drug adverse events will be notified within 24h to hospital and the monitor of China
      Chemistry& Pharmaceuticals Co. Safety evaluation is based on doctor's evaluation on the
      results of clinical laboratory test and adverse reactions.
    
  