
    
      Isolated systolic hypertension is more common in elderly than younger adults. Also blood
      pressure (BP) in elderly tends to be very high, difficult to treat. Many studies are done to
      understand the mechanism of hypertension in older adults, most of them concluded that the
      main mechanisms are chronic inflammation, oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction.
      Hypertension is often called a "silent killer" and it is a major high risk factor of heart,
      chronic kidney and cerebrovascular diseases . Systolic BP (SBP) gradually increases from
      early adulthood to old age, whilst diastolic BP (DBP) increases until around 50 years of age
      then reaches a plateau before decreasing again , causing widening of pulse pressure, and
      elevated blood pressure known as Isolated Systolic Hypertension (ISH).

      There is a general consensus across international guidelines for a recommended target BP of
      SBP ≤ 140 mmHg and DBP≤90 mmHg for the general adult population without diabetes mellitus
      (DM) however the treatment of hypertension in the elderly requires further clarification and
      further studies as many international guidelines are inconsistent in providing recommendation
      on optimal BP for both initiation ant of therapy ad for treatment in the elderly due to the
      limited outcome date form randomized controlled trials (RCT) in this population .

      The American Heart Association recommendations to initiate treatment starting with lifestyle
      changes and then medication if necessary at 140/90 mmHg until age 80, then at 150/90 mmHg for
      adults ˃ 80 years old '

      The 2014 Joint National Committee's eights report (JNC 8) recommends that in general
      population aged ≥60 years, to initiate pharmacologic treatment to lower BP at systolic BP
      (SBP) ≥150 mm Hg or diastolic BP (DBP) ≥90 mm Hg and treat to a goal SBP<150 mm Hg and goal
      DBP <90 mm Hg . However Reisin et al published a commentary on JNC 8 disagreeing with it,
      having a concern that increasing the SBP level requiring treatment in those ≥60 years old to
      ≥150/≥90 mmHg may adversely affect renal function.

      As Per the European society of Cardiology and the European Society of Hypertension: in
      elderly patients drug treatment is recommended when systolic BP is ≥160 mmHg, or ≥140 mmHg if
      younger than 80 years and treatment is well tolerated. It is not recommended to initiate
      antihypertensive treatment at high normal BP and in younger patients with isolated systolic
      hypertension.

      As per 2011 NICE guidelines the aim for target average blood pressure is <135/85 mmHg for
      People <80 years old and <145/85mmHg for people ≥80 years .
    
  