
    
      The study design is a double-blinded placebo-controlled cross-over study that will be
      completed at the MGH site. It is an 11-week study of insomnia, mild mood, and anxiety
      symptoms in peri- and postmenopausal women age 40 years or older. Subjects who are enrolled
      will have 5 office visits during the 11-week long study.

      Various studies have identified female gender as a strong risk factor for insomnia, (Ford &
      Kamerow, 1989; Klink et al, 1992; Li et al, 2002);community-based studies that examined
      gender differences in insomnia complaints have consistently shown a higher prevalence of
      insomnia among women than among men. It has been hypothesized that insomnia might be an
      overlooked complaint among women seeking treatment in the primary care setting.

      Insomnia and other sleep disturbances may be reported during specific situations associated
      with the female reproductive cycle, such as pregnancy (Sahota et al, 2003) and menopause
      (Joffe et al, 2003). Complaints of sleep-onset and sleep-maintenance insomnia are among the
      most common symptoms in peri- and postmenopausal women. This sleep disturbance frequently
      co-occurs with hot flushes and depression symptoms. The menopausal transition is also a
      period of heightened vulnerability to mood and anxiety disturbances, and significant
      vasomotor symptoms (i.e. hot flushes and night sweats) which may affect functioning and
      quality of life.

      Consented subjects will track their sleep patterns for one week using a sleep diary to
      confirm that they have either difficulty initiating sleep (³ 30 minutes) or difficulty
      maintaining sleep (wake time after sleep onset ³ 30), for ≥ 3 nights during 7-day observation
      period. Those who are confirmed to meet these insomnia criteria will be randomized in a
      1-to-1 fashion to cross-over treatment starting with either eszopiclone or placebo.

      In addition to taking the daily medication, and coming to the office visits, subjects will
      complete a daily diary throughout the study. This diary is completed to assess insomnia
      symptoms throughout the duration of the study. Treatment assignments will be revealed at
      final study visit to the participant, research coordinator, and study physician.
    
  