
    
      This is a multi-center, single arm, open-label, prospective IIS study, which will enroll 40
      recurrent MCL patients.The aim is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of bortezomib,
      fludarabine and cyclophosphamide treatment and also analyze the relationship between NF-kB
      activity and efficacy of bortezomib treatment and whether NF-kB activity can predict MCL
      progression.

      This study consists of three phases: screening/baseline phase, treatment phase and follow-up
      phase after the end of treatment.

      At screening/baseline phase, investigators obtain informed consent form, check the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria and then collect the following data: demographics, medical
      history data, vital signs, ECG, MRI/CT/B-ultrasound/X-ray examinations, physical examination,
      laboratory examinations, pregnancy test (only female) and bone marrow biopsy and aspiration.
      Pathological diagnosis of mantle cell lymphoma should be established by lymph node biopsy or
      other tumor histopathological examination and immunophenotyping. At the same time,
      ECOG-performance status, Fact/GOG-Ntx questionnaire and NF-κB activity will be assessed.

      During treatment period, patients will be treated with bortezomib, fludarabine and
      cyclophosphamide in a 28-day cycle. Patients achieve complete response (CR) or partial
      response (PR) can receive up to six cycles of VF (C) treatment, while those continue stable
      disease (SD) will be stopped after 4-cycle treatment and those with progressive disease (PD)
      will also be stopped after 2-cycle treatment. Due to adverse events, patients may receive
      reductions or deviate from the intended dose and duration of VF (C) treatment. These
      adjustments must be in accordance with the regulations in the protocol about the dose and
      time adjustment.

      Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of cyclophosphamide will be determined in accordance with the
      standard "3+3" method, testing three dose levels, 150mg/m2, 200mg/m2 and 250mg/m2.
      Cyclophosphamide dose escalation test will be conducted in the first cycle, with every three
      patients in a group. Patients' enrollment will be competed among different sites, but further
      step should be taken only after the 3 patients in one group complete the first cycle, their
      efficacy and safety have been completely evaluated, and the notification of going to next
      step by a CRO company. Subjects involved in the cyclophosphamide dose escalation test will
      continue initial cyclophosphamide dose during the entire study, except for possible dose
      adjustment determined by investigators due to DLT. After ascertaining MTD, new patients will
      be administrated with cyclophosphamide at the MTD. According to the dose escalation diagram,
      up to 18 patients will be involved in dose escalation phase. Subjects who discontinue the
      treatment due to causes other than DLT in the first cycle should be replaced by new
      participants to enter dose escalation test. DLT is defined as: a grade 4 neutropenia lasting
      longer than 7 days, a grade 4 thrombocytopenia, a neutropenic fever, or a grade 3 or above
      non-hematological toxicity (except for nausea, vomiting and alopecia); a grade 3 or above
      nausea, vomiting or diarrhea is considered as DLT only if still observed after treatment.
      Please refer to dose escalation diagram to conduct dose escalation trial.

      Subjects will be followed up for 24 weeks after the end of chemotherapy. In this study, the
      primary efficacy endpoints are maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of cyclophosphamide in
      combination treatment with bortezomib and fludarabine, complete response rate (CR + CRu),
      overall response rate (ORR). Main indicators will be evaluated every 2 cycles in the
      treatment period and every 12 weeks in follow-up period.

      Concomitant medications within 2 week before enrollment and during the study process need to
      be documented. All adverse events will be reported from the time a signed and dated informed
      consent form is obtained until 30 days following the last dose of study drug.
    
  