
    
      Prostate cancer represents a large proportion of global cancer incidence, accounting for
      13.5% of all male cancers. However, with high survival rates, which are still improving,
      there is growing acceptance that living longer does not always equate to living well. The
      mental health aspect of the disease is unfortunately sometimes neglected with research
      focusing on the physical symptoms after disease much more prominent and frequently conducted.
      Previous research has already demonstrated that mental health issues are common in patient
      with prostate cancer, however, less is known about which patients are at greater risk of
      developing problems after being diagnosed with prostate cancer. Additionally, the association
      between mental health conditions and what are called 'functional outcomes' (i.e. bladder,
      bowel and sexual function) after treatment are less well understood. A greater knowledge of
      these factors can help clinicians to make better assessments of patients and also will help
      the future development of additional tools which are able to help with diagnosis in future.

      With these factors in mind the primary aims of the research study is :

      1. To evaluate the association between prostate cancer patients undergoing different
      treatments and overall mental wellbeing in the initial cancer follow-up stage.

      The secondary aims of the study are to:

        1. Identify high risk time-frames post diagnosis for worsening of mental wellbeing

        2. Assess the impact of depressive and anxiety symptoms on functional, clinical and other
           mental wellbeing outcomes.

        3. Explore patient and cancer related factors conferring a risk for the development of
           significant mental wellbeing problems.

      The investigators hypothesis is that prostate cancer patients experience a high psychological
      symptom load in the initial follow up period after diagnosis. Additionally, based on previous
      prostate cancer and mental health research the investigators hypothesise that certain
      subgroups (e.g. certain treatment or patient groups) are at increased risk of developing
      significant psychological symptoms.

      To explore these aims and hypothesis the investigators will conduct a questionnaire based,
      longitudinal and observational cohort study of participants recently diagnosed with prostate
      cancer. There is no interventional element to the study. The investigators will identify
      newly diagnosed patients, who have not yet received treatment from multiple hospital sites in
      London and the South East of England. This will include patients allocated to surgery,
      radiotherapy, surveillance or hormone therapy depending on prostate cancer characteristics.
      Participants will be identified by the clinical team during the hospital outpatient
      appointment, with contact details taken at this stage. The investigators are aiming to
      recruit 440 participants for this study based on power calculations (80% power with 0.05
      significance) for the primary outcomes taking into account a maximum drop out rate of 25%.

      Following identification, screening and consenting for inclusion into the study participants
      will begin data collection through serial questionnaires. Participants will have the option
      of either undergoing postal or electronic follow up, depending on preference. Questionnaires
      will include numerous validated measures to evaluate mental and social wellbeing as well as
      functional symptoms of disease/treatment including bladder, bowel and sexual function as per
      the outcome measures described.

      Collection of data will occur at set intervals for the duration of the study and will include
      the same questionnaire being filled at the beginning of the study, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.
      Additionally, at the outset of the study some further information will be asked from the
      participant including demographics and previous medical or psychiatric history. The research
      team will in addition collect data from the medical files at the beginning of the study about
      the cancer characteristics and then again at the end of the study at 12 months. At 12 months
      participants will complete the study and data analysis along the primary and secondary
      outcome measures will be conducted once all participants have completed this.
    
  