
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the impact of ipilimumab with vs without gp100 peptides emulsified with
           Montanide ISA-51 on clinical response in patients with previously treated, HLA-A*0201
           positive stage IV melanoma.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the safety/toxicity profile of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine the immunologic response, as measured by in vitro assays using peripheral
           blood samples, in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the response rate after a re-induction regimen for patients who have relapsed
           after initial response.

        -  Determine overall survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label study. Patients are stratified according to ECOG
      performance status (0 vs 1 or 2) and metastases (M1a vs M1 b or M1c). Patients are randomized
      to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Induction phase:

             -  Arm I: Patients receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive ipilimumab as in arm I. Patients also receive gp100
                peptides emulsified in Montanide ISA-51 subcutaneously (SC) on day 1.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving stable disease or better for 12
      weeks after 4 courses proceed to maintenance phase.

        -  Maintenance phase:

             -  Arm I: Patients receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive ipilimumab IV as in arm I and gp100 peptides emulsified in
                Montanide ISA-51 SC on day 1.

      Treatment in both arms begins in approximately week 21 and repeats every 3 months for 8
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who relapse
      or progress while on maintenance phase undergo re-induction comprising 4 courses of treatment
      with ipilimumab with or without gp100 peptides emulsified in Montanide ISA-51 as in induction
      phase. Patients achieving responding disease (complete response, partial response, or stable
      disease) for 12 weeks after re-induction proceed to the maintenance phase as above for up to
      8 courses of treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are evaluated for 3 weeks after the last
      treatment, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 94 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  