
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you join this study. Up to 3 groups of 3 - 6 participants will be
      enrolled in Phase 1 of the study, and up to 70 participants will be enrolled in Phase 2.

      If you are enrolled in Phase 1, the dose of nivolumab you receive will depend on when you
      join this study. There are 3 dose levels being tests in this part of the study: a low dose, a
      middle dose, and a high dose. The first group of participants will receive the middle dose
      level of nivolumab. If no intolerable side effects are seen, the next group will receive the
      highest dose level. However, if there are intolerable side effects, 3 more participants will
      receive the middle dose. If there are further intolerable side effects seen, the next group
      will receive the lowest dose of nivolumab.

      If you are enrolled in Phase 2, you will receive nivolumab at the highest dose that was
      tolerated in Phase 1.

      All participants will receive the same dose levels of idarubicin and cytarabine.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will receive 1- 7 cycles of the drug combination. These cycles will be 28-35 days long.

        -  On Days 1-3 of each cycle, you will receive idarubicin by vein over about 15-30 minutes.

        -  On Days 1-4 of each cycle, you will receive cytarabine by vein over about 24 hours. If
           you are age 60 or older, you will receive the drugs on Days 1-3 only. On these days you
           will receive drugs to help decrease the risk of side effects.

        -  On Day 24 (+/- 2 days) of each cycle, you will receive nivolumab by vein over about 1
           hour.

      After 2 cycles, if the disease appears to get better, you will receive nivolumab by vein
      about every 2 weeks for up to 1 year.

      Study Visits:

      At least one (1) time a week during Cycle 1 and then at least once each cycle after that:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      You will have a bone marrow aspirate collected for cytogenetics testing between Day 21-28 of
      each cycle and then, if the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have this performed every
      1-2 weeks after that unless a complete response is achieved. After that, you will have bone
      marrow collected every 3-6 months for 1 year.

      After your last dose of study drug, you will have a physical exam.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking nivolumab for up to 1 year. You will no longer be able to take the
      study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable
      to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.
    
  