
    
      Despite progress in the treatment of cerebrovascular diseases in the acute phase, stroke
      remains a catastrophic event with important public health implications. Post-acute intensive
      rehabilitation is recommended in patients with neurological deficits, but standardized
      evaluation protocols are essential for evaluate the efficacy of rehabilitation and for the
      early identification of prognostic factors of recovery. The search for biomarkers of response
      to specific treatments aimed to customizing the intervention. Recent studies highlight the
      importance of neurophysiological markers as predictors of post-stroke epilepsy onset and
      prognosis. Also genetic substrate and epigenetic mechanisms have a prognostic role; the
      latter may be modified by the administration of Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor (SSRI)
      drugs, largely prescribed according to guidelines in post-stroke depression, confirming the
      neurotrophic role of these drugs postulated in many studies but never demonstrated in vivo in
      humans. Specific physiotherapeutic interventions also seem to stimulate optimal functional
      recovery and brain neuroplasticity, in particular those based on the intensive repetition of
      tasks, such as robotics and Mirror Therapy. Given that the mechanisms of neuronal plasticity
      activated by these interventions are presumably different, it is hypothesizable that there
      are specific predictors of response for each of them.

      The primary endpoint of this study is to identify clinical, instrumental and genetic
      predictors of functional recovery in hospitalized patients undergoing intensive
      rehabilitation after stroke, evaluated with standardized protocol. Recovery will be assessed
      at discharge and at follow-up after 6 months.

      Secondary endpoints are:

        -  evaluate the development of post-stroke epilepsy according to the presence of early
           clinical seizures or electroencephalographic (EEG) anomalies identified at admission to
           rehabilitation;

        -  demonstrate in vivo the activation of neuroplasticity by serotonin reuptake inhibitors
           drugs;

        -  evaluate in patients with hemiplegia / hemiparesis of upper limb undergoing Mirror
           Therapy, robotic rehabilitation and traditional physiotherapy, the presence of specific
           factors predictive of functional recovery, and of response to different treatments.
    
  