
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common form of arthritis in the population. It is
      characterized pathologically by both focal loss of articular cartilage and marginal and
      central new bone formation. OA of knee, the principal large joint to be affected, results in
      disabling knee symptoms in an estimated 10% of people older than 55 years, a quarter of whom
      are severely disabled. The risk of disability attributable to knee OA alone is as great as
      that due to cardiac disease and greater than that due to any other medical disorder in the
      elderly. A recent World Health Organization report on the global burden of disease indicates
      that knee OA is likely to become the fourth most important global cause of disability in
      women and the eighth most important in men. Knee OA is associated with symptoms of pain and
      functional disability. Physical disability arising from pain and loss of functional capacity
      reduces quality of life and increases the risk of further morbidity and mortality. Current
      treatments aim at alleviating these symptoms of mild to moderate OA by several different
      methods: non-pharmacological treatment (for example education, exercise, lifestyle changes)
      or pharmacological treatments(for example paracetamol, NSAIDs and Capsaicin gel topical
      treatments). Current evidence to support the various treatments in current use, however, is
      very variable. Capsaicin, the active principle of hot chili pepper, is thought to selectively
      stimulate unmyelinated C fibre afferent neurons and cause the release of substance P.
      Prolonged application of capsaicin reversibly depletes stores of substance P, and possibly
      other neurotransmitters, from sensory nerve endings. This reduces or abolishes the
      transmission of painful stimuli from the peripheral nerve fibres to the higher centres.There
      were many study on Capsaicin gel to confirm the effectiveness of capsaicin gel in many
      dosages. However, there has been no efficacy study on the capsaicin 0.0125% of the Thai
      produce "Capsika gel " before, therefore, this study is proposed.
    
  