
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety of the MynxGrip™ extravascular sealant
      for common femoral vein closure following both diagnostic and interventional procedures as
      assessed by clinical and imaging criteria for venous thrombosis at the site of closure device
      deployment.

      This is a single-center prospective study of patients who are undergoing either diagnostic or
      interventional procedures. A total of 208 patients will be enrolled in this study and will be
      followed through hospital discharge for safety purposes.

      The primary safety endpoint will include both deep venous thrombotic and bleeding/vascular
      injury related complications prior to discharge. Outcomes will be assessed via clinical
      evaluation and imaging with clinically indicated as follow:

      Assessment of venous thrombosis i. Clinical: Physical exam findings consistent with venous
      thrombotic/thromboembolic related complication:

        -  Redness or swelling at the venous puncture site

        -  Increased lower extremity edema

        -  Calf pain

        -  New onset or worsening shortness of breath

        -  New onset of pleuritic chest pain ii. and if clinically indicated, imaging: venous
           Doppler ultrasound assessment of obstructive or non-obstructive deep vein thrombosis
           (DVT)

             -  Bleeding or vascular related complications i. Damage to the vessel requiring
                surgical repair ii. Access site bleeding requiring the need for transfusion iii.
                Nerve injury at access site iv. Generalized infection (septicemia with typical
                signs, symptoms and positive blood cultures shortly after the index procedure, and
                requiring treatment with intravenous (IV) antibiotics)Pseudo-aneurysms requiring
                invasive treatment

             -  Device/procedure failure Device failure is defined as either the inability to
                deploy the device or device deployment with inadequate hemostasis requiring
                conversion to immediate manual pressure, or the eventual need for alternative
                methods to obtain hemostasis.

      Efficacy will be assessed by time to hemostasis; Time to hemostasis is defined as the time
      from advancer tube removal (i.e., device removal) to the time when hemostasis was first
      observed.

      The study will be conducted following either diagnostic or interventional procedures where
      venous access was required (via the common femoral vein with insertion of 5, 6, or 7F
      sheath). Femoral vein hemostasis will be achieved with either manual compression or the
      MynxGrip VCD system. To assess the primary safety outcome of venous patency and lack of
      occurrence of DVT, clinical assessment will be performed by the study team vascular access
      assessment group and when clinically indicated a duplex ultrasound will be performed on
      patients prior to discharge to evaluation the presence of venous thrombosis.

      After enrollment, subjects will be randomized 1:1 to:

        -  Treatment Group A: Subjects will have venous hemostasis achieved using the MynxGrip
           vascular closure system in the common femoral vein.

        -  Treatment Group B: Subjects will have venous hemostasis achieved using manual
           compression over the common femoral vein.

      Subjects who meet all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria, who agree to
      participate in this clinical study, and who sign an informed consent will be enrolled.

      The patient will undergo the clinically indicated procedure(s) as per standard of care. The
      type of procedure(s) performed will be collected within the CRF. Once all the clinically
      indicated procedures have been completed the following assessment will be made with respect
      to the inclusion criteria:

        -  Target vein had a maximal sheath size inserted larger that 7Fr

        -  Multiple (>1) attempts at venous access were attempted in the target vein

        -  Patient has intra-procedural bleeding around the access site prior to sheath removal

        -  Critically ill patients requiring intravenous vasopressors for blood pressure
           stabilization

        -  Ipsilateral femoral artery puncture or sheath insertion

        -  Glycoprotein IIb/IIIIa use

        -  Any bleeding or vascular access-site complication evident pre-venous closure If any of
           the above are met, then the patient will be considered a screen failure. If one femoral
           vein was attempted with one or more access attempts with or without sheath insertion and
           then the contralateral femoral vein is used to gain venous access, the target vein for
           closure would become the vein with one attempt to achieve access that also fits the
           inclusion/ exclusion criteria above.

      Randomization and Enrollment Once the patient meets all the inclusion criteria and none of
      the exclusion criteria he/she will be considered enrolled in the study.

      Randomization will be performed in a block size of 4 within site to maintain the 1:1
      randomization throughout the trial within two patients. Randomization will be assigned in
      consecutive order for the patient enrollment ID starting with 001 through 208. The
      randomization assignment will be stored within an opaque envelope and assigned/opened in
      numerical order.

      Study Devices/ Procedures

      For the randomization assignments both commercial product will be uses. Please follow the
      commercial IFU for deployment and/or positioning of the Mynx Vascular Closure. For manual
      compression please follow the local institutions standard of care for the procedure.

      Follow-up Patients will be followed up though hospital discharge to assess the primary safety
      outcome of deep vein thrombotic and/or bleeding/vascular injury related complications related
      to the target venous closure site.

      To assess this primary safety outcome of venous patency and lack of occurrence of DVT, a
      clinical assessment this includes the following by systematic physician assessment of the
      target groin.

      Once the patient is placed in the recovery room following the completion of the procedure, a
      member of the Mynx Grip study team will be called to assess the groin, which includes the
      information below;

      Assessment of Venous Thrombosis:

        -  Comparing mid calf and mid thigh measurement prior to and post procedure.

        -  Redness or selling at the venous puncture site

        -  Physical exam findings consistent with venous thrombotic/thromboembolic related
           complications (i.e. vein engorgement, presence of chord, syenosis)

        -  Increased lower extremity edema

        -  New onset or worsening shortness of breath

        -  New onset of pleuritic chest pain

      Bleeding or Vascular Related complications:

        -  Damage to the vessel requiring surgical repair

        -  Access site bleeding requiring the need for transfusion

        -  Nerve injury at the access site

        -  Generalized infection

        -  Pseudo-aneurysms requiring invasive treatment In the event that the Mynx Grip study team
           believes that further assessment for venous thrombosis of the target femoral vein is
           necessary, a duplex ultrasound of the target femoral vein will be ordered.

      Presence of a venous thrombosis of the target vein will be assessed based on a combination of
      clinical symptoms and/or result of the duplex ultrasounds. Duplex ultrasounds will be
      submitted to and assessed by the Duplex Ultrasound Core Lab for a systematic and objective
      review of the presence of venous thrombosis
    
  