
    
      The proposed study is a cohort-randomized controlled trial of ACT-enhanced SS (ACT+SS)
      compared to the SS-only program. Cohorts of Navy personnel who are failing or at risk of
      failing the body composition assessment (BCA) or who are overweight/obese will be randomized
      to receive 8 weekly ACT+SS intervention groups or 8 weekly SS-only intervention groups. The
      scientific aims are to: 1) determine the effectiveness of ACT+SS compared to the SS-only
      program; 2) examine psychological flexibility as a mechanism underlying intervention
      response; and 3) explore potential moderators of intervention response. The primary outcome
      is weight loss.

      Secondary outcomes include BMI, body fat %, indices of physical activity, problem eating,
      functioning and quality of life, emotional functioning and indices of psychological
      flexibility, measured at baseline, mid- and post-intervention, and 3- and 6-month follow-up
      and self- reported BCA status at 6-month follow-up. The investigators have purposefully
      designed a cohort-randomized trial with interventions that are pragmatically implemented in a
      real-life military setting, and outcomes that are immediately relevant to service members and
      leadership. The cohort randomization is essential to the feasibility and acceptability of the
      research in this setting. The military-relevant and generalizable findings are more likely to
      have impact within the military. SS provides an ideal comparison arm that is the current
      standard of practice in the Navy. Integrating ACT with SS in this setting overcomes many of
      the logistical, practical, chain-of-command, and other challenges that have typically impeded
      research in the military. The investigators have thoughtfully selected primary and secondary
      outcomes that are theoretically linked, and additional assessments that are empirically-based
      and will allow better understanding of mediators and moderators of intervention response in
      Navy personnel. Due to Covid-19 we have adapted the interventions to be administered
      virtually.
    
  