
    
      This trial will examine the comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a web-based
      HIV, hepatitis and STI prevention intervention when offered to youth in outpatient,
      community-based substance abuse treatment as directly compared to a traditional HIV (and
      infectious disease) prevention intervention. We will assess the comparative effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of these interventions by primarily examining changes from pre- to
      post-intervention in accurate HIV/disease prevention knowledge, intentions to engage in safer
      sex and HIV risk behavior. Additionally, we will examine the extent to which the
      interventions impact relevant skills acquisition (e.g., communication skills, negotiation
      skills and condom use skills), attitudes toward safer sex and self-reported substance use, as
      well as the acceptability of each intervention. We also plan to evaluate youth at both 1 and
      3 month post-intervention to examine the durability of effects (including any differential
      durability of effects across intervention conditions). The web-delivered prevention
      intervention to be evaluated in this study has the potential to allow for a complex
      intervention to be delivered at a low cost, without increasing demands on staff time or
      training needs, and may thereby expand the reach of evidence-based prevention for youth in
      substance-abuse treatment.

      This study will be conducted at three collaborating, community-based adolescent substance
      abuse treatment programs all of which are housed within the Daytop Village network of
      services and are located in New York City: (1) Daytop Village's Brooklyn Outreach Center; (2)
      Daytop Village's Bronx Outreach Center; and (3) Daytop Village's Queens Outreach Center. We
      expect to recruit approximately one third of the total number of participants from each site.

      A total of up to 160 (no fewer than 120) adolescent participants will be enrolled in this
      study. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the two study conditions in an
      intent-to-treat design (n=60-80 per group): (1) computer-delivered intervention or (2)
      traditional (person-delivered intervention). Participants in the traditional prevention
      intervention condition will complete two sessions (of approx. one hour in duration) across
      the course of a week, conducted by a trained HIV (and infectious disease) prevention
      educator; these sessions will typically be conducted in small groups of 2-4 participants but
      may be offered individually. Participants in the computer-delivered intervention condition
      will complete an interactive, web-based HIV, hepatitis and STI prevention program instead of
      the traditional, person-delivered prevention intervention. Youth will be asked to complete a
      customized plan of approximately 2-4 hours in length using the web-based tool; participants
      will complete two 60-minute sessions per week until they complete their customized plan.
      Participants will access this intervention using dedicated computer stations set up at their
      substance abuse treatment program.
    
  