
    
      A Spinal cord injury (SCI) is the disruption of the nerve pathways that connect the brain to
      the rest of the body, causing the cessation of their motor, sensory and vegetative functions.
      It is considered one of the most devastating clinical conditions affecting the functionality
      and independence of the individual.

      The World Health Organization estimates an annual overall incidence of 40-80 new cases per
      million, equivalent to 250 000 to 500 000 individuals with spinal cord injury each year. The
      consequences of the SCI, significantly impair the ability of the patient to perform daily
      life activities, and their overall quality of life.Decreased mobility is the main element
      that affects lower satisfaction and quality of life. The improvement of mobility or the
      ability to move in an energy efficient manner improves the quality of life in patients with
      SCI.

      The recovery of walking function is considered of great relevance both by patients and
      physicians. The most relevant prognostic factor for functional recovery in SCI patients is
      the neurological status at the moment of the first examination, considering the neurological
      level and the severity of the lesion according to the American Spinal Injury Association
      impairment scale (AIS).

      According to Scivoletto, of the patients with American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA)
      impairment scale A, with thoracic and lumbar lesion only 6.4% achieve functional walking. In
      patients with ASIA B, have an overall rate of ambulation of 23.5%, ASIA C have 51.4% and ASIA
      D patients have a prognosis for walking recovery between 80-100% (88.9%).

      In another study, Dobkin[8] reported that 35% of individuals classified as AIS B, 92% of
      subjects AIS C and all subjects AIS D recovered the ability to walk after gait training
      intervention with partial weight bearing for a period of 8 weeks. However, of all the
      patients with spinal cord injury, few regain a functional gait capacity, due to a low speed,
      a decreased step length, cadence and changes in rhythm and coordination.

      In fact, spinal cord injury often leads to changes in walking patterns, which are associated
      with postural changes related to poor ability to transfer bodyweight, alterations in balance
      and equilibrium. Other important factors in the process of walking recovery include: lack of
      coordination and development of propulsion, sensory loss, and hyperactive spinal reflexes.
      These deficiencies are severe enough to delay standing and gait rehabilitation process .

      Some of the most important gait abnormalities in individuals who suffer spinal cord injuries
      are: the inability to stand without assistance, the voluntary movement of joints such as hip
      hip, knee and ankle, knee hyperextension, inability to move the legs without making
      compensation mechanisms, foot dragging, changes in weight transfer during walking, lack of
      coordination, transition among phases of gait, and falls.

      That is the reason why many gait training programs have been evaluated. Current modalities of
      gait training, pretend to activate the locomotor center of the central pattern generator by
      repetitive gait stimuli, allowing the central nervous system plasticity to create new neural
      pathways and connections in the spinal cord, making possible walking recovery in patients
      with spinal cord injury. Evidence favors two gait training modalities: the treadmill with
      partial weight-support and the robotic-assisted gait. These training modalities provide an
      improvement in gait parameters and functionality when compared to conventional physiotherapy,
      as shown in the systematic review by Morawietz and Moffat in which different programs of gait
      training in patients with SCI AIS C and D of diverse etiology of chronic and acute evolution
      and any neurological level are compared.

      Although the use of treadmill , partial weight-bearing and robotic orthotics are essential in
      the training of locomotion in SCI patients , little has been published about the progress of
      the training, clinical decision making and evaluation of progress.[16] Most of the studies on
      the subject provide only very general criteria to optimize treatment (modifying body weight
      support and speed training), providing insufficient evidence to guide the training
      progression in parameters such as training frequency, speed and optimal duration of
      treatment.

      As a result, it is important to develop studies which test training strategies that help to
      clarify issues related to the amount, intensity, frequency, and progression of training in
      order to achieve the maximum recovery of gait for individuals with SCI. Accordingly, to
      determine and compare the effect of different gait training programs will orient the
      development of more effective training programs.

      OBJECTIVE

      To determine the effects on gait of different gait training programs using a robotic gait
      orthosis in individuals with chronic incomplete SCI (AIS C/D).

      Specific Objectives

        1. To evaluate changes in functionality of gait and spatiotemporal gait parameters,
           functional independence, lower limbs muscle force, spasticity and joint range of motion
           of individuals according to different progression programs.

        2. To determine in the short term (immediately posterior to training program), medium term
           (6 months) and long term (1 year) effect on individuals' functionality of gait,
           spatiotemporal gait parameters and functional independence obtained with different gait
           training programs.

        3. To compare the effect of the two different programs of gait training using a robotic
           gait orthosis.

      METHODS

      7.1.- Study Design: Randomized Clinical Trial blinded to observer.

      7.2.- Subjects: Subjects from inpatient and outpatient services within the Neurologic
      Rehabilitation Department of the National Institute of Rehabilitation with SCI AIS C and D,
      with at least 6 months since injury and able to walk with or without walking aids.

      Sample Size

      Sample Size was calculated based on improvement on gait velocity reported by previous
      published studies using the program Epidat 4.

      It was calculated that 23 patients are required in order to detect a difference between means
      of 32.3 cm/s, as reported by Wirz , with a standard deviation of 37.5 cm/s, a power of 80%
      and a confidence level of 95% On the other hand, Hornby reported a difference between means
      of 0.36 m/s with a standard deviation of 0.14 m/s, which results on a sample size of 4
      subjects per group.

      Due these differences, an initial trail will performed with an initial sample size of 4
      subjects per group and a new calculation of power of the study will be made in order to
      determine convenience of sample size or necessity of a bigger sample.

      RANDOMIZATION The randomization will be conducted by a digital randomization system with
      atmospheric noise, available at random.org. Allocation will be done by a person not included
      in the protocol.

      Proceeding

      The outpatients that assist to the Spinal Cord Injury Service at the "Instituto Nacional de
      Rehabilitación" will be randomly assigned to two different groups.. The groups are defined as
      follow:

      A. Control group, with 30 training sessions in robotic orthosis with duration of 30 minutes
      during 6 weeks.

      B. Control group, with 30 training sessions in robotic orthosis with duration of 60 minutes
      during 6 weeks.

      Proposed statistical analysis

      Descriptive statistics will be carried out with measures of central tendency for quantitative
      variables and proportions for qualitative variables. In order to analyze differences between
      groups, co variance analysis will be conducted. We will consider results as statistically
      significative when p<0.05.
    
  