
    
      Chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) is a common disorder and accounts
      for approximately 2 million visits to physicians annually in the United States. The
      substantial impact of CP/CPPS includes bothersome lower urinary tract symptoms, sexual
      dysfunction, reduced quality of life, and increased health care expenditures. The syndrome is
      diagnosed only on the basis of symptoms, principally pain or discomfort in the pelvic region.
      No objective measures can help define the disease. Although bacteria can infect the prostate,
      most men with prostatitis have a negative midstream urine culture, indicating that bacteria
      may not be the cause of their symptoms. Such men are classified as having National Institutes
      of Health (NIH) category III prostatitis, the most common of the clinically defined
      prostatitis syndromes. It is by no means clear that the disease is characterized by
      inflammation of the prostate or that the prostate is responsible for symptoms in a
      substantial proportion of patients. Because of this uncertainty, the term CP/CPPS is used.
      Chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome is commonly seen by primary care
      practitioners, internists, and urologists. In the Olmsted County Study of Urinary Symptoms
      and Health Status Among Men, a population-based study in Olmstead County, Minnesota, the
      overall prevalence rate of a physician-assigned diagnosis of prostatitis was 9%.
      Population-based surveys of symptoms have estimated that the prevalence of the syndrome
      ranges from 9% to 12% among men. It is difficult to estimate the proportion of patients with
      symptoms lasting longer than 3 months whose disorder remains refractory to empirical therapy.
      These patients are commonly seen by urologists, but whether they represent a minor
      subpopulation of the overall symptomatic group or make up the majority of patients is
      unknown. The investigators chose to study these patients because they present with a
      troubling, long-standing problem and are usually treated with agents of unclear benefit. Even
      if a relatively large number of men whose symptoms last 3 months or more are cured by
      standard empirical therapy and the clinical scenario the investigators describe is uncommon,
      men with refractory symptoms still present a substantial problem to internists and urologists
      who have little information to guide therapy. Because the cause of CP/CPPS is unknown,
      affected men receive many empirical therapies. The 2 most common treatments prescribed by
      physicians are antimicrobial agents and alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonists, although there
      is little objective evidence to support their use. Quinolones, such as ciprofloxacin, are
      commonly used to treat CP/CPPS because of their excellent penetration into the prostate and
      broad spectrum of coverage for uropathogens and other organisms traditionally believed to be
      associated with the syndrome. Tamsulosin, an alpha-blocker, is an effective treatment for
      lower urinary tract symptoms in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia, and it has been
      hypothesized that tamsulosin may improve these symptoms in men with CP/CPPS. This randomized
      clinical trial was designed to evaluate whether ciprofloxacin or tamsulosin reduces symptoms
      of long-standing CP/CPPS of at least moderate severity, typical of the 488 men in our Chronic
      Prostatitis Cohort Study. The primary purpose of the trial was to test the most common
      prescription treatments given to men with CP/CPPS, who are commonly seen in our
      referral-based urologic practices.
    
  