
    
      Hand dermatoses is a common problem which is characterized by itchy, erythematous and scaly
      lesions often with a long lasting and relapsing course. Patients presenting with these severe
      cutaneous changes are classified as having severe recalcitrant hand dermatoses. Treatment is
      difficult with considerable number of patients do not or only partially respond to the
      current treatments. Current treatment regimens mainly involve the use of high potency topical
      corticosteroids, which has only limited affect. Systemic treatment modalities have been
      utilized but have serious side effects with limited improvement of disease.

      Several studies have shown the therapeutic effectiveness of the combination of topical
      psoralen with long wavelength ultraviolet A radiation (PUVA) in treating hand dermatoses.
      Topical PUVA is commonly associated with mild local sunburn reactions that often necessitate
      temporarily withholding treatment or decreasing the light dose. This subsequently leads to a
      delay in response or a prolongation of the treatment. Long term side effects include aging of
      the skin, hyperpigmentation, and a small increased risk of skin cancer that is more common in
      systemic PUVA. Narrow band ultraviolet B (NB-UVB) has emerged recently as an important
      treatment for a variety of photoresponsive diseases including psoriasis and eczema. For most
      conditions (other than hand psoriasis/eczema) NB-UVB has been shown to have similar
      therapeutic results to PUVA with less side effects.

      There are only a few studies published on the efficacy of NB-UVB for hand psoriasis/eczema.
      Our hypothesis is that NB-UVB and topical PUVA will result in at least comparable improvement
      in hand psoriasis/eczema with less side effects associated with NB-UVB. We plan on conducting
      a prospective single-blind randomized clinical trial to compare the efficacy and safety of
      topical PUVA and NB-UVB in treating hand psoriasis/eczema.

      Study Objectives

        1. To compare the effect of topical PUVA and NB-UVB on visual cutaneous symptoms in
           patients presenting with recalcitrant hand dermatoses.

        2. To compare the side effect profile of topical PUVA and NB-UVB when treating patients
           with recalcitrant hand dermatoses.
    
  