
    
      American Sleep Apnea Association considers exercise as a non-pharmacological treatment
      modality of sleep disorders . Theoretical reviews and hypotheses on the effects of exercise
      in OSA have suggested thermoregulatory, metabolic, and biochemical mechanisms although
      clinical trials on the topic are inadequate .

      Cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) is used as a stress test to evaluate cardiac,
      pulmonary, and muscle function. It has also been used to differentiate whether the etiology
      of impairment of the ca. rdiopulmonary exercise test is cardiac, pulmonary or muscle
      dysfunction In otherwise healthy subjects, exercise limitation is due to heart disease.
      Patients with OSAS are frequently overweight and may exhibit lung function abnormalities
      related to their weight. These include a decrease in the functional residual capacity (FRC)
      due mainly to a decrease in the expiratory reserve volume (ERV) and a decrease in compliance
      of the respiratory system. These functional abnormalities cause an increase in the energy
      cost of breathing. In addition, increased body mass is associated with greater metabolic
      energy requirements during muscular exercise, resulting in further ventilatory stress. There
      are reports demonstrating that there are discriminating measurements during exercise in
      obesity, including a high O2 cost to perform external work, and upward displacement of the
      VO2 -WR relationship OSAS patients have daytime hypersomnolence, decreased daily activity and
      tissue hypoxemia which may further impair muscle function and decrease exercise fitness.
      Recently, Peppard and Young (2004) found that, independent of body habitus, lack of exercise
      was associated with increased severity of sleep-disordered breathing measurements during
      exercise in obesity, including a high O2 cost to perform external work, and upward
      displacement of the VO2 -WR relationship. OSAS patients have daytime hypersomnolence,
      decreased daily activity and tissue hypoxemia which may further impair muscle function and
      decrease exercise fitness. Recently, Peppard and Young (2004) found that, independent of body
      habitus, lack of exercise was associated with increased severity of sleep-disordered
      breathing
    
  