
    
      The investigators will study male and female subjects, age 40-80 years with possible or
      probable Multiple System Atrophy, as defined by Consensus Criteria who suffer from supine
      hypertension defined as SBP≥150, and neurogenic orthostatic hypotension, defined as a
      ≥30-mmHg decrease in systolic BP within 3 minutes of standing associated with impaired
      autonomic reflexes determined by autonomic testing in the absence of other identifiable
      causes. All participants will be able and willing to provide informed consent.

      Screening Procedures. Potential participants will be studied in the Vanderbilt Autonomic
      Dysfunction Center (ADC). Medications affecting BP, blood volume and the autonomic nervous
      system such as antihypertensives, pressor medications and fludrocortisone will be withdrawn
      for at least 5 half-lives before studies. Screening procedures can be performed in one or
      more days depending on the patient's and investigator's availability.

        -  Patients will undergo a complete history and physical examination, ECG, routine clinical
           laboratory analysis and a blood pregnancy test for women with childbearing potential.

        -  Autonomic testing including sinus arrhythmia, Valsalva maneuver and a posture study with
           plasma catecholamines is then performed to determine if they meet the
           inclusion/exclusion criteria. During these tests, blood pressure (BP) and heart rate
           (HR) will be obtained using an automated oscillometric sphygmomanometer, finger
           photoplethysmography, and continuous ECG. During the orthostatic test, blood samples
           will be obtained for hormones that regulate BP, such as catecholamines, while patients
           are supine and upright.

      Medical history information and results from any of the screening procedures obtained within
      the previous 6 months for other studies within this research group may be utilized.

      Study Procedures: Study Day 1 and 2

      Eligible Multiple System Atrophy patients with supine hypertension will be studied twice in a
      randomized, single blind, crossover design, once with trimethaphan and once with placebo. The
      order of administration is randomized. The placebo day will have identical interventions, but
      saline will be infused instead of trimethaphan to provide a time control. Studies will be
      conducted in a postvoid state and ≥2 hours after meals. Each study day will last 2-3 hours.
      The following procedures will be conducted:

      Patients will be instrumented to measure blood pressure continuously with
      photoplethysmography, and intermittently with an automated oscillometric device. Heart rate
      will be monitored continuously with ECG. Electrodes will be placed on thorax and abdomen to
      measure segmental impedance. Skin blood flow will be measured in the forearm with a laser
      Doppler. Cardiac output will be measured by the inert gas rebreathing technique and/or by
      impedance cardiography. An IV will be placed in one arm for drug administration.

      After instrumentation baseline measurements will be recorded, including cardiac output and
      splanchnic venous capacitance. Venous capacitance will be estimated using an adaptation of
      the method of Schmitt et al. In this technique, segmental impedance is monitored, while
      continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is applied sequentially at 0, 4, 8, 12 and 16 cm
      water (H20) for 1-2 minute each.

      Patients will then receive either placebo (time control) or trimethaphan, to induce complete
      withdrawal of residual sympathetic tone. Intravenous infusion of trimethaphan camsylate
      (Cambridge Labs) will be started at 0.5-1 mg/min and increased by 1.0 mg/min in 2-6 minute
      intervals to one of the following endpoints: presyncopal symptoms, no further decrease in
      blood pressure with increased infusion rates, or an infusion rate of 4 mg/min. Once a stable
      decrease in blood pressure is obtained, outcome measurements will be repeated.

      Abdominal compression will be applied to a sustained 40 mm Hg pressure while supine with an
      inflatable binder. Outcome measurements will be repeated 5-15 minutes later. The investigator
      may decide not to perform this procedure (due to a longer than anticipated study day duration
      / drug infusion). In this case, the study will include only the outcome measurements during
      the drug infusion.

      The infusion of trimethaphan is then stopped and patient monitored until blood pressure is
      restored to baseline values.
    
  