
    
      Introduction During general anesthesia a reduction of Functional Residual Capacity (FRC) was
      observed. The reduction of FRC could imply that respiratory system closing capacity (CC)
      exceeds the FRC and leads to a phenomenon called expiratory flow limitation (EFL). Several
      factors contribute to the EFL phenomenon during general anesthesia, including anesthesia
      induction by itself. High oxygen concentrations, muscle paralysis, supine positioning,
      increased extravascular water because of perioperative fluid therapy and inflammatory
      response also play a role in this picture.

      Moreover cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) with aortic cross-clamping, which is necessary for the
      majority of procedures in cardiac surgery, was associated with direct lung damage. Pulmonary
      atelectasis, apnea and ischemia during CPB and activation of proteolytic enzymes in the
      pulmonary circulation influence the incidence of postoperative pulmonary dysfunction after
      cardiac surgery.

      Positive End-Expiratory Pressure (PEEP) test is a validated method to evaluate the presence
      of EFL during anesthesia. PEEP-test is a feasible and completely safe measure of the
      reduction of FRC in mechanically ventilated patients.

      Aim of the study will be to assess if mechanical ventilation during CPB in cardiac surgery
      could reduce the incidence of EFL in the post-CPB period.

      Primary End-point The primary endpoint will be a composite end-point of the incidence of
      Expiratory Flow Limitation after the weaning from CPB and post-operative pulmonary
      complications.

      Secondary end-points

      Secondary end-points will include:

        -  Readmission to the ICU;

        -  Need for re-intubation;

        -  Need for non-invasive ventilation;

        -  Duration of mechanical ventilation;

        -  Post-operative infections;

        -  Major adverse cardiac events;

        -  Length of the ICU and hospital stay;

        -  30 days and 1 year mortality.

      Materials and methods This will be a single center single-blind parallel group randomized
      controlled trial. Patients will be randomly assigned to four parallel arms with an allocation
      ratio 1:1:1:1, to receive one of four mechanical ventilation strategies during CPB. Patients
      that will match the following criteria at the preoperative evaluation will be recruited.

      Randomization and masking Patient will be randomized according to a computer-generated list
      of casual numbers. Information about patient allocation will be kept in closed opaque
      envelopes and nobody will know patient allocation before randomization. Patients will be
      blind to allocation.

      Ventilation protocol

      Each patient will be randomized both about the ventilation management before and after CPB
      and about the management during CPB: a 2 by 2 trial design. Patients will be casually
      assigned to four groups:

      Group A: patients will be ventilated with Positive End-Expiratory Pressure (PEEP) before and
      after cadiopulmonary bypass (CPB); during CPB, Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP)
      will be adopted.

      Group B: patients will be ventilated without PEEP (ZEEP) before and after CPB; during CPB,
      CPAP will be adopted.

      Group C: patients will be ventilated with PEEP before and after CPB; during CPB, no
      Mechanical Ventilation (No MV) will be adopted.

      Group D: patients will be ventilated without PEEP (ZEEP) before and after CPB; during CPB, no
      MV will be adopted.

      Patients will be randomized, immediately before surgery, to receive either a PEEP equal to
      the best PEEP, assessed with a PEEP test, immediately after the induction of anaesthesia or
      equal to zero. All patients will be furthermore randomized to receive either a CPAP equal to
      the best PEEP or a zero PEEP strategy (with deconnection from anaesthesia circuit) during
      CPB. The two randomizations will be independent each from other.

      During CPB our goal will be to maintain PaO2 between 200 and 250 mmHg in order to avoid
      hyperoxia-induced lung injury; moreover, the hematocrit will be maintained above 24%.

      During weaning from CPB we will perform a single alveolar RM. This RM will be performed
      manually by the anesthesiologist with a gas mixture of oxygen and air (with an inspired
      oxygen fraction lower than 80%) at the end of procedure. After CPB, this recruitment maneuver
      will be performed manually, in correspondence to the surgical de-airing procedure. Airway
      pressure will be kept at 40 cmH2O for at least 10 seconds.

      Lung mechanics determination

      Quasi-static compliance of respiratory system (Cqst,rs) will be calculated as:

      Tidal volume / (end inspiratory plateau pressure - PEEPtot (ml/cmH2O) where PEEPtot is the
      end-expiratory pressure at period of no-flow. Measurement will be performed with an
      inspiratory pause of 60%.

      Airway resistance (Rmin,rs) will be calculated as:

      (Ppeak - P1) / V' where Ppeak is the peak inspiratory pressure, P1 is the airways pressure at
      the point of zero flow and V' is the inspiratory flow. Measurement will be performed with an
      inspiratory pause of 60%.

      Lung mechanics will be determinated immediately after every PEEP test execution.

      Dead space calculation

      Dead space fraction calculation will be performed with the Enghoff modification of the Bohr
      equation:

      Vd/Vt = (PaCO2-PECO2)/PaCO2

      Where:

        -  Vd is the dead space

        -  Vt tidal volume

        -  PECO2 is pressure of mean expired CO2

      Shunt fraction calculation

      Shunt fraction will be determined before surgery and after surgery in operating room during
      general anesthesia, before patient discharge from operating room. Shunt fraction will be
      assessed as follows in all patients:

      Qs/Qt = (PAO2 - PaO2)*0,0031 / C(a-v mixed)O2 + [(PAO2 - PaO2)*0,0031]

      Where:

        -  PAO2 is oxygen alveolar concentration;

        -  PaO2 is oxygen arterial concentration;

        -  C(a-v mixed)O2 is arterovenous difference in oxygen concentration;

        -  0,0031 is a conversion factor to volume percent for O2.

      Measure will be performed while breathing 100% oxygen for 20 minutes, to achieve a complete
      hemoglobin saturation.

      If a Pulmonary Artery Catheter (PAC) will be placed, according to clinical indications, shunt
      fraction will be calculated from the following formula:

      Qs/Qt = CcO2-CaO2 / CcO2-Cv(mixed)O2 * 100

      Where:

      • CcO2 is pulmonary capillary blood O2 content, estimated with the following equation: CcO2 =
      (Hb * 1.34) + (0.0031 * PAO2);

        -  CaO2 is arterial oxygen content;

        -  Cv(mixed)O2 is oxygen content in blood samples obtained from the pulmonary artery;

        -  PAO2 is alveolar oxygen partial pressure. Blood samples will be collected from arterial
           catheter and pulmonary artery catheter, under a FiO2 of 100% in the same moment.

      Furthermore Blood Gas Analyses (BGA) will be performed on arterial blood:

        -  after anesthesia induction;

        -  after sternotomy, together with heparinization;

        -  before sternosynthesis, together with protamine administration;

        -  before discharge from operating room.

      Sample size calculation Sample size calculation was based on a 2 sided α error of 0.05 and a
      80% power (β). On the basis of our experience, we anticipate that the 50% of patients with
      ventilation stop during CPB and no PEEP before and after CPB will reach the composite
      end-point of EFL after CPB and respiratory complications at 5 days, while only the 30% of the
      patients treated with an optimal. A sample size of 93 patients per group, 186 in total will
      be necessary to complete the trial. Including a drop-out fraction of 10%, we will enroll 51
      patients per group, 204 in total.

      Data collection and analysis Data will be collected on the appropriate Case Report Form
      (CRF). In particular anamnestic information will be collected, data about surgery and
      post-operative clinical data, in particular respiratory parameters. Data will be analyzed
      with a professional statistical software. Dichotomous variables will be compared with the
      two-tailed Chi square test, using the Yates correction when appropriate. Continuous variables
      will be compared by analysis of variance or the non-parametric Kruskal-Wallis test, when
      appropriate.

      Informed consent and trial conduction Each patients will provide informed consent. All parts
      of this trial will be conducted according to the Good Clinical Practice (GCP) statement as
      well as Italian and international law on clinical research.
    
  