
    
      Ninety percent of patients who suffer from Hereditary Hemorrhagic Telangiectasia (HHT)
      experience epistaxis which can range from mild to recurrent, severe, life threatening
      episodes. Current methods to treat significant epistaxis have limitations, namely the need
      for general anesthesia and repeated treatments. The objective of this study is to test a
      novel and tolerable office-based treatment method, sclerotherapy with sodium tetradecyl
      sulfate (STS), for recurrent epistaxis related to HHT.

      Sclerotherapy is the treatment of vascular lesions by injection with an agent which causes
      thickening of the vessel wall, obstruction of blood flow, clot formation and collapse of the
      lesion. Sclerotherapy is an established treatment modality for vascular malformations in the
      skin, GI tract, genitourinary tract and has been used for lesions in various sites in the
      head and neck. STS is an anion surfactant (detergent) that is commonly used for
      sclerotherapy. There are case reports in the literature describing sclerotherapy treatments
      for epistaxis related to HHT using other agents, but these case reports did not lead to
      prospective studies. We have performed a pilot study to analyze the tolerability and
      effectiveness of sclerotherapy with STS in a series of patients with recurrent epistaxis
      related to HHT. In our series, the treatment was found to be well tolerated and effective,
      based on patient administered questionnaire and review of clinical data. No complications
      related to the procedure were noted. Further prospective studies would help elucidate the
      role of sclerotherapy with STS in the treatment algorithm for recurrent epistaxis related to
      HHT.

      Our goal is to conduct a prospective, randomized-controlled trial to test the efficacy and
      tolerability of sclerotherapy using STS in the treatment of recurrent epistaxis due to HHT. A
      modified crossover design will be utilized with the intervention group receiving
      sclerotherapy, plus any additional, previously utilized standard treatment methods needed to
      control epistaxis. The control group will receive their current standard treatment methods,
      followed by delayed intervention with sclerotherapy. The primary outcomes will be frequency
      and severity of epistaxis. Secondary endpoints will be hemoglobin level, tolerability of
      treatment, additional treatment requirements, and quality of life.
    
  