
    
      The American Gastroenterology Association (AGA) recommends infliximab, a chimeric monoclonal
      antibody to human tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF), in the treatment of patients with
      ulcerative colitis (UC) who don't achieve adequate clinical response despite treatment with
      conventional therapy. Infliximab is an FDA approved therapy for ulcerative colitis based on
      two large randomized trials, ACT I and ACT II. For patients who respond to induction therapy,
      scheduled maintenance therapy has been demonstrated to be both durable and safe. However,
      these trials did not include hospitalized patients.

      Severe flares, or fulminant ulcerative colitis, remain highly morbid and potentially fatal
      presentations of disease. Traditionally, hospitalized patients who failed high-dose
      intravenous corticosteroid therapy require life-saving colectomy. Although the advent of
      infliximab has presented an alternative rescue therapy, some patients with severe ulcerative
      colitis are non-responders to anti-TNF induction therapy and proceed to colectomy. In the ACT
      I and II trials, outpatients with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis were randomized to
      placebo, 5mg/kg infliximab therapy, or 10mg/kg infliximab therapy. At 54 week follow-up,
      patients receiving infliximab had a 41% reduced risk of colectomy compared to the placebo
      group. Although infliximab at 5mg/kg was associated with a reduced risk of colectomy, only
      the 10mg/kg infliximab dosing yielded a statistically significant risk reduction. There were
      no differences in safety between the 5mg/kg and 10mg/kg infliximab groups; similar rates of
      serious adverse events, infections, and infusion reactions were reported. Thus, at our
      institution (University of California at San Francisco), it is our standard of care to
      administer infliximab at 10mg/kg IV for patients hospitalized with severe ulcerative colitis.

      Dose escalation from 5mg/kg to 10mg/kg is routinely prescribed to recapture clinical response
      in subsets of patients with inflammatory bowel disease who experience loss of response during
      maintenance therapy and is supported in the FDA label for Crohn's disease. Loss of response
      to infliximab maintenance therapy is a well-recognized phenomenon, and there is abundant
      literature suggesting that durable and efficacious infliximab therapy is dependent upon
      optimizing serum infliximab levels. Specifically, high serum infliximab trough levels predict
      clinical response, but low serum trough levels and presence of infliximab antibodies are
      associated with loss of response. However, serum infliximab levels are not dependent upon
      drug dose and pharmacokinetics alone. Concurrent immunomodulator use may reduce
      immunogenicity against monoclonal antibody therapies, and more recently, there has been
      increased recognition of the importance of patient factors as well. Specifically, variability
      in drug metabolism and clearance has been associated with body-mass index, sex, and severity
      of inflammation - as measured by C-reactive protein, serum albumin, and tumor necrosis factor
      alpha levels. It has been demonstrated that patients with higher serum albumin levels
      maintain higher infliximab concentrations, lower clearance, and longer drug half-lives than
      patients with lower serum albumin levels; and low serum albumin correlates with poorer
      clinical response. Severe colonic disease is associated with higher early fecal infliximab
      concentration, which is inversely associated with serum infliximab levels and response to
      therapy. Moreover, high serum tumor necrosis factor alpha levels prior to infliximab infusion
      predict poorer clinical outcomes and need for dose escalation in patients with Crohn's
      disease and rheumatoid arthritis.

      Patients hospitalized with severe ulcerative colitis can least afford suboptimal infliximab
      therapy, but are at highest risk given their malnutrition and uncontrolled inflammation.
      There is a growing trend towards the use of high dose of infliximab as the first line therapy
      in these severe, hospitalized patients as they have just one infusion (dose) to demonstrate
      clinical response before they are referred for colectomy. However, there is currently no
      pharmacokinetic data to support this practice. There is only a small body of literature that
      serum infliximab trough levels may predict clinical outcomes in acute ulcerative colitis. To
      our knowledge, there are no studies regarding the use of early infliximab levels - within the
      first 72 hours - to predict clinical response in the vulnerable subset of patients
      hospitalized for severe ulcerative colitis.

      We propose a pilot study investigating the treatment of severe ulcerative colitis with
      high-dose infliximab (10mg/kg infusions), which is the standard of care at UCSF for severe,
      hospitalized ulcerative colitis. This will be a prospective, multi-site study which will
      consecutively enroll hospitalized ulcerative colitis patients meeting inclusion criteria from
      anyone of four UCSF-affiliated hospitals. Per routine care, enrolled subjects will undergo
      infectious work-up, receive intravenous corticosteroids in addition to supportive care, and
      undergo evaluation by a Colorectal Surgeon. Subjects that are eligible for anti-TNF therapy
      after routine screening will begin infliximab induction therapy on hospital day 3 at 10mg/kg.
      We will perform standardized pre- and post-treatment assessments of disease activity
      (Ulcerative Colitis Disease Activity Index - UCDAI), including acquisition of biochemical and
      endoscopic data. We will measure serum levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha, infliximab, and
      infliximab antibody throughout the course of treatment. The primary outcome will be avoidance
      of colectomy. This study will be the first to our knowledge to examine the empiric use of
      high-dose infliximab combined with early therapeutic drug monitoring to guide the care of
      patients hospitalized with severe ulcerative colitis. Our ultimate goal is to develop a
      rational approach to maximizing infliximab therapy in the setting of severe ulcerative
      colitis to minimize and predict primary non-response to infliximab induction therapy.

      Aside from drawing infliximab and tumor necrosis factor alpha levels, all other procedures
      and treatments provided to these patients are part of routine care for the patient with
      severe ulcerative colitis. Routine care of the patient hospitalized with severe ulcerative
      colitis is summarized in the following protocol:

      On hospital days 1-2, hospitalized patients with severe ulcerative colitis undergo diagnostic
      evaluation including bloodwork (complete blood count, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte
      sedimentation rate, and serum albumin), infectious work-up (Clostridium difficile, stool
      cultures, stool ova and parasites, cytomegalovirus), and standardized assessment of disease
      activity (flexible sigmoidoscopy and calculation of UCDAI score). Patients are started on
      corticosteroid therapy (Solumedrol 40mg intravenous daily), and screened for eligibility for
      anti-tumor necrosis factor therapy (hepatitis B surface antibody, hepatitis B core antibody,
      hepatitis B surface antigen, tuberculin skin test, Quantiferon gold test, and chest
      radiograph). The Quantiferon gold tests are ordered for inpatients. Intravenous antibiotics
      are given therapeutically in the event of documented infection or clinical toxicity, but not
      prophylactically administered. Subcutaneous heparin is administered for deep vein thrombosis
      prophylaxis per standard of care. On hospital day 3, a positive or negative response to
      intravenous corticosteroids is determined prior to initiation of high-dose infliximab.
      Responders to medical therapy continue with an infliximab induction regimen (week 0, 2, and 6
      infusions). After completing the induction regimen, patients undergo repeat flexible
      sigmoidoscopy and calculation of UCDAI score at week 8.

      Eligible study subjects will receive their first induction dose of infliximab (10mg/kg
      intravenous infusion) on hospital day 3. A pre-infusion tumor necrosis factor alpha level and
      an immediate post-infusion serum infliximab will be checked.

      On hospital day 4, a serum tumor necrosis factor alpha and a 24 hour serum infliximab level
      will be measured.

      On hospital day 5, a serum tumor necrosis factor alpha and a 48 hour serum infliximab level
      will be measured.

      On hospital day 6, a serum tumor necrosis factor alpha and a 72 hour serum infliximab level
      will be measured.

      One week after initial infusion, a serum tumor necrosis factor alpha and a serum infliximab
      level will be measured.

      Two weeks after initial infusion, a serum tumor necrosis factor alpha and a serum infliximab
      level will be measured.
    
  