
    
      The inner ear included two sensorineural organs closely linked: the cochlea and the
      vestibule. With regards to children inner ear affliction, only cochlear function is taken
      into consideration, whereas balance related to vestibule function is often neglected.

      Congenital sensorineural hearing loss is frequent (3/1000 births, Martin et al. 1981, Fortum
      et al. 1997). Furthermore, otitis media is among the most frequent afflictions discovered in
      small childhood, and Handicaps secondary to sensorineural hearing loss are numerous:
      language, cognitive disorders, delay according to school and social integration (Joint
      Commitee on Infant Hearing 1994, Casselbrant et al. 2005, Jung et al. 2005).

      In counterpart, children balance disorders are often unknown and underestimated. However,
      they clinically lead to an evident handicap in case of acute or chronic otitis media
      (Caselbrant et al. 1995). Balance control involves three sensory systems tightly linked:
      vision, vestibule, and somesthesia. From the links between vision and vestibule originate the
      visio-vestibular and vestibulo-ocular reflexes (VVOR,VOR). Dynamic Posturography (DP) is a
      technology able to measure each of these sensory inputs involved in balance control by
      recording sensory organization test (SOT). This technology is available for adults for a few
      decades but are poorly used in children (Wiener-Vacher et al. 1996, 1998, Casselbrant et al
      1995, 2005).

      Aims:

      1-To assess objectively children balance control (to provide normative data according to the
      age). 2- to put in place methods to investigate children balance disorders. 3- to study
      children balance disorders suffering from sensorineural hearing loss.

      Methods:

      Studied population: two groups of children are involved and compared in this study: 150
      healthy children and 150 children suffering from sensorineural hearing loss. Each group is
      divided into three age groups: 6-8, 8-10, 10-12 years old.

      Assessment:

      The following parameters are recorded in both groups: VVOR and VOR, SOT on two DP Equitest
      and Balance Quest. Transient Evoked Otoacoustic Emissions were recorded too in order to prove
      normal hearing status in the healthy group and hearing loss in the sensorineural hearing loss
      group.
    
  