
    
      All the patients of either gender, diagnosed as a case of acromegaly scheduled for pituitary
      surgery will be enrolled. This observational study will be conducted over a period of 3
      years. A written informed consent will be taken from all the patients. The clinical diagnosis
      will be made on the basis of growth hormone (GH) levels and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      findings. All patients will be evaluated preoperatively, a day before surgery by an
      independent observer. Airway assessment for difficult intubation will be performed using
      Modified Mallampati classification in sitting and supine position followed by mouth opening,
      upper lip bite test, measurement of thyromental, thyrohyoid, sternomental and hyomental
      distance. Next the length of upper incisors, presence of receding mandible and neck movement
      will be checked. An associated history of OSA will also be taken in to account for assessing
      the difficult intubation followed by OSA grading in acromegalic patients posted for pituitary
      surgery. In situation of difficult tracheal intubation the fiberoptic intubation would be the
      preferred choice, which is a gold standard.

      General anesthesia will be induced with fentanyl 2µg/kg, propofol 2 mg/kg and rocuronium
      1mg/kg. After 90 seconds of mask ventilation, laryngoscopy will be performed with an
      appropriate sized Macintosh laryngoscope and thereafter Cormac lehane grading will be noted.
      External laryngeal manipulation (ELM) if carried out will be noted. A standard anesthesia
      protocol will be followed. After completion of the surgery, neuromuscular blockade will be
      reversed with neostigmine 0.05mg/kg and glycopyrrolate 0.01mg/kg intravenously. Once the
      patient follows the verbal command and respiratory parameters are satisfactory, endotracheal
      tube will be removed. All patients will be shifted to neurosurgical ICU for observation and
      supportive management.
    
  