
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if the combination of bortezomib plus vorinostat (SAHA) is more effective
           than vorinostat alone, in terms of prolonging progression-free survival, in patients
           with stage IIB-IV cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who have failed prior therapy.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the overall survival of these patients.

        -  To determine the response rate in these patients.

        -  To determine the time to progression in these patients.

        -  To determine the duration of response in these patients.

        -  To determine the incidence of second cancers in these patients.

        -  To determine the acute and late toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  To determine if translational research may provide insight into disease mechanism and
           identify biomarkers useful for prediction of treatment response. (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to type of cutaneous
      T-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides vs erythrodermic mycosis fungoides/Sézary syndrome),
      number of prior chemotherapy regimens (1 vs ≥ 2), and country. Patients are randomized to 1
      of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral vorinostat (SAHA) once daily in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 and oral vorinostat once
           daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days until progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Blood and tissue samples are collected periodically for translational research to provide
      insight into disease mechanism and identify biomarkers useful for prediction of treatment
      response.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks and then every 3
      months until disease progression.
    
  