
    
      The long-term objective of this work is to improve cognitive, emotional, and social
      developmental trajectories in at-risk children. Specially, this pilot study will assess the
      feasibility of Family Nurture Intervention (FNI) in the neonatal period during the infants'
      stay in the Well Baby Nursery (WBN) in improving developmental trajectories.

      FNI is a family-based intervention that facilitates and strengthens the mother-infant
      emotional connection through a structured guided interaction by a trained provider.
      Mother-infant emotional connection is known to affect various developmental processes and
      improve overall health. FNI was previously shown to be efficacious in improving several
      long-term health outcomes in preterm infants.

      In this study, the goal is to extend of the findings of FNI to another population of at risk
      infants - infants born to mothers suffering from gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). These
      infants are generally healthy but at higher risk than controls in developing mild cognitive
      and motor impairments.

      In this pilot phase, infants exposed to GDM and case-matched control infants will both
      receive FNI: (GDM+FNI and Control+FNI). These two groups will be compared to an already
      existing protocol and pool of participants who did not receive FNI: (GDM+no FNI and
      Control+no FNI). This allows the study to evaluate both GDM versus control infants as well as
      the presence of FNI versus no FNI.

      The goal is to pilot the potential role of a short, one-time session of FNI in promoting
      neurodevelopment among an at-risk wellbaby nursery population. This will be achieved by
      comparing developmental milestones, such as cognitive and motor development, memory,
      attention, and emotion regulation at 6 and 15 months, between participants who received the
      FNI and those who did not. Another goal is to elucidate the role FNI has on autonomic
      co-regulation and mother-infant synchrony through physiological recordings during the FNI
      session in the WBN.
    
  