
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine the toxicity and safety of incorporation of sorafenib tosylate (sorafenib) into
      the pre- or post-transplant maintenance setting for three types of transplants.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Improvement of 2 year disease free survival after bone marrow transplant by 25% based on a
      baseline relapse free survival at two years of 30%.

      II. Secondary graft failure is defined as the decline in neutrophil count to < 500/cu mm
      after achieving engraftment which is unrelated to infection or drug effect (sorafenib?) and
      is unresponsive to stimulation by growth factors.

      III. Non-relapse mortality (NRM) is defined, as death in the absence of competing risks,
      relapse or progression of disease.

      IV. Survival without relapse or death (disease-free survival [DFS]) or without death (overall
      survival [OS]) will be determined and presented as Kaplan-Meier estimates at 1 and 2 years
      post-transplant.

      V. Patients will be evaluated for chronic graft versus host disease (GVHD) both as described
      in the National Institutes of Health (NIH) consensus project guidelines and by conventional
      criteria.

      LABORATORY CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVE:

      I. Patients will undergo serial examinations of bone marrow during the maintenance treatments
      evaluating minimal residual disease (MRD) by flow cytometry and FLT3 suppression by western
      blot analysis and plasma inhibitory assay (PIA).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) beginning at least 30 days
      after completion of induction therapy and/or transplant but no more than 120 days after
      transplant continuing for up to 2 years after transplant in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 24 months.
    
  