
    
      Haemophilia A is an x-linked, life threatening bleeding disorder arising from defects in the
      coagulation factor VIII (FVIII) gene. Current treatment for haemophilia A, the commonest
      inherited bleeding disorder (prevalence of 1 in 5000 individuals) consists of life-long,
      2-3X/week, intravenous injection of clotting factor concentrates, which is demanding,
      exceedingly expensive not widely available nor curative. In contrast, gene therapy offers the
      potential of a cure for haemophilia A as illustrated by our first unequivocal success in a
      related condition, haemophilia B. In that study the investigators showed that a single
      intravenous administration of a serotype 8 based adeno-associated virus, (AAV8) vector
      encoding the factor IX (FIX) gene resulted in stable (>6 years) therapeutic expression of FIX
      without long-lasting toxicity. The investigators plan to use the same AAV8 platform to
      evaluate a novel FVIII expression cassette, AAV2/8-HLP-FVIII-V3, in patient with haemophilia
      A. Extensive preclinical studies demonstrate that AAV2/8-HLP-FVIII-V3 leads to long-term,
      endogenous expression of FVIII in mouse and non-human primate models without toxicity even
      when fifty-fold higher doses than the proposed starting clinical trial dose were used.
      Therefore, an open label, Phase I/II dose escalation study entailing a single systemic
      administration of AAV2/8-HLP-FVIII-V3 in adults (>18 years of age) with severe haemophilia A
      who have baseline factor FVIII levels of <1% of normal has been designed to establish safety
      and efficacy of our approach. Dosing will begin at 6x10^11 vector genome (vg)/kg progressing
      sequentially to 2x10^12vg/kg and ultimately 6x10^12vg/kg in the absence of toxicity. A
      minimum of 2 patients will be recruited at each dose with a possibility of expanding the dose
      cohort to a maximum of 6 patients based on safety and efficacy. The study duration for each
      patient will be 15 years after vector infusion.
    
  