
    
      Type 2 diabetes has become a worldwide epidemic with a prevalence of approximately 700,000
      patients and an annual incidence of 70,000 in the Netherlands. The development of T2D depends
      on both genetic and nutritional factors and is characterized by insufficient insulin
      secretion by the pancreatic beta-cells and insulin resistance in liver, skeletal muscle and
      white adipose tissue. Insulin resistance often precedes beta-cell loss and is associated with
      central obesity, high blood pressure, hyperinsulinemia and dyslipidemia, all of which may
      lead to microvascular and cardiovascular complications.

      White adipose tissue is increasingly considered a key metabolic organ in the development of
      insulin resistance. Especially the distribution of adipose tissue in the body is important.
      Indeed, visceral adipose tissue is a risk factor for coronary heart disease, certain cancers
      and T2D and associated with an increased cardiovascular and all-cause mortality, whereas
      excess of subcutaneous adipose tissue is not. There are distinct differences in the
      functional and hormonal characteristics of VAT and SAT, which may explain part of the
      mechanisms underlying the development of insulin resistance.

      A more complete understanding of the molecular mechanisms that lead to T2D will enable the
      identification of individuals at highest risk, which could lead to more targeted prevention
      and pharmacological therapy.

      FDG PET/CT is an established tomographic technique to image glucose metabolism with validated
      applications in oncology, infectious and inflammatory diseases, brain metabolism and cardiac
      viability. Several studies exploring the usefulness of FDG PET in imaging glucose metabolism
      in white adipose tissue reported lower overall glucose uptake in obese than in lean subjects.
      In both subject groups, glucose uptake was higher in VAT than in SAT. Glucose uptake in VAT
      and SAT was inversely related to insulin resistance, but uptake in GFAT was not. There are
      only few studies analyzing glucose uptake in patients with T2D with FDG PET/CT. In one study
      the impact of abdominal obesity and newly diagnosed T2D on insulin action in adipose tissue
      was evaluated, suggesting an excess of SAT to provide a sink for glucose, and thereby
      resulting in a compensatory decrease in insulin resistance. More research is needed to
      demonstrate the differences in glucose uptake in various adipose tissue depots in patients
      with T2D and correlate it with insulin resistance.

      In order to keep glucose at a constant level during the FDG PET examination, usually a
      hyperinsulinemic euglycaemic glucose clamp is performed before scanning. Recently, a
      case-report was published describing an FDG PET/CT during an iatrogenic hypoglycemic state in
      a non-diabetic patient, which demonstrated remarkably increased glucose uptake in VAT and
      SAT. Based on this observation we hypothesize that glucose uptake during a hypoglycaemic
      state will be more pronounced in various adipose tissue depots. To our knowledge, this has
      not been performed in healthy volunteers or in patients with T2D. A controlled hypoglycemic
      state may be achieved by a hyperinsulinemic hypoglycaemic clamp, which has been used in
      several clinical studies. A demonstration of differences in FDG uptake in white adipose
      tissue between healthy volunteers and T2D patients and between VAT, SAT and GFAT under
      hypoglycaemic conditions would provide more insight in the glucose metabolism of adipose
      tissue and contribute to our understanding of insulin resistance in T2D. Even more
      importantly, this imaging technique might help to better characterise patients with T2D or
      patients at risk to develop T2D, and may thereby help to increase our understanding of the
      pathophysiology of T2D and the metabolic syndrome, which could lead to more targeted
      prevention in patients at risk and to personalised pharmacological therapy after the onset of
      clinically overt disease.
    
  