
    
      As many as 30% of ischemic strokes in the U.S. population can be attributed to physical
      inactivity. With the goal of eliminating racial/ethnic stroke disparities, this
      interdisciplinary team proposes to develop, implement, and test a culturally-tailored
      behavioral intervention to reduce stroke risk (primary prevention) by increasing physical
      activity (walking) for 4 different racial/ethnic groups (Korean-Americans, Chinese-Americans,
      African-Americans and Latinos) in Los Angeles community senior centers. The intervention
      combines stroke and stroke risk factor knowledge (using materials developed by the American
      Heart Association and American Stroke Association) with theoretically-grounded behavioral
      change techniques and focuses on reducing stroke risk by increasing physical activity
      (walking). The study team will conduct focus groups (n=144) to identify culture-specific
      beliefs about stroke and stroke risk factors, to assess the feasibility and acceptability of
      the intervention, and will work with Community Action Panels to culturally-tailor the
      intervention. The intervention will consist of 4 weeks of twice-weekly 1-hour group sessions
      implemented at 4 community senior centers by trained case managers who are part of the
      regular senior center staff and supported by congressionally-mandated Older Americans Act
      Title III funding. The project team will test the effectiveness of the intervention in a
      randomized wait-list controlled trial (n=240) testing the hypothesis that the intervention
      will increase mean steps/day (measured by pedometer) at 1 and 3 months, and that the increase
      will be mediated by changes in stroke/stroke risk knowledge and self-efficacy. Blood pressure
      will be examined as a secondary outcome. In collaboration with the SPIRP Biomarker Collection
      & Analysis Core, the team will collect biological specimens (finger pricks) to explore the
      relationship between the intervention and biological markers of health; they will also
      explore the relationship between the intervention and healthcare seeking or taking
      medications to control stroke risk factors. The team will evaluate the barriers and
      facilitators of successfully integrating the intervention into the senior centers in order to
      inform large-scale implementation of the culturally-tailored stroke risk factor
      reduction/walking intervention.
    
  