
    
      Objectives: The long-term goal of this project is to improve the effectiveness of pressure
      injury prevention education by clinicians and self-management by Veterans with spinal cord
      injury (SCI) through a methodical development and testing of a mobile platform based pressure
      mapping system called "Comprehensive Mobile Assessment of Pressure" (CMAP). The targeted
      risk-reduction behavior in this project is the effective use of weight shifts when sitting in
      a wheelchair by improving consistency, frequency, duration, and quality of movements to
      redistribute pressure. CMAP provides visual cues as well as individually customizable
      reminders that are designed to compensate for the lack of sensation that prevents the use of
      natural cues to redistribute pressure, by wheelchair users. An updated CMAP system will serve
      two important objectives: 1) assist clinicians in assessment, individualized goal-setting,
      and monitoring the Veteran with SCI's progress toward pressure injury prevention behavior
      goals while in the hospital setting; and 2) assist clinicians with individualized setup and
      education of the Veteran with SCI for using the CMAP system in the home setting as a
      self-management strategy for pressure injury prevention.

      Specific Aims: The specific aims of this study include: 1a) hardware expansion to improve
      functionality of the CMAP system to add a docking and charging station and use of CMAP on a
      smartwatch based on Veteran preferences and 1b) software expansion to enhance clinical
      education for pressure injury prevention education, with requirements provided by clinicians;
      2) determine usability of the refined CMAP system when it is integrated into patient
      education for Veteran's with acute SCI during their inpatient rehabilitation stay, and 3) a
      determine usability and efficacy of the refined CMAP system for clinician-delivered pressure
      injury prevention education, followed by Veteran use of CMAP in their daily routines at home.

      Study Design: This four-year study will have multiple stages and will use a mixed methods
      approach that includes iterative focus groups and interviews with Veterans who have SCI and
      with clinicians who provide pressure injury prevention education to Veterans with SCI;
      self-efficacy and usability surveys for both Veterans and clinicians; pilot testing of CMAP
      during inpatient rehabilitation and testing during outpatient visits. Repeated measures will
      be used to evaluate changes within subject for completion of weight shifts while using CMAP,
      compared to periods when not using CMAP.

      Methods: During the first two years, improvements to CMAP hardware and software will be
      guided by experience-based design guided requirements learned about through iterative focus
      groups including Veterans with SCI/D (n=10) and clinicians (n=10). Usability will be measured
      at each iteration of development using the System Usability Scale (SUS) and the User
      Experience Questionnaire (UEQ). The focus groups will be repeated to ensure alignment between
      development progress and the requirements identified by the focus groups. During the
      inpatient pilot test, clinician (n=3) and Veteran (n=6) self-efficacy will be measured.
      Veterans will complete selected sub-scales from the Skin Care Belief Scale and clinicians
      will answer survey questions developed specifically around providing education for performing
      weight shifts effectively. Veteran progress toward weight shift goals will be measured
      through performance monitoring within the CMAP app; Actual performance will be assessed
      against the individualized goals set by the clinician. During the outpatient testing,
      Veterans (n=20) will use CMAP at home for 2 weeks after receiving education and
      individualized goals for weight shift performance by clinicians. While at home, trunk
      movements will be monitored via actigraphy to monitor weight shift frequency to compare to
      baseline trunk movement data, weight shift performance data within CMAP app, and finally,
      compared with individualized goals for performing weight shifts. Self efficacy and usability
      (SUS and UEQ) of the overall system in both settings will be measured.
    
  