
    
      Clostridium difficile is an increasingly common infection. The number of hospital discharges
      for which C. difficile was listed as the first diagnosis more than doubled between 2000 and
      2003. In addition to occurring more frequently, there is an epidemic of serious cases which
      are more refractory to therapy and which have high rates of colectomy and death. Most
      commonly, C. difficile infection (CDI) is associated with use of antimicrobial agents that
      are thought to alter the normal bacterial flora of the gastrointestinal tract so as to permit
      colonization and/or proliferation and toxin elaboration by C. difficile. Though the precise
      mechanisms by which this occurs are still incompletely understood, depletion of physiologic
      microflora, in particular Bacteroides species may play an important role. Most patients with
      CDI respond to a course of oral metronidazole or vancomycin, however, up to 20% of patients
      relapse after initial treatment. Current guidelines recommend a tapering course of vancomycin
      after a second recurrence, however up to 60% of patients still do not respond to this
      treatment strategy or develop further recurrence after the vancomycin is stopped. Use of
      antimicrobials to treat CDI may predispose these patients to further relapses through the
      maintenance of disturbed intestinal flora and may contribute to the emerging problem of drug
      resistance.

      "Fecal Microbiota Transplantation" (FMT) is a novel treatment approach which involves
      administration of feces from a healthy (donor) individual into a patient with relapsing CDI
      to promote recolonization with missing components of normal intestinal flora. Numerous case
      reports and retrospective case series have suggested benefit of FMT in patients with severe
      or recurrent CDI with cure rates as high as 100% and a mean cure rate of 89% for the nearly
      300 cases reported in the world literature. Although efficacy has been documented in these
      case reports, to date there has not been a published prospective clinical trial of FMT for
      CDI.

      The proposed study would be the first randomized, double-blind, placebo (sham) controlled
      clinical trial to determine whether FMT delivered at colonoscopy is effective at preventing
      further relapse in patients who have suffered from at least a 3rd recurrence of CDI despite
      receiving standard treatment. The investigators hypothesize that FMT is superior to placebo
      in preventing relapse after treatment of CDI with vancomycin. As a result of this study, the
      investigators will have preliminary efficacy data for this novel treatment approach for
      recurrent CDI. The investigators will be better prepared to test the efficacy of FMT in
      future multicenter clinical trials. This research will advance clinical care, potentially
      impacting the protocol for treatment of relapsing C. difficile infection worldwide. This
      proposal includes collaboration with an investigator capable of performing microbiome
      analyses on specimens collected as part of the trial and will further understanding of the
      intestinal microflora in health and disease.
    
  