
    
      Primary Objective(s) To validate the performance of the miR Sentinel™ PCC4 (Prostate Cancer
      Classification 4) Assay for identifying patients with low-risk (nominally GG1),
      intermediate-risk (nominally GG2) and high-risk (nominally GG3-5) prostate cancer in men of
      age 50-80 years with suspicion of prostate cancer for whom a core-needle biopsy is performed.
      These classifications will be compared to the results of core needle biopsies, and of radical
      prostatectomy (where available). The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
      predictive values will be established.

      Time Perspective: Prospective This is an observational, non-interventional validation study.
      Patients between the age of 50 and 80 years who have a prostate core needle biopsy will be
      enrolled provided that they have provided a urine sample immediately prior to biopsy. Using
      the Pathological Grade Group system, the results of each biopsy will be grouped as either no
      cancer, Grade Group 1 (GG1) cancer, Grade Group 2 (GG2) cancer, and Grade Groups 3-5 (GG3-5)
      cancer. The performance of the miR Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay to classify the disease status of a
      future patient as either prostate cancer (which is further classified into low-risk,
      intermediate-risk, or high-risk) or no prostate cancer will be established; the sensitivity,
      specificity, positive and negative predictive values will be determined for each test in the
      context of classifying a future patient with unknown disease status.

      Statistical Analysis:

      To estimate the prevalence of no cancer, GG1 cancer and GG2-5 cancer in the target population
      of men, previously published data are referenced below. These published data use Prostate
      Specific Antigen (PSA) level as a group identifier, and it is used here for the sole purpose
      of the prevalence estimations below. Note that the proposed clinical study does not in any
      way use PSA testing or scores to define eligibility criteria.

      Definitions. The general notation P (A | B) = P(A , B)/P(B) is the probability of the event A
      given that the event B occurred; this means the probability (prevalence) of the event A among
      the subgroup of patients in a population all of whom have the event B.

        1. Sensitivity = P (screening test + | truly disease).

        2. Specificity = P (screening test - | truly no disease).

        3. Positive Predictive Value (PPV) = P (truly disease | screening test +).

        4. Negative Predictive Value (NPV) = P (truly no disease | screening test -).

      Published data from the European Randomized Study of Screening for Prostate Cancer (ERSPC)
      and the Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial (PCPT) are used below to estimate population
      prevalences. It is estimated that:

        1. The sensitivity of the PSA≥ 3.0 ng/mL assay for positive biopsy is 44%

        2. The specificity of the PSA≥ 3.0 ng/mL assay for positive biopsy is 68%

        3. The PPV of serum PSA≥ 3.0 ng/mL for positive biopsy is 24%

        4. The NPV of the serum PSA≥ 3.0 ng/mL assay for positive biopsy is 86%

      Using the numbers above, the population proportion estimate of core needle biopsy positive is
      0.14*(2/3) + 0.24*(1/3) = 0.18, and thus the population proportion with a negative core
      needle biopsy is 82%. Note that the ERSPC used sextant biopsies instead of 12-core and for
      this reason, it is considered that 18% to be a lower bound on the population prevalence of
      positive (12-core) biopsy.

      Also, using data that 66% of patients with core needle biopsy positive are in GG1, it is
      estimated the population prevalence of GG1 and GG2-5 core needle biopsies to be (0.18)*(2/3)
      = 0.12 and 0.18*(1/3) = 0.06.

      The following assumptions are used to estimate the misclassification rates of core-needle
      biopsy:

      i) P(true GG1 | Biopsy - ) = 0.12 ii) P(true GG2-5 | Biopsy -) = 0.02 iii) P(true GG2-5 |
      Biopsy GG1) = 0.25 iv) P(true GG1 | Biopsy GG2-5) = 0.08

      Therefore, at most 82% of participants that enter the study will have negative biopsy, at
      least 12% will have positive biopsy and GG1 cancer, and at least 6% will have positive biopsy
      and GG2-5 cancer. At most 10% of participants will actually be GG1 with a negative biopsy
      (false negative) and at most 2% will be GG2-5 with a negative biopsy (false negative).

      Of the participants labeled with GG1 cancer from biopsy, at least 3% to be truly GG2-5. A
      very small proportion of participants are expected to be labeled as GG2-5 on biopsy but truly
      GG1.

      Estimate of Sample Size. The proposed prospective study will serve to establish the
      performance of the miR Sentinel™ PCa Test on a representative sample of participants with any
      suspicion of prostate cancer for whom a core needle biopsy is ordered. The miR Sentinel™ PCa
      test is trained on retrospective data. The current proposed study is targeted to enroll 2000
      participants between the age of 50 and 80 years who receive a core-needle biopsy and who
      provided a urine sample immediately prior to biopsy being performed. At least 6 % of
      participants entering the study will be biopsy-positive and GG2 or above (120/2000), at least
      12% will be biopsy-positive and GG1 (240/2000) and at most 82% (1640/2000) will be biopsy
      negative.

      Regarding false negative misclassifications, at most 200/2000 will be biopsy negative but
      truly GG1 and at most 40/2000 will be biopsy negative but truly GG2-5. On the other hand, at
      least 60/2000 participants to be labeled as GG1 on biopsy but truly GG2-5 and at least
      10/2000 participants to be labeled GG2-5 on biopsy but truly GG1.

      For a cutoff of the miR Sentinel™ PCa Score that results in an observed sensitivity estimate
      of 0.97 among the 360 participants expected to be enrolled in this prospective study with
      prostate cancer, the one-sided upper 95% confidence interval (CI) for the population
      sensitivity of the miR Sentinel™ PCa test that uses this cutoff, denoted P.SE, would be P.SE
      > 0.95, that is, at least 95% sensitivity in the population after considering sample
      variation by only using 360 participants.

      For a cutoff of the miR Sentinel™ CS Test that results in an observed sensitivity estimate of
      0.97 among the 110+60+40 = 210 participants enrolled in this prospective study with GG2-5
      prostate cancer (taking into account the false-negative rate of biopsy), the one-sided upper
      95% confidence interval (CI) for the population sensitivity of the miR Sentinel™ CS Test that
      uses this cutoff, denoted P.CS.SE, would be P.CS.SE > 0.95, that is, at least 95% sensitivity
      in the population after considering sample variation by only using 210 participants in GG2-5.

      This prospective study will continue to enroll participants until a total of 2000
      participants are enrolled.

      Statistical Methodology. As outlined below, this clinical study will enroll participants
      between the ages of 50 and 80 years that are scheduled for a core needle biopsy based on any
      suspicion of prostate cancer. The study will evaluate the properties of the miR Sentinel™
      PCC4 Assay (comprises of Sentinel™ PCa, Sentinel™ CS, and Sentinel™ HG Tests) that is based
      on use of a proprietary Classification Algorithm to identify future patients with prostate
      cancer and to classify prostate cancer as low-risk, intermediate-risk and high-risk disease.

      The proprietary Classification Algorithm employed functions by controlling sensitivity at, or
      above, a pre-specified level, denoted 1-α; for example, the value that has been assumed in
      this design is α=0.05 so that sensitivity is at least 95% in the population. Note that the
      value of α represents the false-negative rate of the test, that is, the test is (incorrectly)
      negative for a patient who is truly positive.

      To describe how the cutoff for the miR Sentinel™ PCa Score is calculated to control
      sensitivity, for each participant in the training dataset, the miR Sentinel™ PCa Score will
      be calculated using the remaining members of the training dataset and only his small
      non-coding RNA (sncRNA) sequence; that is, the true disease status of each patient in the
      training dataset will be blinded, thereby mimicking the setting for classification of a
      future patient. The cutoff used in the miR Sentinel™ PCa Test is then calculated so that the
      empirical sensitivity over patients in the training dataset with prostate cancer corresponds
      to the value that provides an upper one-sided 95% confidence interval for population
      sensitivity for a future patient of at least 1-α.

      With this cutoff for the miR Sentinel™ PCa Score determined from the training dataset a
      priori, the corresponding values of sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
      predictive values will be calculated, along with a corresponding upper 95% confidence
      intervals, on the prospective participants data accrued in this proposed study, with each
      biopsy result blinded, that is using only the participant's sncRNA sequence. Note that these
      error rates refer to the classification of a future patient with unknown disease status.

      The statistical analysis of the prospective data accrued that blinds the group label from
      biopsy will provide an estimate of the proportion of participants that are mis-labeled by
      biopsy in the prospective dataset. For example, a participant labeled as having no prostate
      cancer by biopsy and whose blinded miR Sentinel™ PCa Score indicates prostate cancer may be a
      participant that was potentially a false negative by core-needle biopsy (biopsy label
      negative) but a miR Sentinel™ PCa Test suggesting the presence of prostate cancer. The
      validation of this discordance will be addressed in the follow-up data analysis.

      The analysis for the miR Sentinel™ CS Test will employ a similar approach to that described
      above on the subset of the training dataset and the prospective data corresponding to
      participants labeled with GG1 and GG2-5 prostate cancer. Note that in the prospective data,
      all those participants determined to have cancer from the Sentinel™ PCa Test will be included
      in the analysis of the Sentinel™ CS Test. We will determine the performance of the
      proprietary Classification Algorithm for classifying a future patient as GG1 versus Grade
      Group 2 or above prostate cancer on the basis of the same 280 sncRNA sequences used in the
      miR Sentinel™ PCa Test. The corresponding sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
      predictive values with 95% confidence intervals will be calculated over the prospective
      dataset using the cutoff for the miR Sentinel™ CS Score that was determined using the
      training dataset.

      The blinded Sentinel™ CS Score, calculated for each participant in the prospective dataset
      using only his sncRNA sequence and the training dataset, will enable estimation of the
      proportion who were labeled as GG1 by biopsy, but actually have a Sentinel™ CS Score
      indicating GG2-5, the grade groups that are typically considered high risk and in need of
      treatment. Similarly, when a participant is labeled as GG2-5 but who has a favorable
      Sentinel™ CS Score (GG1), may imply the presence of stable/indolent disease.

      The analysis of the miR Sentinel™ HG Test will use a similar approach to that described above
      while the overall performance of the Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay to classify subjects into low-risk,
      intermediate-risk and high-risk disease will be evaluated using the performance
      characteristics of all three tests.

      Each study participant enrolled will be followed for one year. Participants will provide
      urine samples during each visit, and all relevant clinical data, including re-biopsies, PSA
      results and pathology report from radical prostatectomy (if administered as part of clinical
      care) will be obtained. The follow-up results, if available will be used for outcome
      analysis. For each urine sample provided, the miR Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay result will be
      determined and compared with the available 1 year follow up outcome data to inform the
      sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values of the tests.
    
  