
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Transforming growth factor-beta (TGFBeta) is a member of a large family of evolutionarily
      conserved proteins with broad activity.

      Paradoxically, TGFBeta is involved in both preventing malignant transformation of cells and
      promoting tumor progression by enhancing the proteolysis of extracellular matrix, stimulating
      tumor cell migration, tumor invasiveness, angiogenesis and inhibiting the immune response to
      tumor.

      GC1008 is a human IgG4 monoclonal antibody that neutralizes all isoforms of TGFBeta.

      GC1008 reduced metastatic burden and enhanced immune responses against cancers in preclinical
      studies.

      OBJECTIVES:

      To assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), and safety of
      GC1008 in patients with locally advanced of metastatic renal cell carcinoma or malignant
      melanoma.

      To obtain pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic data on GC1008.

      To evaluate tumor response as a preliminary assessment of clinical activity.

      To assess possible surrogate markers that might predict clinical efficacy by obtaining tumors
      and blood samples for exploratory biomarker analysis.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      Adult patients with locally advanced, surgically inoperable metastatic renal cell carcinoma
      or malignant melanoma. The Part 2 cohort expansion will accrue only malignant melanoma
      patients.

      Patients must have failed greater than or equal to 1 prior therapy.

      Patients must have a hemoglobin greater than or equal to 10.0 gm/dL granulocyte count (ANC)
      of greater than or equal to 1500/miocroliter and platelets greater than or equal to
      100,000/microliter; creatinine less than or equal to 2 mg/dL, serum bilirubin less than or
      equal to 1.5 x ULN, meet criteria for AST/ALT and have a normal PT/PTT.

      Measurable disease by RECIST criteria.

      Patients must test negative for hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus and human immune
      deficiency virus (HIV).

      Patient must be greater than 4-weeks since major surgery, radiation therapy or chemotherapy.

      DESIGN:

      Part 1: Cohorts of 3-6 patients will be treated with a single intravenous dose of GC1008 at
      doses of 0.1 to 15 mg/kg as prescribed by the protocol (This part has been completed).

      Part 2: A cohort expansion will treat an additional 6 subjects with GC1008 15 mg/kg to
      estimate the frequency of unacceptable skin adverse events (e.g., keratoacanthomas, etc). If
      an unacceptable frequency of skin adverse events are observed, an additional 6 subjects will
      be treated at the lower dose of 10 mg/kg to determine the phase II dose.

      Patients will then be observed for adverse events and PK studies obtained for 4-weeks.

      Patients will then receive three additional doses of GC1008 at same dose every 2-weeks.
      Responding patients and those with stable disease may receive additional treatments.
    
  