
    
      This is a single center study. All participants will be recruited from the USA. The study
      intends to recruit pre-pubertal children for inclusion in the 1 year growth hormone treatment
      trial. The study also plans to collect the following detailed phenotypic data at the first
      study visit: height, weight, musculoskeletal evaluation, photographs, radiographs (knees,
      left hand), MRI of the knees. The participants will be required to return to Cincinnati
      Childrens Hospital Medical Center (CCHMC) for 3 study visits over the 12 month period. At the
      follow up visits participants will receive a routine physical/pubertal exam, joint exam, have
      vitals sign checked, height/weight taken, and labs drawn. A funduscopic exam will be
      performed to look for signs of intracranial pressure. Study participants are also required to
      complete phone check ins at scheduled intervals, and a locally drawn blood sample to check
      insulin-like growth factor (IGF1) levels approximately 3 months after treatment start date.
      Concomitant medications, adverse events will be recorded and updated at all study visits and
      phone check ins. Medication will be resupplied and shipped to the participant as needed at
      every point of follow up contact. If the subjects grow well enough in the first 12 months per
      study protocol, they are eligible to continue treatment through the study for an additional 2
      years. They will continue to come to CCHMC every 6 months for follow up study visits.

      The study will enroll interested and affected relatives of the participant in the joint
      phenotyping protocol as well. These participants will come to CCHMC only one time to complete
      the phenotyping procedures. This is not an outcome of the study but the information gathered
      from the imaging will provide insight into the effects of ACAN mutation on the joint
      cartilage.

      Age and sex matched controls will be recruited from CCHMC department of Sports Medicine for
      all individuals that undergo the knee MRI procedures. This is to establish normative data for
      comparison.
    
  