
    
      Nephrolithiasis is a major worldwide source of morbidity, constituting a common urological
      disease affecting 10-15% of the world population, with a subsequent clinical relapse rate of
      approximately 50%. Recent technological and surgical advances have reduced the need for open
      surgery with less invasive procedures, such as percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL),
      extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (SWL) and retrograde ureteroscopy. The selection of the
      surgical procedure generally depends on the size, composition, location of the renal stone,
      the existence of obstruction and anatomical variations of the urinary system. Today, PCNL is
      the established procedure for stone greater than 2 cm; The procedure usually involves three
      main stages: it begins with the insertion of a ureteral catheter to perform a retrograde
      study with contrast medium where the anatomy of the kidney is evaluated, then the puncture is
      performed by inserting a surgical needle on the skin to the specific location of the stone,
      with subsequent dilatation of the tract to the collecting system, and once this access has
      been made it is proceeded to carry out the fragmentation and extraction of the stone through
      various types of instruments.

      The success and results of the treatment of surgery are very well known and highly dependent
      on precision in the puncture stage (the stones must be achieved with a precise and direct
      path), make this step is the most challenge for surgeons. The ideal access is one that allows
      complete removal of the stones while minimizing intraoperative bleeding. Needle punctures and
      their complications, such as kidney injuries and adjacent organs, eventually impair the
      overall surgical success and outcome of the patient. Although PCNL is considered minimally
      invasive surgery (MIS) with many associated benefits, such as the production of small
      incisions in the patient, reducing hospitalization time and postoperative recovery, some
      complications still occur frequently. The dilation of the nephrostomy tract is the second
      step in which there are more complications, since it depends on an optimal puncture of the
      collecting system and a precise manual control to avoid damages of the collecting system or
      to increase the risks of bleeding.

      Restricted vision, difficulty in handling the Instrumental, restrictive mobility within the
      kidney, skill levels of hand-eye coordination of the surgeon, deviation of the needle, moving
      anatomical objective, are a constant challenge for the surgeon. Several technological
      advances have been proposed to improve the effectiveness of this procedure. In regard to
      puncture and dilatation, relevant contributions have been provided by the improvement in
      medical imaging techniques, as well as the fusion of multiple imaging procedures.

      Main goal

      To determine the highest rate of intraoperative and early postoperative complications
      (bleeding, pain) with the use of the various methods of access to the renal collecting system
      during percutaneous nephrolithotomy for the treatment of kidney stones greater than 2 cm than
      2 cm between April 2017 and January 2018.
    
  