
    
      Ninety percent of stroke survivors have clinically significant gait impairments that lead to
      secondary medical complications, including cardiovascular deconditioning and reduced quality
      of life (QOL). Several rehabilitative interventions that increase the level of activity and
      mobility have been shown to be beneficial. Challenges posed by most of these locomotor gait
      training interventions require recurring visits to a rehabilitation center. The recent
      development of novel powered exoskeletons offers a potential mechanism for stroke survivors
      to improve mobility in the home and community. Although the predominant research using these
      devices have been in persons with spinal cord injury, there are currently two devices are
      commercially available for use in patients with stroke and additional devices are being
      developed. The Keeogo powered orthotic exoskeleton is a novel device intended for persons
      with stroke who can ambulate but have gait impairment. This device consists of a ridged
      orthotic structure placed over clothing on the legs and batteries to the power motors that
      assist both knees in gait movement. The system monitors hip movement driven by the user and
      interprets this movement to apply the appropriate assistance at the knee joint. This unique
      approach makes learning intuitive, enabling the user only to acclimate to the system rather
      than learning how to control the device to initiate the desired movement.

      This proposal is a randomized controlled pilot study. Fifteen veterans with chronic stroke
      (>6months) and who retain some ability to take steps but have impaired gait will be
      recruited. Ten participants will be randomized into the exoskeleton group and 5 into the
      control group. Both groups will be asked to complete 36 one-hour sessions of ambulation
      training. The exoskeleton group will train using the Keeogo powered orthotic exoskeleton and
      the control group will train without using their own conventional aide.

      The primary aim is to determine the efficacy of training with this exoskeleton and its
      ability to improve transfers to standing and sitting as assessed by the five times
      sit-to-stand test. A secondary aim will be to assess effects of the device during overground
      ambulation. Outcome measurements to investigate changes of knee range of motion and loading
      of the paretic limb. An exploratory outcome of changes in energy expenditure during
      ambulation with and without the powered exoskeleton. Additional exploratory outcome measures
      of QOL will be determined.
    
  