
    
      Capillary refill time (CRT) test is a simple and noninvasive method typically used to assess
      peripheral blood perfusion at the bedside. CRT is defined as the time required for a distal
      capillary bed (e.g., fingertip) to regain its color after having received enough compression
      to cause blanching [1]. Because a prolonged CRT suggests a decrease in peripheral perfusion
      and poor peripheral perfusion is strongly associated with patients' mortality, several
      studies reported the clinical usefulness of CRT for predicting patients' mortality in the
      critical care setting [2,3]. However, because the conventional CRT test depends on
      clinicians' subjective visual assessment, the inter-rater agreement of it has been
      questioned, and substantial clinical experience is needed to acquire the reliable skill to
      measure CRT [4, 5, 6, 7]. Therefore, there is great demand for the creation of objective
      methods to easily assess peripheral blood perfusion.

      Previously, the investigators developed a new mechanical device by using pulse oximetry
      waveforms, which can enable us to measure CRT easily and objectively. The measurement
      obtained with this device is called Capillary Refill Index (CRI) to differentiate it from
      traditional visual assessment of CRT [8]. The method calculates the time it takes for blood
      to return to the fingertip after release from compression by algorithmically analyzing the
      light intensity waveform of a normal pulse oximeter sensor attached to a patient's fingertip.
      The investigators' previous study showed that CRI can be an alternative to traditional CRT
      for assessing peripheral blood perfusion [8, 9, 10].

      In the investigators previous study with healthy volunteer subjects [11], the investigators
      found that lowered fingertip temperature is a critical component that affects measurement
      values of CRI, which is the same phenomena with the traditional CRT. Since lowered skin
      temperature causes poor peripheral perfusion, the patients with lower fingertip temperature
      can show prolonged CRI without reflecting hemodynamic instability, which means lower skin
      temperature can increase false positives when using CRI to detect patients at high risk for
      mortality. The investigators hypothesize that the predictive accuracy of CRI for detecting
      patients at increased risk for mortality may be improved if the patients' skin temperature is
      warmed up before the measurement.
    
  