
    
      5-azacytidine is designed to "turn off" the growth of cancer cells. This may be increased by
      ara-C, which is designed to kills leukemia cells by helping to stop the cells from dividing.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a
      treatment group. You will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of the 4
      treatment groups. The first 3 to 6 patients will be assigned to Group 1. If no serious side
      effects are experienced, the next 3 to 6 patients will be assigned to Group 2. If no serious
      side effects are experienced, the next 3 to 6 patients will be assigned to Group 3. If no
      serious side effects are experienced, the next 3 to 6 patients will be assigned to Group 4.

      If you are in Group 1, you will receive low-dose 5-azacytidine as an infusion by vein over 20
      to 30 minutes every day for 7 days. You will also receive low-dose ara-C as a continuous
      infusion by vein for 7 days.

      If you are in Group 2, you will receive high-dose 5-azacytidine as an infusion by vein over
      20 to 30 minutes every day for 7 days. You will also receive low-dose ara-C as a continuous
      infusion by vein for 7 days.

      If you are in Group 3, you will receive low-dose 5-azacytidine as an infusion by vein over 20
      to 30 minutes every day for 7 days. You will also receive high-dose ara-C as a continuous
      infusion by vein for 3 days (if you are 65 years of age or older) or for 4 days (if you are
      younger than 65 years of age).

      If you are in Group 4, you will receive high-dose 5-azacytidine as an infusion by vein over
      20 to 30 minutes every day for 7 days. You will also receive high-dose ara-C as a continuous
      infusion by vein for 3 days (if you are 65 years of age or older) or for 4 days (if you are
      younger than 65 years of age).

      Each group's treatment will be repeated every 4 to 8 weeks (this is considered 1 cycle of
      treatment), depending on your blood counts and how well your bone marrow is recovering. You
      will receive at least 2 cycles of treatment. You will continue to receive treatment, unless
      your disease gets worse or if you experience intolerable side effects. If your disease gets
      worse or you experience intolerable side effects, you may be taken off this study.

      This is an investigational study. 5-azacytidine has been approved by the FDA for the
      treatment of MDS. Ara-C has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of AML. Up to 80
      patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  