
    
      Bacterial colonization of epidural catheters is known to occur and it has been suggested that
      catheter contamination occurs more frequently in the obstetric setting. Epidural catheters
      are usually colonized by the flora present at the skin insertion site and the rate of
      colonization varies from 5 to 30%. At present, there is a lack of scientific information
      available in order to make an evidence-based decision about skin disinfection prior to
      epidural analgesia. The labouring woman appears to have higher risk for infectious
      complications of epidural analgesia than other surgical patients.

      All parturients considering a labour epidural who are admitted to Labour and Delivery at BC
      Women's Hospital during daytime weekday hours will be given an information sheet on the study
      by the Assessment room nurse. The Labour and Delivery Room nurses (which includes the
      Assessment room) are generally the first healthcare providers with whom women discuss labour
      epidural analgesia once admitted to hospital. All women interested in labour epidural
      analgesia who are admitted to Labour and Delivery, either via the Assessment room, or from
      one of the inpatient wards will be provided with the study information. After adequate time
      has been given for consideration of the study information, one of the researchers who is not
      directly involved in the patient's care will approach the patient for consent to participate
      in the study. This will happen prior to the actual request for labour epidural analgesia,
      therefore avoiding the point of pain at which the woman requires a labour epidural. Written
      consent will be obtained at that time. Upon request for a labour epidural, the woman will be
      randomized into one of 3 groups via a computer-generated randomization table (ZRandom). Group
      C will be ChloraprepTM, Group D: DuraprepTM, and Group S: chlorhexidine 0.5% in 70% alcohol.

      Exclusion criteria include: temperature > 38oC orally at time of epidural request, local skin
      or generalized infection, systemic antibiotics administered prior to epidural request,
      presence of ruptured membranes > 24 hours, combined spinal-epidural analgesia planned, unable
      to speak/understand English, allergy to chlorhexidine or iodine, and patient refusal.

      The attending anesthesiologist will wear a clean mask, clean his/her hands with either a wet
      scrub or alcohol-based antiseptic, and don sterile procedure gloves. Patients will be placed
      in either the left lateral, or sitting position according to anesthesiologist's preference.
      The skin overlying the lumbar interspaces will then be cleansed with the antiseptic solution,
      according to the recommended protocol for each solution.

      Specific instructions for skin disinfection will be provided in an envelope to the attending
      anesthesiologist, according to the randomization group.

        1. Subjects in the S group will have three applications of chlorhexidine 0.5% in 70%
           alcohol applied according to standard protocol. The chlorhexidine will be poured from a
           multi-use bottle into the sterile tray provided in the epidural kit. Sterile prep sponge
           sticks are part of the tray. Each sponge stick will be saturated with chlorhexidine and
           a 15 cm square area will be prepared over the L1-L5 interspaces using the centre-out
           method, allowing time for the solution to air-dry prior to proceeding.

        2. Subjects in the D group will have their skin prepared with a single-use 6mL-unit
           applicator that contains a sterile, crushable ampoule of iodine 0.7% with 74% isopropyl
           alcohol. The solution is allowed to flow into the sponge tip via gravity and pumping
           action on the handle following activation of the applicator lever. A 15 cm square area
           over the L1-L5 interspaces will be covered using the centre-out method with a single
           application, and the solution will be allowed to air dry prior to proceeding.

        3. Subjects in the C group will have their skin prepared with a single-use 10.5 mL-unit
           applicator that contains a sterile crushable ampoule of chlorhexidine gluconate 2% with
           isopropyl alcohol 70%. Following crushing the ampule with the outer wings of the sponge
           applicator, the solution will be pumped into the sponge tip until wet. A 15 cm square
           area over the L1-5 interspaces will be covered using the centre-out method with a single
           application. The solution will be allowed to air-dry prior to proceeding.

      Epidurals will be placed between the L3 and L5 interspaces using a 17 gauge Tuohy needle, by
      loss of resistance to air or saline depending on operator choice. A 19 gauge Arrow flex tip
      endhole epidural catheter will be advanced to a depth of 4 to 6 cm within the epidural space.
      The catheter will be fixed in place by a sterile semi-permeable dressing (Tegaderm TM) and
      the proximal part of the catheter will be connected to a 0.2 micrometre filter. Standardized
      solutions of bupivacaine (0.08 or 0.125%) with fentanyl 2 micrograms/mL, prepared aseptically
      by the hospital pharmacy, will be used via the PCEA technique. Any initiation bolus, manual
      top-up, or top-up for surgical anesthesia will be prepared aseptically by the attending
      anesthesiologist as needed and injected into the epidural catheter through the filter.

      There are no identifiable risks beyond potential reaction to the skin disinfectant. All of
      the skin preparation solutions are approved for skin disinfection prior to invasive/surgical
      procedures. There is no published data on the incidence of reaction to any of these products,
      and nothing that indicates one solution may have more inherent risk than the others.

      Cultures and Microbiology

      All skin culture samples will be taken by one of the researchers. All skin cultures will be
      obtained using sterile culture swabs (Copan Venturi Transport system) pre-moistened in
      sterile normal saline, taken from a 5 cm square area of skin. A baseline culture of skin
      flora at the proposed epidural insertion site will be taken prior to epidural insertion. The
      second culture will be taken immediately following skin antisepsis but before epidural
      insertion, to determine the initial efficacy of the antiseptic solution. The third culture
      will be taken following removal of the sterile occlusive dressing, immediately prior to
      epidural catheter removal. Prior to obtaining the epidural catheter tip for culture, the area
      of skin around the epidural catheter is disinfected with isopropyl alcohol. This is done to
      reduce the risk of skin contamination of the epidural catheter tip. Ten seconds later, the
      epidural catheter is removed by a researcher wearing a mask and sterile gloves, using sterile
      forceps, and the distal 3-4 cm is transacted with a sterile scissors.

      The swabs will be coded, placed into 1.0 ml thioglycolate broth (BBL; Becton-Dickinson) and
      hand-delivered to the Microbiology lab at BC Children's and Women's Hospital. The tubes will
      then be spun for 1 minute to suspend organisms. Each swab and 0.1 ml aliquot of the
      suspension will then be inoculated onto blood agar plates. The epidural catheter tips will be
      placed in plain C+S containers and hand-delivered to the Microbiology lab where they will be
      rolled over blood agar plates. Standard culture techniques for the skin swabs and epidural
      catheter tips will be employed, to semi-quantitatively determine the bacterial count
      (colony-forming units or CFU's) and identify the micro-organisms. The CDC and PHAC definition
      for bacterial colonization of intravascular devices is a growth of 15 or more colony forming
      units/ml. We plan to use this as our definition for colonization of epidural catheters.
    
  