
    
      Heavy alcohol use negatively impacts HIV/AIDS in several important ways. It increases
      HIV-risk behaviors, impairs the immune system and accelerates HIV disease progression. Heavy
      alcohol use also interferes with HIV care compliance, including appointment attendance and
      medication adherence.

      Women are particularly important targets for alcohol use interventions. The threshold for
      harmful alcohol effects is strikingly low in women, with two drinks per day placing women at
      risk for negative health consequences. Heavy/hazardous alcohol use is less likely to be
      detected in women receiving health services. Women may be less likely to seek and or engage
      in alcohol treatment services, making nontraditional care settings particularly important for
      reaching this population.

      This proposal tests the utility of a brief alcohol intervention for HIV+ women delivered in a
      medical setting. Hazardous/binge female drinkers will be identified in the Johns Hopkins
      Hospital HIV clinic and will be randomized to brief intervention or standard care. The brief
      intervention will include two sessions that review drinking patterns and behavior change
      strategies as well as two telephone calls to reinforce session content. In addition, a
      comparison group of nonhazardous drinking, HIV+ women will be recruited. Outcome measures
      will include: alcohol/drug use, engagement in an on-site alcohol support group and other
      substance abuse treatment services, HIV-risk behaviors, HIV disease markers and treatment
      compliance, and psychiatric symptoms.

      The investigators hypothesize that women who receive the brief intervention will report lower
      mean weekly alcohol consumption and fewer heavy drinking episodes than women in standard
      care. The investigators also predict that women who receive brief intervention will adhere to
      their HIV medications and keep their health care appointments more consistently, and have
      improved HIV-related health outcomes. Finally, the investigators hypothesize that
      nonhazardous drinkers will have fewer psychiatric symptoms and better quality of life than
      hazardous drinking women.

      Comparison(s): Standard HIV care
    
  