
    
      Individuals with substance use disorders (SUDs) can be readily identified within primary care
      settings, but current interventions are not effective at linking them to SUD treatment.
      Patient and system level barriers present significant challenges and new, more robust,
      linkage models are needed that can successfully overcome the barriers. Identifying more
      effective linkage models is a priority within addiction health services, since untreated
      individuals with SUDs have poorer health and employment outcomes over time as well as use
      significantly more acute care services, resulting in substantially higher medical costs,
      compared with those who receive SUD treatment.

      Results from three clinical trials conducted by the applicant team have demonstrated the
      effectiveness of Recovery Management Checkups (RMC) as a linkage model for individuals
      needing SUD treatment. Moreover, RMC participants were significantly more likely to enter
      treatment, enter sooner, and stay longer, having fewer days of use and fewer SUD symptoms.
      Outcomes were also associated with lower health care utilization, decreased criminal
      activity, and substantial savings to society, thereby offsetting the costs of additional
      treatment. RMC was modified for primary care (RMC-PC) and pilot results conducted in
      Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) indicated RMC-PC significantly increased the
      number of patients who agreed to go to treatment (72% vs. 97%; OR=12.6, p<.05) and who showed
      for treatment (12% vs. 75%, OR=22.0, p<.0001). Moreover, relative to patients in these same
      settings who received the usual referral condition, those who received RMC-PC had
      significantly greater reductions (post-pre) in their past-month days of any illicit drug use
      or misuse of prescription medications (-11.21 vs -22.11 days, d=-0.81, p<.001).

      In this trial, investigators will: a) recruit 300 adult patients with SUD through SBIRT
      programs in 4 FQHC sites, b) randomly assign half to a referral as usual control and half to
      RMC-PC, and c) conduct quarterly follow-ups for 12-months post enrollment. Hypotheses
      include: H1 Relative to the control patients, patients receiving RMC-PC will be more likely
      to: a) initiate SUD treatment sooner, b) receive any SUD treatment, and c) receive more days
      of SUD treatment. H2. Relative to the control patients, patients receiving RMC-PC and those
      who receive more SUD treatment will report fewer days of: a) any alcohol use, b) use of
      illicit drugs or misuse of prescription medications, c) any substance use, and d) SUD
      problems. H3. The days of treatment will mediate the relationship between RMC-PC and changes
      in the pre and post measures of the dependent variables in H2.
    
  