
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine a safe and immunogenic combination of G17DT with cisplatin and
      fluorouracil in patients with chemotherapy-naive metastatic or locally recurrent gastric or
      gastroesophageal cancer. II. Determine the safety profile and tolerability of this regimen in
      these patients. III. Determine the tumor response rate, disease stabilization, best overall
      response, time to progression, time to treatment failure, and overall survival in patients
      treated with this regimen. IV. Determine the correlation of immunological response with
      clinical efficacy and benefit in patients treated with this regimen. V. Determine the
      pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are assigned to one of four treatment
      regimens. Regimen A: Patients receive high-dose G17DT intramuscularly (IM) on days 7, 35, and
      63. Patients also receive cisplatin IV over 1-3 hours on day 1 followed by fluorouracil IV
      continuously over days 1-5 every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. If inadequate immune response is seen on Regimen A, subsequent
      patients are treated on Regimen B. If unacceptable toxicity is seen on Regimen A, subsequent
      patients are treated on Regimen C. If inadequate immune response and unacceptable toxicity
      are seen on Regimen A, or if unacceptable toxicity is seen on Regimen B or inadequate immune
      response is seen on Regimen C, then subsequent patients are treated on Regimen D. Regimen B:
      Patients receive high-dose G17DT IM on days 1, 28, and 56. Patients also receive cisplatin IV
      over 1-3 hours on day 35 followed by fluorouracil IV continuously over days 35-39 every four
      weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Regimen C: Patients
      receive low-dose G17DT IM on days 7, 35, and 63 with chemotherapy as in regimen A. Regimen D:
      Patients receive low-dose G17DT IM on days 1, 28, and 56 with chemotherapy as in regimen B.
      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, on day 7, every 2 weeks for 10 weeks, and then every
      4 weeks thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-75 patients will be accrued for this study within 5-30
      months.
    
  