
    
      In the past 4 years the investigators' research group has completed 2 studies on the effect
      of testosterone therapy on exercise induced coronary ischaemia (clinically manifest as angina
      pectoris). We, the investigators at Sheffield Teaching Hospitals, have shown that
      testosterone replacement therapy improved exercise duration on the treadmill and prolonged
      time to ischaemia (ischaemic threshold). Moreover, we demonstrated a dose response
      relationship between the increase in exercise duration and the baseline testosterone level so
      that men with lower baseline testosterone level derived the greatest symptomatic benefit from
      replacement therapy. Importantly we have also demonstrated that the effects of testosterone
      are maintained in the presence of concomitant anti-anginal drug therapy and at physiological
      levels of testosterone therapy. (English et al. 2000; Malkin 2004)

      Furthermore we have found the prevalence of men with coronary disease and low serum
      testosterone levels to be approximately 25%. This represents a large population of men with
      low testosterone levels that may benefit symptomatically from testosterone therapy. These men
      qualify for androgen replacement therapy per se simply to relieve hypogonadal symptoms and
      maintain bone mineral density and there are clinical guidelines recommending physiological
      testosterone replacement in this cohort. (Morales and Lunenfeld 2002) The safety issues
      relating to testosterone treatment which comprise a theoretical increased risk of prostate
      neoplasia and increased erythropoiesis are of limited relevance in this population because
      replacement therapy only returns the testosterone level to the physiological range. Indeed,
      there is no evidence that appropriate testosterone therapy increases the risk of prostate
      cancer. More importantly, prostate cancer can be identified early by screening for prostate
      specific antigen allowing careful surveillance during replacement therapy.

      This study aims to address the following questions on the effects of testosterone therapy in
      men with coronary ischaemia:

        -  Does the anti-anginal effect persist long term? Many of the published studies are acute
           single dose trials and none of the chronic studies have assessed patients formally
           beyond a few months. Our earlier studies were limited to 3 months.

        -  Does testosterone therapy in men affect the levels of measurable atheroma? There is
           currently no in-vivo human evidence that androgen therapy inhibits or reduces levels of
           atheroma, although there is abundant evidence in animals to suggest a potential
           improvement.

      This study addresses the two issues and would be of one-year duration but would be the
      longest trial of testosterone therapy in men with cardiovascular disease.

      The primary endpoint is change in time to ST- segment depression of > 1mm during exercise
      testing.
    
  