
    
      In this study we proposed to use conventional MR imaging, diffusion spectrum imaging(DSI),
      and susceptibility weighted imaging(SWI), to acquire the information of brain structure in
      neural tissue and the volume of blood vessels. Conventional MR imaging with 3T MR unit will
      consist of sagittal T1-weighted, axial T2 fast spin-echo, and thickness of transverse
      sections in 2.5 mm are obtained parallel to the anterior and posterior commissure line.
      Diffusion spectrum imaging(DSI), a more specific method to detects the fiber crossing of
      white matter, quantified by GFA value to investigate the tract-specific abnormalities with
      the growth trajectories and their correlations with clinical features in patients with
      RTT.DSI scans were acquired using a Siemens Tim Trio 3T scanner at NTUH. Diffusion spectrum
      imaging data were obtained in 32 channel head coil with following parameters: TE = 2.98 ms,
      TR = 2000 ms, slice per slab=208, slice thickness = 1.0mm, FoV read = 256mm, voxel
      size=2.5x2.5x2.5mm. Susceptibility weighted image(SWI), facilitated sensitivity to deposited
      hemosiderin, has improved the recognition of cerebral micro bleeds (CMB). Therefore, we plan
      to use the advancing techniques to gain the information about the multiple
      cortico-subcortical blood vessels from our patient.

      Study subjects will be recruited from OPD in NTU hospital, age range 2 to 30 years, 45
      diagnosed rett patients and 45 controls. All of the scanning will complete in NTU hospital.
      Before entering the scanning room, parents of patients will finish a questionnaire about the
      physical development in Rett syndrome, including gross motor, fine motor skills and speech
      ability. After then, DSI data are acquired at 3T MR unit and we will analysis the white
      matter data by DSI studio (http://dsi-studio.labsolver.org ) and perform the whole brain
      tracts in detail by TBAA which were reconstructed on the NTU-DSI-122 template. We will
      process and analyze the gray matter by using FreeSurfer (http://freesurfer.net) and the
      volume of cerebral micro bleeds by SWI data to find out the difference between Rett patients
      and control group. In order to obtain the results with reliability and validity, Peabody
      developmental motor scales (PDMS-2), a motor development program will be applied to assess
      the gross motor and fine motor skills objectively. PDMS-2 consists of 6 subjects: reflexes,
      stationary, locomotion, object manipulation, grasping, and visual-motor integration and can
      be used in clinical assessment and training. Finally, the brain structure data will be
      compared with the functional changes in Rett syndrome patients.
    
  