
    
      The long term goal in our research is to develop and implement effective, evidence-and
      mechanism-based interventions to improve outcomes for surgical and trauma patients. Of
      potential importance, findings from our own recent pilot studies have established that > 95%
      of patients seen at Truman Medical Center (TMC) are seriously Vitamin D deficient with plasma
      levels significantly lower than normal. Our objective in this application, therefore, is to
      assess the short term therapeutic benefit of high dose Vitamin D in patients admitted to TMC
      for elective major abdominal surgery. We propose to measure plasma Vitamin D and Calcium
      levels before supplementation (pre-operatively), and after supplementation
      (post-operatively), and monitor the biomarker proteins cathelicidin and resistin at the same
      times. Data on Vitamin D levels will be used to assess direct biochemical effects.
      Measurement of cathelicidin levels will provide additional information. Since Vitamin D has
      been shown to induce increased expression of this antimicrobial protein. Monitoring of
      circulating levels of resistin provides a highly sensitive early measure of infection
      (unpublished observations). Calcium levels will also be monitored since there is a
      significant chance that pre-operative calcium levels will be low in some patients, and that
      supplementation with vitamin D may increase the calcium level.

      Measures of secondary clinical outcomes will include length of hospital stay and incidence of
      post-operation infection. Our central hypothesis is that, relative to patients receiving
      peri-operative standard of care, patients receiving 250,000 units of Vitamin D
      pre-operatively will manifest levels of Vitamin D to within the normal range and will have
      elevated levels of cathelicidin. We further hypothesize that patients receiving Vitamin D
      will have reduced incidence of infection, which will correlate with lower levels of resistin,
      and will exhibit trends toward shorter hospital stay. Our proposed specific aims are:

      Specific Aim #1: Determine biochemical consequences of Vitamin D supplementation in elective
      surgery patients We hypothesize that preoperative supplementation with high dose Vitamin D
      will result in levels of Vitamin D in treated patients within the normal range, corresponding
      with significant increases in plasma levels of cathelicidin, relative to control patients
      receiving standard of care.

      Specific Aim # 2: Evaluate clinical benefits of Vitamin D supplementation in post-elective
      surgery patients We postulate that patients given Vitamin D will trend toward lower rates of
      post-surgery infection, as evidenced by the absence of circulating resistin and decreased
      detection of pulmonary or wound-site infection, and will have shorter hospital stays relative
      to patients receiving standard of care.

      It is our expectation that, at the completion of this pilot study, we will have provided
      strong evidence that plasma levels of Vitamin D, as measured by 25-OHD, can be reproducibly
      raised to normal levels as measured in post-surgery patients and that the administered
      Vitamin D will have detectable biochemical benefits. We further expect that, while the power
      of the proposed study will not be sufficient for statistically valid results, there will be
      trends toward clinical benefits in Vitamin D treated patients. Collectively, these findings
      would provide strong evidence to support feasibility of an NIH-supported Phase I trial to
      assess Vitamin D benefits in surgery and/or trauma.
    
  