
    
      The major obstacle to the cure of cancer by pharmacological agents is resistance to these
      agents. Clinical responses of metastatic cancers to the most advanced chemotherapeutic agents
      usually range from 15 to 40%, indicating that intrinsic resistance, and acquired resistance
      occurs almost inevitably in those tumors that do respond. In patients with metastatic
      colorectal cancer, clinical resistance to a particular treatment is a clear endpoint (tumor
      growth), and is usually observed within 6-12 months of any given therapy. Thus, drug
      resistance and selecting appropriate therapeutic alternatives for drug-resistant cancer
      remain major dilemmas for oncologists.

      The current first-line treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer in Quebec and much of North
      America is a combination called FOLFOX (the fluoro-pyrimidine 5-FU given as a 46-hour
      infusion, folinic acid and oxaliplatin) in combination with bevacizumab (Avastin®). An
      alternative regimen of cytotoxic drugs, also used with Avastin®, is FOLFIRI, which simply
      replaces oxaliplatin with the topoisomerase inhibitor irinotecan. In the metastatic setting,
      studies have not demonstrated significant differences between the two regimens, such that
      decision-making lacks definitive tools.

      The objective of this study is to identify, in clinical samples, the molecular signature of
      clinically resistant colorectal cancer (CRC) patients for the most current and commonly used
      therapeutic agents. The goals of this study are two-fold. First, to build a biobank of blood
      and tissue specimens, prior to starting chemotherapy and at a determined time-point
      (progression of disease), from patients undergoing the same standard and well established
      first-line treatments (FOLFOX/bevacizumab or FOLFIRI/bevacizumab) for metastatic colorectal
      cancer. Second, to use state-of-the-art approaches by various collaborating laboratories to
      correlate clinical outcomes with molecular events that can be used to predict and
      circumscribe chemoresistance.
    
  