
    
      Since the development and introduction of TREPP in 2006, TREPP has been the standard
      operation technique for all patients who present in St. Jansdal Hospital with an inguinal
      hernia. The electronic patient files of all consecutive patients who were operated at the St
      Jansdal hospital via TREPP between January 2006 and December 2013 were retrospectively
      investigated. This patient list was retrieved by an electronic search using the assigned
      operation codes. Adult patients who had developed a recurrent inguinal hernia and had
      undergone a re-TREPP were included in this study. A case report form was filled in for each
      patient that underwent a re-TREPP. Baseline data such as operation time, Body Mass Index
      (BMI), operation technique, number of conversions, aetiology of the recurrence, type of
      anesthesia and American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA) classification were retrospectively
      reviewed through patient files and operation reports. Co-morbidities were extracted from the
      files. Information on short term complications was taken from the notes of telephone
      consultation 2 and 30 days postoperatively, which is the local standard protocol for
      follow-up. Patients were invited for a long-term follow-up (>30 days postoperative) at the
      outpatient department for physical examination, or they were visited at home by the
      investigator. Written informed consent was obtained from all patients who were included for a
      long term follow-up. A case report form was used for each patient, in order to standardize
      the investigation. All patients were asked if they experienced any pain or discomfort. If
      there was pain, the Visual Analogue Scale and Pain Disability Index questionnaire were filled
      in. All patients were asked if sexual complaints occurred since the operation. Written
      informed consent was obtained from all patients who were clinically evaluated. Recurrent
      inguinal hernia was defined as a reappearance of the inguinal hernia, diagnosed by physical
      examination (a reducible bulge with positive Valsalva).

      This was a retrospective case series. Since the numbers were small, no statistical analysis
      was performed.
    
  