
    
      The controlled rate of drug delivery provided by the extended-release oral formulation of
      paliperidone may provide improved effectiveness and a reduced risk of certain adverse effects
      in patients with schizophrenia, by avoiding peaks and troughs of drug levels in the blood.
      This could in turn provide an improved quality of life and overall functioning for patients.

      This open-label study is an extension of a 6-week randomized, double-blind, parallel-group
      study in which the effectiveness and safety of 4 different oral treatments administered once
      daily are compared in patients with schizophrenia: paliperidone 6 or 12 milligrams (mg),
      olanzapine 10 mg (an approved treatment for schizophrenia), or placebo. Following the
      double-blind treatment phase, eligible patients may enter this 52-week open-label extension
      with slow, extended-release paliperidone (with no comparison treatments). In the open-label
      extension, all patients, regardless of their randomized treatment in the double-blind phase,
      will begin on extended-release paliperidone 9 mg once daily. Thereafter, patients will be
      maintained on a flexible dosage of extended-release paliperidone throughout the 52-week
      study. The dosage may be increased or decreased within this range in accordance with the
      clinical judgment of the investigator, based on observations of patient response and
      tolerability. Because flexible dosing more closely mimics clinical practice, this design may
      provide more clinically relevant findings in the open-label setting.The final visit in the
      double-blind phase may serve as the initial visit for the open-label extension. Study visits
      will occur at Day 4 and then weekly for the first 4 weeks (Weeks 1, 2, 3, and 4) and then
      every 4 weeks through Week 52 or until early termination. Evaluations of the safety and
      effectiveness of extended-release paliperidone treatment will be performed at scheduled times
      throughout the open-label extension. Flexible dosage (3, 6, 9, or 12 milligrams (mg))
      extended-release paliperidone tablets administered orally once daily for 52 weeks, following
      a 6-week double-blind study in which patients receive fixed oral doses of 6 mg or 12 mg
      extended-release paliperidone or olanzapine 10 mg.
    
  