
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is the most common inflammatory rheumatoid disease in France,
      affecting 0.3% of the general population. Without effective treatment, the persistent
      inflammation causes invalidating pain and joint destruction, leading to major functional
      disability as well as progressive structural damage resulting in major joint deformity.

      Biologic agents are taking on an increasingly important role in the management of patients
      with an inadequate response to conventional synthetic disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs
      (csDMARDs).

      Biological DMARD (bDMARD) therapy consists in the use of monoclonal antibodies or fusion
      proteins, administered intravenously or subcutaneously. The earliest developed biologic
      agents have been available for more than 15 years. Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), a
      pro-inflammatory cytokine, was the first cytokine successfully targeted by a biologic agent
      for RA treatment. TNF inhibitors (TNFi) are historically proposed as the first bDAMRD for
      inadequate responder patients to csDMARDs. More recently non-anti-TNFα drugs have emerged,
      with other biological targets such as interleukin-6 receptor (tocilizumab) or B- (rituximab)
      and T-lymphocytes (abatacept) that are implicated in the inflammatory response. Initially
      administered strictly intravenously, these drugs are now available in formulations adapted to
      subcutaneous administration, which allows ambulatory care for patients who otherwise would
      require repeated in-hospital care.

      National and international guidelines, especially those issued in 2013 by the European League
      Against Rheumatism (EULAR) and also in 2013 by the French Society of Rheumatology now
      recommend first-line treatment not only with TNFi but also with non-anti-TNFα biologic
      agents. However, in routine practice, most clinicians preferably prescribe TNFi for the
      first-line regimen, reserving non-anti-TNFα drugs to TNFi inadequate responder patients.

      There is a growing body of research focusing on first-line biologic agents but there is very
      little solid data on the direct randomized comparison between them. Actually, all three of
      the published studies have systematically compared a non-anti-TNFα biomedication versus TNFi
      (one study with a blinded design and two open studies).

      The therapeutic strategy that should be adapted after failure of a TNFi regimen has also been
      investigated. Those studies favor non-anti-TNF drugs over an alternate TNFi.

      There is adequate evidence of the efficacy of the different non-anti-TNFα biologic agents
      versus placebo after TNFi failure. In other hands, industrial trials have not provided any
      comparative data between drugs. An academic trial from The Netherlands using medico-economic
      performance as the primary outcome found no difference in efficacy between abatacept and
      rituximab (a non-anti-TNFα drug administered exclusively intravenously) after failure of a
      TNFi. Meta-analyses using data from care networks have not reported any difference between
      different non-anti-TNFα drugs after failure of a TNFi.

      Data from national registries have provided interesting complementary information since in
      everyday practice these agents are generally used after failure of at least one TNFi. The
      Danish registry thus suggests that the therapeutic response would be better with tocilizumab
      than with abatacept. This observation was confirmed by an analysis of French registries data
      presented at the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) congress in November 2016 showing
      that tocilizumab exhibits superiority for treatment persistence over 2 years. These results
      were fully in agreement with the findings of the French ROC trial comparing intravenous
      administration of a second anti-TNFα drug versus a non-anti-TNFα agent after failure of an
      anti-TNFα drug that suggested a superiority of tocilizumab over abatacept in the subgroup of
      patients given a non-anti-TNFα agent. A recent Bayesian network meta-analysis showed better
      efficacy in the non-anti-TNFα groups for ACR20 in patients who responded insufficiently to an
      anti-TNFα.

      Subcutaneous formulations have been recently developed for both tocilizumab and abatacept.
      Subcutaneous administration is important because it enables ambulatory care for a substantial
      number of patients who to date are recurrently hospitalized in day-care units for their
      intravenous infusions. Excepting specific situations, the subcutaneous formulation will be
      favored for a large majority of patients because of economic as well as practical
      considerations. Phase III trials have demonstrated the equivalence of the intravenous versus
      subcutaneous routes of administration focusing on efficacy and tolerance. The subcutaneous
      formulation is now also available for routine administration of both tocilizumab and
      abatacept. Nevertheless, despite large-scale industrial trials on drug equivalence, data
      issuing from clinical practice suggest a potential difference in the behavior of these two
      formulations which needs to be explored. Rituximab is apart in the treatment strategy because
      of its exclusive intravenous administration at spaced intervals and because it is used for
      specific patient profiles (extra-articular involvement, history of neoplasia, rheumatoid
      factor (RF) and anti-citrullinated protein antibody (ACPA) positivity). There is no
      perspective for the development of a subcutaneous formulation of rituximab for RA patients.
      Furthermore, the routine treatment schedule for rituximab (one-time injections at a mean
      interval of 9 months) would compromise comparison, especially short-term comparison, with
      other subcutaneous treatments.

      These findings illustrate the need for a new multicentric, prospective, randomized trial
      designed to demonstrate the superiority of tocilizumab over abatacept in patients exhibiting
      inadequate response to a first anti-TNFα. A direct comparison of subcutaneous formulation is
      the need for the promising route of administration for future ambulatory care.
    
  