
    
      Fibrosis is a common and irreversible adverse effect of radiotherapy. Radiotherapy is used
      with curative intent in most individuals (~70%) with head and neck cancer (HNC), often in
      combination with surgery and/or chemotherapy. It is estimated that up to 60% of these
      individuals will experience persistent fibrosis as a toxic effect of the radiotherapy
      including trismus and dysphagia. As 680,000 new HNC cases/year are diagnosed worldwide, it is
      estimated that approximately 270,000 individuals will develop persistent trismus and/or
      dysphagia, with consequent reduced quality of life (QoL) due to impaired talking, eating,
      chewing and swallowing. Malnutrition, psychological and social issues add further suffering
      to affected individuals. Mortality is also significantly increased due to aspiration
      pneumonia. In the UK there are ~10,000 new H&N cancer cases/year, which translates into
      approximately 4,200 individuals experiencing radiotherapy-induced fibrosis (RIF) every year.
      Increasing incidence rates of H&N cancer suggest that these figures will increase over the
      next few years. This group of cancer survivors represent a challenge for the NHS: they have a
      chronic condition reducing their quality of life and no realistic therapeutic option as no
      intervention has proven long-term effective. Current best NHS practice consists of
      rehabilitation therapy (exercises). Although available literature suggests potential
      efficacy, evidence is very weak: relevant benefits seem to be short-lived, the effect size is
      usually small, and compliance with treatment is often poor. As preparatory work for this
      proposal we have performed a systematic review of the literature, which shows that five
      prospective studies investigated rehabilitation exercises, pentoxifylline and botulinum A in
      the therapy of post-RT trismus. Four prospective studies investigated rehabilitation
      exercises and electrical stimulation in the therapy of post-RT dysphagia.

      Overall studies were at high risk of bias, and there was very limited evidence supporting the
      efficacy of the above interventions in the post-RT setting.

      There remains little ongoing clinical research in this field at the present moment (clinical
      trials databases searched in March 2018). Most ongoing recruiting studies focus on preventive
      strategies during HNC radiotherapy. In terms of trials aimed at reducing established post-RT
      fibrosis, we could only find one recruiting Canadian study on manual therapy and one American
      study on self-care program, with no UK study.

      RIF has been traditionally considered an irreversible disorder characterised by the
      generation of reactive oxygen species, vascular damage, pro-fibrotic inflammation, promotion
      of collagen formation and the development of excessive fibrous tissue. However research
      during the last 15 years has shown that co-administration of pentoxifylline and tocopherol
      (vitamin E) can reduce and reverse the fibrotic process. Pentoxifylline is known to improve
      microcirculation, inhibit fibroblast proliferation, reduce extracellular matrix production,
      and increase collagenase activity. Tocopherol (Vitamin E) has antioxidant properties. The
      precise mechanisms by which the pentoxifylline/tocopherol (vitamin E) combination interacts
      with fibro-atrophic tissues and induces fibrotic process reversibility are still unclear. It
      has been suggested that the anti-fibrotic effects are consequence of the inhibition of
      fibroblast proliferation and extracellular matrix production, increased collagenase activity,
      as well as a reduction in reactive oxygen species. Clinical trials have indicated that the
      combination of pentoxifylline and tocopherol (vitamin E) can decrease and even reverse RIF in
      individuals irradiated to the breast, pelvis, lung, and prostate, leading to functional and
      aesthetic benefits. It is not known whether this therapy may have similar beneficial effects
      in HNC survivors with permanent RIF (trismus and/or dysphagia). Preliminary small-scale
      studies suggest that this may be the case, and support the notion that pentoxifylline and
      tocopherol (vitamin E) represent a promising treatment that is worth investigating in
      well-designed clinical trials. The best available evidence comes from a 2001 uncontrolled,
      small (16 subjects) pilot study that showed functional improvement in subjects with
      established post-radiotherapy trismus after an 8-week course of pentoxifylline as
      monotherapy. Other studies have reported the beneficial effects of pentoxyfilline monotherapy
      or in combination with tocopherol (vitamin E) in reducing and/or preventing RIF in HNC, but
      these focused on cutaneous/subcutaneous neck fibrosis and did not measure trismus/dysphagia.
      There is a clear need for better-designed clinical research as more robust evidence is
      required in order to influence changes in NHS practice and improve the quality of life of HNC
      survivors.

      The main study will be a multicentre randomised controlled trial with two arms including the
      experimental intervention plus the current best standard treatment versus the current best
      treatment as comparator [1:1]. The main outcome will be anticipated to be patient-centred and
      measured via a validated instrument (QoL questionnaire), with secondary outcomes including
      other patient-centred measures (validated functional questionnaires) as well as
      clinician-rated and instrumental outcomes. However several aspects of the main trial remain
      unknown/unclear and would require clarification via a feasibility study.

      PITSTOP is a feasibility 36-month randomised trial of the best standard therapy alone
      [rehabilitation exercises] vs treatment with pentoxifylline and tocopherol (vitamin E) in
      addition to best standard therapy (rehabilitation exercises) in 50 participants with
      radiotherapy-induced fibrosis of the head and neck. It is a two-centre study with a 1:1
      randomisation into two study arms. At each site a blocked randomisation list will be used to
      ensure an approximate balance in numbers between the two groups. Allocation concealment will
      be ensured using an online randomisation service (Sealed Envelope).
    
  