
    
      Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) is a term used to describe when a woman's ovaries stop
      working normally before the natural age of menopause. Early sequelae of POI include vasomotor
      symptoms, vaginal dryness, mood swings and insomnia due to estrogen deficiency. Long-term
      sequelae such as loss of bone mineral density and cardiovascular risk carry are considerable
      concerns. While exogenous estrogen replacement is recommended for the POI patient population,
      the optimal regimen for replacement is not clear. One approach to hormone replacement therapy
      (HRT) is to mimic physiologic ovarian function through full replacement doses of estrogen
      (either orally or transdermally) to reach the typical serum estradiol levels of a
      menstruating woman (approximately 104 pg/mL per day) with cyclic progestin therapy for
      endometrial protection. Another approach uses daily combined estrogen-progestin oral
      contraceptives (COCs), for ease of administration and increased social acceptability. To
      date, few studies have been performed comparing the two treatment methods in terms of quality
      of life measures (vasomotor symptoms, bleeding profile, sexual dysfunction, satisfaction with
      contraception), endocrine function, bone turnover or cardiovascular risk in POI patients. In
      this proposal, the investigators intend to establish feasibility and acceptability of a pilot
      randomized controlled trial comparing traditional HRT with COCs in women with POI and to
      evaluate differences in quality of life measures, hormone assays, bone turnover and
      cardiovascular risk between treatment arms. The investigators hypothesize that acceptability
      and feasibility of the pilot trial will be high and that differences will be detected for all
      measured variables between treatment arms. Demonstration of feasibility and acceptability of
      this pilot would allow for the pursuit of a larger trial and identification of a superior
      treatment regimen would have a meaningful impact on the short and long-term care of this
      patient population.
    
  