
    
      According to the World Health Organization (WHO), physical inactivity is now recognized as
      the fourth leading risk factor for global mortality for non-communicable diseases, and
      therefore, supports participation in a variety of physical activities including play, games,
      sports, planned exercise and resistance training. In accordance, the UK physical activity
      guidelines for children and young people (ages 5-18) from the Chief Medical Officer (CMO)
      recommends regular participation in moderate to vigorous physical activity (PA) for at least
      60 minutes a day to reduce the risk of children developing cardiovascular conditions later in
      life. Moreover, the prevalence of neurodevelopmental conditions affecting motor-developmental
      skills is believed to affect 5-6% of school-aged children and thus, has led to wide interest
      regarding the physical health and well-being of these children and adolescents due to the
      lower levels of fitness and participation in PA observed. Participation in PA is often
      hampered by the limited motor performance capacity of young people with movement difficulties
      (MD). Furthermore, individuals with poorer motor skills and movement difficulties including
      Developmental Coordination Disorder (DCD) and cerebral palsy (CP) have reported low energy
      levels, muscle fatigue and poor physical tolerance as factors contributing to reduced
      enjoyment, tolerance and participation of PA.

      As a consequence, research exploring the fitness and PA patterns of children and adolescents
      with poor motor proficiency has presented an alarming risk profile for cardiovascular
      disease, due to higher percentage of body fat, decreased aerobic capacity, and generally
      decreased participation in PA impacting proper development that may persist into adulthood.
      Because children with MD are less able to tolerate certain types of exercise and tend to show
      lower levels of activity, they are at greater risk of developing secondary disorders
      associated with physical inactivity compared to their typically developing aged peers.
      Furthermore, although it has been shown that children with MD are willing to push themselves
      maximally, many fail to exercise hard enough to tax the cardiovascular system, potentially
      due to and contributing to lower exercise tolerance and lower fitness; all playing a role in
      a vicious cycle.

      Previous work has shown that the condition of a child's muscle strength may be a major
      contributing factor to exercise (particularly at an intensity high enough to have a training
      effect). Strength is an essential component of motor skill performance and has become a
      crucial element incorporated in training interventions. Therefore, developing competence and
      confidence to perform resistance strength exercise during the developmental years may have
      important long-term implications for health, fitness and sports performance and even more so
      for youth with fewer opportunities to do so. In accordance, measures of fitness appear to all
      be interconnected, with level of motor skill and impairment shown to be related to the
      maximal oxygen consumption or VO2 peak attained and muscular strength. Exploring the
      relationships between VO2max and endurance performance in children may provide insights into
      the basic role of physiologic fitness in dictating physical capacity and for identifying
      appropriate training regimens in youth. Therefore, it is important to gain a comprehensive
      picture of the impact of exercise for health and functional measures and to further develop
      an understanding of the physiological, psychological and social aspects limiting successful
      long-term PA among children with MD. Implementing interventions that not only involve tasks
      to improve fitness measures, but also coordination, muscle function and performance, are
      essential.

      Based on a recent Cochrane intervention review looking at school-based PA programs for
      promoting PA and fitness in children and adolescents aged 6-18 years, the authors suggested
      that young people exposed to a training intervention spent more time engaged in
      moderate-to-vigorous PA (with results across studies ranging from 5 - 45 min more a day),
      spent less time watching television (results ranging from five-60 min less each day) and an
      improved VO2max (maximal oxygen uptake). However, school-based interventions were not
      effective in increasing PA rates among adolescents, or in reducing health and fitness markers
      (i.e. blood pressure, blood cholesterol, BMI and heart rate) (Dobbins et al., 2013), possibly
      due to insufficient PA intensities. Furthermore, research studying the effects of acute bouts
      of exercise on cognition has provided compelling evidence for the influence of exercise on
      working memory. Preliminary results from a current study exploring the impact of acute
      exercise at high and low exercise intensities is already showing different cognitive
      responses between individuals with MD compared to their typically developing (TD) peers.
      Although there is evidence citing the positive impact of increasing PA and play on mood and
      behaviour, social relationships, sleep, cognition, academic performance and overall
      well-being, additional research exploring the development, execution, implementation and
      feasibility of pathways to increase participation and long-term PA and training is warranted.
      A fitness screening session for a designated year group (i.e. Year 9) will be held at
      mainstream schools in Oxfordshire. Those scoring in the bottom quintile on fitness tests
      and/or the motor skill assessment during the screening will be invited to take part in a 6
      week training programme (EPIC Club). Participants volunteering to take part will need to
      attend assessments before and after the training intervention for evaluation of outcome
      measures including looking at aerobic fitness level, muscles strength, cognitive function and
      questionnaires focused on self-esteem/self-perception. The aims of EPIC Club are to improve
      fitness levels, build up confidence and skills and to provide a pathway to sport via 'Have a
      go' Sports Taster Days held throughout the year. Steering groups and focus groups will also
      be held inviting the participants, parents and coaches to provide feedback on the progress of
      the pathway. Moreover, the evaluation of quantitative and qualitative outcome measures needs
      to be further addressed.

      Aims:

        1. To deliver a pathway for longer-term participation in physical activity and sport via 1)
           targeted recruitment, 2) confidence and skill building (EPIC Club), 3) connection to
           sport ('Have a go days') and 4) exit to long term participation

        2. Evaluation and assessment of pathway progress through quantitative and qualitative
           outcome measures (fitness and physical health measures)

        3. To explore impact of pathway program on functioning in other domains, such as cognitive
           function, performance in school, sleep, self-esteem and social well-being.

      Community Benefits:

      This study aims to provide a pathway for engagement, participation, inclusion and confidence
      (EPIC) in sport in young people who do not regularly participate in physical activity and
      sport due to Neurodevelopmental conditions, young people presenting with poor coordination
      and movement and/or including individuals with special educational needs. With the rise in
      obesity and lower physical activity levels, it is important to provide a feasible and
      meaningful way for young individuals to participate in exercise and sport through community
      sport activation.
    
  