
    
      9-ING-41 is a first-in-class, intravenously administered, maleimide-based small molecule
      potent selective GSK-3β inhibitor with significant pre-clinical antitumor activity. GSK-3 is
      a serine/threonine kinase initially described as a key regulator of metabolism and has a role
      in diverse disease processes including cancer, immune disorders, pathologic fibrosis,
      metabolic disorders, and neurological disorders. GSK-3 has two ubiquitously expressed and
      highly conserved isoforms, GSK-3α and GSK-3β, with both shared and distinct substrates and
      functional effects. GSK-3β is particularly important in tumor progression and modulation of
      oncogenes (including beta-catenin, cyclin D1 and c-Myc), cell cycle regulators (e.g. p27Kip1)
      and mediators of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (e.g. zinc finger protein SNAI1, Snail).
      Aberrant overexpression of GSK-3β has been shown to promote tumor growth and chemotherapy
      resistance in various solid tumors including colon, ovarian, and pancreatic cancers and
      glioblastoma through differential effects on the pro-survival nuclear factor
      kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) and c-Myc pathways as well on tumor
      necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) and p53-mediated apoptotic
      mechanisms. GSK-3β helps maintain malignant cell survival and proliferation, particularly in
      terms of mediating resistance to standard anti-cancer therapies, through the NF-κB pathway.
      GSK-3β has been established as a potential anticancer target in human bladder, breast,
      colorectal, glioblastoma, lung, neuroblastoma, ovarian, pancreatic, prostate, renal and
      thyroid cancers as well as chronic lymphocytic leukemia and lymphomas.

      9-ING-41 is a small molecule potent selective GSK-3β inhibitor with broad spectrum
      pre-clinical antitumor activity. It's modes of action include downregulation of NF-κB and
      decreasing the expression NF-κB target genes including cyclin D1, Bcl-2, anti-apoptotic
      protein (XIAP) and B-cell lymphoma-extra large (Bcl-XL) leading to inhibition of tumor growth
      in multiple solid tumor cell and lymphoma lines and patient derived xenograft (PDX) models.
      NF-κB is constitutively active in cancer cells and promotes anti-apoptotic molecule
      expression. NF-κB activation is particularly important in cancer cells that have become
      chemo- and/or radio-resistant. 9-ING-41 also has significant activity in pre-clinical models
      of pathological pleural and pulmonary fibrosis. 9-ING-41 has significant in vitro and in vivo
      activity as a single agent and/or in combination with standard cytotoxic chemotherapies in a
      spectrum of solid tumors and hematological malignancies including bladder, breast,
      glioblastoma, neuroblastoma, pancreatic, sarcomas, and renal cancers as well as lymphomas.

      The 1801 study will have three parts:

        -  Part 1 (9-ING-41 as monotherapy): The standard 3+3 dose escalation design will be
           applied to all dose cohorts until the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) or Recommended Phase
           2 Dose (RP2D) is identified - COMPLETED

        -  Part 2: 9-ING-41 combined with standard anticancer agents: The 3+3 dose escalation study
           design will be used for 8 chemotherapy combination regimens (9-ING-41 plus gemcitabine,
           doxorubicin, lomustine, carboplatin, irinotecan, nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine,
           paclitaxel plus carboplatin, pemetrexed plus carboplatin) to identify the MTD/RP2D of
           each regimen - COMPLETED

        -  Part 3: Assessment of activity of 9-ING-41 based combination regimens: The primary
           objective for Study Part 3 is to assess the clinical benefit of selected 9-ING-41-based
           combination regimens. Secondary objectives will include the assessment of other efficacy
           variables, including progression-free survival (PFS), duration of tumor response, time
           to treatment failure, 1-year survival rate and overall survival (OS) as well as
           additional evaluation of toxicities. The Simon's 2-stage design will be employed for
           Study Part 3 for the 9-ING-41-based combination regimens. The initial Phase 2 study
           focused on the combination of 9-ING-41 with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel for patients
           with previously untreated metastatic or locally advanced pancreatic cancer is now open.
    
  