
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the quantity of immune cells underlying the antitumor immune response
      including dendritic cells, naive and activated T- and B-cells, regulatory T-cells, and
      natural killer cells.

      II. To determine the proliferative ability of lymphocytes via T-cell activation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the immunologic response to the hepatitis A vaccine (or hepatitis B vaccine in
      those who are hepatitis A exposed) in comparison to expected/known normal responses either
      prior to (i.e. pre-treatment) or following chemoradiation (i.e. post-treatment).

      II. To describe the immunologic response to tetanus toxoid vaccination compared to
      expected/known normal responses either prior to (i.e. pre-treatment) or following
      chemoradiation (i.e. post-treatment).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the immunologic response to the yearly influenza vaccination over the course
      of the first year of therapy for glioma (timing of administration will be when clinically
      indicated over this year of therapy).

      II. To describe the frequency of viral infection in glioma patients hospitalized during the
      respiratory viral season within year 1 of therapy.

      III. To describe the overall survival of glioma patients enrolled in this study and describe
      the overall survival in these patients by changes in immunologic function.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive standard of care hepatitis A or B vaccine, tetanus toxoid vaccine,
      and trivalent influenza vaccine and then undergo standard of care treatment external beam
      radiation therapy and receive standard of care temozolomide. Patients also undergo collection
      of blood Samples monthly for the first 8 months and then bimonthly for up to 12 months for
      analysis via flow cytometry, carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester (CFSE) assay,
      live cell/dead cell distinction assay, and determination of naïve and memory immune response.

      GROUP II: Patients undergo standard of care treatment and collection of blood samples as in
      Group I. Patients then receive hepatitis A and tetanus toxoid vaccinations at month 9.
    
  