
    
      Study: Prospective, single-centre phase II interventional study. The study will take place at
      the Department of Intensive Care Medicine, Lausanne University Medical Center (Centre
      Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois, CHUV), Lausanne, Switzerland.

      Patient population:

      Patients will be monitored with an intra-parenchymal monitoring system, consisting of ICP
      (Codman®, Integra Neurosciences), PbtO2 (Licox®, Integra Neurosciences) and cerebral
      microdialysis (CMA Microdialysis®) catheters, based on the protocol for management of TBI
      presently in use at our center.

      Each patient will receive a continuous infusion of sodium lactate (composition: lactate 1'000
      mmol/L, Na 1'000 mmol/L: concentration 20-40 µmol/kg/min) for 3-6 hours. Sodium lactate will
      be prepared locally by the Pharmacie Centrale, CHUV, Lausanne.

      Each patient will serve as his/her internal control, and the effect of sodium lactate on all
      brain physiological variables measured will be anayzed before, during and at the end of
      sodium lactate infusion.

      The main parameters of efficacy are increases of MD glucose, MD pyruvate, PbtO2, and CBF,
      during sodium lactate perfusion.

      For both MD glucose and MD pyruvate, we fixed as the minimal detectable effect of sodium
      lactate infusion a 30% increase of glucose and pyruvate at the end of the study. To obtain a
      power of 0.8 with an alpha of 0.05, the number of patients required to complete the study is
      33. We therefore plan to include 35 patients.

      Statistical analysis: At each time-point (baseline, during perfusion, end of sodium lactate
      infusion), differences of mean MD glucose, lactate, pyruvate, PbtO2, CBF, Mean transit time,
      ICP, CPP will be analyzed. We will also examine the percentage time spent with abnormal
      values (MD glucose < 1 mmol/L, PbtO2 < 20 mm Hg, ICP > 20 mm Hg). Differences will be
      compared using ANOVA for repeated measures.
    
  