
    
      Patients Patients with LC, CRC and BC with good performance status and with tumor tissue
      available, at failure of conventional therapies or without possibility to be treated with
      therapy of proven efficacy, will be included in the study. Initial patient characterization
      will include detailed information on the following items: gender, age, clinical history,
      co-morbidity, physical examination, blood cell counts, complete blood analyses for liver and
      renal function, coagulation, serological tumor markers, tumor location and stage, tumor mass,
      metastases.

      LC, CRC and BC CSCs identification Isolation and characterization of CSCs will be made
      starting from samples of tumor tissue obtained from patients with LC, CRC and BC. Tumor
      tissue will be collected before study entry, i.e tissue obtained during a diagnostic or
      therapeutical procedure, like surgery or biopsies with other purposes than the protocol.The
      surgical samples collected will be classified according to the specific histological
      characteristics of the tumor. From each sample, by means of enzymatic and mechanical
      procedures, the CSCs will be obtained and then cultivated in adequate culture mediums to be
      subsequently used for biochemical and molecular studies. Each sample will be associated with
      the patient history at the surgical time and an appropriate follow-up program consisting of
      periodic clinical and instrumental controls that in order to assign a prognostic value to the
      biological characteristics of the CSCs. Stem cells derived from the selected epithelial
      tumors will then undergo analysis of surface and intracellular markers in order to provide a
      definitive characterization of cellular phenotype. Stem cells derived from lung cancer, CRC
      and BC are identified as a subset of tumor cells positive for the marker CD133.

      Tumor specimens will be washed several times and left over night in DMEM:F12 medium
      supplemented with high doses of Penicillin/Streptomycin and Fungizone in order to avoid
      contamination. Tissue dissociation will be carried out by enzymatic digestion and recovered
      cells cultured in serum-free medium containing 25 microg/ml insulin, 100 microg/ml
      apo-transferrin, 10 microg/ml putrescine, 0.03 mM sodium selenite, 20nM progesterone, 0.6%
      glucose, 5mM hepes, 0.1% sodium bicarbonate, 0.4% BSA, glutamine and antibiotics, dissolved
      in DMEM-F12 medium and supplemented with 20 ng/ml EGF and 10 ng/ml bFGF. Flasks non-treated
      for tissue culture will be used in order to reduce cell adherence and favourite growth of
      undifferentiated tumour-spheres. These culture conditions select for immature tumour cells,
      while non malignant or differentiated cells are negatively selected as assessed for CSCs of
      different origin. Surviving immature tumor cells slowly proliferate giving rise to tumour
      cell aggregates, "spheres", within 1-2 months in these culture conditions. Sphere-forming
      cells can be expanded by mechanical dissociation of spheres, followed by re-plating of single
      cells and residual small cell aggregates in complete fresh medium.

      Differentiation of LC, CRC and BC sphere-forming cells will be obtained by cell culture in
      specific medium (Cambrex). Phenotype of LC, CRC and BC spheres and their differentiated
      progeny will be analyzed by flow cytometric analysis or immunofluorescence. In particular
      stem cell markers such as CD133, CD34 and BCRP1 will be analyzed.

      Successively, cancer spheres will be analyzed in order to define the status of pathways
      involved in the process of proliferation, self-renewal and survival. In particular,
      tumor-specific analysis will be carried out to investigate the activity and the possible
      alteration of pathways responsible for stem cell homeostasis and global analysis
      (phosphoproteomic and signal transduction analysis,innovative drug testing, analysis of
      processes metastatization in vivo) aimed to provide an overall picture of the activation
      state of the key cellular pathways.

      Preclinical model By using cancer spheres the investigators will generate orthotopic
      xenograft models that recapitulate the parental tumor behaviour, including the aggressive
      features and the invasiveness potential. Orthotopic injection technique will be assessed in 5
      weeks-old NOD/SCID mice. The injection procedure will be done with the support of a
      dissecting microscope. After anesthetization, 200 to 500 cancer sphere cells, modified in
      order to express a bioluminescent protein such as luciferase will be injected using a
      Hamilton syringe and 32-gauge needle. Metastatic and local tumors will be compared for their
      stem cell content through phenotypic analysis such as growth rate, or other stem cell
      properties including clonogenic capacity in soft agar or through limiting dilution assays.
      Infection of CSCs with lentiviral vector, coding for green fluorescent (GFP), as well as
      luciferase reporter proteins, will allow CSCs tracking in vivo. Particularly, the amphotropic
      packaging cell line 293T will be transfected by the calcium-phosphate/chloroquine method.
      Culture supernatants containing viral particles will be collected after 48h of transfection.
      Infection will be performed by culturing target cells in 0.45 microm filtered viral
      supernatant for 3h in a CO2 incubator. Two infection cycles will be performed to infect
      cells. Microscopic evaluation of GFP expression in viral packaging and target cells will be
      performed by direct observation of cells using a reversed fluorescence microscope equipped
      with a FITC filter. After infection, cells transduced with luciferase will be sorted by flow
      cytometry to obtain a pure marked population. The local tumor and the invasiveness
      development will be monitored through whole-body imaging techniques, that will permit to
      detect, localize and quantify dynamically the optical signal - bioluminescence - in a non
      invasive localization of the marked cell population. This procedure will be performed using
      the Photon imager in vivo imaging system(Biospace Lab), assisted by the most recent software
      for acquisition and image analysis. Thanks to this system, it was recently acquired in the
      laboratory and characterized by a very high sensitivity and 20 ms temporal resolution, the
      investigators will analyze non anesthetized and freely moving animals. The bioluminescence
      signal will be acquired simultaneously as a standard video of the animal. Once the
      investigators are sure of the success of tumour growing, mice will be sacrificed. Tumor will
      be removed for morphological characterization and phosphoproteomic analysis. This latter will
      be performed through reverse phase protein microarray, which allows the achievement of a high
      degree of sensitivity, precision and linearity, making possible to quantify the
      phosphorylated status of signal proteins in immature and differentiated lung cancer cells.
      This system will provide information on specific molecular pathways involved in LC, CRC and
      BC cell growth and spreading.

      Tumor sensitivity to anti-tumoral agents To selectively discriminate the effective
      therapeutic compounds against the putative tumor and invasion initiating cells, the
      investigators will measure the viability of clonogenic LC, CRC and BC after the exposure to
      several anti-tumor drugs differentially combined at singular time point up to 96 hours.
    
  