
    
      DESIGN

      Randomized, placebo controlled, double blind study to determine the safety and antiviral
      activity of aprepitant by comparing the change in HIV RNA viral load after 2 weeks of
      aprepitant monotherapy.

      DURATION

      42 days.

      SAMPLE SIZE and POPULATION

      27 HIV infected males and females ≥ 18 years old who have early infection with CD4 cell
      counts ≥ 350 cells/mm3.

      REGIMEN

      Subjects will be randomized 1:1:1 to receive two different doses of aprepitant (Emend®) or
      placebo.

        -  Arm A: Aprepitant placebo

        -  Arm B: Aprepitant 125 mg QD

        -  Arm C: Aprepitant 250 mg QD

      HYPOTHESIS AND STUDY OBJECTIVES

        -  Hypothesis : Aprepitant is safe, tolerable, and has antiviral activity in HIV infected
           individuals.

        -  Primary Objectives:

             -  To assess the safety and tolerability of aprepitant for 2 weeks at two different
                doses.

             -  To assess the response of plasma HIV-1 RNA to two different doses of aprepitant
                compared with baseline.

        -  Secondary Objectives:

             -  To investigate the course and duration of antiretroviral response to 2 different
                doses of aprepitant given over a 14-day period.

             -  To evaluate the dose-response and pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic relationship
                between viral RNA change and aprepitant plasma levels.

             -  To evaluate aprepitant effects on CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell counts, circulating SP
                levels, natural killer cell number and function and CCR5 expression in peripheral
                PBMCs.

             -  To evaluate the effects of aprepitant in the viral tropism and envelope sequence of
                the main HIV-1 population of the participants.

             -  To assess viral drug susceptibility in conjunction with baseline coreceptor tropism
                phenotype and changes in coreceptor phenotype after the exposure to aprepitant.

             -  To evaluate aprepitant effects on fasting plasma glucose, insulin, HDL, free fatty
                acids, and triglyceride concentrations after 14 days of treatment.

             -  To provide preliminary description of any change from baseline in sleep quality,
                anxious mood, depressed mood and neurocognitive measures after 2 weeks of
                aprepitant therapy.
    
  