
    
      Background: Despite sustained inhibition of viral replication in plasma undergoing treatment,
      nearly 30% of HIV-infected patients have HIV-related cognitive impairment. To date, no
      therapeutic strategy has demonstrated clinical efficacy. The initial hypothesis is to use the
      non-medical techniques of cognitive remediation commonly practiced in the treatment of
      Alzheimer's disease or traumatic brain injury to allow improvement or even regression of
      cognitive disorders in HIV-infected people (PHAs) who are virologically tested on
      antiretroviral combination therapy (ART). If this hypothesis is validated, this study will
      develop additional care structures and / or skills for the management of these cognitive
      disorders. Some recent pilot studies using individual computer-based cognitive remediation
      strategies show improved test performance. However, none have studied the impact of this
      strategy on PPHIV with cognitive impairment.

      Study description: A single-center pilot study evaluating the efficacy of an individual
      cognitive remediation program for 6 months on the improvement of cognitive impairment in
      patients with stable plasma HIV viral load that is undetectable under stable antiretroviral
      combination (cART). cognitive disorders related to HIV infection. Cognitive remediation will
      be based on individual face-to-face cognitive remediation sessions with a neuropsychologist
      and on patients with severe psychiatric conditions or treatments that may interfere with
      neuropsychological (NP) testing. this search.

      Main Objective: The primary objective is to demonstrate improvement through a 6-month
      individual cognitive remediation program on cognitive impairment (1 standard deviation
      variations on 2 M6 neuropsychological tests) in controlled HIV-positive individuals under
      cART with cognitive disorders related to HIV.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. Analyze the evolution of cognitive disorders 6 months after stopping cognitive
           remediation,

        2. To analyze the evolution of the cognitive disorders in the cases of a duration of the
           remediation inferior to 6 months and superior to 2 months

        3. Determine the most sensitive psychometric tests among those screened for asymptomatic
           and minor cognitive impairment in the HIV patient

        4. Evaluate the impact of these therapeutic treatments on the quality of life, social
           autonomy and self-esteem

        5. Characterize cognitive impairment in HIV patients according to Frascatti criteria,
           Glissen criteria and norms routinely used in neuropsychology routinely for each test

        6. Describe the risk factors and co-morbidities associated with cognitive impairment

      Methodology: Monocentric, prospective, pilot study of 40 patients performed in an open period
      of 25 months. The inclusion period is 13 months and the participation duration per patient is
      12 months. After an inclusion visit (inclusion and non-inclusion criteria checks, data
      collection, clinical examination, psychometric test battery, Beck's scale and STAI-Y for
      evaluation of anode-depressive symptoms), patients start 15 days of individual cognitive
      remediation sessions. The cognitive remediation will be led by a psychologist specialized in
      neuropsychology, trained and experienced in this method. Cognitive remediation will be
      performed at a rate of 1 to 2 sessions per week for the duration of the study. This treatment
      will be carried out individually for half in face-to-face session in the clinical
      immuno-hematology department, face-to-face with the neuropsychologist, half at home with
      computer-based home exercises using PRESCO software ® from HAPPYNEURON®. Each patient will be
      assessed initially (M0) at 6 months (M6) and 12 months (M12: 6 months after stopping
      cognitive remediation) with a battery of standardized neuropsychological (NP) tests performed
      by a neuropsychologist.

      Primary endpoint: Improved cognitive impairment after 6 months of cognitive remediation, with
      each patient being their own control, defined by improvement on at least 2 tests of 1
      standard deviation minimum.
    
  