
    
      Determine whether nutritional supplement sulforaphane (SFN) is safe to administer to breast
      cancer patients undergoing doxorubicin (DOX) chemotherapy. The investigators have identified
      biomarkers for presymptomatic detection of DOX cardiotoxicity in breast cancer patients and
      reported that SFN alleviates DOX-induced cardiac toxicity while maintaining its anti-tumor
      activity in an animal model of breast cancer. SFN is in various stages of preclinical and
      clinical trials against different types of cancer but its safety and effects on identified
      markers have never been tested in patients treated with DOX. Sulforaphane is a generally
      recognized as a safe (GRAS) compound and this compound is currently in 61 different clinical
      trials including, Cystic Fibrosis, COPD, Melanoma, Breast and prostate cancer etc.
      (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/results?term=sulforaphane&pg=1). Avmacol, (Nutramax
      Laboratories Consumer Care, Inc. Edgewood, MD 21040) an over-the-counter dietary supplement
      containing broccoli seed and sprout extracts that is rich with sulforaphane, will be used in
      this study. This is an FDA regulated trial using an investigational drug under IND 141682.
      Dose considerations were made on the basis of the ongoing clinical trial "Effects of Avmacol®
      in the Oral Mucosa of Patients Following Curative Treatment for Tobacco-related Head and Neck
      Cancer" (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03268993). Furthermore, Avmacol has never
      been tested as an adjuvant to try and protect the heart from DOXs harmful effects. .
      Therefore, the investigators are proposing to do an early-clinical trial to assess SFN safety
      in DOX-treated patients and possibly prevent DOX-cardiotoxicity in breast cancer patients.

      Our hypothesis is that SFN protects the heart from DOX-mediated cardiac injury without
      affecting its antitumor efficacy. Here, the investigators will test SFN in combination with
      DOX-based chemotherapy for breast cancer; the investigators will assess its safety,
      cardio-protective properties, and anti-cancer efficacy. The investigators will also examine
      the effect of SFN on the expression of several biomarkers that indicate when a patient cannot
      tolerate DOX.1 To test our hypothesis, the investigators propose the following Specific Aims.

      Aim 1: Demonstrate that co-administration of SFN protects the heart and is not associated
      with toxicity or reduced tumor response in breast cancer patients undergoing DOX
      chemotherapy.

      The investigators propose a pilot clinical trial to assess the safety of SFN as a
      co-treatment with DOX chemotherapy. Strategy: Up to seventy breast cancer patients prescribed
      DOX chemotherapy will be consented then randomly assigned to receive either SFN or placebo
      during DOX chemotherapy. This sample size includes an additional 10 participants to allow for
      potential attrition. There will be a 50-50 chance of receiving SFN. The patients will be
      recruited from the Breast Cancer Clinic (Dr. Awasthi) in the Southwest Cancer Center at
      TTUHSC/UMC Lubbock. Cardiac function with echocardiography will be assessed and compared
      between arms for evidence of substantive decrease in DOX cardiotoxicity with SFN compared to
      placebo. Tumor size will also be compared (based on RECIST criteria) between treatment arms.
      The investigators will monitor treatment-emergent symptoms, hematological parameters of
      cancer therapy toxicity, and renal and hepatic function. Blood samples will be collected to
      assay markers of cardiotoxicity, including B-type natriuretic peptide and troponin.

      Aim 2: Determine if SFN alters the levels of known biomarkers of DOX cardiotoxicity and
      affects the expression of SIRT1- and Nrf2-target genes.

      The investigators will measure changes in transcript and protein biomarkers of
      pre-symptomatic DOX-cardiotoxicity in response to SFN, and will determine if SFN promotes
      SIRT1- and Nrf2-dependent gene expression. Because Nrf2 upregulates certain detoxifying
      enzymes, the investigators will measure the plasma levels of cardiotoxic metabolites,
      doxorubicinol (DOXol). Strategy: Blood will be collected before the start of DOX chemotherapy
      and after each treatment cycle to isolate peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and
      prepare plasma. In lieu of tissue biopsies, PBMCs will be used to examine SIRT1 and Nrf2
      activity and target gene expression. Multiplex arrays will be used to measure plasma cytokine
      levels, and plasma DOX metabolites will be assessed with ultrahigh performance liquid
      chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. These experiments will provide initial evidence to
      indicate that SFN activates SIRT1 and Nrf2 pathways in non-cancer tissue of breast cancer
      patients.

      Impact: This will be the first clinical study to assess the safety of SFN as a co-treatment
      with DOX to mitigate cardiotoxicity in breast cancer patients. Positive findings will be used
      to justify a larger randomized controlled trial. Subjects will be randomized at a 1:1 ratio.

      Study Design and Procedures Study Design. The investigators intend to include up to 70
      DOX-naïve women diagnosed with breast cancer undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy with no
      prior cardiac disease and who will receive DOX without Her-2 receptor antagonists (to
      eliminate possibility of secondary side effects) as part of their clinical care. These
      potential subjects will be recruited in a randomized, controlled, double blinded pilot study
      comparing SFN to placebo. The study will be conducted at the Texas Tech University Health
      Sciences Center, and University Medical Center. The trial will be approved by our local IRB
      and registered at clinicaltrials.gov. UMC cancer center pharmacist Ajoke A. Tijani, RPh.
      (Tijani@umchealthsystem.com) will receive placebo and test compound from supplier and will
      dispense them to test subjects.

      Randomization will be achieved with assignment of a subject ID to the study subject. The list
      of subject IDs will be subsequently assigned either study drug or placebo using a randomizer
      software such as (www.randomizer.org). The pharmacist dispensing the medication will be aware
      of the study IDs in relation to the patient identity, in order to be able to dispense the
      test drug or the placebo per their assigned status as test or control subjects.

      Study Drug and Placebo. Processed SFN-rich extract will be purchased in form of caplets from
      Nutramax Laboratories, Inc. 2208 Lakeside Blvd Edgewood, MD 21040. Caplets containing
      SFN-rich broccoli sprout extracts or microcrystalline cellulose (placebo) also from Nutramax
      Labs will be dispensed to participants in sealed bottles with instructions to keep them in a
      household freezer. Size of the caplet will be about the size of a 1000 mg Vit C pill (about 2
      cm in length). The participants will be dosed, based on weight, in a double-blind fashion
      with identical appearing placebo or SFN caplets in a daily dose for 12 weeks of: two caplets
      for individuals <100 lb., four caplets for individuals 100-200 lb. and eight caplets for
      individuals >200 lb. Avmacol or placebo will be prescribed by Dr. Awasthi and will be
      dispensed by local pharmacy or study coordinators at TTUHSC/UMC Lubbock. The investigators
      will be doing pill counts to make sure that volunteers have used as directed. The
      investigators will measure the Sulforaphane level in plasma by well-established method. 26
      The drug and the placebo will be stored at the South West Cancer Center pharmacy based on
      manufacturer based guidelines and dispensed to each participant at their baseline visit then
      at DOX infusion visits 1, 2, and 3. Patients will be expected to maintain at least an 80%
      adherence to the medication regimen, in the absence of prohibitive toxicity. Adherence will
      be monitored through therapeutic drug level (Plasma sulforaphane levels of 120 ng/ml)
      monitoring as mentioned above and pill counts. For subjects who do not meet 80% compliance,
      they will be instructed on the importance of taking the pills as directed, but if their next
      visit demonstrates less than 80% compliance, they will be withdrawn from the study. As long
      as participants complete their 4th cycle of DOX chemotherapy treatment the investigators will
      still use their study data during analysis. If side effects are noted, patient will be asked
      to notify the study team of the same and will be evaluated within a suitable time frame based
      on severity of side effects.

      SFN is a safe natural isolate. Above doses (30mg/caplet) are considered adequate to maintain
      intended therapeutic drug levels, while maintaining a simple study design and without
      significant concerns for drug toxicity It has been used in several clinical trials from doses
      ranging from 2-200 µmol/day for 2-28 weeks in 25-80 years old subjects without significant
      side-effects or toxicity
      (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/results?term=sulforaphane&Search=Search), yet never in
      combination with DOX.

      Statistical Considerations Data for the primary endpoint (DOX cardiotoxicity) and other
      binary outcomes will be summarized by treatment arm as number and proportion per arm. The
      change in DOX-cardiotoxicity rate with SFN compared to placebo will be assessed with a
      1-sided Z-test (see Sample-size justification). Tumor size, plasma cardiac biomarkers,
      cardiac ejection fraction, DOX metabolite levels will be summarized by treatment arm and time
      point as means and standard deviations and graphed as box plots and profile plots. The
      investigators will adhere to ANOVA distributional assumptions so that appropriate data
      transformations can be applied. Data for each continuous variable will be analyzed for
      differences in group means at each time point with ANOVA or Mann-Whitney-Wilcoxon
      non-parametric tests at each time point. These tests will employ a more-stringent alpha =
      0.02 significance level to adjust for the multiple comparisons without overinflating type II
      error. For subjects withdrawn from the study or do not complete the study for any reason, as
      long as they completed their 4th cycle of DOX chemotherapy treatment the investigators will
      still use their study data during analysis.

      Sample-size justification. The number of subjects (35 per treatment arm; 70 total; the
      investigators expect some attrition, which this sample size addresses) is based on the
      primary endpoint of DOX-induced cardiac dysfunction, the rate of which was recently observed
      at our previous institution (UAMS) to be ~25%1. The investigators expect that SFN will
      decrease this to 5%. The cardiotoxicity rates for each arm will be compared via 1-sided
      pooled-variance Z-test at an alpha = 0.10. The statistical power of this test, conducted as
      described, needs to exceed 80% in order for our study to be generally recognized as having
      adequate statistical power. Our sample size provides the 1-sided pooled-variance Z-test with
      83.2% power at 10% alpha to detect the expected 20-point decrease in DOX-toxicity rates from
      25% in the placebo arm to 5% in the SFN arm.

      The formal consent of each subject, using the IRB-approved consent form, will be obtained
      before that subject is submitted to any study procedure.
    
  