
    
      This clinical trial will enroll patients with advanced or metastatic melanoma not having
      received treatment for metastatic disease. The 5 agents being used in this study are:

        -  A new, investigational, personal cancer vaccine called "NEO-PV-01".

        -  Poly-ICLC (Hiltonol), an investigational adjuvant that is used to help stimulate the
           immune system.

        -  A cancer drug called APX005M, a drug that stimulates specific types of immune cells that
           help the immune system to recognize specific targets.

        -  A cancer drug called ipilimumab

        -  A cancer drug called nivolumab

      NEO-PV-01, APX005M, ipilimumab, and nivolumab are considered immunotherapies and work using
      the immune system to fight cancer. NEO-PV-01 is a personal vaccine therapy in that it is
      manufactured specifically to include targets for the immune system that are present uniquely
      on your cancer. Poly-ICLC is an adjuvant that helps stimulate the immune system and make the
      vaccine, NEO-PV-01, more effective.

      The purpose of this study is to find out if treatment with NEO-PV-01 + Poly-ICLC (the
      NEO-PV-01 vaccine) in combination with either APX005M or ipilimumab, and nivolumab is safe
      and useful for patients with melanoma. The study also will assess if the NEO-PV-01 vaccine,
      when given at different intervals, can improve your response compared with the standard
      schedule. This study will also assess the effects of poly-ICLC in combination with nivolumab.
      The side effects of all study drugs will be monitored and additional research tests will be
      done to assess your immune response to your cancer. There is no guarantee that you will
      benefit from therapy with the study drugs.

      The FDA has not yet approved the NEO-PV-01 vaccine for use alone or in combination with other
      cancer drugs such as APX005M, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. Neither APX005M nor Poly-ICLC are
      approved for use in your type of cancer. Ipilimumab and nivolumab are both approved for use
      in your type of cancer.
    
  