
    
      Design: Quasi-experimental study with a control group. Intervention group: standard of care
      and self-visualization of epileptic seizures. Control group: standard of care.

      Main aims:

      To determine whether self-visualization of seizures in patients with epilepsy modifies risk
      perception compared with patients not viewing their own seizures.

      To determine whether viewing their seizures leads patients with epilepsy to plan changes in
      their risk behavior compared with patients not viewing their own seizures.

      Design: Quasi-experimental study with a control group. Intervention group: standard of care
      and self-visualization of epileptic seizures. Control group: standard of care.

      Sample size: Accepting an alpha risk of 0.05 and a beta risk lower than 0.2 on bilateral
      comparison, 50 participants will be needed in the intervention group and 25 in the control
      group to detect statistically significant differences between the proportion of patients
      showing behavioral change. It is expected that behavioral change will occur in 40% of the
      intervention group and 10% of the control group and that losses to follow-up will be 10%.

      Variables: Sociodemographic, risk perception, intention to change behavior, perception of
      disease severity, quality of life, mood/depression, personality traits, anxiety.

      Data collection: pre and post visualization of self seizures, and three months after
      discharge.

      A descriptive analysis will be performed, with percentages and frequencies for qualitative
      variables and mean ± standard deviation (or median [range] depending on the normality of the
      distribution) for quantitative variables. Inferential analysis will be conducted with the
      chi-square test or nonparametric tests depending on the behavior of the variables obtained.

      This project has been approved by the Clinical Research Ethics Committee of the hospital
      performing the study.
    
  