
    
      The study will leverage the COVID-19 pandemic to study associations between dietary patterns,
      weight changes and anxiety.

      The study utilizes an online survey, publicized on public and personal social media pages, to
      query demographics, dietary and exercise patterns and measures of anxiety. Dietary patterns
      are assessed using the Mediterranean Diet Score, which evaluates the similarity between
      reported dietary intake and the Mediterranen Diet Pattern, which has been shown to reduce
      all-cause mortality and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Changes in dietary patterns
      and duration of exercise during vs. prior to the pandemic are measured. Anxiety is measured
      using the General Anxiety Disorder (GAD)-7 scale. Additional measures of social isolation,
      both prior to and during the pandemic, are queried in the survey. Data are anonymous and
      investigators have no ability to associated the response to an individual or IP address.
      However, interested respondents can provide an email address to which an analysis of the diet
      score can be sent. Data are automatically downloaded to an Excel spreadsheet, and this is
      cleaned and uploaded to SPSS for analysis. Continuous data are assessed for normality using
      the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test and will be summarized using median (IQ range) or mean (sd) as
      appropriate. Nominal data will be summarized in frequency tables and presented as n (%).
      Associations between the total Mediterranean Diet Score and the GAD-7 will be described by
      calculating the Pearson's or Spearman's correlation coefficient as appropriate. Before vs.
      after responses will be evaluated using the Wilcoxon Signed Ranks Test or the McNemar Test.
      Differences in responses by demographic characteristics will be measured using the t-test for
      independent samples, the Mann-Whitney U or ANOVA as appropriate. The GAD-7 score will be
      dichotomized to moderate anxiety or more (GAD-7=10) vs. lower, and modeled using logistic
      regression analyisis.

      The survey format permits real time response to the ongoing pandemic and the multi-lingual
      presentation allows for a wide potential population of respondents who can reply in a
      language in which they are comfortable. Further, this permits by-language comparisons.
    
  