
    
      There is increasing evidence that despite resuscitation and normalization of macrohemodynamic
      parameters (blood pressure and cardiac output) significant dysfunction of the
      microcirculation may persist.1, 2 There is also a positive correlation between the severity
      of microcirculatory dysfunction and outcome in patients with septic shock. In contrast, early
      improvements in microcirculatory perfusion in response to macrohemodynamic goal directed
      therapy is associated with an improvement in organ function.3 Monitoring the microcirculation
      is challenging. The monitoring window (e.g. the sublingual bed) must be reflective of other
      remote vascular beds. This is more likely to be the case in the setting of systemic diseases
      such as sepsis and hypovolemic shock. Current research modalities for studying the
      microcirculation include laser Doppler and videomicroscopy.4 The limitation of these devices
      is that assessment of the microcirculation has to be performed off-line and targets for
      microvascular resuscitation have not been established. Therefore, microvascular monitoring is
      currently restricted to the research arena. Evaluation of the tissue transcutaneous carbon
      dioxide (PtC02) is a novel, non-invasive, real-time method of assessing the
      microcirculation.5, 6 The three major determinants of PtC02 are arterial carbon dioxide
      (PaCO2), oxygen consumption (VCO2) and the tissue blood flow. Under normal conditions, an
      increased tissue metabolism (thus VCO2) is coupled with an increased tissue perfusion,
      largely reducing any PtC02 increase ("washout" phenomenon). Therefore, if PaCO2 is constant,
      an increase in PtC02 reflects an inadequate relationship between metabolism and tissue
      perfusion. PtC02 thus represents a good estimate of tissue perfusion. To overcome the
      influence of PaCO2 on PtC02, it is convenient to use the carbon dioxide gap (tissue-arterial
      carbon dioxide gradient, normal<7 mmHg). Very high gap values may in addition suggest the
      presence of tissue hypoxia while moderately elevated gaps may represent either flow
      stagnation or tissue hypoxia. Cardiac surgery is characterized by significant alteration of
      the microvascular circulation. These changes are observed in both on-pump and off-pump cases
      and with pulsatile and non-pulsatile flow. Monitoring the PtC02-arterial CO2 gradient offers
      a rapid real-time measure of the microvascular abnormalities encountered during the
      post-cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) period and their effect on post-CPB organ dysfunction.
    
  