
    
      Preclinical researchers discovered that Tg2576 mouse model of Alzheimer Disease (AD) present
      epileptiform activity specifically during sleep, with a prominent increase during REM-sleep.
      This phenotype is specific to AD mice since REM-sleep usually prevents seizures and
      epileptiform activity in animal models of epilepsy. preclinical researchers also evidenced
      that this epileptic phenotype occurs at very early age in Tg2576 mice, far before the onset
      of cognitive impairments. Thus, preclinical researchers hypothesized that patients with AD
      might present subclinical epileptiform events during sleep which might worsen during
      REM-sleep. If so, it could be used as a specific and early biomarker of AD. Since sleep is
      involved in the consolidation of memory, preclinical researchers also hypothesized that
      epileptiform events during sleep might participate to cognitive dysfunction in AD patients.

      In order to test this hypothesis, preclinical researchers designed a monocentric clinical
      study aiming at evaluating seizures and subclinical epileptiform activity during sleep in 40
      patients at early to moderate stages of AD and 40 matched healthy participants. A blood
      sample will be collected of each patient for genetic testing of the Apolipoprotein E before
      they undergo a high-resolution MRI scan and a neuropsychological evaluation including
      episodic memory tests before an overnight polysomnography. Healthy subjects will undergo the
      same procedures except for the blood test from which they will be exempted. Then, all
      subjects (patients and healthy participants) will be tested for the memories acquired before
      the polysomnography in order to evaluate sleep related memory consolidation.

      This should allow to evidence sleep related epileptic events, to precise their incidence in
      AD patients as well as in healthy participants, and to correlate these events to anomalies in
      brain structure and functional resting state connectivity (MRI) and/or sleep disturbances
      and/or cognitive decline.
    
  