
    
      Many studies have shown the positive impact of clinical pharmacy service on clinical,
      economic and humanistic outcomes. This type of service may be highly important in saving
      lives, improving patient outcomes, and decreasing treatment costs particularly in
      resource-limited settings like Ethiopia with a double burden of communicable and
      non-communicable diseases which need medication therapy. Though patients may experience a
      number of problems related to drug therapy, no study is conducted in Ethiopia to show the
      impact of clinical pharmacy service in alleviating such treatment related problems.

      Therefore, this study aims to answer the following research questions.

      impact of clinical pharmacy service in improving patient outcome and reducing cost of
      treatment of chronic illness patients

      impact of clinical pharmacy service in improving patient outcome and reducing cost of
      treatment of hospitalized patients

      Study site location and participants: this randomized controlled trial will be conducted at
      Jimma University Specialized Hospital, Southwest Ethiopia.

      Sample size calculation

      The sample size for inpatients is calculated using the Open Epi online sample size calculator
      software with the following assumptions:

      With 80% power and significance level of 0.05 with a 95% confidence interval. Two tailed test
      and a 1:1 ratio between intervention group and control group. The investigators used the
      prevalence of drug related problem (primary outcome) to be 52% from previous reports in
      Ethiopia.

      The effect size is considered to be 1.5

      Through calculation, the final sample size in each arm is 61 and considering a 20%
      contingency for loss to follow up, 73 participants are needed in each group. Therefore, the
      total sample size is 146.

      For ambulatory patients, sample size is calculated using the prevalence of the three types of
      drug related problems (indication, safety, and effectiveness) from previous studies. The
      prevalence of effectiveness related drug related problem was reported to be 14%. The effect
      size is determined to be 1.4 and all other parameters are considered similar to the above.
      Through calculation, 215 patients are needed in each group. Considering a 10% loss for follow
      up, the total sample size is 473 in the two groups.

      Randomization and concealing allocation

      Randomization will be completed by Statistical Package for the Social Science version 21
      generated algorithm. Treating assignments kept in sealed opaque envelopes with only number
      labeled will be opened after patients give their informed consents. The assigned research
      assistant will distribute envelopes and record patients in each group enrollment and patient
      assignment.

      Blinding: research assistants of the trial who are responsible for outcome recording will be
      blinded to treatment assignment.

      Intervention:

      Pharmacy Intervention group

      For Hospitalized Patients:

      Four full timer pharmacists trained on clinical pharmacy (ward Pharmacists) will be assigned
      to 8-15 patients each at medical ward to provide clinical pharmacy service.

      Two full timer postgraduate year two clinical pharmacy students will be assigned to medical
      ward A Male and medical ward B female.

      Two clinical pharmacists from school of pharmacy will also be assigned to each ward.

      For Ambulatory Patients;

      Two post graduate year II clinical pharmacy students will be assigned to outpatient
      department of ambulatory care clinic.

      The assigned pharmacy professionals will sit with the physician and make therapeutic
      decisions in consultation with the physician, develop therapeutic plan and give patient
      education and document into the documentation form.

      Control Group

      Patients in the control group will get the standard care by physicians and nurses.

      Measurement

      Primary outcomes

      Interventions by Pharmacy professionals

      For hospitalized patients, all interventions made by pharmacy professionals will be
      documented on pharmacy professional activity documentation forms. Data collectors will
      abstract all the relevant data from the document. The data that will be abstracted by data
      collectors are:

      Identified drug therapy problems and interventions made to resolve drug therapy problems.

      Suggestions on prevention and avoidance of medication errors.

      Cost of medicines and pharmaceuticals.

      Cost of hospitalization including cost of laboratory investigations.

      Patient educations given during hospital stay and at discharge for hospitalized patients.

      Recommendations made for laboratory investigation and treatment monitoring done.

      Patient education at hospital for ambulatory patients.

      Secondary outcomes

      Length of hospital stay

      In hospital mortality

      Patient knowledge about the drug at discharge

      Inpatient satisfaction with the health care service provided

      For ambulatory patients,

      Primary outcome

      Identified drug therapy problems and interventions made to resolve drug therapy problems.

      Cost of medicines

      Secondary outcomes

      Patient knowledge about the prescribed medicines

      Statistical analysis: Statistical software Statistical Package for the Social Science 21 will
      be used for analysis. Variables with p value<0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant.
    
  