
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the progression free survival (PFS) of patients receiving atezolizumab
      monotherapy and cobimetinib in combination with atezolizumab for unresectable
      cholangiocarcinoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the overall survival (OS) of patients receiving cobimetinib in combination with
      atezolizumab and atezolizumab monotherapy for unresectable cholangiocarcinoma.

      II. To determine the objective response rate (ORR), defined as complete plus partial
      response, of cobimetinib in combination with atezolizumab and atezolizumab monotherapy in
      patients with unresectable cholangiocarcinoma.

      III. To assess the safety and tolerability of cobimetinib in combination with atezolizumab
      and atezolizumab monotherapy in patients with unresectable cholangiocarcinoma.

      IV. To determine the relationship between PD-L1 expression in tumor at baseline and on
      treatment, and response to treatment.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effect of cobimetinib on CD8+ T cell infiltration in tumor. II. To
      determine the effect of cobimetinib on T cell subpopulations systemically and in tumor,
      PD-1/PD-L1 expression on tumor, and MHC 1/2 expression.

      III. To determine the effect of cobimetinib on markers of immune exhaustion and pro-apoptotic
      factors in CD8+ effector T cells.

      IV. To explore the effect of cobimetinib on local and systemic immune activation pathways and
      immune suppressive pathways through expression profiling.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15 and cobimetinib
      orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.
    
  