
    
      Upon completing informed consent, all the eligible participants will have their body
      composition measured at the Exercise Nutrition Research Laboratory, Western University, using
      non-invasive air displacement plethysmography (BodPod). This requires participants to sit in
      a chamber while space [volume] their bodies take up is assessed. This along with their body
      mass allows body density [d=m/v] and body composition to be determined pre and post the
      5-week exercise intervention. Upon completing the body composition measurements, participants
      will have their endurance capacity assessed by performing a timed one-mile run (which will be
      used as an index of their endurance capacity). Participants will be advised to dress
      appropriately for physical activity including proper footwear.

      Each participant will be matched to either HIIT or MCEET group based on their one-mile run
      time. The HIIT group will perform six, 20-second bouts of high-intensity interval exercise
      separated by 2 minutes of active recovery (walking) while the MCEET group will perform 14
      minutes of continuous endurance exercise at 70% of Maximum Heart Rate (MHR). Both exercise
      protocols will include 3 minutes of warm up and cool down at a 30% MHR, for a total of 20
      minutes for each treatment. The first week of the exercise intervention will consist of
      one-on-one supervised treadmill training, three times per week in the lab. From week two to
      five, participants will follow the same exercise program on their own at their preferred gym
      three times per week in order to examine free-living individuals adhere to two exercise
      programs.

      All participants will log their heart rate before, during, and immediately after each
      training session using a free heart rate monitor mobile App to ensure safety and achievement
      of their targeted heart rate. Further, they will complete two validated questionnaires
      [physical activity enjoyment scale and exercise adherence rating scale] as well ratings of
      perceived exertion scale after the 6th, 9th and 15th session. Finally, no attempt will be
      made to modify the participants daily diet, but a 3-day food log will be collected to assess
      food intake.
    
  