
    
      Hypothesis

      The investigators hypothesize that patients with short education, low income, living alone,
      or living in rural areas are, themselves or their physician, less likely to react to
      unspecified symptoms of colon cancer and have a higher risk of acute onset due to more
      progressed disease compared with patients with a higher socioeconomic position. Furthermore,
      the hypothesis is that there is an association between socioeconomic position and 90-day
      mortality after acute colorectal surgery, explained by patient, treatment or organizational
      related factors.

      Methods

      The study is a nationwide, historical cohort study with prospective collected data. All
      patients in Denmark will be followed up one year after surgery. Exposure is socioeconomic
      position measured by highest attained education, age and sex-adjusted income, cohabitation
      status, and urbanicity. Primary outcome in the first study is acute surgical procedure for
      colorectal cancer. Primary outcome in the second study is year mortality after acute
      colorectal cancer surgery or insertion of self-expanding metallic stent (SEMS).

      Analysis

      First study:

      Differences in socioeconomic position between patients undergoing acute and elective CRC
      surgery will be explored with a logistic regression model. We will include the following
      covariates in the analysis:

      Confounders: age, sex.

      Mediators: comorbidity (Charlson Comorbidity Index), BMI (Body Mass Index), alcohol,
      UICC-stage (The Union for International Cancer Control), smoking, tumor localization, income,
      education, cohabitation, urbanicity A sensitivity analysis will be conducted to examine if
      department volume adds to the effect of urbanicity.

      Second study:

      Differences in socioeconomic position in postoperative 1-year mortality after acute
      colorectal cancer surgery will be analysed with a cox regression model. We will include the
      following covariates in the analysis:

      Confounders: age, sex.

      Mediators: comorbidity (Charlson Comorbidity Index), BMI (Body Mass Index), alcohol,
      UICC-stage (The Union for International Cancer Control), smoking, tumor localization, income,
      education, cohabitation, urbanicity A sensitivity analysis will be conducted to examine if
      department volume adds to the effect of urbanicity.

      Ethical considerations

      The project has been approved by the Danish Data Protection Agency with journal no. 2015-41-
      3726. Data will be handled according to Danish law and the Helsinki declaration. This study
      does not require written content from the participants, thus all data is retracted from
      databases and registries.

      In the presentation of final results all patients will remain anonymous and not identifiable
      according to Danish law. All data will be kept a minimum of 5 years.
    
  