
    
      Background:

      Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is a well-established tool for the diagnosis and staging of many
      gastrointestinal conditions, including but not limited to, malignant and pre-malignant
      neoplasms of the pancreas, esophagus, rectum, and submucosal tumors developing along the
      gastrointestinal tract. EUS provides endoscopic video imaging within the lumen of the
      gastrointestinal tract combined with ultrasound images via a transducer positioned at the tip
      of the endoscope. This diagnostic ability is enhanced by a biopsy method called fine needle
      aspiration (FNA). FNA via EUS (EUS-FNA) enables a small needle to be passed into a lesion of
      interest under ultrasound guidance, obtaining cellular material for cytology analysis.
      EUS-FNA is currently recommended for the confirmation of locally advanced pancreas
      adenocarcinoma, for the diagnosis of pancreatic cystic neoplasms and neuroendocrine tumors as
      well as autoimmune pancreatitis, for the characterization of submucosal tumors of the GI
      tract, and for the determination of malignant lymph node status in the staging of various
      cancers.

      While EUS-FNA has an impressive technical success rate between 90-95%, the diagnostic
      accuracy is less robust for mass lesions, and in particular for pancreatic masses, for which
      the sensitivity and specificity is 75% and 100% respectively, translating into a negative
      predictive value of only 72%. And in the setting of chronic pancreatitis, a condition that is
      itself a major risk factor for the development of cancer and in which focal, non-malignant
      nodules often develop that may mimic tumors, the sensitivity of EUS-FNA may only be 54-74%.
      The diagnostic accuracy of EUS-FNA is of particular importance for pancreas adenocarcinoma
      and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors because the 5-year survival rates are only 5% and 32%
      respectively. Thus, it is crucial that patients found to have a focal mass lesion have a
      reliable test that effectively excludes malignancy. Currently, EUS-FNA does not have the
      necessary negative predictive value in order to do so because the sensitivity of the test is
      too low. This means that a positive result on FNA confirms malignancy but that a negative
      result is unable to exclude it with confidence. This conundrum tends to leave the patient in
      the unfortunate position of having to often return for multiple investigations to perform
      repeat EUS-FNA when the clinical suspicion for a mass lesion remains high but the cytology
      result is thought to be falsely negative.

      In order to overcome the current limitations of EUS-FNA cytology, the new EchoTip® ProCore™
      fine needle biopsy (FNB) needle was developed in order obtain core tissue samples for both
      histology and cytology. This is important because histology is expected to increase the
      diagnostic yield of EUS-guided biopsy compared to cytology. In addition, in certain clinical
      circumstances it is more desirable and sometimes necessary to obtain a core tissue biopsy for
      histology rather than cellular material for cytology obtained with EUS-FNA.

      In addition to the assessment of mass lesions in the pancreas, there are several other
      clinical areas in which the acquisition of core tissue samples for histology may prove
      superior to cytology from conventional EUS-FNA. For instance, EUS is part of the
      standard-of-care for the staging of esophageal cancer and histology may improve the
      sensitivity of EUS-biopsies for the determination of lymph node metastases. Also, although
      EUS is the preferred method for the work-up of submucosal lesions in the gastrointestinal
      tract, the value of EUS-FNA for differentiating the various subtypes of lesions is often
      limited, typically because FNA provides insufficient cellular material to reliably do so.
      Finally, it is clear that cytology from EUS-FNA is inadequate for the diagnosis of autoimmune
      pancreatitis and that a core biopsy sample for histology is needed. We expect the new
      EchoTip® ProCore™ FNB needle to potentially prove superior to FNA in all of these areas.

      Study Objectives The purpose of this study is to determine if the new EchoTip® ProCore™
      needle (FNB for histology) is superior to the current standard EchoTip® Ultra™ needle (FNA
      for cytology) for the diagnosis of focal, solid lesions for which biopsy sampling during EUS
      is clinically indicated. In particular, the objective is to compare the sampling adequacy of
      FNB with that of FNA for solid mass lesions within the pancreas, for submucosal lesions in
      the gastrointestinal tract and for the malignant status of lymph nodes as part of esophageal
      cancer staging. The sampling adequacy will be determined according to the ability of the
      pathologist to provide a definitive diagnostic interpretation based on the sample provided.

      Study Design This is a prospective, comparative trial examining the use of the new EchoTip®
      ProCore™ FNB needle with the existing EchoTip® Ultra™ FNA needle stratified by lesion type
      (solid pancreas lesion, intra-abdominal mass, submucosal tumor, suspected metastatic lymph
      node). Both the FNB and FNA needle will be used in each lesion with randomization to needle
      type for first pass, alternating subsequent passes; thus each lesion will serve as its own
      internal control.

      Methods Consecutive patients referred for EUS assessment of a solid lesion requiring FNA will
      be approached regarding study enrollment. Only those patients for whom EUS-FNA is clinically
      necessary will be selected. Consenting patients will undergo the standard EUS examination as
      indicated based on their lesion subtype, which will not differ from the EUS exam they would
      receive if they choose to not participate. Participating patients who have a lesion
      visualized during EUS that is technically amenable to FNA will then have their lesion
      biopsied by both FNB and FNA needles. The choice of needle size (19g or 22g) will be left to
      the clinical discretion of the endoscopist. However, the same needle size must be used for
      both the FNB and FNA needles.

      Patients will be randomized to the type of needle used for the first pass into the lesion,
      with subsequent passes alternating between needle types. For the EchoTip® ProCore™ FNB
      needle, if a good sample is obtained (as assessed by the endoscopist performing the EUS
      examination) with the first pass, no further passes will be made. If the sample obtained with
      the first pass is considered likely insufficient or if no tissue was acquired, a second pass
      will then be performed. Regardless of what is obtained after the second needle pass, no
      additional passes will be made using the FNB. The core tissue obtained by the FNB needle will
      be placed in formalin and sent for histology analysis.

      For the conventional EchoTip® Ultra™ FNA needle, a minimum of 2 passes will be performed. In
      cases in which a cytotechnologist is present, no feedback will be given to the endoscopist
      until after the 2nd pass. In cases where no cytotechnologist is present, up to 4 separate
      passes will be made, or fewer if the endoscopist is satisfied with the sample obtained. The
      sample obtained with the FNA needle will be placed on slides and also in cytology media
      (according to our standard clinical protocols).

      The histology and cytology specimens will be sent to the pathology department at each site
      where the interpretation of samples will be done in the usual fashion as per standard
      clinical care. The pathologist will first describe the biopsy specimen in terms of the
      "adequacy of the sample for pathologist interpretation" - i.e. the ability of the pathologist
      to provide a definitive diagnostic interpretation based on the sample provided. Next, the
      pathologist will provide the diagnostic interpretation itself.
    
  