
    
      BACKGROUND Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) is widespread, as nearly one in five Dutch will
      experience the disorder within their lifetime. In addition to individual suffering, MDD
      creates great economic costs in the Netherlands and is a leading contributor to the national
      disease burden. Although first-step interventions can be helpful, many individuals with MDD
      do not seek treatment and current interventions often fail to prevent the development of
      chronic, relapsing MDD. There is thus a pressing need to develop and test new interventions
      for depression. This need is particularly urgent in young adult women, as this population is
      especially vulnerable to developing MDD. Yoga-based interventions represent an innovative
      approach with great potential for treating depression. The rationale of using yoga as a MDD
      intervention in young women includes initial findings that yoga reduces depressive affect and
      yoga's appeal in this population. Although the initial findings are promising, previous
      research has a number of methodological limitations such as insufficient statistical power,
      and short follow-up periods. The proposed project is designed to use rigorous methods to
      examine yoga as a treatment for acute depression and as means of preventing the transition to
      a chronic, relapsing disorder in a sample of young women.

      OBJECTIVE The overall objective of this project is to examine the potential benefits of
      adding a yoga-based intervention (YBI) to treatment as usual (TAU) for young women with major
      depressive disorder (MDD). This objective will be examined with the following four specific
      aims: (1) to examine whether adding YBI to TAU leads to greater and sustained reductions in
      symptoms, and (2) better general functioning in young women with MDD at post-intervention and
      at 6- and 12-month follow-up, (3) to examine the cost-effectiveness of adding YBI to TAU and,
      (4) these effects are mediated by change in rumination, self-criticism, intolerance of
      uncertainty, interoceptive awareness, and dispositional mindfulness.

      HYPOTHESES The hypotheses (H) are that compared to TAU, YBI+TAU will lead to: (H1) greater
      reductions in depressive symptoms, assessed with clinician-administered and self-report
      measures, and (H2) better general functioning, defined as (H2.1) daily functioning, (H2.2)
      quality of life and physical health, and (H2.3) positive psychological functioning. The
      investigators further hypothesize that (H4) compared both to TAU, YBT (+TAU) will show
      greater cost-effectiveness, and that these YBI effects on symptoms of depression are
      partially mediated by (H4.1) reduced self-report and implicit rumination about the causes and
      consequences of negative events and moods, (H4.2) reduced self-report and implicit
      self-criticism/increased self-compassion after perceived failures, (H4.3) decreased
      intolerance of uncertainty, (H4.4) increased body awareness/interoceptive awareness, and
      (H4.5) increased mindfulness.

      STUDY DESIGN The study will consist of a randomized controlled trial comparing YBT+TAU with
      TAU. Assessments are completed at pre- and post-intervention (or equivalent time period in
      TAU), and at 6- and 12-month follow-up.

      STUDY POPULATION Young adult women (age 18-34 years) with a primary diagnosis of MDD.

      INTERVENTION The intervention will consist of manualized YBT administered in 9 weekly
      90-minute group sessions with home practice +TAU.

      USUAL CARE TAU will consist of interventions recommended by the Dutch guidelines for
      depression, including psychotherapy, pharmacotherapy, psychosocial support by psychiatric
      nurses, or some combination of these.

      OUTCOME MEASURES Primary outcome measures will consist of clinician-administered and
      self-report measures of depression symptoms and the presence/absence of a diagnoses of Major
      Depressive Disorder. Secondary outcome measures are daily functioning, quality of life and
      physical health, and positive psychological functioning. Potential mediators are self-report
      measures of perseverative thinking, self-criticism, intolerance of uncertainty, interoceptive
      awareness and dispositional mindfulness, and implicit measures of perseverative thinking and
      self-criticism. Quality-Adjusted Life Years will be used as primary outcome measure in the
      economic analysis.

      SAMPLE SIZE/DATA ANALYSIS A sample of N=64/group will be recruited in order to have power of
      80% (alpha=.05) to detect medium effect size differences between groups. Allowing attrition
      of 25%, 170 (85/group) patients will be recruited. Repeated-measures ANOVAs and Chi-square
      analyses will be conducted.

      COST EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS An economic evaluation will be conducted alongside the clinical
      study to assess the potential cost-effectiveness of YBT compared to TAU from a societal
      perspective. A budget impact analysis (BIA) will be conducted to inform decision-makers about
      the potential financial consequences of the adoption and diffusion of YBT in the Dutch
      healthcare system.
    
  