
    
      Appropriate surgical care is primordial for the patient after diagnosis of a BOT. Taking into
      account the good prognosis and long live expectancy caregivers should also be concerned about
      non-oncological complains during the follow-up to guarantee the overall well-being of the
      patient.

      Women diagnosed with gynaecological cancer are likely to face additional consequences beyond
      those common to all cancer patients.

      Not surprisingly, previous research shows that women affected by gynaecological cancer are
      likely to suffer significant physical and psychological morbidity. Studies including women of
      all ages with gynaecological cancers indicate higher levels of psychological distress,
      including clinical levels of anxiety, depression and posttraumatic distress disorder as well
      as greater decrements in body image and more sexual problems than in other types of cancer.
      High levels of distress were reported up to four years following the diagnosis.

      Longitudinal studies addressing the prevalence of psychological distress, anxiety or
      psychosexual health during follow up in BOT patients are lacking. Due to the connotation
      between sexuality and internal genitals, diagnosis of the BOT and following surgery are
      possibly negatively influencing each other. Large prospective or randomized control studies
      are unachievable due to the low prevalence of BOT and limited recurrences or death.

      Identification of the presence of psychological morbidity, including anxiety and depression
      is clinically useful because, unlike most demographic and clinical factors, psychological
      illness and psychosexual complaints are modifiable.

      The study material consists out of two main parts of questionnaires.

      A first questionnaire addressing the distress and anxiety consists of validated
      questionnaires:

        -  Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS),

        -  Body Image Scale (BIS),

        -  Perceived Stress Scale (PSS).

      And a second questionnaire concerning psychosexual health, built up out of validated
      questionnaires;

        -  Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI),

        -  Female Sexual Distress Scale - Revised (FSDS-R),

        -  European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) quality of life (QOL)
           questionnaire designed to measure the QOL of patients with ovarian cancer (EORTC
           QLQ-OV28) (only questions 50-58)

        -  EORTC Sexual Health Questionnaire (EORTC SHQ-C22) for assessing sexual health in cancer
           patients (only the part concerning women).
    
  