
    
      Background: Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) cause a spectrum of disease,
      ranging from asymptomatic carriage to bloody diarrhea and the hemolytic uremic syndrome
      (HUS). HUS is caused by a toxin that destroys red blood cells, consumes platelets and impairs
      kidney function. HUS results in morbidity and even death in otherwise healthy children. Over
      the last 30 years however, there has been extremely limited progress in preventing acute and
      long-term complications in children with STEC infection. However, it is believed that Shiga
      toxins generate clots or blockages in the kidneys that damage it much the way strokes cause
      brain damage. There is emerging evidence that if children with STEC infection are recognized
      early, then the interval between diarrhea onset and the presence of HUS could be exploited to
      preserve kidney function through the use of intravenous rehydration.

      Study Design: The investigators propose to conduct the first randomized clinical trial of
      volume expansion therapy in children with STEC infection. Employing Alberta's unique
      province-wide microbiology network and its only two pediatric tertiary care centres, the
      investigators will conduct a proof of principal feasibility study that evaluates novel
      technologies to identify STEC infected children and those at risk for HUS.

      Objectives: The primary outcome will be process: number of children recruited. Secondary
      outcomes will include: 1) resources: retention; refusal; compliance; eligibility criteria;
      questionnaires; data collection tools; and time requirements; 2) management: capacity and
      impact on clinical services; 3) scientific: utility of point-of-care STEC diagnostics; use of
      urine biomarkers to identify high risk children, monitoring of kidney injury and response to
      therapy; and safety.

      Significance: This pilot will provide the necessary data to integrate novel technologies into
      the design and conduct of a multicentre, multinational, clinical trial that will reduce
      morbidity and mortality from STEC infection.
    
  