
    
      The impact of anatomical changes of the gastrointestinal tract resulting from bariatric
      surgery on pharmacokinetics are due to changes in gastric and intestinal pH, reduction in
      intestinal transit time, changes in the surface area available for absorption and changes in
      the abundance of enzymes and drug carriers. Physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK)
      models have been developed to predict the effect of bariatric surgery on pharmacokinetics.
      PBPK models are promising for individualized pharmacological therapy, since they may predict
      pharmacokinetic parameters for drugs clinically available or for new drug candidates.
      However, limitations of the model are related to the few clinical studies performed in this
      population with appropriate design.

      This study proposes to perform two crossover studies to investigate the kinetic disposition
      of simvastatin and carvedilol in 3 steps: before, 4-6 months and 10-12 months after Roux-en Y
      gastric bypass bariatric surgery (RYGB). Adult patients with body mass index ≥ 35 kg/mˆ2 with
      indication for RYGB bariatric surgery are being investigated. Patients are receiving a single
      dose of simvastatin (simvastatin group, n= 18) or carvedilol (carvedilol group, n= 20),
      orally, in each step. Serial blood samples are being collected up to 24 hours after drug
      administration. Blood sample collected 4 hours after midazolam administration is being used
      to evaluate cytochrome P450 enzyme (CYP) 3A4 activity. For carvedilol group, CYP2D6 activity
      is being evaluated using metoprolol as a probe and urine is being collect in 0-8 hours after
      drug administration. The expression of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (mRNA) will be evaluated in
      intestinal biopsies collected during preoperative endoscopy, during RYGB and post-surgery
      endoscopy. Drugs plasma and urine concentrations will be analyzed by liquid chromatography
      coupled to mass spectrometry (LC-MS). Pharmacokinetics parameters will be estimated through
      non-compartmental and population pharmacokinetic approaches. The data from these studies will
      be used to build mechanistic models to predict the kinetic disposition in complex patients,
      since bariatric RYGB surgery can significantly alter Systems Pharmacology.
    
  