
    
      This will be a single-center, randomized, open-label, parallel-group study in patients with
      treatment-naive arterial hypertension to characterize RAS peptide profiles before and after
      treatment initiation with different antihypertensive drug-classes. Patients diagnosed with
      primary arterial hypertension requiring antihypertensive drug treatment as well as patients
      after a 4 week wash out period (Amendment from 07/2016) will be recruited from the Medical
      Outpatient Clinic at the University Hospital Basel, Switzerland. Diagnostic work-up and
      follow-up assessments after treatment initiation such as 24 hour blood pressure measurement
      will be performed according to clinical practice guidelines and will only be documented but
      not altered by this study. Study mandated procedures will be randomization to one of the four
      standard first-line treatment arms, blood sampling for RAS peptide profile and drug
      concentration determination, and non-invasive hemodynamic measurements. After having provided
      written informed consent, patients will be randomized to either the angiotensin-converting
      enzyme inhibitor-, angiotensin receptor blocker-, calcium channel blocker- or
      hydrochlorothiazide-treatment arm. Drug treatment follows current guidelines issued by the
      European Society of Hypertension . According to clinical practice, treatment-naive patients
      with grade I and grade II hypertension will directly be started on an intermediate dose
      monotherapy (treatment period 1).

      Treatment period 1:

      4 weeks of intermediate dose monotherapy with the angiotensin-converting enzyme Inhibitor
      perindopril OR the angiotensin receptor blocker olmesartan OR the calcium channel blocker
      amlodipine OR the hydrochlorothiazide

      In all patients who do not reach blood pressure targets according to the 2013 ESH guidelines
      for the management of arterial hypertension after 4 weeks, the dose of the monotherapy drug
      will be doubled (high dose, treatment period 2), following current guidelines

      Treatment period 2:

      4 weeks of high dose monotherapy with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor perindopril
      OR the angiotensin receptor blocker olmesartan OR the calcium channel blocker amlodipine OR
      the hydrochlorothiazide

      80 patients (20 patients per treatment arm) will be included and sampling for the analysis of
      RAS peptide profiles will be done before treatment initiation (baseline). Sampling for the
      analysis of RAS peptide profiles and measurement of drug concentrations in plasma will be
      done after 4 weeks of each treatment period at 0h (before last drug intake) and 4 hours after
      last drug intake of treatment period. Dropouts will be replaced. Non-invasive hemodynamic
      measurements will be done at the same time points as for the determination of RAS peptide
      profiles and drug concentrations.

      A control group with 20 age- and gender-matched, healthy and normotensive subjects will be
      recruited to establish the characteristics of RAS peptide profiles in a comparable but
      normotensive population. After having provided written informed consent, normal blood
      pressure will be documented by a 24h blood pressure measurement. In this normotensive control
      group, blood sampling for the determination of RAS peptide profiles as well as hemodynamic
      measurements will only be done on a single day, at the same time of day as for the
      hypertensive patients. (Amendment 04/2015)
    
  