
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of dimesna administered prior to cisplatin
           and paclitaxel in patients with solid tumors.

        -  Determine the dose related qualitative and quantitative side effects of dimesna
           administered on this schedule in these patients.

        -  Determine the minimum safe volume of intravenous hydration after the determination of
           the MTD of dimesna in these patients.

        -  Investigate the possible protective side effects of dimesna in reducing or preventing
           the development of cisplatin induced nephrotoxicity and observe possible protective
           effects against cisplatin or paclitaxel related neurotoxicity and myelosuppression in
           these patients.

        -  Investigate the pharmacokinetic behavior of dimesna in the plasma and urine on this
           schedule of administration in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, two-stage, multicenter study.

      During stage I, patients receive a single dose of dimesna IV over 15 minutes 7 days prior to
      chemotherapy. Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours followed by dimesna IV over
      15-30 minutes followed immediately by cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 every 3 weeks.
      Patients continue courses of paclitaxel, dimesna, and cisplatin every 3 weeks in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity for up to 6 courses.

      In stage I, cohorts of 3-6 patients each receive escalating doses of dimesna until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is reached. The MTD is defined as the highest dose at which no
      more than 1 of 6 patients experiences dose limiting toxicity (DLT). The MTD of dimesna is
      then used in stage II of the study, in which the volume of pre and post cisplatin intravenous
      saline hydration is reduced in cohorts of 3-6 patients each. The MTD intensity of cisplatin
      is defined as the least saline hydration volume at which no more than 1 of 6 patients
      experience DLT.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 35 patients will be accrued into this study.
    
  