
    
      Allogeneic hematopoetic stem cell transplantation (SCT) is frequently complicated by life
      threatening viral reactivation. Conventional antiviral therapy is suboptimal for
      cytomegalovirus (CMV), adenovirus (AdV) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and nonexistent for BK
      virus (BKV). An alternative approach to prevent viral reactivation is to infuse
      virus-specific cytotoxic T cells (CTL) prepared from the donor early after SCT. Such
      multivirus-specific CTL cells (MVST) have been successfully used in a number of centers to
      prevent or treat CMV, Ad and EBV. Activity of BKV-reactive cells has not been studied. Multi
      virus-specific T cells (MVST) are donor lymphocytes that are highly enriched for viral
      antigens and expanded in vitro before infusion into the transplant recipient. Viral
      reactivation is a particular problem inT cell depleted SCT. Median time to CMV reactivation
      is estimated as 28 days post T-depleted transplant, but infusion of MVST within the immediate
      post-SCT period has not been previously studied. This protocol will be the first of a planned
      series of cellular therapies to be layered on our existing T lymphocyte depleted transplant
      platform protocol 13-H-0144.

      The aim of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of very early infusion of MVSTr
      cells directed against the four most common viruses causing complications after T-depleted
      SCT. GMP-grade allogeneic MVSTr from the stem cell donor will be generated using or
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) pulsed with overlapping peptide libraries of
      immunodominant antigens from CMV, EBV, Ad, and BKV and expanded in IL-7 and IL-15 followed by
      IL-2 for 14 days. A fraction of the routine donor leukapheresis for lymphocytes obtained
      prior to stem cell mobilization will be used to generate the MVST cells. MVST passing release
      criteria will be cryopreserved ready for infusion post SCT.

      Eligible subjects on NHLBI protocol 13-H-0144 will receive a single early infusion of MVSTr
      on day +7 post transplant range 0-14 days) post SCT. Phase I safety monitoring will continue
      for 6 weeks after infusion. Viral reactivation (CMV, EBV, Ad, BK) will be monitored by PCR by
      serial blood sampling. The only antiviral prophylaxis given will be acyclovir to prevent
      herpes simplex and varicella zoster reactivation. Subjects with rising PCR exceeding
      threshold for treatment, or those with clinically overt viral disease will receive
      conventional antiviral treatment. Patients developing acute GVHD will receive standard
      treatment with systemic steroids. These patients are eligible for reinfusion of MVST when
      steroids are tapered.

      The clinical trial is designed as a single institution, open label, non-randomized Phase I
      trial of MVSTr in transplant recipients, designed as a single cohort Phase I study. Safety
      will be monitored continuously for a period of 6 weeks post MVSTr transfer. The primary
      safety endpoint will be the occurrence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT), defined as the
      occurrence of Grade IV GVHD, Grade III cytokine release syndrome (CRS), Grade III
      autoimmunity or any other SAE that is deemed to be at least probably or definitely related to
      the investigational product.
    
  