
    
      Study design

      The study was designed as a single-center, randomized, prospective study and approved by the
      University Hospital Olomouc and Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Palacky University Olomouc
      ethics committee. It comprised patients over 18 years of age undergoing surgery at the
      hospital's Department of Surgery I and subsequently placed in an ICU bed. As there were no
      limitations concerning the type of procedures, these involved a wide range of abdominal and
      thoracic surgeries; however, all of them were elective procedures. No patients were
      critically ill, being classified as ASA III or less.

      Sample collection and processing To determine the present status of the internal environment,
      arterialized capillary blood was drawn from the fingertip at the time of patients' transfer
      from the operating room to the ICU (Time 0), and again at 2 hours and 6 hours from Time 0.
      The collected blood was tested in the laboratory using the Astrup method to measure the
      following parameters: pH, BE, actual bicarbonate (aBi), standard bicarbonate (sBi), partial
      pressure of oxygen (pO2) and carbon dioxide (pCO2). The obtained values were entered into a
      table and statistically analyzed. Both patients groups were adjusted for age and length of
      surgery to allow their comparison.

      Infusion solutions

      The following infusion solutions were parenterally administered using a central or, more
      frequently, peripheral venous catheter:

        1. Plasmalyte in 5% glucose infusion solution (PL), manufactured by Baxter Healthcare as
           slightly alkalizing (Na+ 140; K+ 5.0; Mg2+ 1.5; Cl- 98; acetate 27; gluconate 23) and

        2. Ringerfundin infusion solution (RF), manufactured by B. Braun as acid-base neutral (Na+
           145; K+ 4.0; Mg2+ 1.0; Ca2+ 2.5; Cl- 127; acetate 24; malate 5.0).

      At the time of their transfer to the ICU, patients were randomized into PL and RF Groups.
      Parenteral administration of the two solutions was initiated immediately after collection of
      the first blood sample at 166 mL/hour. Thus, all patients received 1000 mL of infusion
      solution over 6 hours. Patients requiring more rapid fluid replacement due to postoperative
      hypovolemia were excluded from the study. Patients were routinely rewarmed with a warm air
      blanket and received humidified oxygen via a face mask or, in case of good oxygenation, via a
      nasal cannula.
    
  