
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the reduction rate of grade >= 2 abdominal toxicities, including abdominal
      distension, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomach pain, and typhlitis according to the
      National Cancer Institute Common Terminology for Adverse Events version 5.0 (NCI CTCAE v5.0)
      with the use of rifaximin in stage II-III HER-2 positive breast cancer patients with
      pertuzumab induced gastrointestinal toxicities.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate dose reductions, dose delays and discontinuation of treatment with pertuzumab due
      to gastrointestinal side effects.

      II. Evaluate and measure the change in the Bristol stool scale before and after rifaximin
      treatment.

      III. Evaluate and measure the change in the 4-point Likert scale patient questionnaire before
      and after rifaximin treatment.

      CORRELATIVE STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate changes in the fecal microbiome, hydrogen breath test, and permeability test
      before and after rifaximin.

      II. Evaluate changes in the fecal microbiome, hydrogen breath test, and permeability test
      before and after pertuzumab-based chemotherapy.

      III. Evaluate the difference in the fecal microbiome, hydrogen breath test, and permeability
      test among patients with or without pertuzumab induced gastrointestinal toxicities (PIGT).

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (GRADE >= 2 PIGT): Patients that experience PIGT after receiving first standard of care
      cycle of pertuzumab-based chemotherapy receive rifaximin orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on
      days 1-5 and standard of care pertuzumab-based chemotherapy on day 1. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for up to 5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (GRADE =< 1 PIGT): Patients that do not experience PIGT after receiving first standard
      of care cycle of pertuzumab-based chemotherapy continue receiving standard of care
      pertuzumab-based chemotherapy on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 5 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  