
    
      BACKGROUND:

      ALP phenotype B (ALP-B), characterized by a predominance of small, dense LDL particles as
      determined by gradient gel electrophoresis, has been associated with increased risk of
      myocardial infarction and a constellation of atherogenic lipid and apolipoprotein (apo)
      changes. Based on complex segregation analysis, ALP-B appeared to be influenced by a single
      major genetic locus with a dominant mode of inheritance and a common allele frequency. This
      project was designed to identify a new gene involved in susceptibility to coronary heart
      disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The investigators identified, collected and constructed a repository of immortalized cell
      lines and lipid and apo measurements from members of families informative for ALP. They
      tested genes implicated in lipoprotein metabolism as possible candidate ALP genes and used
      highly informative DNA probes to search the genome for linkage to the ALP gene. They also
      refined the model for the inheritance of ALP phenotypes and tested for genetic-environmental
      interactions. Forty informative families were recruited for the repository. The families were
      identified through two sources of probands: former participants in a cholesterol-lowering
      diet study and patients seen at the lipid clinics at the University of Washington. Each
      participating family member completed a medical history questionnaire and provided a blood
      sample for ALP phenotype determination, for DNA studies, and for lipid and apo measurements.
      Linkage studies and LOD score analyses began with a candidate gene approach, and continued by
      using DNA probes that revealed restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) to search
      the genome for linkage to the ALP gene. When a linkage was found, ALP genotype information
      was used to refine the statistical model describing the inheritance of ALP phenotypes, and to
      evaluate genetic-environmental interactions involving lipid and apo levels and environmental
      and behavioral factors.
    
  