
    
      Study Population: Patients greater than 18 years of age with malignant pleural effusions will
      be identified and approached in clinic by the Principle and Co-Investigator. Informed consent
      will be obtained from qualified and interested patients.

      Study Activities: Patients will be randomized to standard and aggressive drainage groups and
      complete questionnaires regarding their health. Patients will then receive the Pleurx®
      catheter for standard treatment of their malignant pleural effusions, obtain a chest-xray,
      and receive educational instruction and training on catheter drainage and told whether to
      drain everyday using a 1-liter bottle or every other day using a 600-cc bottle. Patients will
      complete a drainage diary on everyday they drain fluid which will provide information on
      drainage volume, fluid color, pain, and complications. At 2 weeks, 6 weeks, and 12 weeks post
      catheter placement, patients will return to clinic for follow-up at which time they will have
      an interval history and physical and chest xray and complete a questionnaires regarding their
      health and satisfaction.

      Risks/Safety Issues: Risks associated with draining the catheter include: pneumothorax,
      re-expansion pulmonary edema, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and infection. All serious
      adverse events will be reported to the institutional review board: a) death - immediately; b)
      life-threatening within 7 calendar days; c) all other SAEs (serious adverse events) within 15
      calendar days. Should there be a serious adverse event that occurs that increases the risk to
      the participants, the study will be stopped, an investigation will be conducted, and a
      findings report will be generated before the study is resumed.

      Data Analysis: The principal endpoint is the incidence of successful pleurodesis utilizing an
      aggressive drainage protocol compared to the incidence of successful pleurodesis using a
      standard drainage protocol. An interim analysis will be performed after 3 months.
    
  