
    
      Objectives: The overall aim is to increase awareness of urinary incontinence in
      community-based older adults and promote timely treatment. To achieve this aim the project
      objectives will include:

        1. To develop a self-screening process for community-based older adults

        2. To test the use of a self-screening process with community-based older adults

      Methods:

      Study Design: This study will use a pilot randomized control trial to test the effectiveness
      of a self-screening process with older adults. The hypothesis is that older adults exposed to
      the self-screening process will follow up with health professionals to receive help for the
      UI condition. There will be two groups of older adults. The intervention group will
      participate in self-screening and the control will not be exposed to self-screening. Using
      this approach is necessary to determine whether or not the self-screening works.

      Setting: Senior's Centers and organizations dedicated to seniors in Kelowna, West Kelowna and
      Lake Country will serve as the recruitment sites for this study. These Senior's
      Centers/organizations (e.g., Lake Country Seniors Centre, Lake Country Health Planning
      Society, Westside Health Network, Seniors Outreach Bureau) serve large and different
      populations of seniors (>300 seniors) so overlap in membership is not expected to be an
      issue. Excel randomization function will be used to assign participants to one of the two
      arms (the arm receiving the self-screening process or the arm not receiving this process).
      The randomization assignments (allocations) will be placed in individual sealed envelopes.
      After informed consent is obtained, the Research Assistant (RA) will choose the next
      available envelope to reveal which arm the study participant will be assigned.

      Data Collection:

      Pre-test: Prior to implementation, the self-screening tool will be pre-tested with 5 older
      adults attending participating seniors centres/organizations. The purpose of the pretest will
      be to identify any implementation issues such as recruitment, administration, understanding
      and ease of use of the self-screening tools.

      Procedures: Older adults assigned to both groups will receive follow up from the RA who will
      provide details about the study and answer any questions. Prior to randomization, consenting
      older adults from both groups will complete a demographic (e.g., age, sex, highest level of
      education, household income), health history profile (e.g., co-morbidities, history of
      previous referrals for UI, medications) (see Demographic and Health History Profile) and a
      quality of life questionnaire 17 (see The King's Health Questionnaire).

      Three months following study entry participants from both groups will receive a phone
      follow-up to obtain information about actions they have taken re IU (e.g., self/physician
      referral), UI symptoms, treatments received, satisfaction with care, and changes in quality
      of life. The follow up phone call will be recorded. It is expected the baseline and 3 month
      follow up data collection will take approximately 20-30 minutes to complete.

      Post-Intervention Focus Groups: To obtain feedback on the self-screening process, focus
      groups (n=2) will be conducted with older adults (10-12 participants) who were in the
      self-screening group. At the end of 3-months from study entry, in conjunction with survey
      completion, participants will be invited to participate in a focus group. Those expressing an
      interest in focus group participation will be contacted with details of the date, time of the
      focus group and will receive a copy of the semi-structured interview questions. Questions
      will address participants' comfort with the self-screening process, rationale and influences
      on choice to self-refer or not, barriers/facilitators to self-referral, recommendations to
      make the self-screening process easier.

      Data Analysis: Analysis will include a description of sample and primary and secondary
      analyses.

      Description of Sample:

      Frequency analysis will be conducted on all demographic (age, sex, highest level of
      education, household income), health history profile (co-morbidities, history of previous
      referrals for UI, medications) and quality of life. For continuous variables, means with
      associated standard deviations (SD) will be calculated for parametric variables or medians
      with associated interquartile ranges will be calculated for nonparametric variables. For
      categorical variables, percentages with 95% confidence interval (CI) will be calculated.
      These calculations will be calculated for the total study population as well as for
      participants in each study group.

      Primary analysis:

      The study hypothesis is that older adults exposed to the self-screening process will
      follow-up with health professionals to receive help for their UI condition more often than
      the control group. To test this hypothesis investigators will calculate the proportion (with
      95% CI) of participants who self-report as having self-referred to a health professional
      (binary yes/no response) during the study period for each group. A chi-square test will be
      conducted to determine if the self-screening process is associated with self-referral to a
      health professional. In addition, a logistic regression analysis will be conducted to model
      the odds of self-referring among participants who have undergone self-screening, adjusting
      for demographics, and health history variables. Bivariate analysis will be conducted and
      variables significantly associated with self-referral will be entered into the model. Since
      the sample size will only allow for having 3 variables in the model, more than one regression
      model may be necessary. If this is the case, a Bonferroni adjustment will be used to account
      for multiple comparisons.

      Secondary analysis:

      Quality of life scores will be compared within and between groups. For the within group
      comparison, a two-sided dependent t-test will be conducted using the pre study and 3-month
      quality of life scores for each group. To determine if a change in quality of life
      (difference between pre study and 3-mont quality of life scores) is statistically significant
      and mixed between-within subjects analysis of variance will be conducted.

      All participants will complete a Urinary Symptoms questionnaire (ICIQ-FLUTS) which consists
      of ordinal categorical responses to questions related to urinary symptoms. Each question has
      five response options. For each question, each response category will be assigned a numeric
      value depending on the severity of the symptom (1= no symptoms; 5=severe symptoms). For each
      participant, improvement in symptoms will be determined by a reduction in the ordinal value.
      Improvement in UI symptoms will be compared between groups using a chi-square test.

      Investigators are also interested in knowing if self-screening results in higher proportion
      of participants initiating medication of UI during the study period. Therefore, the
      proportion of participants in each group who started medication for UI during the study
      period will be compared using a chi-square test.

      Limitations: It is possible that screening for eligibility for the study may make a person
      more likely to self-refer. If this occurs in the control arm, it may bias the results toward
      the null hypothesis (i.e. it may be less likely to detect a difference between study arms).
    
  