
    
      According to World Health Organization, life expectancy of older people continues to rise,
      and by 2050, the proportion of the world's population above 60 years old will nearly double,
      from 12% to 22%. However, living longer does not mean living healthier. So, it is urgent to
      promote effective interventions in elderly people's health, quality of life and independency,
      aiming to be able to live autonomous in their homes and in community (WHO).

      Aging involves changes on the body and its functions, for example the praxis skills, which
      leads to a visible decrease on the performance of Activities of Daily Living (ADL's) (e.g.
      self-care and domestic activities). These difficulties are also associated to
      dysfunctionality and poor quality of life. All of these decreases are also associated with
      emotional problems, sleep disorders, and pain.

      In recent years, there has been a resurgence of interest in more integrative therapeutic
      interventions. In particular, therapeutic relaxation programs have been increasingly reported
      to be effective interventions for preventing the functional and emotional losses, associated
      to the aging process, as well as for promoting health and quality of life indicators. There
      is a specific method of therapeutic relaxation - Psychomotor Massage - that has been
      frequently applied in order to improve health and quality of life indicators of elderly
      people. However, to the best of the investigator's knowledge, no study has yet examined the
      effects of such innovative relaxation intervention method, particularly comparing them to the
      effects of a common therapeutic relaxation method, such as Progressive Muscle Relaxation.

      Therefore, this experimental randomized controlled trial aims to examine the effects of two
      therapeutic interventions programs based on the relaxation techniques mentioned above in
      health and quality of life indicators (daily activities, psychomotor abilities, cognitive
      functioning, emotional states, pain perception, quality of sleep, body awareness and body
      image) of community dwelling Portuguese elderly people.

      Subjects above 60 years living in the community will be invited to participate in this study
      and will be randomized by three groups: control, Psychomotor Massage, and Progressive Muscle
      Relaxation. Along the study, all patients will continue to receive the usual care from their
      medical providers. The study will include an intervention period of 8 weeks for control and
      for the two experimental groups - attending 30-minute sessions, twice a week - and a
      follow-up period of 4 weeks without intervention. Evaluation will be performed 1) at
      baseline, 2) at post-intervention and pre-follow-up, and 3) at post-follow-up. The study was
      approved by the Ethics Committee of the University of Évora, Portugal, and will be carried
      out in accordance with the standards set by the Declaration of Helsinki. The collected data
      will be fully encrypted to ensure the privacy of the participants.
    
  