
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To test the hypothesis that treatment with multi-day methotrexate is inferior to treatment
      with pulse actinomycin-D (dactinomycin) in patients with low-risk gestational trophoblastic
      disease with respect to complete response.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the frequency of post protocol surgical treatment for each arm. II. To
      describe the frequency of post protocol multi-agent chemotherapy treatment for each arm.

      III. To compare multi-day methotrexate to actinomycin-D with respect to frequency and
      severity of adverse events in patients with low-risk gestational trophoblastic neoplasia.

      IV. To investigate the impact of treatment on overall quality-of-life (QOL) and explore the
      influence of treatment on issues such as body image, sexual functioning, and patient-reported
      side effects and disruption.

      V. To assess whether uterine artery pulsatility index (UAPI) can provide independent
      prognostic information predictive of single-drug resistance.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive dactinomycin intravenously (IV) over 15 minutes on day 1.

      ARM II: Patients receive methotrexate intramuscularly (IM) on days 1, 3, 5, and 7 and
      leucovorin calcium orally (PO) on days 2, 4, 6, and 8 OR single agent methotrexate IV on days
      1-5.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 20 courses* in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 1 year and then
      every 3 months for 1 year.

      NOTE: * Patients will be treated for three courses after human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) <
      5 mIU/mL or until evidence of treatment failure (biologic progression), disease progression,
      or unacceptable toxicity despite dose modifications. Upon normalization of hCG (< 5 mIU/mL),
      patients will be treated with three additional courses.
    
  