
    
      BACKGROUND/JUSTIFICATION: Adequate nutritional support is an important part of treatment in
      critical illness. It is usually delivered via a nasoenteric feeding tube because ICU patients
      may have an altered level of consciousness, delirium, and/or dependence on mechanical
      ventilation. Feeding tubes are traditionally secured with adhesive tape, making dislodgement
      of the tube possible. Dislodgement of feeding tubes can lead to suboptimal caloric intake and
      increased risk of aspiration of feeds/pneumonia. An alternative to this is the nasal bridle
      securement device (NBSD), which has been shown to have lower rates of tube dislodgement, but
      the evidence is limited as it is a relatively new medical device. There is also little
      documented about any adverse events associated with use of the NBSD.

      Prior to 2016, all small bore feeding tubes inserted in ICU patients at St. Paul's Hospital
      were secured with adhesive tape exclusively. The ICU team began using NBSD in 2016 only in
      patients who were at higher risk for, or with, tube dislodgement. The clinical indications
      outlined in our Nursing Practice Standards (i.e., "Nursing Practice Standard NCS5652 - Nasal
      Bridle") are: recurrent nasoenteric tube dislodgement, confused and/or agitated patients,
      fluoroscopically or endoscopically placed nasoenteric tube, history of difficult tube
      placement, facial burn victims with nasoenteric tube and/or oily skin causing decreased
      adhesion of traditional securement.

      PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is three-fold, in patients who demonstrated a higher risk
      for, or with, tube dislodgement: to describe the incidence and characteristics of adverse
      events associated with NBSD; to examine the effectiveness of the NBSD at prevention of
      inadvertent dislodgement; to assess if use of this devise is associated with a difference in
      the proportion of total caloric goal delivered.

      RESEARCH QUESTIONS:

        1. To determine the incidence and characteristics of all types of adverse events associated
           with the use of NBSD to secure small bore feeding tubes in ICU patients who have
           demonstrated a high risk for, or with, tube dislodgement.

        2. To determine if there is a difference in the rate of inadvertent dislodgement of small
           bore feeding tubes in ICU patients who demonstrate a high risk for, or with, tube
           dislodgement between ICU patients whose feeding tube is secured with a NBSD versus those
           who were secured with tape. Rate of tube dislodgement is defined as number of tube
           dislodgements per total number ICU days with a small bore feeding tube in place.

           Null hypothesis: there is no difference in the rate of inadvertent tube dislodgement.

           Alternate hypothesis: there is a difference in the rate of inadvertent tube
           dislodgement.

        3. To determine if there is a difference in the proportion of total caloric goals delivered
           in ICU patients with small bore feeding tubes with a high risk for or with tube
           dislodgement in ICU patients whose feeding tube is secured with a NBSD versus those who
           were secured with tape.

      Null hypothesis: there is no difference in the proportion of total caloric goals delivered.

      Alternate hypothesis: there is a difference in the proportion of total caloric goals
      delivered.

      RESEARCH DESIGN: The prospective observational treated group will include all ICU patients
      who required a NBSD securement for their feeding tube as per standard practice (i.e., PHC
      Nursing Practice Standard NCS5652 - Nasal Bridle) from when ethics and operational approvals
      are obtained until December 31, 2018.

      A historical comparison group will be selected from patients admitted to ICU between
      September 1, 2014 and September 30, 2015 (prior to use of NBSD in the ICU) who have a small
      bore feeding tube and match key variables.

      Since the NBSD is used only in a selected number of ICU patients, in order to select an
      equivalent sample for the historical comparison group, the investigators will use the ICU
      database to identify key variables for matching. The patients who were admitted to the ICU
      from October 1, 2016 until October 30, 2017 and had a small bore feeding tube will be the
      Interim Group. Using the ICU Database, a statistical comparison of variables in patients from
      the Interim Group who had, versus did not have, a NBSD to secure their small bore feeding
      tube will be used to identify what key variables should be used for selecting the historical
      comparison group.

      INCLUSION/EXCLUSION CRITERIA: Inclusion criteria for both the historical and prospective
      groups are: Admitted to the ICU at St. Paul's Hospital; had a small bore feeding tube in
      place during their ICU admission.

      In addition, the prospective observational treated group will also need to have a NBSD
      inserted at some time during their ICU admission as per the criteria outlined in the Nursing
      Practice Standard NCS5652. These clinical indicators include: recurrent nasoenteric tube
      dislodgement, confused and/or agitated patients, fluoroscopically or endoscopically placed
      nasoenteric tube, history of difficult tube placement, facial burn victims with nasoenteric
      tube and/or oily skin causing decreased adhesion of traditional securement. The historical
      comparison group only need to have a small bore feeding tube, secured by tape, and are
      matched by key variables.

      For both the prospective observational treated group and the historical comparison group who
      were admitted to the ICU and had a small bore feeding tube in place during their ICU
      admission, the only patients who are excluded are:

        1. those where were not permitted to be fed by the gastrointestinal system (as per Doctor's
           Orders);

        2. and/or did not meet the criteria for use of a NBSD as per the "Nursing Practice Standard
           NCS5652 - Nasal Bridles"

      MEASUREMENT: Demographic data (i.e., age, gender, comorbidities etc.), diagnosis and
      admission history (i.e., admission date, diagnoses, length of stay, feeding tube placement
      etc.) will be used to describe and compare the historical comparison group and the
      prospective observational treated group. To address the first research question regarding
      adverse events, all types of adverse events associated with the use of the NBSD will be
      recorded, including adverse events associated with its insertion, use, and removal. To
      address the second research question regarding inadvertent dislodgement, both the number of
      inadvertent dislodgements, and duration of tube retainment will be compared between the
      treated and historical comparison group. To address the third research question regarding
      caloric intake, the proportion of daily total caloric goal delivered will be compared between
      the treated and historical comparison group.

      DATA COLLECTION: There are three sources of data for this study. The ICU Database has data
      from every admitted ICU patient. It includes demographic data, diagnoses, admission history,
      information on a number of procedures and interventions like the use of small bore feeding
      tubes, patient assessments, and patient outcomes. The ICU Nasal Bridle Database collects
      information for every ICU patient which has a NBSD inserted (see "Nasal Bridle Tracker Form"
      attached in Section 9.8.B.). It records data on insertion details, removal details and
      additional information on adverse event or other issues. The patient chart will be reviewed
      to collect additional information about the caloric goals and actual total caloric intake.
      See the NBA-ICU Data Collection Form (Section 9.8.A.) for further details.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Descriptive statistics will be used to compare demographic variables
      between the prospective observational treated group and the historical comparison group. All
      types of adverse events including unintentional tube dislodgement, events associated with
      insertion, use or removal of the NBSD and all other will be qualitatively and quantitatively
      described. The Goodness of Fit Test or the non-parametric equivalent (Fisher's Exact Test)
      will be used to assess if there is a difference in the rate of inadvertent dislodgement. The
      Student T Test will be used to assess if there is a difference in proportion of total caloric
      goal delivered between treated and historical comparison group.
    
  