
    
      Background: Retinitis Pigmentosa (RP) is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous disease,
      which causes visual loss due to the premature death of retinal photoreceptors. Over 100 genes
      and loci have been implicated in RP. However, the contribution of each of these genes to the
      overall prevalence of RP is relatively small, and many of them are yet to be found. These
      unidentified genes are likely to be very rare. The vast majority of studies on the genetics
      of RP have been performed on the American and European populations. Based on the
      investigators experience, the genetic makeup of the Israeli population is unique, and many of
      the genetic alterations identified in Israeli patients are novel.

      Working hypothesis and aims: the investigators working hypothesis is that the Israeli
      population is unique in terms of the identity and relative contribution of RP genes.
      Therefore, the investigators aim is to perform a comprehensive genetic analysis of affected
      Israeli individuals of various ethnic backgrounds, in order to identify novel RP mutations
      and genes.

      Methods: RP patients and family members will be continuously recruited to the study through
      the Ophthalmology Department at Hillel Yaffe Medical Center, Hadera, Israel. The relatively
      high proportion of founder mutations in the Israeli population allows us to perform a quick
      and efficient mutation screening and identify the cause of disease in a large number of newly
      recruited families. Patients who are negative for all relevant mutations will be studied
      using whole exome sequencing. Bioinformatic analysis will be used to identify possible
      pathogenic variants. Following verification, the investigators will check their
      co-segregation with the disease in the entire family, and their frequency in the relevant
      population.

      Expected results: The immediate expected outcomes include an epidemiological overview of RP
      distribution and etiology in the Israeli population, and identification of novel causative
      genes and mechanisms. These genes are expected to play a crucial role in retinal development
      and function, and hence their identification and characterization will contribute
      significantly to the investigators understanding of retinal structure and function and of the
      etiology of RP. The main expected long-term outcome is reduction in the frequency of RP in
      Israel. This will be achieved by a combination of prevention (by genetic screening and
      counseling among high-risk populations), and treatment (by identification of patient groups
      with shared genetic diagnoses, who can be recruited to clinical trials for evaluation of
      various treatment strategies).
    
  