
    
      Purpose and aims

      The overall purpose of our study is to examine the benefit of general beta-blocker therapy on
      important patient-oriented measures in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Our
      primary aim is to examine if treatment with beta-blockers in patients with COPD and no
      comorbid heart disease at baseline can prevent hospitalizations due to cardiovascular
      diseases, COPD exacerbations and death.

      Background

      In patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and concomitant cardiovascular
      conditions cardio-selective beta-blockers reduce mortality and can be used without
      significant negative effects on lung function or respiratory symptoms. Observational studies
      indicate that beta-blocker therapy in COPD even without overt cardiovascular disease, is
      associated with reduced risk for mortality and COPD exacerbations.

      Research questions

      Primary: Does treatment with metoprolol at an aimed dose of 100 mg in addition to standard
      care statistically significantly decrease the one year rate of a composite measure of death,
      COPD exacerbations or hospitalization due to a cardiovascular event, in patients with COPD
      and no cardiovascular disease at baseline? Secondary: Does treatment with metoprolol at an
      aimed dose of 100 mg in addition to standard care: -decrease the one year rate of a death
      (all-cause and cause-specific), in patients with COPD and no cardiovascular disease at
      baseline? -decrease the one year rate of exacerbations, in patients with COPD and no
      cardiovascular disease at baseline? -decrease the one year rate of hospitalization for
      myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, heart failure, atrial fibrillation or other forms of
      arrhythmia, stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA) or cerebral hemorrhage in patients with
      COPD and no cardiovascular disease at baseline?

      Study design

      This is a randomized controlled clinical trial (RCCT) with a pragmatic approach, i.e. a study
      characterized by a minimized number of inclusion and exclusion criteria, a reduced number of
      follow-up visits, a reduced complexity at the visits, and an intervention that is additional
      to standard care but with no placebo control (Figure 1). Invitation letters are sent to all
      patients, managed at the Department of Respiratory Medicine at Orebro University Hospital or
      primary health care centers in Region Orebro County, with a doctor´s diagnosis of COPD, no
      International Classification of Diseases (ICD) codes for cardiovascular diseases and no
      present beta-blocker therapy.

      Inclusion and follow-up will take place at the Clinical Research Support Center in Orebro. In
      addition, several other Swedish centers for clinical trials have accepted to take part in the
      study.

      The intervention with metoprolol at an aimed dose of 100 mg is prescribed electronically
      through the ordinary record system, and with financial burdening of the project unless the
      patient is already part of the high-cost protection for medication. A total of 1700 patients
      will be randomized to standard care or intervention.

      Estimated sample size and statistical power

      Sample size is calculated on the basis of: 1) an estimated overall 1-year risk of death of 1%
      in this mixed cohort of patients with various stages of COPD, 2) a 1-year risk for COPD
      exacerbations of 20% and 3) a 1-year risk of myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation,
      other arrhythmias, heart failure, stroke, TIA or cerebral hemorrhage leading to
      hospitalization of 2%. The combined 1-year primary endpoint is estimated at 23% (expected
      survival probability of 0.77) for individuals randomized to usual standard care. With a 5%
      two-sided alpha level and statistical power set to 80%, 763 patients in each group (total
      n=1526) is needed to detect a 25% reduction of the primary endpoint in the beta blocker
      group, corresponding to a hazard ratio of 0.75. In order to control for dropouts and crossing
      from one group to the other 1700 patients will be included.

      Statistical analysis plan

      Analysis according to the intention-to-treat principle. Differences between groups in the
      time-to-event-end points will be assessed using the log-rank test, Kaplan-Meier methodology
      and Cox proportional hazard model. Differences between study groups will be assessed with
      unpaired t-tests on original scale or log scale as appropriate. Ordinal variables will be
      assessed with chi-2 test for trend or Mann-Whitney U test, and Pearson's chi-square test or
      Fisher's exact test will be used to test differences between proportions. Subgroup analyses
      will be carried out for patients with a resting heart rate of <80 vs. ≥80 beats per minute.

      Randomization procedure and and study data base

      Following written informed consent randomization is performed with a 1:1 allocation using the
      Smart Trial system web page. A study data base with all patients included in the study will
      be generated within the Smart-Trial system. The patients' identity will always be
      confidential.

      Monitoring

      In accordance with the principles of International Council for Harmonisation of Technical
      Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use - Good Clinical Practice (ICH-GCP), monitoring
      of the study will be arranged by the Sponsor and occur on site before, during and after the
      trail. During the study, monitors will have regular contacts with the study site to ensure
      that the study is conducted and documented properly in compliance with the protocol, Standard
      Operating Procedures (SOPs), ICH-GCP and applicable regulatory requirements.

      The number of monitoring visits will occur throughout the trial. The main part of the
      monitoring will be centralized by regular checks of the data quality in the database. The
      monitors will review source documents for verification of consistency with the study data
      recorded in an electronic case report form (eCRF) according to risk based monitoring.
      Investigators and other responsible personnel must be available during the monitoring visits,
      possible audits and inspections and should devote sufficient time to these processes.

      Ethical considerations

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the protocol, applicable regulatory
      requirements such as and the ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki as adopted by
      the 18th World Medical Assembly in Helsinki, Finland, in 1964 and subsequent versions. The
      study is approved by the Regional Ethical Review Board of Uppsala, Sweden (DNr 2017-210B) and
      the Swedish Medical Products Agency (EudraCT no: 2017-001507-76).

      Reporting procedures for Adverse Events (AE) and Serious Adverse Events (SAE)

      Only AE and SAE that are not considered as signs and symptoms expected and related to the
      endpoints or known side effects from the study drug will be reported in this study. Events
      defined as endpoints in the study (e.g. all-cause death, (cardiovascular events requiring
      hospitalization or COPD exacerbations) will not be reported as AE. This means that other
      clinical signs and symptoms, which are reported by the patient and observed by the
      investigator, and in the opinion of the investigator are unexpected in relation to actual
      diagnosis, will be reported.

      Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Event (SUSAR) reporting procedure

      If the responsible investigator judges the SAE as being drug-related and unexpected (SUSAR)
      the event must be reported to the sponsor within one working day. SUSARs will be reported
      using the Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS) form
      (http://www.cioms.ch/index.php/cioms-form-i) which will be sent to the Medical Products
      Agency, since sponsor is not able to report electronically to the EudraVigilance database.
      The sponsor is responsible for information to all involved investigators in the study.

      Annual report

      A safety report, including assessment of overall safety and all reported SUSARs will be
      submitted yearly to the Regulatory Authorities and if requested to the Ethics Committee.
    
  