
    
      The study is a double-blinded randomized trial, comparing the widely recommended midline
      laparotomy closure using a running slowly absorbable suture to closure with the aid of a
      permanent sub-lay mesh (Parietex Progrip), in patients undergoing midline laparotomy for
      clean-contaminated surgery. From January 2016 to June 2018, a series of 200 patients were
      included. All patients were operated in a single surgical Unit, located in Lacco Ameno
      (Naples) at the only Hospital of the island. All patients undergoing 'open' midline
      laparotomy for abdominal surgery in clean-contaminated fields were included. All patients
      subscribed informed consent. Authorization was requested from the local regional Ethics
      Committee. Exclusion criteria were: age < 18 years; life expectancy < 24 months (as estimated
      by the operating surgeon), pregnancy, immunosuppressant therapy within 2 weeks before
      surgery, clean, contaminated and dirty wounds, wound length<10 cm. Patients were randomized
      in two groups (Group A, receiving primary closure; Group B, receiving mesh supported closure
      in a Sublay fashion). Randomization was obtained just before abdominal wall closure through
      number (1 to 200) extraction by Operative room nurse (Even: Group A vs Odd: Group B). All
      patients enrolled in the study were followed up sending a letter to their General
      Practitioner. Outpatient clinic controls were done by surgeons/surgical residents/General
      Practitioner blinded for the procedure.

      Technical details Group A. Primary closure of midline laparotomy. The midline fascia is
      closed using a double layer running slowly absorbable suture. Above arcuate line, the
      posterior layer was performed suturing peritoneum and posterior rectus sheath; below arcuate
      line posterior layer was performed suturing peritoneum and trasversalis fascia. Anterior
      layer was performed suturing anterior rectus sheath. Suture length to wound length ratio of
      4:1 as recommended (not routinely measured). Subcutaneous tissue and skin are closed
      according to the first surgeon's preference.

      Group B. Sub-lay mesh supported closure A 4 cm space is created between posterior rectus
      sheath and rectus muscle, widening 2 cm at each side of midline. Both posterior rectus sheath
      edges are sutured using a running slowly absorbable suture. Above the arcuate line, the
      posterior layer was performed suturing peritoneum and posterior rectus sheath; below the
      arcuate line, the posterior layer was performed suturing peritoneum and trasversalis fascia.
      The anterior layer was performed suturing anterior rectus sheath. A suture length to wound
      length ratio of 4:1 is recommended (not routinely measured). A 4-cm Parietex Progrip Mesh
      strip was placed between the posterior rectus sheath and rectus muscle with an overlap of at
      least 2 cm at each side, sutureless. The not gripping face of the mesh was positioned on the
      posterior rectal sheat to allow the muscle to become in contact with the grips. In
      laparotomies >20 cm two stripes of 15 cm each were designed. The midline anterior rectus
      sheath was closed using a running slowly absorbable suture covering the mesh. A suture length
      to wound length ratio of 4:1 is recommended (not routinely measured). Subcutaneous tissue and
      skin closure were up to the surgeon preference.

      Endpoints Primary endpoint was Incisional Hernia rate. Patients were postoperatively examined
      at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months. Both clinical examination and ultrasound imaging were performed in
      all patients at follow-up. Physicians were blind about which Group (A or B) the patients had
      been placed. Incisional Hernia was clinically defined as any visible or palpable ''blowout''
      in the midline abdominal scar. At 3, 6, 12 and 24 months ultrasound imaging was performed to
      examine the midline for all patients with symptomatic or asymptomatic, providing any valuable
      information about Incisional Hernia onset. Size and location of all ultrasound detected
      Incisional Hernia were registered, as well as any other patient's complaint. The ultrasonic
      criteria of Incisional Hernia were a visible gap within the abdominal wall and/or ''tissue
      moving through the abdominal wall by Valsalva manoeuvre'' and/or a detectable ''blowout''.
      Incisional Hernia was diagnosed if clinical criteria and/or ultrasound criteria were
      fulfilled. The study was not designed to discriminate single or multiple defects. The study
      will be completed at 2 years' follow up. Secondary endpoints included the incidence of wound
      events. Wound events were classified as surgical site infections according to Clavien Dindo
      criteria (superficial, deep or organ space). Surgical site events were reported according to
      the Ventral Hernia Working Group definitions. Actions for wound events were categorized as
      follows: antibiotics only, bedside wound interventions, percutaneous manoeuvres or surgical
      debridement.

      Blinding Process

      Patients, care providers, staff collecting data, and those assessing the endpoints were all
      blinded to treatment allocation. Patients were blinded to the surgical procedure performed
      until the final assessment of the study endpoints. Because the blinding of the operating
      surgeons was not feasible, they were not involved in the data collection and outcome
      assessment. Physicians in charge of patients' management were not involved in the operating
      room and were blinded to the intervention. The data were collected and analyzed by physicians
      who were not involved in the patient's management during the whole Randomized trial.
    
  