
    
      Total knee replacement is an effective method to treat end-stage osteoarthritis. However,
      post-operative pain is still a bothering problem. Pre-emptive analgesia is defined as an
      antinociceptive treatment which prevents pain before its onset. Preoperative analgesia is
      thought more effective than an equal post-operative dose. Surgical trauma induces the
      synthesis of prostaglandins, which sensitize the peripheral nociceptors.Non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) inhibit prostaglandin synthesis both in the periphery and
      the spinal cord, therefore decreasing the post-operative hyperalgesic state.

      Celebrex (Celecoxib) is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that is used to treat
      arthritis, pain, menstrual cramps, and colonic polyps. Prostaglandins are chemicals that are
      important contributors to the inflammation of arthritis that causes the pain, fever, swelling
      and tenderness. Celecoxib blocks the enzyme that makes prostaglandins (cyclooxygenase 2),
      resulting in lower concentrations of prostaglandins. As a consequence, inflammation and its
      accompanying pain, fever, swelling and tenderness are reduced. Celecoxib differs from other
      NSAIDs in that it causes less inflammation and ulceration of the stomach and intestine (at
      least with short-term treatment) and does not interfere with the clotting of blood.

      The study group received 400mg oral celecoxib about 1 hr prior to total knee replacement
      surgery, and 200mg every 12 hrs, along with PCA morphine, over the first five post-operative
      days. The control group received placebo, along with PCA morphine over the same postoperative
      period. All patients had spinal anesthesia and hemovac drain tubes inserted for postoperative
      blood loss evaluation.

      Specific aims and goals:

        1. to establish better rehabilitation results and lower VAS pain scores after
           administration perioperative celecoxib in total knee replacement patients.

        2. to establish morphine sparing effect after perioperative celecoxib administration.

        3. to evaluate the risks after prescribing perioperative celecoxib.
    
  