
    
      The research team will recruit 10 post-op total knee replacement patients who are enrolled in
      the Knee Class at Sunnybrook Holland Orthopaedic and Arthritic Centre to perform five
      exercises over two sessions. Each patient will complete five tasks.

        1. Quarter squats

        2. Standing hip flexion

        3. Standing knee flexion

        4. Sitting knee extension

        5. Sitting knee flexion

      The first three exercises will be performed with and without visual feedback. During standing
      hip flexion, standing knee flexion and quarter squat exercises, patients will first perform a
      set of each exercise following an instruction brochure. Patients will then repeat these
      exercises with the Knee Connect visual feedback system. The KneeConnect will be worn during
      the entire session, and will record the patient's knee angle and velocity regardless of
      visual feedback condition.

      For the next two exercises, sitting knee extension and sitting knee flexion, patients will
      perform the first set of exercises (3 repetitions) with visual feedback of their leg position
      in space but without seeing an end target. The Knee Connect will measure the knee angle
      during these tests. For the subsequent set, the Knee Connect system will present a visual
      target for the patient to achieve. This target will be 5 degrees above the patient's maximum
      terminal knee angle recorded without motivational targets. A third set will be completed with
      the knee angle target set 10 degrees above the patient's maximum. A caveat to the target
      modification for seated knee extensions is that target changes to hyperextension, will result
      in a full extension target.

      After each participant has completed the exercises with the KneeConnect system they will be
      asked to complete a short survey. The survey has been designed to assess the KneeConnect's
      usefulness and how much participants liked using the system.

      After the data collection has been completed each day, the RA will transfer the data from the
      smartphone to a secure computer. These files will then be extracted to measure:

        -  Knee angle during each exercise

        -  Knee angular velocity during each exercise

      A Leven's test will be used on all of the data to assess the equality of variance in each
      group. Each pair of data will be compared using a paired t-test to test the difference
      between with/without visual feedback and with/without motivational targets.
    
  