
    
      Hoarseness is one of the most common presenting complaints in otolaryngology. The
      differential diagnosis for hoarseness is board, but a large percentage has been attributed to
      laryngopharyngeal reflux (LPR). LPR refers to the symptomatic effects of regurgitated gastric
      contents into the pharynx and larynx.1-3 1,2 Although dual-probe 24 hour pH monitoring is the
      gold standard in the diagnosis of LPR, it is not always performed due to inconvenience and
      cost. Patients are commonly treated based on history and physical examination findings alone.
      The literature on the efficacy of anti-reflux therapy and LPR is controversial. Karkos et al
      performed a systematic review on the use of empiric treatment of proton pump inhibitors (PPI)
      in patients suspected of having LPR and found no statistically significant difference between
      patients treated with PPI and those treated with placebo in reference to symptom severity or
      frequency of presumed reflux events. 2 Commonly patients are started on empiric therapy with
      anti-reflux medications and lifestyle modifications. Laryngoscopy is performed on all
      patients presenting with dysphonia. While a variety of findings have been characterized as
      consistent with reflux a study performed by Hicks et al, found that 86% of normal volunteers
      had findings consistent with reflux on flexible laryngoscopy.5 This calls into question the
      sensitivity and specificity of laryngoscopy in the diagnosis of LPR. Park et al performed a
      study comparing the effectiveness of anti-reflux therapy alone versus a combination of voice
      therapy with PPI in the treatment of presumed LPR-related dysphonia, and found combination
      therapy to be superior to anti-reflux therapy alone. 3 Because there are no studies comparing
      voice therapy directly with anti-reflux therapy, one cannot determine whether the
      improvements are due to augmentation of anti-reflux therapy with voice therapy, or if voice
      therapy alone is superior in the treatment of LPR-related dysphonia. There are currently no
      studies comparing the effectiveness of voice therapy alone, anti-reflux therapy alone, and
      combination therapy. Patients who present with dysphonia may be over treated with anti-reflux
      medications. These medications are not without side effects. It is hypothesized that a subset
      of patients who are thought to have reflux related dysphonia are misusing their voice and can
      be successfully treated with voice therapy alone. This study will be a prospective,
      randomized, unblinded but controlled trial. Patients presenting to the Otolaryngology clinic
      who are diagnosed with LPR-related dysphonia who meet inclusion criteria will be eligible to
      enroll in the study and will be randomized to one of the three treatment arms. Reflux symptom
      index (RSI) scores, reflux finding scores (RFS), voice handicap index-10 (VHI-10) scores, and
      consensus auditory perceptual evaluation-voice (CAPE-V) scores will be compared prior to
      initiation of therapy as well as at 1, 2, and 3 months following initiation of treatment.
    
  