
    
      Background:

      There are currently no recommendations for how to obtain accurate information on tobacco use
      from teenagers aged 13-16 years, who have asthma and are attending a secondary care
      outpatient clinic. The approach adopted in this study, using a simple questionnaire and
      Carbon Monoxide monitor to verify smoking status, could potentially allow health care
      professionals to identify at risk adolescents before they become regular smokers. It is
      proposed that adolescents will disclose more accurate information about their smoking status
      if questioned alone without a parent present and if advised that they will have biological
      validation of their smoking status, using a carbon monoxide monitor.

      The objectives of the study are:

        1. Use a smoking questionnaire, which will be designed with patient and parent feedback and
           contribution, to measure smoking status in adolescents, attending a secondary care
           outpatient clinic.

        2. To assess the appropriateness and acceptability of Carbon Monoxide(CO) monitoring to
           correlate smoking status in adolescents attending a paediatric outpatient clinic.

      Design and Methodology:

      All patients will be selected from the paediatric asthma clinic list at Whittington Health.
      The researcher will approach them with information regarding the research using a Participant
      Information Sheet. The CO test and the interpretation of the results of the CO test will be
      explained also. The researcher will consent both the parents and adolescents in both groups
      for the study and CO test. The adolescent will need to give written informed consent. The
      adolescents in group 1 (parents present) will be aware that their parents will be able to
      share the information on the questionnaire, but they will assured of the confidentiality of
      the CO test. This will also be explained to the parent. The adolescents in group 2 (i.e.
      parents present) will be assured of the confidentiality of the questionnaire and CO test. The
      confidentiality of the results will also, be explained to the parent. The parents will
      consent for their child to take part in the study but the teenagers will also be asked to
      assent to the study. It would be made clear to the parent that the teenager has a choice to
      participate and their refusal is not necessarily related to the fact that they may smoke.
      Irrespective of whether they participate or not all parents and teenagers will have smoking
      advice discussed with them.

      Each consenting participant will be given a short questionnaire to complete. This will
      include 5-6 questions about their smoking history and how much they smoke and if they have
      ever tried to give up and how. The questionnaire will also request some basic demographic
      data and postcode to help identify the potential effects of environmental pollution and
      passive smoking may have on the results. The questionnaire should take no longer than 5
      minutes to complete.
    
  