
    
      Shame is an unpleasant self-conscious emotion that can be experienced following unwanted
      outcomes and events (Lewis, 1971). Cognitively, shame involves the attribution of negative
      outcomes to global, stable characterological flaws (e.g., thinking "That happened because I
      am a bad person;" Tracy & Robins, 2006). Behaviorally, shame involves urges to avoid or
      withdraw from other people in order to hide perceived flaws (e.g., Lindsay-Hartz et al.,
      1995). Shame has been theoretically implicated in the development and maintenance of many
      forms of psychopathology and problematic behaviors, including depression, social anxiety, and
      borderline personality pathology (e.g., Beck & Alford, 2009; Clark & Wells, 1995; Rizvi et
      al., 2011; Schoenleber & Berenbaum, 2012). Indeed, research indicates that shame is
      ubiquitous in psychopathology (see Tangney & Dearing, 2002), resulting in increasing
      recognition that treatments specifically addressing shame are needed (see Dearing & Tangney,
      2011). Although a few promising and potentially shame-relevant treatments have recently been
      described (Brown et al., 2011; Germer & Neff, 2013; Gilbert, 2011), no well-validated
      treatments currently exist and these novel treatments generally do not address both the
      cognitive and the behavioral components of shame.

      Evidence that shame involves both problematic thinking patterns and maladaptive actions
      suggests that effective interventions for shame need to address each of these components.
      Indeed, there is some initial evidence that cognitive and behavioral therapy techniques can
      reduce shame, at least in response to specific triggers. For example, cognitive restructuring
      in the context of cognitive processing therapy has been found to reduce trauma-related
      self-blaming thoughts (Resick et al., 2002), and women instructed in how to use the
      dialectical behavior therapy opposite-action skill to address a specified shame trigger
      reported reductions in shame about the given trigger (Rizvi & Linehan, 2005).

      Drawing from this literature, a shame-focused intervention, Self-Acceptance Group Therapy
      (SAGT), was developed to target both the cognitive and behavioral components of shame from a
      cognitive-behavior therapy framework. SAGT is an 8-week group treatment that involves
      psychoeducation and training in cognitive and behavioral shame-coping skills in order to
      promote improvements in self-acceptance, which is the conceptual opposite of shame. For
      example, group members are taught how to recognize and challenge shame-eliciting thoughts, as
      well as how to effectively discuss shame-eliciting topics with others in order to alleviate
      shame, foster adaptive social support, and enhance their ability to demonstrate
      self-kindness/compassion. As in other cognitive-behavior therapies, group members complete
      weekly homework assignments that allow them to practice their new skills. In addition,
      in-session activities are used to promote further skills practice and target the social
      disconnection created by shame. An initial version of SAGT was provided to 8 women Veterans
      at the G.V. (Sonny) Montgomery VA Medical Center by one of the researchers (Dr. Schoenleber).
      Preliminary data indicate that group members reported large reductions in trait shame (d =
      1.55) and improvements in self-acceptance (d = 2.15). Based on feedback provided by these
      group members, an updated version of the SAGT protocol has been prepared. The primary aim of
      the present study is to examine whether the current version of Self-Acceptance Group Therapy
      is effective in improving shame, as well as emotional and interpersonal functioning among
      individuals with elevated shame.

      Based on theory and existing evidence, Hypothesis 1a is that individuals with elevated
      initial levels of shame will report improvements on all outcome measures (e.g., trait shame,
      self-acceptance, psychiatric symptoms) from pre-treatment to post-treatment, and Hypothesis
      1b is that these gains will be maintained at follow-up one month after treatment completion.
    
  