
    
      In the US, patients receiving warfarin therapy are rarely allowed to engage in patient
      self-management (PSM) which is less burdensome, less expensive, and safer than standard
      clinician-directed warfarin management. National and international evidence-based guideline
      panels strongly recommend PSM over other warfarin management methods for appropriate patients
      because it improves INR control, cuts risk of thrombosis and death by half without increasing
      bleeding risk, and increases patient satisfaction and quality of life. The reasons behind PSM
      underutilization in US settings have not been systematically assessed and validated. We will
      address this knowledge gap and provide foundational information for increasing PSM
      utilization within the US healthcare system. Our Aim 1 will assess and validate barriers and
      facilitators to PSM and evaluate their applicability to the US healthcare system; Aim 2 will
      develop and test PSM implementation strategies in US ambulatory care sites using rapid-cycle
      research methodology; and Aim 3 will assess implementation (feasibility, fidelity, adoption),
      clinical (effectiveness, safety, equity, patient-centeredness), and end-user (satisfaction)
      outcomes. The long-term objective of our application is to improve the safety of ambulatory
      warfarin therapy through increasing the implementation of PSM. Our research proposal is
      guided by an implementation science logic model that incorporates well-known implementation
      science frameworks to support the specific aims. Qualitative data collection and analysis for
      Aim 1 will be organized using the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) a
      determinant framework that identifies five domains influencing implementation: Intervention,
      Inner Setting, Outer Setting, Individuals, and the Implementation Process. Constructs within
      each domain provide guidance on factors to identify and measure as potential implementation
      barriers or facilitators. PSM implementation activities in Aim 2 will be guided by the
      Quality Implementation Framework (QIF), which identifies the critical implementation process
      steps and specific actions related to these steps that can be utilized to achieve quality PSM
      implementation. Implementation strategies will be supported by the rapid-cycle research
      framework developed by the AHRQ Practice Based Research Network. Implementation outcomes in
      Aim 3 will be structured using the well-known Reach, Efficacy, Adoption, Implementation,
      Maintenance (RE-AIM) framework. We will utilize a type III hybrid research design to test PSM
      implementation strategies while observing/gathering information on PSM-related clinical and
      economic outcomes.
    
  