
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a major medical problem in the western world. Heart failure is
      associated with a substantial morbidity and mortality and contributes to a significant extent
      to economic loss for healthcare systems. An increased prevalence of HF is expected as
      survival is increasing after an ischaemic event due to primary percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI) and due to demographic changes (ageing population). At this moment, no
      contemporary data of large scale electronic health records cohorts have been reported
      regarding the incidence of HF following myocardial infarction (MI). The aim of this research
      is to investigate the incidence of HF following MI across different time periods and search
      for predictors of HF following MI to identify high-risk patients. Using CALIBER
      (Cardiovascular disease research using linked bespoke studies and electronic records) data,
      patients with HF following MI will be identified and the incidence of HF after MI will be
      described. Prognostic factors associated with the occurrence of HF in patients having
      experienced a MI will be studied. This is important for future observational research,
      clinical trials, measuring health outcomes and guideline development.

      The study has two aims. First to describe the 'real-world' incidence of HF following MI.
      Differences between clinically relevant groups (e.g. men and women, and patients with or
      without - ST-elevation MI,) will be examined. Second, to identify prognostic factors for
      developing HF in patients who had an MI. The following panels of prognostic factors will be
      investigated: sociodemographic; anthropomorphic and haemodynamic; behavioural; co-existing
      conditions (cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular); blood biomarkers; prescribed secondary
      preventive medication.

      This study is part of the CALIBER (Cardiovascular disease research using linked bespoke
      studies and electronic records) programme funded over 5 years from the NIHR and Wellcome
      Trust. The central theme of the CALIBER research is linkage of the Myocardial Ischaemia
      National Audit Project (MINAP) with primary care (CPRD) and other resources. The overarching
      aim of CALIBER is to better understand the aetiology and prognosis of specific coronary
      phenotypes across a range of causal domains, particularly where electronic records provide a
      contribution beyond traditional studies. CALIBER has received both Ethics approval (ref
      09/H0810/16) and ECC approval (ref ECC 2-06(b)/2009 CALIBER dataset).
    
  