
    
      Allogeneic (donor) blood transfusions are often required during and/or after orthopedic hip
      surgery to maintain adequate hemoglobin concentration, prevent tissue ischemia, treat
      hypotension, and compensate for fluid shifts. For example, during hospitalization for hip
      replacement, patients may receive up to two to three units of blood. This amount varies
      depending on the technical difficulty of the surgery, the patient's hemoglobin concentration
      prior to surgery, and the patient's clinical status.

      The limited availability, logistic constraints and documented risks associated with
      allogeneic blood transfusions have prompted the search for alternative therapies. Autologous
      (self-donated) red blood cell pre-donation can be used in many cases but age, anemia and
      co-morbidities often preclude the use of this treatment. Cell saving and re-infusion also
      prevents blood transfusion, but this practice also has potential problems and limited
      applicability.

      Over the past 75 years various "blood substitutes" have been developed for potential clinical
      use. To date all have shown significant toxicity in preclinical or clinical studies and
      regulatory approval of these synthetic or hemoglobin-based products has been impeded by
      safety concerns.

      Hemospan is a novel polyethylene-modified hemoglobin solution specifically developed to
      perfuse and oxygenate tissue at risk for ischemia and hypoxia. As a result of the molecular
      size and oxygen dissociation characteristics, Hemospan selectively off-loads oxygen in
      tissues predisposed to low oxygen tension. In preclinical studies Hemospan has been found to
      be free of significant toxicity in a variety of animal species in doses exceeding those that
      will be used in this study.

      In the Phase I safety study in normal volunteers, Hemospan was well tolerated in doses up to
      100 mg/kg (approximately 200 mL of a 4g/dL Hemospan solution).
    
  