
    
      Potential subjects will complete a pre-screening interview and a Screening Visit to assess
      their eligibility and, based on meeting eligibility requirements, will be enrolled into the
      study on the same day of the Screening Visit.

      Once enrolled, the subjects will be assigned to one of the seven flavor variants of ENDS
      product. Subjects will be allowed to sample flavors and determine which flavor that they
      would like to use for the length of the study. Subjects will then participate in a three-week
      ambulatory study in which they will use their assigned IP in place of their UB ENDS. Subjects
      will be directed to not use their UB ENDS products during the study.

      At the initial visit, subjects will be provided an orientation to the product, including the
      IP power unit, cartridges, the Product Use and Behavior (PUB) instrument, PUB application,
      and a provided electronic device. Based upon their UB ENDS usage, they will be given a
      sufficient amount (for three weeks of ad libitum use equaling 375% of their self-reported UB
      weekly use) of ENDS cartridges. The study will involve a one-week acclimation period followed
      by a two-week product use evaluation period. At the end of the first week of the study,
      subjects will receive a phone call from the clinic to assess IP compliance and to ensure that
      they are not using their UB ENDS. The PUB instrument will collect topography data, and
      product use data will be uploaded frequently using a web-based PUB application installed on
      the electronic device provided by the Sponsor. Throughout the study, subjects will receive
      weekly phone calls to remind them of guidelines for using their assigned IP. Subjects will be
      instructed to use the IP in place of their UB ENDS, but they will be allowed to use non-ENDS
      tobacco/nicotine-containing products according to their normal use pattern. All used
      cartridges may be disposed of by the subject.

      At the conclusion of the three-week ambulatory period, subjects will return to the clinic;
      return the IP power unit, charger, all unused cartridges, the PUB instrument (and all
      cables/charger), and the provided electronic device. Each subject will complete all End of
      Study procedures, including completing the Product Evaluation Scale (PES) questionnaire, and
      they will then be discharged from the study.
    
  