
    
      Background:The most common problem following a kidney transplant is the development of acute
      or chronic rejection. Rejection is the immunologic reaction in which the body refuses to
      accept the transplanted organ. The body's immune system will make destructive antibodies that
      will attempt to attack the transplanted organ.

      In order to prevent organ rejection, all patients receiving an allograft (a graft
      transplanted between genetically non-identical individuals of the same species) must take
      anti-rejection (immunosuppressive) therapy. These medications function by lowering the body's
      natural immune system. Often these medications are associated with significant side effects
      ranging from infections to cancer.

      Study:

      This is a single center, open label, dose-escalation clinical trial in 6 adult recipients of
      Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)- non-identical, living-donor renal allografts. All participants
      will receive induction therapy with alemtuzumab followed by maintenance therapy with
      sirolimus and belatacept.

      A total of 3 dosing cohorts of 2 recipients each will receive 12 infusions of donor-derived
      MSCs starting on Day 42 post-transplant and every 4 weeks starting on Day 56 post-transplant,
      with a minimum of 7 days between the first and second MSC infusions.

      The primary objective is to determine whether immune reconstitution after lymphocyte
      depletion in the setting of co-stimulatory blockade and systemic MSC-derived donor antigen
      can promote operational tolerance in recipients of kidney allografts.

      Participants will be evaluated for eligibility for sirolimus withdrawal any time between week
      52 and week 104 post-transplant. Participants who successfully complete sirolimus withdrawal
      will remain on belatacept monotherapy for at least 24 weeks before being assessed for
      eligibility to discontinue belatacept. Participants who successfully complete
      Immunosuppression Withdrawal (ISW) will then undergo 24 weeks of high frequency follow up
      followed by 132 weeks of standard follow up.

      Study participation may continue for up to seven (7) years after kidney transplant surgery.

      *** IMPORTANT NOTICE: *** The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the
      Immune Tolerance Network do not recommend the discontinuation of immunosuppressive therapy
      for recipients of cell, organ, or tissue transplants outside of physician-directed,
      controlled clinical studies. Discontinuation of prescribed immunosuppressive therapy can
      result in serious health consequences and should only be performed in certain rare
      circumstances, upon the recommendation and with the guidance of your health care provider.
    
  