
    
      Migraid is to be used only once during the aura phase of a migraine attack for a duration of
      60 minutes.

      Reference therapy: No treatment. This means that at random the patient will be allocated to
      either of the two treatment orders; the first treatment order is to use the Migraid whenever
      a migraine attack with an aura occurs. During the next migraine attack the Migraid will not
      be used and vice versa for the other group of patients.

      Patients will be asked to complete diary cards to record details for each of the two migraine
      attacks and the severity of the migraine headache at certain points in time: at t = 30
      minutes, t = 60 minutes, t= 90 minutes, t =120 minutes, t =150 minutes, t =180 minutes and t
      = 24 hours.

      Also, associated symptoms will be asked for. Rescue medication data including name, time
      taken and amount will also be registered in the diary card.

      For all primary and secondary variables of efficacy, the following definitions will be used:

      Grade or score: Pain level: Description

      0: None - No pain;

        1. Mild - A headache with no remarkable pain that does not hinder you in performing your
           usual daily activities;

        2. Moderate - A headache with pain that hinders you in performing your usual daily
           activities, but that does necessitate you to go to bed;

        3. Severe - A headache with pain that necessitates you to go to or stay in bed.

      The associated symptoms will be graded as either present or absent. These symptoms are
      defined to conform to the following table:

      Symptom: Description

      Nausea: Sick to the stomach/feel like throwing up; Vomiting: Throwing up or puking;
      Photophobia: Light bothers or hurts the eyes; Phonophobia: Noise bothers or hurts the ears.

      A migraine attack is defined as:

      New onset of migraine pain, preceded by a pain-free period of at least 24-hours duration.
    
  