
    
      UTI is the most common infection in patients with spinal cord injury who require a catheter
      to drain urine from their bladder. These infections can cause serious medical complications,
      such as bloodstream infection, decreased kidney function, prolonged hospitalization, and add
      great cost. Unfortunately, the treatment of catheter-related urinary tract infection has not
      been standardized in this population in terms of:

        -  the need to replace the indwelling catheter;

        -  the necessity to provide antibiotic coverage against all organisms grown from urine
           cultures; and

        -  the duration of antibiotic treatment.

      The prevalent, though not scientifically well supported approach for treating
      catheter-related lower UTI in patients with spinal cord injury comprises the following:

        -  Retaining the original bladder catheter in place upon diagnosis of infection because of
           the theoretical concern that removal of the infected catheter may potentially cause the
           infecting organism to move from the bladder to the bloodstream (bacteremia). This
           theoretical complication, however, is very unlikely and even if it does occur, the
           bacteria would only remain in the bloodstream for a very short period of time and would
           not have a significant impact on the patient. In contrast, we propose that immediate
           removal of the original indwelling bladder catheter with its film of protected bacteria
           can enhance resolution of UTI.

        -  Providing antibiotic coverage against all organisms which grow from a urine culture that
           is obtained from the original indwelling bladder catheter. Although this source of urine
           culture is a sensitive method for identifying the organisms that are present in the
           urine, it suffers from poor specificity because it may yield the growth of some
           organisms that could have colonized the catheter (and, therefore, grown in a culture of
           urine obtained through that original catheter) but did not contribute to UTI. This issue
           is particularly problematic in patients with spinal cord injury because urine cultures
           in almost half of the cases of UTI in this population yield multiple bacteria.
           Therefore, we propose that collection of a urine culture while inserting the new bladder
           catheter would yield growth of only organisms that truly contribute to UTI and,
           therefore, obviate the need to administer unnecessary antibiotics to cover additional
           organisms that would grow only from urine cultures obtained through the original
           catheter.

        -  Treatment with systemic antibiotics for 10 days. There exists, however, no prospective
           randomized clinical trials indicating that this duration of antibiotic therapy is
           optimal in patients with spinal cord injury. Since catheter-free, able-bodied patients
           with lower UTI are successfully treated with courses of antibiotics as short as 1-3
           days, we propose that by removing the focus of infection (i.e. the original catheter) a
           5-day course of systemic antibiotics would be sufficient for treating catheter-related
           lower UTI in patients with spinal cord injury.

      The results of this research are expected to provide the following major benefits to veterans
      with spinal cord injury:

        -  the multifaceted approach will provide highly effective treatment of UTI;

        -  the lower number of antibiotics that are administered to cover the organisms grown from
           urine cultures obtained at the time of inserting the replacement bladder catheter will
           result in lower cost of treatment and a reduced risk for developing antibiotic
           resistance;

        -  the shorter duration of antibiotic course will decrease the overall cost of treatment,
           reduce hospital stay, and shorten rehabilitation down time.
    
  