
    
      Importance of the problem. Second ACL injury, whether it is an insult to the ipsilateral
      graft or the contralateral ligament, is a growing problem after reconstruction. Besides
      missing an additional year of athletic participation, increasing health care costs, and
      increased psychological distress, re-injury and subsequent revision surgery have
      significantly worse outcomes compared with those after initial reconstruction. Second
      injuries have been reported to occur at a rate of 1 of 17 (6%) within the first two years of
      surgery. However, a second tear prevalence of 29% has been reported. This is substantially
      higher than initial ACL injuries, reported to occur at a rate of 1 in 60 to 100. Risk factors
      for second injury include younger athletes 6 who return to high-level sporting activities
      early. Both sexes are at risk for second ACL injury, with women reported as having higher
      risk of contralateral injury, and men having an increased risk of ipsilateral injury. Thus,
      it is critical to include both sexes in second ACL injury prevention programs.

      Improvement in scientific knowledge and clinical practice: Patients have differential
      responses after ACL injury, including their functional abilities, movement biomechanics,
      neuromuscular performance, and quadriceps strength. Building from our prior funded work, the
      investigators propose to prospectively evaluate these varying patient characteristics in an
      attempt to identify distinct groups with differing levels of risk for second injury (Aim 1).
      Our previous work revealed that there were three risk groups among uninjured female athletes.
      The significance of identification of patient groups with distinct needs is profound.
      Prospective identification of at-risk patients who are the most appropriate recipients of
      enhanced treatment will likely reduce second ACL risk, and yield a more efficacious delivery
      of health care resources after ACLR. The Cincinnati group described this differentiation in
      ACL deficient patients as the 'rule of thirds,' with one third of patients able to function
      without limitations and not needing to undergo surgical stabilization, one third adapting
      their activity level without surgery, and one third requiring surgery to perform daily
      activities without knee instability. A classification scheme described by the University of
      Delaware also differentiates ACL deficient patients into groups of thirds including copers
      (no limit in abilities), non-copers (unable to function without knee instability) or
      potential copers (individuals who have the potential to function without ACLR). There is
      evidence these differences in functional abilities and movement characteristics persist after
      ACLR. A randomized clinical trial concluded individuals who exhibit poor knee stability and
      function after injury may require additional time to return to pre-injury functional levels.
      In addition, some may be unable to develop appropriate quadriceps strength symmetry to
      support a return to high-level sports. These data indicate not all patients experience the
      same magnitude or duration of impairments and symptoms after ACLR. Consequently, multiple
      post-operative rehabilitation strategies may be necessary to facilitate optimum patient care
      and outcomes.

      Working from the rule of one-thirds, identification of distinct patient groups with unique
      needs after surgery is a novel approach for integration of optimum second injury prevention
      strategies. Primary-injury risk factors provide an important window into the underlying
      biomechanical and neuromuscular deficits that may persist after ACL injury and
      reconstruction. Using a statistical analysis clustering technique, distinct groups with
      relative risk for first-time ACL injury have been identified, including low, moderate and
      high risk groups. Single limb postural stability combined with biomechanical variables
      including vertical ground reaction force (vGRF), frontal plane hip adduction moment minimum,
      and pelvis angle during drop jump landings were identified as significant contributors to
      frontal plane knee loading, a surrogate for ACL injury risk. This work has demonstrated the
      existence of discernable groups of athletes that are more appropriate for targeted
      neuromuscular training (TNMT) intervention to prevent first-time ACL injury.

      Factors that contribute to primary ACL injury risk provide an important window into the
      underlying deficits that may persist after ACL injury and reconstruction. Age and activity
      level are significant factors, as young active individuals are the most likely cohort to
      sustain a second ACL rupture. Surgical factors include decreased graft size, use of allograft
      tissue, vertical graft position, and a lax graft. Anatomical risk factors may also contribute
      to ACL injury risk and include an increase in the posterior-inferior lateral tibial plateau
      slope and decreased notch width. Genetic factors also likely play a role. While it is
      encouraging that so many potential factors have been identified which may contribute to
      second ACL injury risk, none of these factors can be modified through non-surgical
      intervention. Modifiable biomechanical and neuromuscular measures associated with second ACL
      injury have been identified. Previous work by our laboratory included a prospective clinical
      trial, athletes who had undergone ACLR underwent testing before a return to pivoting and
      cutting sports. Thirteen athletes sustained a subsequent injury. Specific injury predictive
      parameters identified during testing included a net internal rotation moment of the
      uninvolved hip, an increase in total frontal plane knee movement, greater asymmetry in
      internal knee extensor moment at initial contact, and deficits in single-leg postural
      stability of the involved limb. These parameters predicted second injury in this population
      with excellent sensitivity (0.92) and specificity (0.88).

      Differences in functional abilities after ACLR may be differentiated by more than
      biomechanical and neuromuscular characteristics. Clinically measured muscle weakness may
      persist for years after ACLR. Quadriceps strength is strongly related to measurements of knee
      function in athletes who have undergone ACLR. While hamstrings strength alone may not show a
      significant effect on knee function following ACL injury and reconstruction, hamstrings
      activation may be an important component in neuromuscular control of the reconstructed knee,
      especially in females, who tend to be 'quadriceps dominant'. In addition, deficits in the
      hamstrings-quadriceps torque production ratio also appear to be a key variable in the primary
      ACL injury risk model. The relationship between muscle weakness and differential risk for
      second injury has not been established. An understanding of the interplay may, however, be
      critical to the development of effective, group-specific intervention programs and reduction
      of second-injury risk.

      It is currently unknown if biomechanical and clinical measures may effectively discern groups
      of patients who are at greatest risk for second ACL injury. Evaluation of movement mechanics
      and clinical characteristics, including strength, limb stability and self-reported function,
      at the time a patient initiates sports-specific training may yield insight to differential
      responses after ACLR. If distinct patient groups are identified, this information may be used
      to provide differentiated interventions based on risk for second injury. In Aim 2 of this
      proposal, the investigators will evaluate the effects of differential rehabilitation
      interventions. Our Exploratory Aim will be the initial step in translating the
      biomechanics-based, group algorithm into a clinical application for individualized
      categorization of risk. The results of this work may instigate a paradigm shift in treatment,
      and promote a more efficacious utilization of healthcare resources by providing enhanced care
      to those patients who are at greatest risk for secondary injury.

      Impact on patient care. One of the factors that contributes to second ACL injury is
      incomplete or ineffective rehabilitation. Aberrant neuromuscular and biomechanical patterns
      are commonly seen up to 2 years after ACLR and may help explain the high rate of second ACL
      injury. Deficits in the neuromuscular control of both lower extremities following ACLR have
      been directly implicated in the risk for second ACL injury and may not only be a result of
      the initial knee injury and subsequent surgery, but may also characterize the athlete's
      pre-injury movement patterns. Therefore, identification and subsequent targeted treatment of
      aberrant post-ACLR movement patterns for both limbs are critical not only to maximize
      functional recovery but also to reduce the risk for second ACL injury. Though neuromuscular
      training programs result in a 73.4% decreased risk of a non-contact primary-ACL injury
      compared to those who do not participate in neuromuscular training, the efficacy of similar
      programs for reduction of second-ACL injury risk has not been examined.

      An evidence-based targeted neuromuscular training (TNMT) program has been designed to prevent
      second ACL injury. This training program was developed with consideration to modifiable
      factors related to second-injury risk, the principles of motor learning, and careful
      selection of the exercises that may most effectively modify aberrant neuromuscular programs.
      In Aims 2 and 3 of this competing renewal proposal the investigators will evaluate the
      effects of differential treatment interventions. Notably, the investigators will assess the
      effectiveness of TNMT, including the utilization of visual and verbal biofeedback. Validation
      of this evidence-based, late-phase TNMT program may significantly impact clinical practice
      patterns through its integration in rehabilitation settings, and serve as a critical factor
      in reduction of second injury risk. Ultimately, determining if less intensive HOME and STAN
      training programs are effective interventions for patients who are at reduced risk for second
      ACL injury may prove to be a tremendous time and cost savings for patients and the
      health-care system.
    
  