
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the survival of poor prognosis patients with recurrent/metastatic squamous
      cell carcinoma of the head and neck treated with docetaxel with or without ZD1839 (Iressa,
      gefitinib).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the time to progression and response rate in poor prognosis patients with
      recurrent/metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck treated with docetaxel with
      or without ZD1839 (Iressa, gefitinib).

      II. To correlate the expression and activation status of the epidermal growth factor receptor
      (EGFR) signaling pathway with clinical outcome in the above patient population. The following
      specific biomarkers will be measured by immunohistochemistry on paraffin-embedded tumor
      tissue: EGFR, p-EGFR, AKT, p-AKT, Transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha, Ki-67,
      extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK), p-ERK, p70s6, p- p70s6 , and p27.

      III. To evaluate the frequency of common polymorphisms of Cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) and EGFR
      in this study population and the impact of these polymorphisms on survival, time to
      progression, response rate, and toxicities.

      IV. To analyze docetaxel and ZD1839 (Iressa, gefitinib) pharmacokinetics and to correlate
      polymorphisms with pharmacokinetic variability, response, toxicity, and other endpoints.

      V. To evaluate disease-related symptoms and overall quality of life among patients receiving
      docetaxel only to those receiving docetaxel and ZD1839 (Iressa, gefitinib).

      VI. To evaluate whether additional clinical benefit associated with ZD1839 (Iressa,
      gefitinib) can be detected as an improvement in patient-reported symptoms on the FACT Head
      and Neck Symptom Index (FHNSI)-10 and GP5.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to treatment with prior chemotherapy (pretreated vs untreated),
      Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status (0 vs 1 vs 2), weight loss
      within the past 6 months (< 5% vs ≥ 5%), and prior cetuximab treatment (yes or no). Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15
      and oral placebo once daily on days 1-28.

      Arm II: Patients receive docetaxel as in arm I and oral gefitinib once daily on days 1-28.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients in arm I who have disease progression may receive
      single-agent oral gefitinib once daily until further disease progression (which is called
      step 2 in the study).

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, on days 15 and 28 of course 1, on day 28 of all
      subsequent courses, and at 2-4 weeks after completion of study treatment.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 330 patients (165 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 31.5 months.
    
  