
    
      The balance between energy expenditure (EE) and energy intake ultimately determines body
      weight. Resting EE is the major component (60-75%) of total EE in an adult human being.
      Resting EE dynamically adapts to environmental changes such as ambient temperature. In our
      on-going study of environmental temperature changes within and around the thermoneutral zone,
      we observed that healthy young men can increase EE by 17 % of the basal metabolic rate
      through the process of non-shivering thermogenesis (NST). This capacity for NST is
      unexpectedly large as compared to prior reports of mild cold-induced thermogenesis (3 to 11%)
      and suggests that increasing NST could be explored as an intervention to combat obesity.

      The aim of this study is to better understand the physiology of NST and to develop improved
      assays for evaluating the effect of drugs that alter EE. For example, only recently has it
      been realized that brown adipose tissue is functional in adult humans and that white adipose
      tissue can be converted to brown-adipose-like tissue to increase heat production during cold
      exposures. Moreover, skeletal muscle likely also plays a role in cold-induced thermogenesis
      even before overt shivering occurs. It is plausible that the mechanisms governing heat
      production for NST contribute to regulation of body weight and thus may be contributing to
      the current obesity epidemic: even small changes in EE, if not compensated by changes in food
      intake, can have long-term effects on body weight.

      This protocol has two phases. The first uses a pharmacologic approach to investigate the
      mechanism of NST in young healthy lean males. Since the principal physiologic stimulus to BAT
      (and possibly muscle for NST) is via the sympathetic nervous system (SNS), b-adrenergic
      receptors may hold key roles in regulating human EE. We hypothesize that, by careful
      measurements of NST (at an individually-titrated cool environmental temperature, between
      18-21 C vs. at thermoneutrality of 27 C) and using b-adrenergic drugs that differ in receptor
      specificity and agonist/antagonist properties, we will gain better understanding of the
      regulation of human NST.

      The second phase of the study focuses on measuring of FDA-approved drugs (such as
      aitu-obesity drugs) potential effect on basal metabolic rate (BMR) under thermoneutral
      conditions. The rationale is that previous studies of drug effect on EE in humans have not
      always rigorously enforced the use of thermoneutral conditions, thus may have increased
      variability and underestimated the effect, contributing to inconclusive findings.

      It is envisioned that this study will further our knowledge of the mechanisms that regulate
      the acute adaptive changes in resting energy expenditure and the effects of drug therapy
      targeting obesity in humans.
    
  