
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is the most common inherited disorder among Caucasians with
      an estimated frequency as high as 8 per 1000. Affected individuals absorb excessive amounts
      of dietary iron and develop progressive accumulation of tissue iron stores with consequent
      organ dysfunction including hepatic cirrhosis, diabetes mellitus, congestive heart failure,
      arthropathy and impotence. Early diagnosis and institution of phlebotomy treatments will
      prevent disease manifestations and normalize life expectancy. In 1996, HFE, the gene for HHC
      was mapped on the short arm of chromosome 6 (6p21.3). HH is therefore a natural target for
      the development of a routine screening strategy.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The investigators have demonstrated the favorable cost-effectiveness ratio of adopting a
      screening strategy for HH and have screened 16,031 primary care patients using serum
      transferrin saturation (TS) levels to confirm the prevalence of undiagnosed HH in this
      setting and to demonstrate the feasibility of screening. The recent description of HFE gene
      mutations in individuals with HH has made genetic testing for HH possible and may increase
      the attractiveness of general screening. However, several important questions about genetic
      prevalence and penetrance remain to be addressed before such a recommendation can be made.
      The large screened sample provides a unique opportunity to address several of these important
      issues. First, they will obtain population-based estimates of the prevalence of HFE gene
      mutations. Second, they will determine the sensitivity of serum TS testing for detecting
      these mutations. Third, the comparison of genotype and phenotype will allow them to draw
      useful inferences about disease penetrance. The results will enable them to propose an
      optimal screening strategy for HH and to determine the place of genetic testing in the
      diagnostic algorithm. This strategy may vary depending on age, sex and race. The answers to
      these questions will enable them to determine with greater confidence the relative
      effectiveness of a screening strategy for HH and will clarify for primary care practitioners
      which of their patients should be screened for this disorder. These questions have recently
      been identified as a priority by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and by the
      National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
    
  