
    
      STUDY DESIGN

      Within 24 hours from acute PE diagnosis, each treating physician (local Investigator) will be
      centrally randomized. Treating physicians (local Investigator) of the participating Units
      will call the coordinating centres by phone for randomization. Before randomization, in order
      to avoid any influence on treatment choice, each treating physician (local Investigator)
      should declare in advance which treatment strategy will use for his patient
      (intention-to-treat), i.e. standard treatment with heparin plus vitamin K antagonist
      (standard group) or DOACs (DOACs group) Randomization will be stratified by treatment choice
      of the local Investigator. Each of two 'intention-to-treat' approaches will be therefore
      randomized to two arms, i.e. arm 1 or arm 2.

      Arm 1: treating physicians must formally calculate PESI and report in the clinical record
      form* each day of hospitalization on top of routine clinical practice (standard care)

      Arm 2: standard care (i.e. no formally calculation of PESI on top)

      Randomization will be performed centrally with a 1:1 ratio, following a computer-generated
      list of randomization.

      STUDY POPULATION

      1.1 Population

      Randomised physicians:

      Each Local Investigator of participating canters. All participating centres are Internal
      Medicine Unit.

      PE population:

      Consecutive adult outpatients of any age, gender and race, with an objectively confirmed
      diagnosis of a suspected or unsuspected acute PE at the emergency department (ED) and
      admitted to participating units will be included.

      Suspected PE means that diagnosis has been made by an imaging test (computed tomographic
      pulmonary angiography [CTPA], pulmonary angiography, V/Q lung scan) prescribed by a treating
      physician who had clinical suspicion of PE.

      Unsuspected PE means that diagnosis has been made incidentally by an imaging test performed
      for other clinical indications (e.g. cancer staging or follow-up).

      Objective diagnosis of acute PE means: a positive computed tomographic pulmonary angiography
      (CTPA), a positive pulmonary angiography, a high-probability V/Q lung scan (or perfusion lung
      scan with negative chest X-ray), or intermediate probability V/Q or perfusion lung scan with
      proximal deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) documented by compression ultrasonography.

      1.2 Sample size calculation

      The Investigators hypothesize that the distribution of hospital stay duration for PE will
      have a standard deviation of 4 days. The I vestigators also hypothesize that the mean
      duration of hospital stay will be reduced by at least 15% in PE patients whose treating
      physician will be randomised to formally use PESI and by 5% in PE patients whose treating
      physician will not be randomised to formally calculate PESI. Low-risk PE patients are almost
      50% of all PE population. Therefore, with an α error of 0.05 and a statistical power (1-β
      error) of 80%, 200 patients for each group (a total of 400 patients) need to be enrolled to
      find a statistically significant difference (p<0.05) between the mean hospital stay length.
      As the variable 'hospital stay length' will have a non-normal distribution and needs to be
      expressed and reported as median, 10% extra patients need to be enrolled to reach a
      statistically significant difference with the previous statistical assumptions.

      Final total sample size will be, therefore, of 440 patients (220 patients for each group)

      OUTCOMES

        1. Main study parameter/endpoint

           The primary outcome is the median length of hospital stay

        2. Secondary study parameters/endpoints

      The secondary efficacy outcomes will be the following:

        1. health-system measures

             -  proportion of patients undergoing short-hospital stay

             -  proportion of patients undergoing complete home-treatment

             -  post-discharge hospital re-admission

             -  post-discharge outpatient visits to emergency department

        2. patient-related outcomes

             -  quality of life (5-point Likert scale questionnaire)

      The safety outcomes will be the following:

        1. overall mortality

        2. PE-related

             -  PE-related mortality

             -  recurrent PE and/or deep vein thrombosis (DVT)

             -  major bleeding

             -  clinically relevant non-major bleeding

             -  minor bleeding

             -  other anticoagulation-related complications (hematoma/infection at heparin or
                fondaparinux injection sites, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia)

        3. Hospitalization-related

             -  hospital-acquired infections (pneumonia; urinary tract infection; other)

             -  iatrogenic complications

             -  immobilization syndrome

             -  pressure sores

      Overall mortality, PE-related safety outcomes, post-discharge hospital re-admission and
      outpatient visits to emergency department will be measured at 14 days, 30 days, and 90 days.
    
  