
    
      Traumatic rib fracture is one of the most common thoracic traumas. Patients often complain of
      severe pain of the fracture site, especially when coughing, sneezing, inhaling and lifting
      arms. If there is obvious displacement of the rib fracture, there are risks of
      life-threatening open pneumothorax, hemothorax and internal bleeding. Multiple rib fractures
      may even cause flail chest, leading to respiratory distress and respiratory failure.

      Even patients with mild rib fractures may suffer from pain, causing movement limitations and
      poor sleep. Those whose occupations require heavy labors may even lose their jobs.

      Large wounds and difficulties with localization and fixation made surgical interventions a
      poor option in the past. Thus, treatment goals were set on pain control and infection
      prevention. However, in recent years, there are improvements with medical imaging, endoscopy
      and fracture fixation instruments, so rib fracture fixations become a new treatment option.
      In addition, patients now ask for higher life quality after the trauma recovery, and not just
      passively controlling the pain and infection.

      Therefore, this study is a prospective study. The investigators enrolled patients with
      traumatic rib fractures from the National Taiwan University Hospital and Far Eastern Memorial
      Hospital from July 2017 to July 2018. This study incorporated the use of Short Form-36 and
      Work Quality Index (WQI) to compare the control groups and the surgical (OP) groups. The
      participants would complete the questionnaires before surgery and after surgery (before
      discharge, post-surgery 1 month, 3 months and 6 months).

      The goal of this study is to examine the life quality of patients who receive surgical
      treatment for rib fracture by analyzing patients' response, comorbidity, vital signs (blood
      pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, GCS etc.), severity of fracture (AIS, ISS) and
      medical costs. The investigators hope to find the most suitable method of treatment for
      patients with rib fractures.
    
  