
    
      Since the beginning of biometry, immersion ultrasound was shown to be accurate and
      reproducible. It is important to distinguish between immersion ultrasound techniques and
      contact ultrasound. The later was shown to be less accurate and examiner dependent.

      Although immersion ultrasound has been improved significantly and novel high resolution
      ultrasound devices are available, the drawback of this technique is that measurement s take
      longer compared to optical biometry. The advantage of immersion ultrasound is that structures
      behind the iris are visible, whereas in optical biometry only structures within the pupil are
      visible.

      Immersion ultrasound as well optical biometry can be used to calculate the needed power of an
      intraocular lens (IOL) to achieve the aimed post-operative refraction. Although IOL power
      calculation improved within the last decades, refractive surprises occur, especially in cases
      with very short eyes.

      The estimation of the post-operative IOL position and therefore the estimated anterior
      chamber depth (ACD) is presently the main source of error (35% to 42%) in IOL power
      calculation and therefore for the refractive outcome of the patients after cataract surgery.
      Early IOL power calculation formulae, such as the Binkhorst I formula, used a fixed ACD value
      to predict the position of the IOL, but the refractive results were not appropriate because
      the post-operative position of the IOL varied significantly between patients. Later
      observations showed a correlation between the axial eye length and the post-operative ACD
      (more myopic eyes showed a larger ACD post-operatively). These correlations were taken into
      account in later developed formulas (such as the Binkhorst II formula). Olsen et al. measured
      the post-operative ACD and substituted the predicted post-operative ACD with the true,
      post-operative ACD in each case. The result after correcting the IOL position was a highly
      accurate IOL power calculation, where no fudge factors were needed. Presently the
      pre-operatively measured ACD is taken into account for several IOL power calculation
      formulas, such as the Haigis formula, the Holladay II formula and the Olsen formula. However,
      this new generation of formulas use the pre-operative ACD, without considering the thickness
      of the crystalline lens. The ACD is measured as the distance between the anterior surface of
      the cornea (anatomically speaking this should be the posterior surface of the cornea, but in
      an optical context, as in IOL power calculations, the anterior surface is used) and the
      anterior surface of the crystalline lens . Therefore the thickness of the crystalline lens
      has a significant impact on the predicted post-operative position of the IOL. This parameter
      was first taken into account by Olsen and later modified by Norrby.

      It should be mentioned that IOL power calculations developed from theoretical calculations
      based on Gaussian optics to regression formulas, such as the SRK formula that uses
      retrospective data of a large number of patients. All these findings suggest that proper
      measurements not only of the dimensions of the crystalline lens but also of the lens capsule
      after removing the crystalline lens are necessary to improve IOL power calculation.

      A prototype of a combination of an anterior segment OCT (VISANTE; Carl Zeiss Meditec AG) and
      an operating microscope (OPMI 200; Carl Zeiss Meditec AG) was introduced that allowed
      measurements of the crystalline lens as well as the lens capsule itself after removing the
      crystalline lens of cataract patients intraoperatively. This device uses OCT technology to
      create high resolution B-scans (=images) of the anterior segment of the eye. The OCT was
      shown to be highly reproducible for ACD measurements pre-operatively and small changes of the
      IOL/crystalline lens can be detected.

      This prototype set-up was used in a previous study published in the journal "Investigative
      Ophthalmology & Visual Science". It was shown that intra-operative measurements of the
      anterior lens capsule were a better predictor for the post-operative lens position than other
      factors and could improve the refractive outcome theoretically. Furthermore it was shown that
      intra-operatively measured anterior chamber depth is useful to predict refractive outcome
      using fourth-generation formulae. A further study aimed to observe, whether the postoperative
      refractive outcome could be improved theoretically by using both pre- and intra-operative
      measurements for retrospective IOL power calculation with new eye models.

      In a recent study a high resolution swept-source OCT was used to perform the measurements and
      results were very promising (DIATHLAS; Carl Zeiss Meditec AG, Germany).

      However, disadvantage of swept-source OCT technology is that the measured area is only within
      the pupil, but structures behind the iris cannot be visualised.

      Most recent findings suggest that measuring the equator of the lens capsule and the cilliary
      body could improve IOL power calculation.

      One CE marked device that allows measurements behind the iris is the ArcScan Insight 100
      scanner. This immersion ultrasound device is a precision high frequency device for imaging
      and biometry of the eye. A 20-60 MHz transducer scans the eye although its curvature
      approximates the anterior ocular surface. During this process the device produces images with
      1 micron resolution of the cornea or the anterior segment. In addition, measurements can also
      be made of the anatomic structures comprising the anterior of the eye such as anterior
      chamber depth, angle-to-angle width, and sulcus-to-sulcus width, and pathologic structures,
      such as solid masses and cysts.
    
  