
    
      The anticipated delivery of an infant at the limits of viability presents parents and
      professionals with medical, ethical and emotional issues; especially when a decision on the
      initiation of care has to be made. Since the first publication in 2002 by the American
      Academy of Pediatrics several (albeit different) guidelines and recommendations on
      periviability counseling have been published. However, there is no universally accepted way
      of performing prenatal counseling and, consequently, studies describe heterogeneous
      counseling practices worldwide.

      Some guidelines on resuscitation at the limits of viability include recommendations on the
      parental involvement in the decision-making. Nevertheless, the extent of involvement and the
      gestational age (GA) at which parents should be involved varies. In 2010, the Dutch guideline
      on perinatal practice in extremely premature delivery lowered the limit offering intensive
      care from 25+0 to 24+0 weeks GA. Just as some international guidelines include a role for
      parents at the limits of viability, the Dutch guideline states that at 24 weeks GA informed
      consent of parents is required when initiating intensive care28. Although the guideline
      acknowledges the importance of prenatal counseling, recommendations on organization, content
      or decision-making of the counseling are very limited.

      Although recommendations on counseling do exist, they may not be generally applicable in the
      Netherlands since cross-cultural differences in perinatal practices, healthcare organization,
      and physician and patient views are likely to exist. To compose a national framework on
      prenatal counseling at the limits of viability, the nationwide PreCo study (Prenatal
      Counseling in Prematurity) was designed, examining both professional and parental views. High
      quality of care originates when no differences exist between preferred and current counseling
      with uniformity between the involved caregivers (obstetricians and neonatologists) and
      specified to the needs of those receiving counseling, being the parents The PreCo study
      amongst parents has three major aims

        1. to find initial preferences among Dutch experienced parents on prenatal counseling at
           the limits of viability (quantitatively)

        2. to evaluate decision-making among Dutch experienced parents at the limits of viability
           (quantitatively)

        3. to perform in-depth exploration of counseling preferences amongst Dutch parents
           (qualitatively)
    
  