
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the event-free survival and overall survival of pediatric patients with
           recurrent high-grade gliomas treated with a single course of high-dose carboplatin,
           etoposide, and thiotepa and autologous stem cell transplantation vs multiple courses of
           intermediate-dose carboplatin and thiotepa and autologous stem cell transplantation with
           or without isotretinoin.

        -  Compare the number of hospital days and time to engraftment in patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic death rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the tolerability of isotretinoin in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      pathologic diagnosis (glioblastoma multiforme vs anaplastic astrocytoma vs other high-grade
      glioma).

        -  Chemotherapy and autologous stem cell reinfusion (ASCR): Patients are randomized to 1 of
           2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I (high-dose chemotherapy and ASCR): Patients receive high-dose chemotherapy
                comprising carboplatin IV over 4 hours on days -8 to -6; thiotepa IV over 3 hours
                and etoposide IV over 3 hours on days -5 to -3; and filgrastim (G-CSF) IV or
                subcutaneously (SC) once daily beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood counts
                recover. Autologous peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) or bone marrow are reinfused
                on day 0.

             -  Arm II (intermediate-dose chemotherapy and ASCR): Patients receive
                intermediate-dose chemotherapy comprising carboplatin IV over 4 hours and thiotepa
                IV over 3 hours on days 1-2 and G-CSF IV or SC once daily beginning on day 4 and
                continuing until blood counts recover. Autologous PBSC or bone marrow are reinfused
                on day 3. Treatment repeats every 28 days for a total of 3 courses.

        -  Maintenance therapy: After recovery from chemotherapy (approximately day 30
           post-transplantation), all patients are further randomized to 1 of 2 maintenance arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral isotretinoin twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment
                repeats every 28 days for a total of 6 courses.

             -  Arm II: Patients do not receive maintenance therapy. In all arms, treatment
                continues in the absence of disease progression.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 80-150 patients (40-75 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 5 years.
    
  