
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the feasibility and provide an initial evaluation of
      the efficacy of Coping Coach, a new web-based intervention for children experiencing acute
      medical events.

      The study aims to (1) assess and maximize intervention feasibility, (2) conduct an initial
      efficacy testing (pilot RCT) for proximal outcomes (appraisals, coping) and subsequent child
      health outcomes (PTS reactions, HRQOL), and (3) refine the conceptual framework and optimize
      the intervention effectiveness.

      Study Design:

      This study will progress in multiple stages:

      Pilot study: 20 children experiencing a potentially traumatic medical event will be given the
      Coping Coach intervention with follow-up at 6 weeks. This pilot will examine initial
      feasibility, usability, acceptability, and child engagement/ comprehension of the
      intervention.

      Additional Pilot Study (2015): 20 children treated in the ED or admitted to the hospital with
      injury due to non-family violence will be provided with the Coping Coach intervention. Other
      inclusion and exclusion criteria, as well as baseline, 6- and 12-week assessments parallel
      those from the RCT stage described below. This pilot will examine feasibility, engagement,
      and estimate pre-post changes in key measures in children with violence exposure.

      RCT: A wait-list design will compare intervention use with a waitlist control on proximal and
      child health outcomes at 6, 12, and 18 weeks after baseline enrollment. The Coping Coach
      intervention will be provided to the waitlist control after the 12 week assessment. 70
      children will be enrolled, 35 in each arm. (Assessment of feasibility and engagement will
      continue in this stage.)

      The rest of this CLINICALTRIALS.GOV record describes the RCT (N=72).

      The Pilot and RCT combined will help us prepare for rigorous large-scale RCT of Coping Coach.
    
  