
    
      Screening for colorectal cancer (CRC) remains severely underutilized. Although simple
      reminders are modestly effective in enhancing preventive care utilization, they are not
      widely utilized. Even if used widely, the effectiveness of simple reminders is limited,
      leaving nearly half of patients without screening. One explanation for this is that simple
      reminders do not address the barriers and resources of the patients and physicians they are
      designed to prompt. In this study, we will examine the impact on CRC screening of a reminder
      system that uses the physician as the message source and is tailored to the physician
      screening preferences and patient-reported characteristics, CRC screening-related barriers,
      status and CRC susceptibility. This intervention will be compared to a standard CRC health
      education and screening reminder system.

      Touch screen 'Healthy Living' computer kiosks will be placed in 16 Kansas Physicians Engaged
      in Prevention Research (KPEPR) Network primary care practices. The kiosk program will screen
      for eligible participants who are at least 50 years of age and not up-to-date with CRC
      screening and guide eligible participants through a computerized Colorectal Cancer Assessment
      (CRCA). Kiosk participants will be randomized into either a general CRC health education +
      screening reminder message (GRM) (N=640) or a patient and physician-tailored CRC + screening
      reminder message (TRM) (N=640). Immediately upon completion of the CRCA, GRM participants
      will receive a brief informational flyer with general CRC health education messages and a
      reminder to get screened routinely for CRC. Participants in the TRM arm will receive an
      informational flyer that contains messages that are tailored to patient CRC screening
      barriers, preferences, and attitudes and physician screening preferences (guided by CRC
      screening options that are available within the local community) in addition to a reminder to
      get screened for CRC. A 90-day telephone follow-up will assess participant compliance with
      CRC screening recommendations, participant discussion with their physician regarding CRC
      screening, and patient satisfaction.

      This study will use a novel patient- and physician- tailored messaging approach to promote
      colorectal cancer screening utilization. This study will help to assess how a practice-based
      computerized patient activation approach can effectively circumvent the "systems problems"
      endemic in rural primary care and lay the groundwork for future computer-based primary care
      intervention studies to help patients make informed health decisions and engage in healthy
      lifestyle behaviors.
    
  