
    
      HYPOTHESES

      HA: Among patients with MRONJ, after 12 months of treatment with PENTO, the area of exposed
      bone in the PENTO group will be different than the area of exposed bone in the standard
      therapy group.

      H0: Among patients with MRONJ, after 12 months of treatment with PENTO, the area of exposed
      bone in the PENTO group will equal the area of exposed bone in the standard therapy group.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

      To determine if the PENTO regimen in addition to the standard of care treatment for MRONJ
      significantly reduces the area of exposed bone compared to standard of care alone. Standard
      of care is defined as the clinical guidelines of the 2014 AAOMS Position Paper on
      Medication-Related Osteonecrosis of the Jaw (MRONJ)

        1. Challenges: Identifying patients with Stage 1, 2, 3 MRONJ who will be compliant with
           therapy and available for follow-up. Measuring greatest anterior-posterior and
           superior-inferior dimensions to calculate area. Ensuring patient safety with interim
           analyses and an appropriate stopping protocol.

        2. Approach: The investigators will treat patients with Stage 1, 2, 3 MRONJ with either
           PENTO as an adjunct to the standard of care or standard of care alone with placebo.

      Impact: >6 million patients in the US are at risk for MRONJ. If proven to successfully treat
      MRONJ, the trial would establish a non-operative treatment option for successful management
      of MRONJ with potential for significant decreased morbidity for the patient.

      SAMPLE

      The sample will be derived from the population of patients who present to a participating
      trial site for management of MRONJ during the trial's enrollment period. To be included in
      the trial a patient must meet the criteria listed below. If a patient is excluded from the
      trial the reason will be documented for the study's record as well as basic demographic data,
      MRONJ staging, risk medications, indication for and use of antiresorptive and antiangiogenic
      medications and area of exposed bone will be collected.

      RANDOMIZATION

      A stratified permuted-block randomization will be used to allocate patients to treatment.
      This method ensures balanced allocations to achieve approximately the preset treatment
      allocation ratio of 1:1 and avoids predictability of future assignments. Strata will be
      constructed for the prognostic variables of initial MRONJ stage (1,2,3) and antiresorptive
      therapy (bisphosphonate vs. denosumab/RANK-L inhibitor). Within each strata, block sizes of 2
      and 4 will be used to randomize patients to PENTO + standard of care or to standard of care
      with placebo alone with randomization of treatment sequence to meet the 1:1 allocation ratio
      within each block.

      A computer-generated list of random allocations will be prepared for each strata. The
      allocation sequence will be concealed from the researcher enrolling and assessing
      participants in sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed and stapled envelopes. Corresponding
      envelopes will be opened only after the enrolled participants complete

      DATA MANAGEMENT AND ANALYSIS

      The primary analysis of interest is the association between treatment group and area of
      exposed bone. The primary analysis will be a repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA)
      with one within subject (time) factor and one between subject (treatment) factor will be
      completed for A = area based upon Dap and Dsi and geometric shape of the lesion. If outcomes
      do not meet assumptions then non-parametric analogues will be used.

      SAMPLE SIZE ESTIMATE

      alpha = 0.05, beta = 0.10, Anticipated drop-out rate = 30%

      A stratified permuted- block randomization will be used to allocate patients to treatment.
      Intention to treat to include all subjects as randomized to treatment (detailed on page 3 of
      the application). If a patient drops out or is withdrawn prior to 12-month treatment
      endpoint, the last observation carried forward (LOCF) will be included in analysis. In
      addition, patients "as treated" (patient received incorrect treatment) or "as protocol"
      (doesn't include patient dropouts or withdrawals) will be analyzed to evaluate effectiveness
      of the treatment. To detect a relative change in primary outcome ≥20% with the above
      parameters, a minimum sample of 44 patients in each study arm is required (total n=88).

      The investigators deemed that an improvement of ≥20% by the intervention group compared to
      the control group in decreased bone exposure to be clinically significant. There is no
      consensus in the current literature on a clinically significant difference between the
      control and treatment arms. However, if the study is powered for the outcomes expected based
      on current literature, a difference of 50% between arms would only require 7 patients per
      arm. Therefore the investigators believe the study to be overpowered to ensure the
      statistical analysis would remain significant if the suspected success of the PENTO regimen
      is not true.

      STOPPING RULES

      Because this is an investigational use of pentoxifylline and the benefits of PENTO in MRONJ
      are not presently established, interim analyses (p=.001) will be performed at 3 and 6 months.
      If the trial is stopped after an interim analysis for proven benefit, the trial will be
      converted to an open trial and the patients will be followed for the entire 12-month
      treatment period, or until they achieve complete mucosal coverage.

      Patient withdrawal from study criteria include:

        -  A serious adverse event related to the trial medication.

        -  Patient becomes pregnant.

        -  Any relevant deterioration in the health of the subject (AEs, vital signs, ECG,
           laboratory parameters).

        -  Clinically relevant change in vital signs if technical failure

      OVERSIGHT RESPONSIBILITIES

      Oversight of the trial is provided by the Principal Investigator (PI) Dr. Dillon and Co-
      Investigators (Co-I) Dr. Petrisor, Dr. Ruggiero, Dr. Morlandt, and Dr. Ward.

      MONITORING PROCEDURES

      Drs. Dillon, Ruggiero, Petrisor, Morlandt, and Ward assure that informed consent is obtained
      prior to performing any research procedures, that all subjects meet eligibility criteria, and
      that the study is conducted according to the IRB-approved research plan. Blinded study data
      are accessible at all times for the PI and Co-investigators to review. All five investigators
      will review study conduct including accrual, drop-outs, and protocol deviations on a
      quarterly basis. In addition, the investigators will review adverse events (AEs) individually
      real-time and in aggregate on a monthly basis. Last, the investigators will review serious
      adverse events (SAEs), dose limiting toxicities, and any other specific intervention
      complications in real-time. The PI ensures all protocol deviations, AEs, and SAEs are
      reported to the FDA, DSMB and IRB according to the applicable regulatory requirements.

      COLLECTION AND REPORTING OF SAEs AND AEs

      For this study, the following standard AE definitions are used:

      Adverse event (AE): Any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory
      finding), symptom or disease temporally associated with the use of a medical treatment or
      procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or
      procedure.

      Serious Adverse Event: Any AE that results in any of the following outcomes:

        -  Death

        -  Life-threatening

        -  Event requiring inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization

        -  Persistent or significant disability/incapacity

      AEs are graded according to the following scale:

        -  Mild: An experience that is transient & requires no special treatment or intervention.

        -  Moderate: An experience that is alleviated with simple therapeutic treatments.

        -  Severe: An experience that requires therapeutic intervention. The experience interrupts
           usual daily activities.

      The study uses the following AE attribution scale:

        -  Not related: The AE is clearly not related to the study

        -  Possibly related: An event that follows a reasonable temporal sequence from the
           initiation of study procedures, but that could readily have been produced by a number of
           other factors.

        -  Related: The AE is clearly related to the study procedures.

      SAEs and specific procedure-associated AEs are reported to the University of Washington IRB
      and DSMB within 24 hours. In addition, all AEs are reported according to the University of
      Washington IRB AE reporting guidelines.

      MANAGEMENT OF RISKS TO SUBJECTS

      Expected AEs associated with the Pentoxifylline and Tocopherol include: Dizziness, headache,
      nausea, vomiting, indigestion, flushing, angina, palpitations, hypersensitivity, itchiness,
      rash, hives, bleeding, hallucinations, arrhythmias, aseptic meningitis

      AE Management

      If any unanticipated problems related to the research involving risks to subjects or others
      happen during the course of this study (including SAEs) these will be reported to the IRB in
      accordance with University of Washington Human Subjects Division (HSD) protocols and the
      DSMB. AEs that are not serious but that are notable and could involve risks to subjects will
      be summarized in narrative or other format and submitted to the IRB and DSMB at the time of
      continuing review.

      DATA SAFETY AND MONITORING (DSMB) ANALYSIS PLAN

      The Analysis for safety (AEs) will be conducted at a minimum of 3 and 6 months. However,
      depending upon recruitment the analysis of safety will be as follows when:

      10, 20, 30, 40, 60, 80, 100 patients have completed 3 months of follow up.

      Patient withdrawal criteria include:

        -  A serious adverse event related to the trial medication.

        -  Patient becomes pregnant.

        -  Any relevant deterioration in the health of the subject (AEs, vital signs, ECG,
           laboratory parameters).

        -  Clinically relevant change in vital signs if technical failure can be excluded and
           result is confirmed by at least 1 additional measurement.

      PLAN FOR DATA MANAGEMENT

      Compliance of regulatory documents and study data accuracy and completeness will be
      maintained through an internal study team quality assurance process.

      Confidentiality throughout the trial is maintained by the previously described study-specific
      confidentiality procedures. DATA will be stored as de-identified on a REDCap database which
      will be password protected and only accessible by study members.

      INFORMED CONSENT/ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS

      Quality and integrity of the research will be ensured through data safety monitoring and
      informed patient consent for participation. Enrollment will be done by the study coordinator
      at each site not the participating surgeon. Other than the UW study coordinator the other
      coordinators will be research students participating in the trial. The research will be
      independent and impartial, and key study personnel directly involved in patient care will be
      blinded to the treatment. Informed consents to be obtained from patients will state the
      overall purpose of the study, alternatives to participation, and any direct and indirect
      risks/benefits from participation. All patient literature and consents will be written at an
      8th grade reading level. The confidentiality and anonymity of the research respondents and
      patient health information will be respected. IRB approvals will be obtained at all study
      sites prior to beginning any research activities. The individual study site IRBs will
      determine if it is appropriate to pursue an expanded access Investigational
    
  