
    
      Participants will be recruited from an outpatient clinic site with diagnoses of overweight,
      obesity or asthma.

      There will be a total of 6 visits during the study at approximately 1 month intervals. During
      the first and last visits, pre- and post-intervention assessment points, quality of life,
      adherence to medical regimen, physical activity and dietary habits will be gathered. During
      the follow-up visits, only quality of life will be surveyed. At the initial visit, for
      overweight children, the patients will be assessed for their behaviors and attitudes
      regarding eating, physical activity, sedentary time and motivation. If the patient has
      asthma, the pediatrician will assess understanding of the disease.

      Throughout the course of the study the chronic condition pediatrician and behavior specialist
      will see patients in a consult capacity for their chronic condition, but the patient will
      continue to see their regular pediatrician for primary care needs. At every visit the
      pediatrician will review changes since the last visit, and then provide education directed at
      overweight/obesity and/or asthma. The behavior health specialists will then work with the
      patients to develop a plan on how to follow their treatment plan and achieve healthy
      behaviors.

      All of the participants will receive access to technology in the form of a tablet computer
      for the duration of the study. The tablets will be installed with software to help educate
      patients and their families about asthma and overweight/obesity and track progress in
      managing them. In addition, all follow-up visits except for the final one will be done using
      the tablets and a video-conferencing app.

      For the first and last visits, all patients will be seen in-person in the clinic. All of the
      follow-up visits will be done via a video-conferencing app on the tablet computers.
    
  