
    
      Anemia in patients on hemodialysis (HD ) is common and although usually responds well to
      treatment with Erythropoiesis Stimulating Agents (ESAs ) , this dosage , based on different
      clinical protocols , often ignores the high variability inter- and intra -individual in
      patient response . The result leads to swings in the objective by different dosage range that
      is associated with multiple risks and side effects. There are artificial intelligence-based
      optimization methods that predict treatment with ESAs in maintaining patient hemoglobin
      target range . So far the model has been validated for the long half-life of EPO (
      darbepoetin ) with promising results.

      HYPOTHESIS: Maintaining patients in Hb levels ESAs range using short half-life , avoid the
      one hand , the need for transfusions and, secondly , the levels exceeding the upper range (
      overshooting ), preventing the onset of a increased cardiovascular risk events.

      RELEVANCE:The results allow us to validate the model with short half-life ESAs optimizing the
      management of anemia and improving comorbidity associated with overdosage.

      SUMMARY:

      Prospective observational study of paired data. Data obtained from the data base Euclid .
      Data will be collected by clinical teams according to standard clinical practice. Informed at
      the time of admission to the clinic consent will be obtained . All patient data including to
      november 15th 2014 and who have completed the study period to 30 april 2015. The results will
      be compared with those prior to the patient's inclusion in the study were processed.

      To detect a difference of 10% in the percentage of patients in the hemoglobin target range
      after intervention (from 70% to 80%) we will need a minimum sample size of 268 patients
      assuming an alpha error of 0.05, a beta error of 0.2 and a correlation between both
      observations of 0.1.
    
  