
    
      Background

      Lung function measurements are commonly used in PCD to monitor disease progression.
      Spirometry measurements are taken every 3 months and results are compared to established
      references, adjusted for age, height and ethnicity. Results are also compared to previous
      measurements from the same patient at earlier appointments. However, little is understood of
      the impact of intra-individual variability and the extent of spontaneous variations in these
      comparisons.

      One of the priorities for respiratory research in the UK is to understand factors involved in
      determining different outcomes for lung function.[1] The precision of measurements done on
      the same individual conducted by different people, in different settings and using different
      equipment is not entirely known. Importantly, previous studies in healthy children assessing
      intra-individual variability have shown variations of up to 1.2 z-scores in spirometry
      parameters over the course of 1 year.[2] Within test-variability and daily repeatability can
      range from 2 to10% FEV% predicted in young healthy children.[3],[4]

      In PCD, deterioration of lung function does not follow a pre-defined pattern.[5] However,
      none of the published studies on lung function in PCD to date have taken into consideration
      the imprecision of individual and repeated measurements on the same individual over time.
      Personal experience and unpublished small retrospective assessments suggest that there is
      considerable variability.

      Key research question

      Quantify intra-individual (i.e. in the same individual) variations between measurements of
      lung function in stable patients with primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD), a rare genetic
      disease that causes lung damage.

      Study design

      Prospective multicentre cohort study using routinely collected clinical data to evaluate
      natural variability of lung function measurements in stable PCD patients.

      The primary end-point is to assess intra-individual variations between repeated measures of
      lung function parameters. Secondary end-points include: a) Inter-individual variations
      between repeated measures of lung function parameters and correlations with baseline
      measures; b) intra- and inter-individual variation between repeated measures of lung function
      parameters during exacerbation.

      Participants will be approached by their clinicians and asked to sign a consent form to allow
      for their anonymised routinely collected clinical data to be entered into the study. Routine
      clinical data will be collected at PCD follow-up clinics in participating centres. These data
      are already collected for clinical purposes and will be anonymised locally. Non-identifiable
      data will be entered into the study database by a member of the clinical team of the
      participating centre. The study coordinating centre (University of Southampton) will only
      have access to the anonymised dataset.

      The data collection period will last 18 months (6 months for patients recruitment and 12
      months for patient follow-up).
    
  