
    
      The study was designed as a prospective cohort study. Consecutive patients scheduled for
      orthognathic surgery (OGS) conducted by the senior author at the Craniofacial Center,
      Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital between
      January and August 2013 were asked to participate. OGS procedures included mandibular BSSO
      with or without maxillary LeFort I osteotomy or genioplasty. Fifty-seven patients were
      enrolled. All patients received cone-beam computed tomography before surgery for
      intra-alveolar nerve (IAN) assessment and virtual surgery planning.

      During surgery, corticotomy and osteotomy lines are modified from the Obwegeser-Dal Pont
      method. After corticotomy completion, a Dautrey osteotome is driven into the mandible medulla
      via the anterior corticotomy, keeping constant contact to the inner side of the buccal ramus
      cortex for the first 10mm. The osteotome, located anterior and lateral to the IAN, is then
      twisted with moderate force, gradually separating the proximal and distal segment cortices
      along the anterior opening to facilitate visualization. Possible resistance to open the
      cortices indicates incomplete corticotomies located in the medial cortex, or the posterior
      and inferior aspects of both corticotomy lines. Before the complete split, the IAN is
      evaluated for any exposure through the anterior opening . If the IAN is exposed or attached
      to the outer cortex, it can gently be replaced into the distal segment. Under visualization
      through the anterior opening, a straight 4 or 6 mm osteotome is then inserted lateral to and
      passed beyond the IAN, and then hit to split the posterior ramus cortex along the inner
      surface of the proximal segment to reach the posterior border.

      A standardized record form was provided to all subjects before and after surgery. Gender,
      preoperative diagnosis and operative details were collected, including surgical plan,
      mandibular movement extent and concomitant surgical procedures i.e. LeFort I and genioplasty,
      problematic mandibular splitting and type of fixation. All BSSO procedures were divided into
      independent left and right sides. After successful splitting of the mandibular ramus,
      splitting results were categorized.

      A 5-point scale self-assessment questionnaire was used during the routine follow up visits to
      evaluate IAN neurosensory disturbance (NSD) after the BSSO procedure. The subjective
      neurosensory status evaluation was performed preoperatively, one week, 6 and 12 months
      postoperatively or until normal sensation returned.
    
  