
    
      Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is one of the most successful surgical procedures performed
      worldwide, and if conducted properly, has proven to improve pain, knee range of motion, and
      ultimately quality of life. Approximately 700,000 TKAs are performed annually in the United
      States, and this number is projected to increase to 3.48 million annually by 2030.
      Unfortunately, roughly 20% of patients who undergo TKA are dissatisfied with their outcome
      and this number has remained stagnant for the past decade.Patient satisfaction after TKA is
      predominantly driven by postoperative pain and function.

      Outcomes in TKA are influenced by multiple factors, stemming from patient-specific factors
      and surgically modifiable factors. Patient specific factors include body mass index (BMI),
      preoperative range of motion (ROM), psychological status, and other comorbidities; examples
      of surgically modifiable factors include the type of prosthesis utilized, posterior condylar
      offset, posterior tibial slope, and soft tissue balancing. Knee arthritis is a disease not
      only of the condylar surfaces, but of the soft tissues as well. As such, the success of a TKA
      depends on the ultimate restoration of the integrity of the knee articular
      surfaces,necessitating two critical elements, beginning with precise osteotomies and ending
      with soft tissue balancing to realign the lower extremity to a neutral mechanical axis.

      In the last three decades, this first element has been addressed by major technological
      advances to perform precise and reproducible osteotomies, most recently with the development
      of computer-assisted navigation and validation techniques and modalities that allow
      osteotomies based on anatomical jigs created by CT imaging of the patient's knee.

      Despite these advances, little advancement has been appreciated by the second element-soft
      tissue balancing.While precise osteotomies are critical to the success of a TKA, they do not
      address ligamentous stability and balance, which if absent, leads to knee instability,
      stiffness, accelerated prosthetic wear, aseptic loosening, and premature implant failure.
      Soft tissue imbalance accounts for 35% of early TKA revisions in the United States. Soft
      tissue balancing in TKA has traditionally been more of an art than a science, relying
      exclusively on the surgeon's subjective assessment based on nebulous tactile feedback after
      completion of the osteotomies. The diseased soft tissues (i.e. ligaments) may be lengthened,
      tightened, or released to achieve balance, range of motion, and functional stability.
      However, these methods are numerous, variable, and above all, highly subjective. The
      individual experience of the surgeon, including fellowship training and procedural volume
      play a role in their ability to balance a knee properly.

      Typically, it is only after many years of experience does the surgeon develop the ability to
      accurately assess stability in varus, valgus, anterior and posterior planes.Objective
      balancing of soft tissues in TKA may contribute to a decrease in pain, improve function,
      patient satisfaction, and ultimately decrease the rate of revision. The need for the
      transformation of TKA soft tissue balancing from an art to a science has been realized by a
      technology that allows surgeons to objectively quantify ligament balance by offering
      real-time, evidence-based data during TKA. The Verasense (Orthosensor Inc., Dania, FL) is a
      disposable wireless device embedded with force sensors and inserted into the tibial component
      during the trialing phase of surgery after gross balancing, allowing real-time loading values
      in the medial and lateral compartments of the knee and fine-tuning of the end result by
      further soft tissue releases to improve balance and stability.

      Balance in TKA is defined as stability in the sagittal plane and less than 15 pounds
      difference in the medial and lateral compartments of the knee. In a multicenter study,
      intraoperative sensors were utilized to define balance and to correlate it with improved
      clinical outcomes. TKAs that had undergone said balancing were compared to unbalanced TKAs,
      with results showing improved Knee Society Score (KSS) and Western Ontario and McMaster
      Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) between balanced (172, 14.5 points) and unbalanced
      (145.3, 23.8 points), respectively. The authors concluded that a well-balanced TKA was the
      most significant contributing factor to improved postoperative outcomes.

      Similarly, Chow et al. investigated six-month patient-reported outcomes in a small
      retrospective cohort study with short-term follow up of six months comparing sensor-assisted
      to non-sensor-assisted TKA balancing. They reported that the KSS, Oxford Knee Score, and knee
      range of motion was significantly higher in the sensor-assisted cohort and that the rate of
      arthrofibrosis was lower in the sensor-assisted group, however, not statistically
      significant.

      Further, Geller et al. retrospectively compared the incidence of arthrofibrosis before and
      after the implementation of the Verasense technology to assist with ligament balancing and
      reported a 5% rate of arthrofibrosis prior to implementation versus 1.6% after. In this same
      report, median length of surgery was 83 minutes before implementation compared to 115 minutes
      after. The authors reported that while the implantation of the sensor increased operative
      time, this additional time does not have a clinical impact and that the benefits outweigh
      this potential increase in operative time. Multiple reports in the literature have suggested
      that a well-balanced TKA, which leads to increased activity levels may be part of a cascade
      effect, which ultimately results in higher patient-reported outcome scores.

      Unfortunately, soft tissue balancing is one of the only remaining aspects of TKA that has not
      benefited from a consensus based on quantitative measures and objective data. As the economic
      environment changes in medicine, coupled with a five-fold increase in TKAs performed and the
      subsequent need for less experienced surgeons to perform TKAs, it is imperative that the
      traditional subjectivity once relied upon be replaced by more empirical and clinical data to
      construct a scientific consensus of what balance is. In so doing, clinical outcomes may be
      improved, with a resultant decrease in the rate of early revisions, and ultimately
      significant savings in healthcare expenditures.While the literature has demonstrated a clear
      advantage by technology like the Verasense, previous studies have predominantly been
      underpowered, with short-term follow up, and unstandardized TKAs, including surgical
      approach, prosthetic designs, manufacturer, and above all, not randomized and controlled.
    
  