
    
      Surgery for suspected or confirmed breast cancer is a common procedure world wide. The
      Swedish National board of health- and welfare reports that > 7000 women is diagnosed with
      breast cancer each year in Sweden.

      Surgery always comes at the cost of a painful stimuli. It is of great importance that the
      anesthetist has anticipated this pain and has a plan to handle it.

      The most common way to do this is to anesthetise the patient (put him or her to sleep, also
      called a General Anesthesia (GA)) for the surgical procedure and administer a strong
      analgesic (usually morphine) before the patient is awaken. Morphine has side-effects.

      Another possible plan is to rely on a Regional Anesthesia (RA) (block pain from a certain
      part of the body) to take care of the pain, both during and after the surgery. Thereby this
      patient may be awake during the surgery. The two strategies may also be combined. That is, a
      regional anesthesia is applied before surgery but the patient is also put to sleep. The
      regional anesthesia is then fully effective when the patient is awaken and no strong
      analgesics are administered. The approach with a regional anesthesia is common in orthopedic
      surgery, either in combination with or without a general anesthesia.

      For surgery on the breast, there has been few alternatives available for regional anesthesia.
      They have been considered to invasive for regular use and not been incorporated in clinical
      praxis as a routine.

      The praxis of regional anesthesia has expanded tremendously in recent years. This is
      attributed to the increased use of ultrasound as a guide for the injection of anesthetic
      compounds in proximity to the nerves. The pectoral nerve block (PECS) was first described in
      2011. It has since then been developed further and is much more feasible than the older
      alternatives for regional anesthesia covering the breast.

      Therefore it has gained some popularity and a few studies on its performance have been
      published in recent years. It is still not clear though, if it really confers the patient a
      better postoperative situation regarding pain and nausea.

      Further, observational studies have suggested that malignant disease is spread and hence
      recurs less often if the surgery is performed in conjunction with a regional anesthesia.
      These results have not yet been confirmed in randomized trials. Therefore, the investigators
      will use the data from the current study and also look if there is a difference between the
      study groups regarding recurrence of the disease and mortality three and five years after
      inclusion in the study.

      A subgroup analysis will be made on the patients that has a mastectomy.
    
  