
    
      Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT) is a novel medical imaging method in which tomographic
      images are rapidly produced using electrodes placed around the body. The principal
      applicant's group has demonstrated that EIT can rapidly image functional brain activity in
      stroke, epilepsy and normal activity in animal models and has developed instrumentation and
      image reconstruction algorithms which work well in head-shaped tanks.

      The principal aim of this research is to optimise and assess accuracy of Electrical Impedance
      Tomography (EIT) using scalp electrodes, intracranial electrode mats or deep electrodes in
      imaging epilepsy in human participants. If successful, EIT has the potential to provide a new
      portable imaging unit. It could be used with scalp electrodes and enable imaging of the onset
      and propagation of seizures in 3D. Image quality would be better with intracranial electrode
      mats or depth electrodes that are already implanted in people with severe epilepsy who are
      being evaluated for epilepsy surgery. For both electrode types, the new 3D information will
      enable better diagnosis and so targeting of drug treatment. It could also pave the way to
      suppression of seizures by deep brain electrical stimulation which could transform management
      in severe intractable epilepsy.It can offer the same benefits in imaging in epilepsy in
      neonates and infants.

      Patients diagnosed with epilepsy will be asked to participate in the epilepsy EIT study, then
      up to 32 electrodes will be applied on the subjects' scalp or the EIT systems will be linked
      to the existing EEG video recording systems and EIT will be recorded at the same time using
      some or all of the available intracranial electrodes. It may also use some scalp EEG
      electrode placed on the scalp for clinical or research purposes. Following completion of the
      recording, scalp electrodes and any paste will be removed, the EIT system will be
      disconnected from the videoEEG. Collected data will be analysed and compared to other imaging
      data.
    
  