
    
      The role of anxiolytic premedication in the ambulatory surgical population is frequently
      debated. Anesthesiologists may consider the administration of anxiety-reducing drugs
      unnecessary when anxiety levels are low in outpatients presenting for minor surgery. However,
      the previous study reports that up to 80% of outpatients expressed a preference for a
      combination of anxiety-reducing and hypnotic premedication before surgery (1-4). In addition
      to anxiolysis, goals of anxiolytic premedication include sedation, amnesia, improved patient
      cooperation, and/or improved patient satisfaction. Intravenous (IV) midazolam is the most
      commonly used premedicant in the ambulatory setting due to its rapid onset, and short
      half-life (2,3,5), but its residual effects in the immediate postoperative period may
      contribute to postoperative sedation, as well as to delayed recovery and discharge-readiness
      after brief outpatient surgery. Furthermore, White et al. (6) noted that the slope of the
      dose-response curve for sedation was much steeper with midazolam compared with diazepam,
      which suggests that midazolam may possess a smaller margin of safety and greater need for
      careful titration to achieve the desired clinical end-point without untoward side effects.

      Propofol has become the IV (intravenous) anesthetic of choice for ambulatory anesthesia
      because of its excellent recovery profile (7). Clinical experience with propofol in the
      ambulatory setting suggests that its use is associated with less residual sedation and lower
      incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) (8). However, there are some
      undesirable side effects associated with propofol including pain on injection, cardiovascular
      and respiratory depression, and occasional excitement on emergence from anesthesia (9).
      Practically, small doses of propofol (10-20 mg IV) have been used as an anxiolytic/sedative
      medication.

      To date, there is only one study that has evaluated propofol versus midazolam versus placebo
      as premedication (10). In this study, the authors stated that propofol (0.4 mg/kg IV) had
      anxiolytic effects comparable in magnitude and duration to midazolam (0.04 mg/kg IV) with
      less memory impairment, respiratory depression and dizziness. However, they did not assess
      the efficacy of propofol and midazolam as a premedication on the recovery profiles and
      patient's satisfaction in their study. Compared to placebo and propofol, midazolam was
      associated with more frequent respiratory depression and significant impairment of
      anterograde explicit memory. Both propofol and midazolam helped relieve anxiety and lowered
      blood pressure (compared to baseline) but both were associated with greater dizziness scores
      (P<0.001, compared to placebo).

      They concluded that Propofol had an anxiolytic effect comparable in magnitude and duration to
      that of midazolam with less memory impairment, respiratory depression and dizziness.

      Propofol appears to be an economical, effective and safe alternative to midazolam for
      treating pre-anesthesia anxiety, and especially to be used for induction of anesthesia (10).
      (This sentence is not clear).

      Therefore, we designed this randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled study to
      evaluate propofol as a premedication and to see if it:

        -  produces comparable anxiolytic effects to midazolam when compared to placebo, but with
           less memory impairment

        -  facilitates early recovery profile

        -  improves patient's satisfaction with the induction and early recovery from anesthesia.
    
  