
    
      Early precancerous esophageal lesions and esophageal cancer, are a threatening illnesses with
      high mortality rate, so the early intervention is critical during the course of treatment,
      statistically, every year an estimated 17,290 adults in the United States will be diagnosed
      with esophageal cancer. Esophageal cancer is the seventh most common cause of cancer death
      among men (1, 2). Giving the aggressive nature and fatality of esophageal cancer, the early
      management using the Endoscopic submucosal dissection is very essential (3).

      Esophageal ESD is a technique that grants the en-block resection of lesions, with less
      morbidity and mortality when compared to surgery, and more efficient than other endoscopic
      techniques like endoscopic mucosal resection as ESD associated with higher curative resection
      rates and lower recurrence rates (4). ESD require experience and excellent training due to
      technique difficulties, longer procedure times and possible serious adverse events.

      The esophageal Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection (ESD) is gaining momentum in United States.
      Although a great deal of training is focused on teaching how to utilize the equipment for
      performing the procedure, the strategy of where to start the incision and how to proceed with
      dissection is not yet standardized. The investigators standardized a technique for performing
      esophageal ESD utilizing gravity as traction to expedite the procedure.

      Currently, the investigators are performing this technique for esophageal ESD at Baylor St.
      Luke's Medical center.

      The aim of the study is to assess the mean time needed to perform esophageal ESD using this
      technique. Our quality metrics are a dissection rate of 9cm2 per hour as suggested by
      Japanese experts.

      Purpose and objective of the study:

        1. - Assessing the mean time needed to perform esophageal ESD using this technique. Our
           quality metrics are a dissection rate of 9cm2 per hour as suggested by Japanese experts.

        2. - Assessment of the safety of gravity assisted esophageal ESD.

      After obtaining the informed consent, the following information will be collected:

        1. - All the incisional times and the submucosal dissection time (details listed below)

        2. - Demographic information related to the study participants (age, sex, race, etc.)

        3. - BMI

        4. - Family History

        5. - The pathology reports for ESD.

        6. - Social habits such as smoking and drinking alcohol.

      The investigator will collect the time that will be spent during this technique as following:

        1. - Lower incision time (anal side): this is the initial incision and will start at the
           anal side of the lesion

        2. - Right and left incisional time, these incisions will be on the each side of the lesion
           and they will meet the initial incision.

        3. - The proximal incision time (oral side): is performed at the oral side of the lesion
           communicating the right and left side incisions.

        4. - Total incision time.

        5. - Total submucosal dissection time.

        6. - Total procedure time
    
  