
    
      The study will be a prospective, randomized, multi-centre study with 3 parallel-intervention
      arms and blinding of outcome assessors. Subjects will be randomly allocated to 1 of 3
      exercise-training arms: CT80, CTVT, or IT. The duration of the training phase will be
      adjusted for each arm such that the total amount of work will be equivalent to each arm.
      Training intensity will be ascertained with heart rate (HR) monitors. The frequency and
      length of training were chosen based on latest pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) guidelines. Upon
      completion of the 12-week intervention, subjects will be given standardized exercise
      recommendations to follow at home or in the community until their 1yr follow-up. Assessments
      will be made at baseline (week 0), program completion (week 12) and 1yr after program
      initiation (week 52). Randomization of groups of 6 subjects will occur in block, once all 6
      subjects have completed baseline assessments. The randomisation process will consist of a
      computer-generated random listing of the 3 treatment allocations blocked by groups of 6 and
      stratified by site. The research assistant will be responsible for randomization and for
      coordinating assessment and intervention visits with subjects, assessors and
      exercise-training supervisors. Subjects will be instructed not to talk about their group
      assignment to the assessors. Eligibility criteria are meant to differentiate COPD from other
      respiratory diseases and to ensure clinical stability and patient safety. Subjects will be
      recruited by a research assistant from at Sacré-Coeur and at Mount Sinai Hospital Montreal.
      Assessments will take place at Sacré-Coeur. Subjects will complete the intervention phase at
      Sacré-Coeur or at Concordia University. To date, 36 subjects have completed the study. As
      such, in order to achieve the targeted sample size, an additional 84 subjects will have to be
      randomized. We expect a recruitment rate of 25-30%. Thus, approximately 300 patients will
      have to be screened to meet the recruitment goal. Given that we were able to screen 200
      patients over 2.5yrs of active recruitment, we anticipate that an additional 2.5yrs of
      recruitment from 2 sites will enable us to reach our target sample size. Follow-up
      measurements will require an additional 12months of data collection from the time the last
      patient is randomized. Accordingly, we anticipate total data collection to last 3.5yrs. We
      estimate that 10% of subjects will be lost to the week 12, while the number is expected to
      double at the week 52.

      A symptom-limited incremental cycling exercise test will be performed at week 0 to rule out
      the presence of cardiovascular co-morbidities. Subjects will be seated on an
      electromagnetically braked cycle ergometer (Ergoselect 200P, Ergoline, Germany) and connected
      to a cardio-respiratory circuit through a mouthpiece (Jaeger Oxycon Pro, CareFusion,
      Germany). After 3min of unloaded pedalling, the workload will be increased in a stepwise
      manner up to the individual's maximal capacity. Each step will last 1min and increments of
      5-10W will be used. Gas exchange parameters and HR will be measured at rest and during
      exercise on a breath-by-breath basis. The ventilatory threshold will be determined using the
      V-slope method, a computerized approach to identify the breakpoint in the carbon dioxide
      output-oxygen uptake relationship. Peak work rate will be defined as the highest work rate
      maintained at a pedalling speed of at least 50rpm for a minimum of 30sec.

      A constant-load cycling exercise test will be performed to measure exercise tolerance at week
      0, week 12 and week 52. Subjects will be seated on the same ergometer and connected to the
      same cardiorespiratory circuit. After 3min of unloaded pedalling, the workload will be set at
      80% of the peak work rate achieved on the incremental cycling test. Patients will be asked to
      pedal against that workload for as long as possible. Inspiratory capacities will be obtained
      every other minute during the test to evaluate the degree of dynamic lung hyperinflation.
      Dyspnea and leg fatigue will be evaluated at rest and every other minute during the test with
      the modified 10-point Borg scale. The final measure for this test will be endurance time,
      defined as the duration of pedaling at a minimum of 40rpm at 80% of peak work rate.

      Field walking tests are felt to be more reflective of daily living activities than laboratory
      tests, thereby providing the means to objectively evaluate functional status. An incremental
      shuttle walking test (ISWT) will first be completed to determine peak walking capacity at
      week 0: walking speed will initially be set at 0.50m/sec and then increased by 0.17m/sec
      every minute until the patient reaches a symptom-limited maximum. The endurance shuttle
      walking test will then be performed at week 0, 12 and 52 to measure change in functional
      status: subjects will be asked to walk for as long as possible at a constant, predetermined
      speed corresponding to 85% of peak oxygen uptake, as predicted from the ISWT. The final
      measure will be the distance covered. Both tests will be completed following recommendations.

      Subjects will be asked to complete psychosocial questionnaires that measure variables known
      to be associated with COPD and with positive responses to exercise interventions. Measures
      will include the 21-item BDI-II to assess depressive symptoms, the 16-item ASI to assess
      anxiety and the SES to assess patients' confidence in their ability to successfully perform
      certain behaviours (e.g., exercise). In addition, the Primary Care Evaluation of Mental
      Disorders will be administered to characterize subjects and to detect the most common
      Diagnostic and Statistical Manual-IV disorders in primary care settings. Dr. Lavoie will be
      in charge of administering psychological questionnaires and will ensure that patients who
      score in the clinical range are properly referred and followed.

      Subjects will complete cognitive tests that measure variables known to be associated with
      COPD and with positive responses to exercise interventions. This will include measures of
      global cognitive functioning (MoCA), executive functions (TMT B and verbal fluency),
      attention and vigilance (CPT), working memory (WAIS-III), episodic verbal memory (RAVLT) and
      visuospatial abilities (ROCF). Alternative versions will be used to avoid test-retest effect.
      Dr. Gagnon will be in charge of administering these tests and will ensure that patients who
      score in the clinical range are properly referred and followed.

      Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQL) will be measured using both generic and
      disease-specific questionnaires. The Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 36-Item Health Survey
      (SF-36) will be used to obtain a general HRQL score to characterize our study sample,
      generating summary scores that can easily be compared with existing population norms and
      across different disease populations. To overcome the less responsive nature of generic
      instruments, we will also use the CRQ, a widespread disease-specific HRQL questionnaire which
      measures patients' dyspnoea, fatigue, emotional function and mastery. Total score on the CRQ
      will be used to measure change in HRQL from week 0 to week 12 to week 52. HRQL questionnaires
      will be administered by Dr. Lavoie.

      Compliance refers to the degree to which a patient's behaviour concurs with instructions from
      a health care practitioner. Patient compliance to the training regimen will be defined as the
      percent time spent at the prescribed training intensity during the 12-week program. This
      measure will be obtained through Technogym (Bike Med 700 CE-R LED; Polar HR monitor and
      computer; CardioMemory software package) and which allows second-by-second tracking of
      individual exercise sessions. Compliance to the target intensity will be determined by
      assessing the percent time spent within the target HR range (±5beats/min) during the training
      phase of each exercise session and then averaged for the 12-week program.

      Long-term exercise adherence refers to an individual's free choice to continue to exercise at
      the recommended levels. Adherence to exercise recommendations will be measured as exercise
      levels achieved at home or in the community at week 52 (numerator) divided by recommended
      amounts (denominator). Exercise levels achieved will be estimated from a 7-day activity
      record completed by the patient and coded for intensity using the Compendium for Physical
      Activities. The energy expended in activities corresponding to (or exceeding) the patient's
      target intensity level will be computed and will form the numerator. The recommended amounts
      of exercise will be calculated for each patient as the energy expended during the last week
      of PR. Exercise adherence will be measured at week 52 only, but subjects will be asked to
      complete the 7-day activity record at week 0 and week 12 to familiarize themselves with the
      procedure.

      Spirometry, lung volumes and lung diffusion capacity for CO will be obtained at week 0 and at
      follow-up evaluations according to recommended techniques. Values will be compared to
      predicted normal values from the Canadian prediction equations of spirometric lung function
      for Caucasian adults 20 to 90yrs of age.

      The primary objective of this study is to compare the impact of CT80, CTVT and IT on exercise
      tolerance measured after the 12-week intervention phase. Preliminary data analysis of the
      first 18 subjects (6 in each arm) showed an average improvement in endurance time to
      constant-load cycling (ES=0.32). Due to this interim analysis, α level for sample size
      calculation should be adjusted from an α spending function. Using Pocock, α spending function
      at t=0.1765 (18 from 102 subjects projected), the loss of α calculated is 0.01324 resulting
      in a new α of 0.03676. For a power of 0.80 and an α of 0.03676, we would need 36
      patients/group for a total sample size of 108 to see a statistical difference across the
      groups. Due to expected 10% loss of subjects during follow-up, 40 subjects/groups (N=120)
      will be recruited. To examine between-group differences in exercise tolerance from week 0 to
      week 12, 2-way repeated-measures ANOVA will be performed, with treatment group as the
      between-subjects factor with 3 levels and time as the within-subjects factor with 2 levels.
      If a significant interaction between treatment group and time is detected, simple main effect
      tests will be conducted to identify the time point for which differences between treatment
      groups are significant. If a significant simple main effect is obtained, pairwise comparisons
      with TukeyB corrections will be conducted to identify between which treatments groups the
      differences occurred. Lost cases will be managed using the "bringing the last value forward"
      method. Analyses will be conducted with SPSS 19.0 (Chicago, IL). Between groups differences
      in exercise tolerance from week 12 to week 52 will be compared with 2-way repeated-measures
      ANOVA. To compare the 3 arms on functional, psychological, cognition and HRQL variables from
      week 0 to week 12 to week 52, mixed model repeated measure analysis will be applied. If a
      significant interaction between treatment group and time is detected, simple main effect
      tests will be conducted to identify the time point(s) for which differences between treatment
      groups are significant. Mean compliance to the 12-week program and mean adherence at week 52
      will be compared between treatment arms with 1-way ANOVA, followed up, if needed, by pairwise
      comparisons to locate the differences. Patient-related covariates and potential
      co-interventions (pulmonary function, medications and smoking status, exacerbations,
      hospitalisations) will be compared between treatment groups. If significant group differences
      are found on these variables, ANOVAs (or Mixed models) will be replaced by analyses of
      covariance (ANCOVAs or Mixed models) with the variable(s) in question as the covariate(s).
    
  