
    
      - Purpose OA of the knee can be debilitating and may require insertion of a knee prosthesis.
      In many cases there will be widespread degenerative changes of the knee, and in these cases
      it is necessary with the insertion of a complete prosthesis (total knee replacement, TKA)
      replacing all of the surfaces of the knee. However, there are cases in which the degenerative
      arthritis is found only between the thigh bone and the shin bone on the inner side of the
      knee, termed medial unicompartmental osteoarthritis (herein abbreviated to mu-OA). In
      situations of isolated mu-OA, it is possible to insert a complete prosthesis, as in the case
      of widespread OA of the knee, but it is also possible to insert a partial knee replacement
      (medial unicompartmental knee replacement, mUKA). There is not today enough information to
      decide which of the two types of prosthesis gives the best result in the event of mu-OA.

      Supporters of TKA state that the treatment provides a predictable and good result, while
      supporters of mUKA say that it is not necessary to remove the good cartilage and mUKA provide
      even better results. If the inserted prosthesis become worn or loose, then it will be
      relatively easy to carry out a new operation after a mUKA, while a second surgery after TKA
      can be problematic. This is a further argument for mUKA. The costs of the two types of
      treatments are only poorly studied, and there are no comparative analyzes.

      The aim of this study is to compare the results, in terms of 1) patient-reported outcomes, 2)
      clinical results including prosthetic survival of and 3) costs.

        -  Subjects All Danish citizens with isolated MU-OA referred to an orthopedic department at
           Gentofte, Næstved, Vejle, Århus and Aalborg hospital will be offered participation in
           the trial. The following exclude from participation in the study: under 18years of age,
           non-Danish speaking, alcohol or drug abuse, severe psychiatric disorder, severe systemic
           illness, employment in an orthopedic department, and major hip or back condition.

      There will be 350 patients in the study. In 2014, the total numer of knee replacements at the
      participating centres was 3005 distributed at Gentofte (796 (112)), Århus (410 (152)), Vejle
      (629(138)), Aalborg/Farsø (381 (9)) Slagelse / Næstved (789(86)). Assuming an unchanged
      number of MUKA, 90% of which are suitable and a 50% participation accept-rate, we can expect
      an annual inclusion of approximately 220 patients. With an alternative assumption that about
      25% of primary operations are suitable for mUKA, that 90% of these are suitable for the
      trial, and that 50% accept participation we can expect an annual inclusion of approximately
      340. It is reasonable to expect that the total number of patients will be included within 12
      to 19 months.

        -  Method The study will be conducted as a double blinded multicenter randomized clinical
           trial (RCT) where each participant by lot will have decided whether he should be treated
           with mUKA or TKA. During surgery, a midline incision in the skin will be performed on
           every participant, regardless of prosthesis type, securing the blinding of the
           participant. After the midline incision of the skin, the knee capsule is opened using
           the regular technique for each prosthesis. Participants will subsequently be carefully
           followed to determine whether there is a difference in the outcome of the two types of
           prosthesis.

      There are many aspects in the outcome of an operation, and in this case the result will be
      assessed in terms of 1) complications during hospitalization, 2) rehabilitation rate, 3)
      Participant assessment of their own health, knee function and pain level, 4) surgical
      assessment knee condition, 5) radiographic findings, 6) long-term complications and 7) cost.
      To avoid bias in some of these targets, the participant will not know what type of prosthesis
      they have received the first year after surgery. To avoid bias based on doctors,
      physiotherapists and nurses' preferences, these groups, with the exception of the operating
      physician, will be blinded for the type of prosthesis.

      There will be an analysis of results at 25% inclusion of patients (total of 350, therefore
      analysis at 85 patients included) with operation per protocol, and if undesirable results
      should be acknowledged, the study will be stopped by statistically significant difference (2p
      <0.01) between the two treatment groups. A Datareview-board has been set in place for this,
      whom are neutral to the study. There are planned short-term publications of early results at
      about 1-2 years after inclusion of the last patient, medium- and long-term results after 5
      and 10 years.

        -  Risks and benefits Every participant having surgery with insertion of a knee prosthesis,
           runs the risk of complications. The main and most serious of which is infection in the
           knee, blood clot in the leg, and loosening of the prosthesis. Every participant is
           subjected to these risks, but they do not take greater risks than participants treated
           outside the trial.

      Participants would, as the main disadvantage, appear for additional outpatient controls after
      1, 2, 5 and 10 years. Participants will also be requested to complete a questionnaire on the
      knee function before surgery and after 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 months, annually up to 8 years,
      and every second year until 20years after surgery. There is a slight risk that these controls
      will keep participants in the patient-role, but the extra follow-up appointments may also be
      reassuring to participant that their knees are checked regularly, and that they have access
      to a specialist, if it would not go as expected after surgery.

      Participants will, compared to a normal course of treatment, have made one extra
      unconventional special radiograph (0.2 mSv) of the knee prior to surgery. Postsurgical
      conventional radiography will be performed (0.056 mSv) after 2, 5 and 10 years. This
      represents a total additional radiation dose of 0, 2168 mSv. This extra radiation dose
      results in an increased risk of 0.00125% (1: 80.000) of developing fatal cancer.

        -  Research ethics The two treatments being compared in this study are considered in
           advance to be equal. Each treatment has, however, clear advantages and disadvantages.
           Clarifications of these factors are of obvious interest for future patients and the
           society. Neither the coordinating investigator nor local investigators have economic
           interests in the study results.

      Referring to the risks and disadvantages mentioned above, there are in this study minimal
      risks associated with the study itself, and the disadvantages are also estimated as minimal.
      Overall considered, these risks and disadvantages are small enough that the study's results
      fully justify the conduct of the study. The results of the study should be of benefit to
      future MU-OA patients and thereby also for the use of resources in healthcare both at home
      and abroad.
    
  