
    
      The project is designed to evaluate Mom-Net, an internet-facilitated cognitive-behavioral
      (CBT) intervention for depression, adapted from Lewinsohn's Coping with Depression Course,
      and tailored to mothers of young children. Mom-Net, which was developed and piloted in a
      recently completed NIMH-funded investigation (MH070426), was designed to overcome the
      substantial barriers to treatment participation that exist for mothers experiencing economic
      hardship and those in rural communities. Though the pilot trial demonstrated that the program
      was very effective in reducing depressive symptoms and related difficulties, it was conducted
      under the 'idealized' conditions typical of initial intervention tests (e.g., computers and
      internet connections were supplied to all participants; access to the internet was provided
      by a single browser; coaches who provided weekly phone support were research staff, and
      initial recruitment and motivational interviews sessions were conducted via home visits to
      participants). These conditions likely facilitated recruitment and retention of participants,
      as well as ease and fidelity of treatment delivery. Thus one goal of the current project is
      to evaluate the intervention under conditions that are closer to those of real-world service
      providers and recipients. The current project is also intended to provide a more rigorous
      test of the intervention than did the pilot in a number of ways. Participants in this project
      will be 300 mothers of 3-5 year old children recruited through Head Start classrooms and
      prescreened for the presence of elevated depressive symptoms. Subsequent to the
      pre-intervention assessment, participants will be randomized to either the intervention or
      facilitated usual care (FUC) condition. The evaluation of the intervention will focus on
      maternal depressive symptoms, parenting behavior, and child adjustment. Two follow-up
      assessments (at 12-month and 24-month intervals) will enable us to examine maintenance of
      effects. Overall, the investigation will contribute to the evidentiary base regarding the
      dissemination potential of this empirically-supported intervention, adaptations to which have
      the potential to enable a greater proportion of the population to access and benefit from it.
    
  