
    
      This is a prospective, open-label (both the patient and the physician know the drug and drug
      dose being given), randomized (patients are assigned to a dosing regimen by chance),
      multicenter, pharmacokinetic study in patients with anemia secondary to non-dialysis chronic
      kidney disease (CKD). A pharmacokinetic study is one that evaluates the process by which a
      drug is utilized by the body.

      Approximately 40 patients will participate in this study. This study has 3 Phases; the
      Screening Phase, the Open-Label Treatment Phase and Study Completion/Early Withdrawal Phase.
      In the Screening Phase, patients may be evaluated up to 14 days before study entry. The
      Treatment Phase begins when the patient is randomly assigned to a treatment group and
      continues until the patient has received the last dose of study drug. The Study
      Completion/Early Withdrawal Phase is the phase during which the last study-related procedures
      take place. This Phase should occur on Study Day 64 for the Q4W group and on Study Day 36 for
      all other dosing regimens. Patients who satisfy all study inclusion and exclusion criteria
      and consent to participate in the study will be randomly assigned to one of four treatment
      groups. Dosing will continue through Study Day 26 for treatment group A, through Study Day 22
      for treatment group B, through Study Day 15 for treatment group C, and through Study Day 29
      for treatment group D. No dose escalation or dose reductions are allowed during the study.
      Safety will be monitored by physical examinations, vital signs, clinical laboratory tests,
      and the occurrence and severity of any adverse events. Safety monitoring will continue
      through 30 days after the last visit for all treatment groups.

      Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (the study of the action or effects of drugs on the body)
      sampling will occur throughout the study. A patient evaluable for pharmacokinetic and
      pharmacodynamic parameters is one who receives the first scheduled dose of the assigned study
      drug, has at least 75% of the pharmacokinetic samples collected up to and including Day 29
      for all groups, and does not receive any red blood cell (RBC) transfusions prior to Study Day
      8. Pharmacokinetic evaluations will continue through Study Day 29 for groups A, B, C; through
      Study Day 57 for Group D, and will include but are not limited to: maximal serum
      concentrations of erythropoietin, time to reach maximal serum concentration and time for
      erythropoietin to be eliminated from the body. Pharmacodynamic evaluations continue through
      Study Day 36 for Groups A,B,C; through Study Day 64 for Group D, and will include but are not
      limited to hemoglobin (Hg), hematocrit (Hct), total red blood cell (RBC) count. The primary
      objective of this study is to describe the pharmacokinetic profiles of four different dosing
      regimens of PROCRIT (epoetin alfa) in patients with anemia secondary to non-dialysis chronic
      kidney disease (CKD).

      The secondary objective is to describe the pharmacodynamic response to the four epoetin alfa
      study dosing regimens. Patients will be randomly assigned to one of four dosing regimens of
      epoetin alfa: Group A: 50 IU (International Units)/kilogram (kg) three times per week (TIW);
      Group B: 10,000 IU once weekly (QW); Group C: 20,000 IU every 2 weeks (Q2W); and Group D:
      40,000 IU every 4 weeks (Q4W).
    
  