
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose of tomographic total marrow irradiation (TMI)
           when given prior to an alkylator-intensive conditioning regimen in patients with
           high-risk or relapsed solid tumors.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the feasibility of performing positron emission tomography (PET) scans and
           spot radiation to PET-positive lesions after transplantation.

        -  To determine the change in bone mineral density and turnover in patients treated with an
           alkylator-intensive conditioning regimen and TMI.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Mobilization chemotherapy and peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) collection:
           Patients receive ifosfamide intravenously (IV) and etoposide IV on days -100 through
           -30.

      Beginning 24 hours after completion of chemotherapy, patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF)
      subcutaneously (SC) or IV until blood counts recover. Patients then receive an increased dose
      of G-CSF SC or IV once daily for 3 consecutive days. Beginning on day -97, patients undergo
      up to 4 collections of PBPCs. Patients who do not yield an adequate number of cells undergo
      bone marrow harvest.

        -  Bone marrow harvest: Patients undergo bone marrow aspirate and biopsy 2 weeks after the
           last dose of G-CSF. If the aspirate or biopsy is morphologically free of tumor cells and
           demonstrates > 20% cellularity, then patients receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) daily for 5
           days followed by bone marrow harvest.

        -  Total marrow irradiation (TMI) with tomotherapy: Patients undergo escalating doses of
           TMI* to all bony sites using helical tomotherapy image-guided intensity-modulated
           radiotherapy on days -11 to -9.

      NOTE: *Patients with primary CNS tumors do not receive TMI but are eligible to receive
      chemotherapy and hematopoietic progenitor cell rescue in accordance with the protocol.

        -  Conditioning regimen: Patients receive busulfan IV over 2 hours four times daily on days
           -8 to -6, high-dose melphalan IV over 30 minutes on days -5 to -4, and thiotepa IV over
           2 hours on days -3 to -2.

        -  Autologous CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation: Patients undergo
           reinfusion of autologous G-CSF-mobilized peripheral blood or bone marrow progenitor
           cells on day 0. Patients also receive G-CSF support beginning on day 0 and continuing
           until blood counts recover for 2 consecutive days.

        -  Post-transplantation radiotherapy: Patients may receive additional radiotherapy to areas
           of known metastatic disease, PET-positive lesions, primary disease (if not previously
           irradiated to maximum tolerated dose), and lungs beginning on day 60 post
           transplantation. Patients with prior lung metastasis may receive up to 10 fractions of
           whole-lung irradiation.

      Patients may also receive additional radiotherapy to primary disease if maximum tolerated
      dose has not yet been reached.

      Patients undergo bone mineral density studies at baseline and at days 60, 120, and 180 post
      transplantation. Patients also undergo blood sample collection periodically during study for
      pharmacokinetic analysis of busulfan.

      Patients undergo PET scans at baseline and on day 60.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at days 180 and 365 and then
      periodically thereafter.
    
  