
    
      Justification for undertaking the trial:

      Ceramic veneers have become a popular dental procedure since its introduction because they
      provide excellent esthetics.1 Achieving the good esthetic results especially with ceramic
      veneers is probably the most challenging task encountered by dental practitioners and
      ceramist today. Ceramic veneers are indicated for teeth with moderate discoloration,
      restoration of traumatized, fractured, worn dentition and abnormal tooth anatomy.2 Many
      factors affect the long term success of ceramic laminate veneers. The most repeated failure
      patterns associated with ceramic laminate veneer were fractures, microleakage, colour change
      and detachment of restoration.3 The main reasons for failure were large marginal defect and
      fractures.4 The clinical performance of ceramic veneer has shown that the estimated survival
      rate for the teeth prepared with butt joint design are higher than for the teeth prepared
      with palatal chamfer design.5 The bonding technique, which is a time-consuming and technique
      sensitive procedure, is a key to the long-term success of these types of restorations. The
      strength and the durability of the bond between the porcelain, the luting cement and the
      enamel/dentin interface play an important role in the outcome of ceramic veneers,
      particularly when dentin is involved. 6

      Expected benefits for the patient

      1. Achieving a more predictable esthetic restoration while being conservative. 2. Increasing
      the long term prognosis of the restoration. Expected benefits for the clinician

        1. Enriching the professional skills of the dentist with a new material to improve the
           clinical performance of the restoration.

        2. Improving the confidence in the patient-dentist relationship.

      Explanation for Choice of Comparators Resin cements are generally used for the bonding of all
      ceramic restorations since they provide adequate aesthetics, low solubility in oral
      environment, high bond strength to tooth structures, superior mechanical properties and
      support for ceramic.7 Since their retention relies solely on adhesion, durable adhesion of
      resin luting cements to both the enamel/dentin and the cementation surface of the ceramic is
      crucial. Luting cements used in conjunction with phosphoric acid etching followed by adhesive
      application on enamel show reliable adhesion.8 By studying the effect of incorporation of
      natural cross-linkers into the primer of a self-etching adhesive on resin-dentine bond
      strength, it had a positive influence on the immediate μTBS (micro tensile bond strength) and
      mechanical properties of the bonded interface.9

      Statement of problem:

      Ceramic veneers have become a popular dental procedure since its introduction because they
      provide excellent esthetics while being conservative. However, high failure rates of PLVs
      have been attributed to the exposure of dentin surface during preparation which greatly
      decrease the bonding strength at the dentin-cement interface. Natural and synthetic
      cross-linking agents have been introduced to restore dentin function, enhance bonding
      strength as well as positively affect the remineralization process in artificial roots. They
      have the ability to enhance the mechanical properties and stability of dentin matrix by the
      use of PA-rich collagen cross-linkers most likely due to the formation of a PA-collagen
      complex.10

      Research hypothesis The null hypothesis of the study that there won't be a difference in the
      clinical performance & adhesion of laminate veneers after application of grape seed extract
      before bonding.
    
  