
    
      After having obtained the signed informed consent from the parents of the patient, a 6 Fr
      pediatric esophageal balloon-catheter will be placed through a nostril in the distal third of
      the esophagus.

      This minimally invasive procedure, will allow to monitor and record esophageal pressure
      swings, which are strongly correlated to pleural pressure variations and therefore allow to
      detect accurately patients' inspiratory efforts. Furthermore, surface electrodes will be
      placed in order to record the electrical activity of the diaphragm non-invasively.

      In every patient, three breathing trials (30 minutes each) will be performed in randomized
      order:

        1. NIV performed with a double limb circuit and expiratory valve incorporated in the
           ventilator, delivered with a pediatric/neonatal ICU ventilator (Babylog VN500, Draeger).

        2. NIV performed with a single limb circuit and intentional leak (vented mask) delivered
           with a turbine-driven ventilator (Astral 150 [ResMed] ).

        3. NIV performed with a double limb circuit and expiratory valve incorporated in the
           ventilator, delivered with the same turbine-driven ventilator of point 2 (Astral 150
           [ResMed]).

      The NIV setting decided clinically will not be modified for the study and will be held
      constant throughout the different study phases. Similarly, if sedative drugs are being
      delivered to the patient, the attending physician will decide their dose and it will be kept
      constant throughout the study phases. The Comfort scale will be assessed for each study
      phase, in order to evaluate and describe the comfort/distress of the patients during the
      different ventilatory strategies. Esophageal pressure tracings, inspiratory/expiratory air
      flows, airway pressure measured at the patient-ventilator interface and electrical activity
      of the diaphragm (measured with surface electrodes) will be continuously recorded with a
      dedicated software throughout the study in order to compute, offline, the asynchrony index
      (see below).

      Asynchronies will be defined according to previous studies on the subject:

        1. Auto-triggering (AT): a cycle delivered by the ventilator in the absence of a typical
           esophageal swing;

        2. Ineffective Effort (IE): a deflection on the esophageal pressure monitoring not followed
           by an assisted cycle;

        3. Late cycling (LC): a cycle with a ventilator inspiratory time greater than twice the
           esophageal time;

        4. Premature cycling (PC): a cycle with a ventilator inspiratory time shorter than the
           neural inspiratory time;

        5. Double triggering (DT): two ventilator-delivered cycles separated by a very short
           inspiratory time, during the same inspiratory Eadi signal.

      The entity of asynchronies can be numerical summarized in the Asynchrony Index (AI), which is
      calculated as the total number of asynchrony events divided by the total number of
      non-triggered and triggered ventilatory cycles (expressed as percentage).

      Asynchrony Index (%) = [(AT + IE + LC + PC + DT) / (RRpes + AT)]×100 Where AT refers to
      Auto-triggering, IE to ineffective triggering, LC to late cycling, PC to premature cycling,
      DT to double triggering and RRpes to the respiratory rate as measured using the esophageal
      pressure tracing.

      Furthermore, the number of each type of asynchrony will be assessed (number of events per
      minute), in order to identify the most relevant types of asynchronies.

      Randomization The randomization of the three NIV-phases will be performed with an online
      randomization software called "Research Randomizer" (https://www.randomizer.org). No risk of
      bias is foreseen, as all patients will undergo the three interventions (cross-over study).

      Blinding. The respiratory traces registered during the different study phases and analyzed
      offline in order compute the "Asynchrony Index" will be evaluated by an investigator blinded
      to the type of intervention.

      PRIMARY ENDPOINT Primary endpoint of the present study is the difference in Asynchrony Index
      (expressed as %) obtained during NIV performed with an ICU ventilator using a double limb
      circuit and the value obtained during NIV performed with single limb circuit with intentional
      leak with a turbine-driven ventilator.

      Secondary endpoint Secondary endpoint of the present study is the difference in Asynchrony
      Index (expressed as %) obtained during NIV performed with an ICU ventilator using a double
      limb circuit and the value obtained with the same type of circuit, but with a turbine-driven
      ventilator.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Sample size calculation. The sample size for the primary endpoint of the
      study has been calculated using the software G*Power 3.1.9.2 using a paired t-test and using
      as outcome parameter the difference in Asynchrony Index (AI) during NIV performed with ICU
      ventilators and with turbine-driven ventilators applied with single limb circuit and
      intentional leaks. Based on available data the investigators estimated in our population an
      AI of 59±13% and considered a 20% reduction of its value as clinically relevant (AI=47±13%).
      Considering a two-tailed alfa error of 0.05 and a desired power of 0.8, with an effect size
      of 0.923 the investigators calculated a sample size of 12 patients.

      DATA ANALYSIS All data will be tested for homogeneity of variance and normality of
      distribution using the Shapiro- Wilk test. Normally distributed data will be expressed as
      mean ± standard deviation, while nonnormally distributed data as median and interquartile
      range. The presence of outliers will be carefully assessed during evaluation of distribution
      of data; however, no action is foreseen to exclude outliers.

      Variables (Asynchrony Index, respiratory rate, tidal volume, minute ventilation, esophageal
      pressure variation, etc.) recorded during the different NIV modalities will be compared via
      paired t-test or Signed Rank Sum test, as appropriate. Mean difference and its 95% CI will be
      calculated for normally distributed data. For non-normally distributed variables, median
      difference and its 95% CI will be estimated by Hodges-Lehmann's median analysis. All tests
      will be two tailed and statistical significance is defined as p<0.050. Analysis will be
      performed with SigmaPlot v.12.0 (Systat Software Inc., San Jose, CA) and SAS 9.2 (SAS
      Institute Inc., Cary, NC, USA).

      Of note, the above-noted statistical procedures are appropriate but will not exclude other
      procedures that may also be used in addition to or in lieu of the stated procedures in order
      to best analyze the data. No control subjects will be needed, as each patient will serve as
      its own control for the subsequent measurements (cross-over study).
    
  