
    
      The study uses an experimental pre- and post-test repeated measures design. After eligible
      participants sign an informed consent form, the participants will be screened for inclusion
      and exclusion criteria using two surveys (PROMIS Fatigue-8a, Mini-Cog) and verbally asking
      about age, presence of Arthritis diagnosis, Wi-Fi availability, engagement of regular
      exercise, presence of any non-ambulatory condition that limits walking.

      Those satisfying the inclusion and exclusion criteria are randomly assigned to the
      intervention (Tab-CBI, n=12) or comparison group (n=12). The Tab-CBI group receives a
      one-on-one introductory session which covers details about the study purpose and procedures,
      description of Tab-CBI, and instructions of how to operate a tablet, an accelerometer, and a
      videoconferencing tool. At the end of the session, participants are given a tablet preloaded
      with the Tab-CBI application and an accelerometer. During the study period, the participants
      will receive four weekly educational sessions plus one booster session at 2 weeks after the
      intervention conclusion. The educational modules were developed based on the principles of
      cognitive behavioral therapy. The key elements of the modules include activity-pacing,
      adjustment of goal-setting to the current physical condition, setting priorities and
      structured planning of a simple walking activity and time off, and cognitive restructuring of
      activity demands. Participants will record daily which steps taken by syncing the
      accelerometer to the tablet.

      The comparison group receives fatigue management which are currently offered to the patients
      and will be instructed to maintain usual activity during the study period. The control group
      participants also receive an accelerometer to count steps, but without a tablet.

      Participants in both groups take surveys for four outcomes (dally steps, fatigue, perceived
      self-efficacy, and perceived quality of life) and four potential covariate measures (pain,
      depression, sleep, and comorbidity) through a tablet computer (for intervention group) or
      paper-based surveys (for comparison group). Data are collected at Week 1 (baseline), Week 4
      (intervention completion), Week 6 (booster), Week 8 (follow-up #1), and Week 10 (follow-up
      #2).
    
  