
    
      Capillary malformations, specifically port wine stains, occur in one of every 12,000 live
      births (0.3% of newborns) with 90% on the face or neck. Pulsed dye laser therapy targeted at
      hemoglobin (i.e., 585 nm ± 5 nm) is commonly used to lessen the visual coloration and
      increase skin lightness. Presently, the outcomes of laser treatment are difficult to predict,
      in part due to the difficulty in quantifying the tissue changes with visual inspection
      methods. Quantitative skin imaging methods are currently being applied to measure the
      features and response to treatment for infantile hemangiomas. The current study proposes to
      apply these methods in the treatment of capillary malformations, e.g., port wine stains. The
      purpose is to determine (1) the effects of laser treatment on capillary malformations (using
      quantitative skin imaging methods and standard clinical assessment and (2) the relationships
      between the imaging outcomes immediately after treatment and after healing. In the
      within-subject design we aim to measure color, temperature, blood concentration and tissue
      mechanical properties for the capillary malformation relative to an un-involved site at
      baseline (prior to treatment), immediately following laser surgery and over time. Imaging
      outputs will be compared to the standard clinical evaluation in up to 100 patients from the
      Hemangioma and Vascular Malformation Center (HVMC) at regular intervals to determine changes
      over time. Skin sites will be imaged for color (size, erythema, blue color, lightness, excess
      erythema, uniformity), thermography, blood concentration and tissue mechanical properties
      (e.g., elasticity). Skin characteristics will be examined at baseline, prior to surgery,
      immediately following laser treatment, just prior to discharge and at 2 and 4-6 weeks
      following treatment. For subjects receiving multiple laser treatments, the procedures will be
      repeated after each surgery. Enrollment will occur over 2 years. Patients will be evaluated
      for a period of up to 6 months following the last surgery. We expect the research to provide
      objective measures to clarify the effectiveness of laser treatment and permit effective
      measurement of tumor response for therapeutic protocols.
    
  