
    
      Hypoparathyroidism is a clinical problem which is associated with hypocalcemia,
      hyperphosphatemia, low parathyroid hormone levels and often manifests itself as a
      complication of thyroid surgery . Direct injury, ischemia or unintended excision of
      parathyroid tissue are the most common mechanisms that cause temporary or permanent
      hypoparathyroidism. Temporary hypoparathyroidism (<6 months) develops at 10% of cases after
      thyroid surgery and nearly half of them develops permanent hypoparathyroidism (>6 months)
      (3-5). Due to the rapid increase in thyroid cancer cases in recent years, total thyroidectomy
      and neck dissection is performed more frequently than before that yields increase in
      frequency of permanent hypoparathyroidism.

      As a current standard treatment, oral or intravenous calcium preparations and active
      vitamin-D3 are used in the treatment of hypocalcemia which was developed due to permanent
      hypoparathyroidism (PH). However, this approach is a symptomatic treatment, must continue a
      lifetime, the cost is high and is only intended to correct hypocalcemia. Besides, it has no
      beneficial effect on metabolic problems due to PH.

      For these reasons, less costly and effective treatments have been searched over 30 years and
      parathyroid allo-transplantation (PA-t) was introduced as a treatment alternative.
      Nonetheless, it did not meet the expectations completely. The main problem in PA-t is the
      development of immune and inflammatory response against graft tissue which shortens its life
      and impairs the efficacy of the treatment. Various kinds of treatment methods such as
      immunosuppression, microencapsulation and cultivation were tried to overcome this problem.
      Despite these treatment options, convincing results have not yet been achieved . In
      literature, PA-t cases are often presented as case reports, only a few clinical series are
      available .

      In this study, we aimed to present the results of our new PA-t technique that is performed on
      10 patients who were diagnosed as permanent hypocalcemia following thyroid surgery and had no
      benefit from standard medical therapy
    
  