
    
      SARS-CoV-2 infection have a wide clinical spectrum ranging between asymptomatic infection,
      mild upper respiratory tract symptoms, and severe viral pneumonia (fever, malaise, dry cough,
      shortness of breath, and respiratory distress) that may result in respiratory failure and
      finally death.

      There is currently no clinically proven specific antiviral agent available for SARS-CoV-2
      infection. Supportive treatment, including oxygen therapy, conservation fluid management, and
      broad-spectrum antibiotics to cover secondary bacterial infection, remains the most important
      management strategy.

      For direct antiviral treatment of SARS-CoV-2, the China International Exchange and Promotive
      Association for Medical and Health Care (CPAM) recommended usage of lopinavir; ritonavir.
      Their recommendation was based on weak evidence from retrospective cohort, historically
      controlled studies, case reports, and case series reporting a clinical benefit of lopinavir;
      ritonavir in the management of other coronavirus infection [i.e., SARS-CoV 1 and Middle East
      respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV)] .

      However, the first randomized clinical trial with lopinavir/ritonavir demonstrated no benefit
      over standard care in 199 hospitalized adults with severe COVID-19. There is no evidence to
      support the use of other antiretrovirals, including protease inhibitors; indeed, structural
      analysis demonstrates no darunavir binding to COVID-19 protease A group of Korean physicians
      experienced in SARS-CoV-2 infected patients' treatment developed recommendations for the
      treatment of COVID-19. According to them, antiviral medications lopinavir 400 mg; ritonavir
      100 mg, or chloroquine is considered to be used in older patients or patients with chronic
      health conditions and life-threatening symptoms. If chloroquine is unavailable,
      hydroxychloroquine is recommended. Both of them have reported the ability of inhibition of
      SARS-CoV-2 in vitro.

      CPAM guidelines included them as they were associated with reduced progression of the disease
      and decreased duration of symptoms. In an open-label study of 36 patients with COVID-19, the
      use of hydroxychloroquine (200 mg three times per day for 10 days) was associated with a
      higher rate of undetectable SARS-CoV-2 RNA on nasopharyngeal specimens at day 6 compared with
      no specific treatment (70 versus 12.5 percent). In this study, the use of azithromycin in
      combination with hydroxychloroquine appeared to have an additional benefit, but there are
      methodologic concerns about the control groups for the study, and the biologic basis for
      using azithromycin in this setting is unclear. In the United States, the FDA issued an
      emergency use authorization to allow the use of these agents in adolescents or adults
      hospitalized for COVID-19.

      One of the studies done on SARS-COV-1 strongly suggested that using ribavirin as therapy
      should be reconsidered until further animal studies clarify the effects of ribavirin on
      cytokine and chemokine profiles during infection and until ribavirin can be demonstrated to
      have a significant effect on reducing viral replication in vivo. Data from a molecular
      docking experiment using the SARS-CoV-2 RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) model identified
      the tight binding of sofosbuvir and ribavirin to the coronavirus RdRp, thereby suggesting
      possible efficacy of sofosbuvir and ribavirin in treating the COVID-19 infection.

      A three-dimensional model of the SARS-CoV-2 (aka 2019-nCoV) 3C-like protease (3CL ) was
      prepared then performed virtual screening for purchasable drugs checking the actions,
      targets, and side effects of the 16 candidates. Velpatasvir and ledipasvir are examples of
      these drugs ( which are inhibitors of the NS5A protein of the hepatitis C virus (HCV). Both
      are marketed as approved drugs in combination with sofosbuvir, which is a prodrug nucleotide
      analog inhibitor of RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp, or NS5B).

      Interestingly, sofosbuvir has recently been proposed as an antiviral for the SARS-CoV-2 based
      on the similarity between the replication mechanisms of the HCV and the coronaviruses.

      Based on this data it was suggested that these dual-component HCV drugs, Epclusa
      (velpatasvir/sofosbuvir) and Harvoni (ledipasvir/sofosbuvir), may be attractive candidates to
      repurpose because they may inhibit two coronaviral enzymes. A drug that can target two viral
      proteins substantially reduces the ability of the virus to develop resistance. These
      direct-acting antiviral drugs are also associated with very minimal side effects and are
      conveniently orally administered.

      The aim of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of the addition of HCV treatment
      to the standard regimen for the treatment of COVID-19 patients according to MOHP protocol .
    
  