
    
      Research reports indicate that approximately 5-20% of patients treated for Lyme disease with
      the IDSA-recommended 2-4 week course of antibiotics will continue to have symptoms of
      fatigue, pain, cognitive problems, and/or joint and muscle aches despite prior antibiotic
      treatment. The symptoms can last months to years after treatment. The medical community
      officially calls this condition "Post-treatment Lyme disease Syndrome" (PTLDS) when patients
      meet strict inclusion and exclusion criteria. The patient community commonly calls this
      condition "chronic Lyme disease" (CLD). Although there is debate about the exact cause of
      these symptoms, there is widespread agreement that this is a growing public health problem as
      an increasing number of patients are suffering with symptoms of pain, fatigue, and cognitive
      problems ("brain fog") despite having received not just the standard treatment courses but
      even after many courses of antibiotics and other interventions.

      While antibiotic therapy is the key to the treatment of active infection, other approaches
      are needed for those patients whose symptoms persist despite the best antibiotic treatment
      efforts. Alternative treatments that can assuage fatigue, muscle and joint pains, and improve
      cognitive function are urgently needed. Recent studies indicate that mind body practices
      (e.g., meditation; Kundalini Yoga) can be helpful strategy in reducing chronic symptoms, such
      as pain, fatigue, and poor mental focus. This study examines the efficacy of two mind-body
      therapies among patients with PTLDS and CLD: a) the breathing, meditation, and stretching
      techniques common to Kundalini Yoga practice; and b) meditation and breathing techniques
      common to Western meditation practices. We plan to assess the degree to which these practices
      can reduce the chronic symptoms compared to a wait-list control group. Because fatigue and
      multi-system symptoms are so common among patients with PTLDS or CLD, these will be the
      primary focus of this study. Primary outcome will be improvement in these self-reported core
      symptoms and in self-reported quality of life. Secondary outcomes will assess cognitive
      complaints, pain, physical and mental functioning, somatic symptoms, and psychopathology.

      This will be an on-line study. During this study, patients will be screened through an
      on-line process, review consent, and complete self-report questionnaires. 225 patients will
      be enrolled. Of these, 75 will be randomly assigned to Kundalini yoga and meditation therapy,
      75 will be assigned to a meditation & mindfulness App, and 75 will be assigned to a
      "treatment as usual" wait-list. Assessments will be conducted weekly for 8 weeks; there will
      also be a 6 month follow-up by questionnaire. Study participants randomized to the "treatment
      as usual" control group will be offered the option of receiving guided on-line meditation at
      the end of the 8 weeks.

      Should this study find evidence suggesting that either meditation therapy and/or Kundalini
      Yoga are helpful in reducing the symptoms that persist after Lyme disease treatment, this
      would be a valuable and welcome research finding.
    
  