
    
      Experimental intervention: Low anterior resection for rectal cancer < 12 cm from the anal
      verge with total mesorectal excision (TME), ligation of the inferior mesenteric artery close
      to the aorta, mobilization of the splenic flexure, radical lymph node dissection and
      side-to-end colorectal/ coloanal anastomosis (STE). The blind end of the descending colon
      (3-5 cm long) is closed with a linear stapler. Stapling of the anastomosis is done by
      introducing the stapler from the anus by the assistant surgeon while the surgeon is holding
      the descending colon in the correct position. The anastomosis is performed on the
      antimesenteric aspect of the descending colon. The length of the blind end is measured and
      the integrity of the anastomosis is tested intraoperatively. The intended minimal distal
      clearance margin from the tumor is 2 cm. A protective loop ileostomy will be performed
      regularly which is intended to be closed 3 months postoperatively.

      Control intervention: Low anterior resection for rectal cancer with total mesorectal excision
      (TME), ligation of the inferior mesenteric artery close to the aorta, mobilization of the
      splenic flexure, radical lymph node dissection and colon J pouch rectal/colon J pouch anal
      anastomosis (CJP). The colon J Pouch is formed by the descending colon by stapling with a
      defined pouch limb length of 5-6 cm, which is measured intraoperatively. The stapling is done
      by introducing the stapler from the anus by the assistant surgeon while the surgeon is
      holding the descending colon in the correct position. The integrity of the anastomosis is
      tested intraoperatively. The intended minimal distal clearance margin from the tumor is 2 cm.
      A protective loop ileostomy will be performed regularly which is intended to be closed 3
      months postoperatively.

      Follow-up per patient: 24 months postoperatively
    
  