
    
      Diabetes self-management education: In the first three months of PLEASED, patients with type
      2 diabetes will participate in 12 weekly sessions: 6 sessions will focus on diabetes
      education and be delivered by a health professional and 6 sessions will focus on lifestyle
      change and be delivered by a peer leader. Education sessions will be 2-hours long and be
      facilitated by nurses, dieticians, and pharmacists. Patients will learn about the diabetes
      disease process, lifestyle modification, healthy eating, physical activity, medications,
      monitoring, short- and long- complications, diabetes distress, and coping. Lifestyle change
      sessions will be 1-hour long and start with 30 minutes of physical activity followed by 30
      minutes of goal-setting, action planning, and problem solving. Additional activities such as
      recipe makeovers and exchanges will also be included.

      Diabetes self-management support: In the next nine months of the PLEASED program, patients
      will be invited to attend 32 weekly self-management support sessions (1-hour long)
      facilitated by a peer leader. The goal of these sessions is to help patients continue making
      positive lifestyle changes. Each support session will start with 30 minutes of physical
      activity led by the peer leader followed by a discussion where participants are invited to
      (1) discuss self-management challenges, (2) share thoughts and feelings about these
      challenges, (3) ask self-management questions, (4) engage in problem solving, and (5) set
      self-management goals and design behavioral experiments to achieve those goals. Patients are
      invited to attend as frequently as they need or as they are able to given other competing
      life demands. While these sessions focus on lifestyle change and emotional support,
      participants will be able to obtain responses to medical and clinical questions from 811 or
      the PLEASED hotline (hosted by dieticians, nurses, and pharmacists).

      All patients enrolled in the PLEASED program will undergo three free health assessments: at
      the start of the program, at 3 months, and at 12 months. Health assessments will include
      measuring glycemic control, ApoB, blood pressure, waist circumference, weight, and body mass
      index. All patients will also complete a survey assessing quality of life, social support,
      depression, and self-efficacy.
    
  