
    
      1. The network and database include ADAD cohort of the known mutations of PSEN1, PSEN2 and
           APP (mutation carriers and noncarriers; pre-symptomatic and symptomatic) and unknown
           mutations cohort.

        2. Conduct a comprehensive FAD epidemiological survey in China to clarify the impact of
           different nationalities, regions, gender, age, living environment (rural/urban),
           education level, etc. on the occurrence and development of the disease.

        3. This project is to discover new FAD mutation sites，pathogenic genes, to protective
           genes, to explore the pathogenic and protective mechanism, to analyze the disease
           development laws of families with different sizes of FAD in China, and to clarify the
           frequency distribution of mutant genes in the Chinese FAD population.

        4. The project will collect and regularly follow-up the samples (blood, urine and saliva
           etc.) and data (neuropsychology, imaging etc.) in the cohort. Emphasis is placed on the
           occurrence and development of asymptomatic mutant gene carriers from asymptomatic to
           symptomatic periods.

        5. In the FAD family cohort, we will screen high-sensitivity and high-specificity body
           fluid markers suitable for Chinese people, verify in the SAD cohort, and establish a
           prediction model of body fluid markers for AD occurrence and disease progression; use
           structural MRI, dual tracer 18F-FDG PET and 11C-PIB PET multimodal imaging technology,
           dynamically monitor the dynamic evolution of imaging biomarkers such as brain structure,
           glucose metabolism and Aβ deposition at various stages of AD progression.

        6. We will combine with the genetic characteristics of Chinese FAD to analyze the impact of
           lifestyle, physical exercise, nootropic drugs, cognitive training, etc. on the disease
           progression of FAD patients or asymptomatic mutant gene carriers, to establish a genetic
           counseling model.
    
  