
    
      Perception of beauty in the periocular region is influenced by several factors, including
      symmetry, population norms, and skin texture and tone. Soft tissue and skin changes over time
      create an aged appearance with the development of dermatochalasis, blepharoptosis, lacrimal
      gland prolapse, and fat prolapse. Techniques for periocular rejuvenation are well established
      and include soft tissue augmentation, resurfacing, and surgical correction. In May 2015,
      Sarnoff and Gotkin reported a case of "chemical blepharoplasty" achieved with topical
      bimatoprost ophthalmic 0.03% solution applied to the upper eyelid margin. After three months
      of use, the author noted a more youthful appearance of the periocular region, with deepening
      of the upper eyelid sulcus, reduction in dermatochalasis, and diminution of the inferior
      eyelid fat pad. These changes were attributed to the prostaglandin associated periorbitopathy
      (PAP), a well described phenomenon observed with the use of topical prostaglandin analogues
      use for glaucoma.

      Periorbital changes observed with topical prostaglandin analogues are primarily due to
      effects on aponeurotic and deep orbital adipocytes. Prostaglandins activate the adipocyte
      mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, leading to inactivation of peroxisome
      proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma, inhibition of adipocyte differentiation, and
      decreased fat accumulation within adipocytes. Bimatoprost concentration-dependent
      contractions of ciliary muscles and activation of matrix metalloproteinases may also
      contribute to periocular changes. Patients using topical ophthalmic prostaglandin analogues
      commonly develop periorbital fat loss, which has been well characterized in the ophthalmology
      literature.

      Bimatoprost applied to the upper eyelid margin for eyelash enhancement attempts to capitalize
      on the desirable effects of darker, longer, thicker eyelashes, while limiting more
      significant and undesirable effects through limited exposure of the drug to ocular tissues.
      This same concept may apply for dermatochalasis: at a metered dose, topical bimatoprost to
      the lid margin could lead to subtle periorbital fat loss resulting in improved
      dermatochalasis.
    
  