
    
      Asthma is an inflammatory condition in which narrowing and swelling of the airways occur,
      accompanied with extra mucus production. This results in difficulty in breathing and triggers
      coughing, wheezing and dyspnea. In some cases asthma is a minor irritation, but on the other
      end of the spectrum it may interfered with activities of daily living and can even become
      life threatening in severe asthma attacks. According to a study conducted in Pakistan, the
      prevalence of asthma in adults was found to be 10.8% in adults, working in tanneries with
      5.3% of them reporting their symptoms to be work related.

      Non-pharmacological management of asthma includes patient education, guidance and
      physiotherapy. It is suggested that physical therapy may have positive effects in patients
      with asthma, as they possess dysfunctional breathing patterns accompanied with poor physical
      condition. Numerous reviews by Cochrane have been published in the recent years regarding the
      effects of physical therapy in patients with asthma, focusing on the effects of numerous
      techniques including Alexander technique, manual therapy, physical training, breathing
      exercises and inspiratory muscle training. In terms of specific effects of different physical
      therapy treatment techniques in patients with asthma, in light of the existing literature,
      breathing exercises have found to improve quality of life, reduce symptoms of anxiety,
      depression and hyperventilation, and decrease respiratory rate and medication use. Moreover,
      inspiratory muscle training is found to improve symptoms, decrease medication use and also
      improve inspiratory pressure.

      Buteyko technique is a specialized breathing technique developed to reduce chronic
      hyperinflation.

      A pre and post design quasi experimental study conducted was conducted in 2014 to determine
      the effects of Buteyko breathing technique on asthma control and QOL in school aged children
      with asthma where Buteyko breathing technique group showed significant improvements terms of
      asthma control and quality of life.

      Based upon the review of the literature, evidence is inadequate in terms of comparison of
      Buteyko breathing technique with pursed lip breathing technique in the management of patients
      with asthma except for a single randomized controlled trial. For this reason the purpose of
      the current study is to compare the effects of Buteyko technique with pursed lip breathing in
      the management of patients with asthma.
    
  