
    
      Circulating anti-influenza antibodies are an important factor in predicting clinical illness
      and severity in those infected with influenza. Specific antibodies against influenza include
      proteins targeting hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA). Lifelong immunity does not
      occur with influenza, either from natural infection or from vaccination. Due to the antigenic
      variation of Influenza A, individuals may become infected multiple times with the same
      subtype of influenza and even with the same strain. In the setting of natural infection and
      vaccination, antibody titer levels can persist initially, but then wane over time.

      In our previous challenge studies, measurements of antibody responses have been focused
      solely on the acute infection period up to 2 months after initial infection. Long-term
      changes in immunity have not been investigated. The challenge setting gives us the unique
      ability to follow individuals from a specific, known and well-characterized exposure/illness
      to measure long-term changes in antibody titers from a pre-exposure baseline. This study
      could offer unique insight into how anti-influenza antibody titers change over time naturally
      and in response to other infections and life events. This type of controlled study has never
      been done and we believe monitoring titers long-term will help us better understand
      protective correlates of influenza.

      In this natural history study, we will follow individuals who have undergone influenza
      challenge or have been naturally infected with influenza to evaluate changes in
      anti-influenza antibody titers over a 2-year period. Subjects will be followed for symptoms
      of influenza-like illness (ILI) and other changes in clinical status through quarterly
      clinical evaluations with blood draws. Monthly questionnaires will be used to follow subjects
      in between visits.
    
  