
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the acute as well as long-term toxicity (especially grade III
           neurotoxicity) of concurrent erlotinib hydrochloride and single-fraction radiosurgery in
           patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and brain metastases.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the freedom from progression in all detected lesions (i.e., radiosurgically
           treated and untreated) and the rate of response of radiosurgically treated lesions in
           patients receiving concurrent erlotinib hydrochloride and radiosurgery as compared with
           historical controls treated with gamma knife radiosurgery alone at UCSF.

        -  To measure the rate of freedom from any CNS progression in these patients at 1 year post
           treatment.

        -  To assess cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) distribution of erlotinib hydrochloride by measuring
           both erlotinib hydrochloride and its major metabolite, OSI-420, in plasma and CSF at 4
           or more days after initial erlotinib hydrochloride administration but before
           radiosurgery, and again at 4 weeks after stereotactic radiosurgery (optional).

        -  To perform CSF and serum biomarker analysis for NSCLC using 2-dimensional liquid
           chromatography or mass spectrometry (2D-LC/MS).

        -  To determine the incidence of subclinical leptomeningeal disease in patients assigned to
           gamma-knife treatment and who do not exhibit signs or symptoms or carcinomatous
           meningitis.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily for at least 7 days.
      Patients then undergo stereotactic radiosurgery on day 0. Beginning the day after
      radiosurgery, patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride once daily for 4 weeks in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study therapy, patients
      may continue to receive erlotinib hydrochloride at the discretion of their oncologist.

      Patients undergo cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood sample collection at baseline (at least
      4 days after starting erlotinib hydrochloride and prior to radiosurgery) for pharmacokinetic
      and biomarker correlative studies. Samples are analyzed for concentrations of erlotinib
      hydrochloride by 2-dimensional-liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry and antithrombin by
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year.
    
  