
    
      Recent epidemiologic studies have re-ignited an old controversy and opinions are forming as
      to whether mucus hypersecretion is crucial in the etiology of airway disease. For patients
      with asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and cystic fibrosis, mucus
      hypersecretion is now being considered as a risk factor for increased morbidity. The irritant
      and epithelial membrane effects of O3, a main component of urban smog, upon the airway, and
      in particular on mucin-type secretory cells and/or interaction with epithelial physiology,
      have not been investigated vigorously, and at best only superficially, in vivo. We have
      recently demonstrated in genetically diverse inbred mice that O3-induced pulmonary
      inflammation and up-regulation of lung mucin secretion and airway mucociliary clearance are
      host factor dependent. These results match translationally with our evaluations in humans
      where O3 exposure leads to alterations in mucociliary clearance, and release of a mediator(s)
      capable of increasing mucin protein synthesis and secretion in vitro. Importantly additional
      observations by us in a healthy cohort of non-smoking human subjects (n=135) demonstrates
      that a homozygotic genotype for a single nucleotide polymorphism of the quinone
      oxido-reductase enzyme, NQO1, protects from the acute irritant effects on air flow that occur
      with exposure to ambient levels of O3. We have also found that NQO1 can modulate synthesis of
      mucin proteins by airway epithelial cells in vitro; and in connection with host-factor
      dependency, that NQO1 is differentially expressed in mice models susceptible and resistant to
      O3. As a working global hypothesis we propose that exposure to O3 by susceptible humans
      activates NQO1, generates reactive oxygen metabolites and leads to an increase in MUC5AC mRNA
      expression and production of mucins by airway epithelial cells. This cycle is re-initiated
      when O3-induced airway neutrophilia, leads to re-activation of NQO1 by neutrophil elastase,
      leading to expression and secretion of mucins, disordered mucociliary clearance, and reduced
      pulmonary function. Investigations are proposed for mice models represented by an O3
      susceptible strain, a lung mucin hypersecretion model, and a NQO1 deficient model and
      simultaneous with translational studies in humans that are segregated genetically between
      wild-type (NQO1 sufficient) and a single nucleotide polymorphism associated with NQO1
      deficiency. The research plan is the initial step towards a definitive link between an
      ubiquitous urban air pollutant, and genetic factors that regulate oxidant-induced airway
      hypersecretion of mucus.
    
  