
    
      Background: Delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS) is an acute micro-trauma or inflammatory
      response experienced in the most runners; and, it concurrently impairs athletic performance
      and may increase risk of sports injury. Alleviating the symptoms of DOMS strategies are
      various; however, the specific recovery way remains unconcluded. Furthermore, few studies
      have investigated that the effects of vibrating roller on alleviating the symptoms of DOMS,
      and understand the biochemical changes in response to recovery of athletic performance.
      Therefore, this study hypothesizes that vibration rolling (VR) could provide self-myofascia
      release. Meanwhile, vibration exercise could tramsit vibration to speific muscle groups to
      decrease inflammation in corresponding to reduce muscular pain. Therefore, it could offer
      positve effects including improvements of flexability, muscle stiffness, visual analog scale
      (VAS) for pain, jmup, and dynmaic balance. Purpose: To investigate VR, non-vibration rolling
      (NVR), and static stretching for DOMS on physiological changes and recovery of athletic
      performance in runners. Methods: Thirty healthy and recreationally adult runners will be
      voluntarily recruited in the experiment. Participant will be induced DOMS on the treadmill
      exercise firstly. Next, participants will be matched up and randomly assigned to the VR
      group, NVR group or static stretching group treatment. Each participant will be instructed to
      20-minutes treatment on bilateral muscles including gluteus, anterior, and posterior thighs
      as well as anterior, and posterior legs. All subjects will receive blood analysis (leukocyte,
      lymphocyte, creatine kinase, c-reactive protein, interleukin-6) and perform flexibility
      muscular stiffness, VAS for pain, counter movement jump, Y balance tests on lower limb before
      exercise and after 24hour and 48 hour interventions. Expected outcomes: VR could effectively
      alleviate the symptoms of DOMS including decreasing inflammatory biochemical values,
      decreasing muscular stiffness, reducing muscular pain, and increasing flexibility and jump
      ability as well as improving dynamic balance on lower limb. This data may provide in
      alleviating the symptoms of DOMS to healthy populations, athletes, and medical team members.

      Key Words: Delayed-onset muscle soreness, vibration therapy, foam roller, stretching
      exercise, recovery, performance
    
  