
    
      For each subject, blood sample is collected in fasting conditions, then centrifuged, and the
      serum stored at minus 80° C, for subsequent biochemical analyses. PAPP-A, PlGF and Inibin A
      is measured with the automated DELFIA EXPRESS system (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Perkin Elmer
      ®). Insulin, high density lipoproteins (HDL) and triglycerides are measured through routine
      laboratory methods.

      The mean arterial pressure (MAP) is measured with validated automated devices (Dinamap,
      BLTV6XX). After the women are seated and allowed to rest for 3-5 min, normal (22 to 32 cm)
      adult cuffs are fitted to their both arms. This is repeated two times with 1 min break in
      between. The MAP is calculated with the formula MAP DBP + 1/3(SBP - DBP) 21, where DBP
      represents diastolic blood pressure and SBP, systolic blood pressure. We calculate the final
      MAP as the average of all four measurements. Uterine artery Doppler studies including
      pulsatility index are measured through trans-abdominal ultrasound (Voluson E8 or Voluson E10)
      examinations. As indicated in Fetal Medicine Foundation (FMF), when carrying out Doppler
      studies, color flow mapping is used to identify each uterine artery along the side of the
      cervix and uterus at the level of the cervical internal os. Pulsed wave Doppler imaging is
      used with the sampling gate set at 2 mm to cover the whole vessel, and care is taken to
      ensure that the angle of insonation is less than 30°. When three to five similar consecutive
      waveforms are obtained, PI is measured. The uterine artery mPI is calculated by adding the
      right and left pulsatility index together, divided by two. All ultrasound and Doppler studies
      are carried out by a physician who had received the appropriate certificate of competence in
      the 11-13+6 week scans and Doppler study from the FMF.

      Data on pregnancy outcome are collected from the hospital maternity records or directly from
      women if delivered elsewhere.

      Medical records are reviewed by research associates to obtain anonymized data on mothers (i.e
      maternal demographics, BMI, age…) and their newborns (birthweight, gender, Apgar score,
      admission to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) and length of stay, neonatal
      morbidities, and mortality), and are organized in a password protected database.
    
  