
    
      Considerable blood loss typically accompanies surgical procedures to remove malignant tumors.
      Blood transfusions, the best method of compensating for blood loss during surgery, have
      associated medical risks including infection transmission and allergic reaction, in addition
      to using significant amounts of red blood cells, which are often in short supply. Options
      exist to manage blood loss before surgery, including a procedure where a patient's own blood
      is stored in advance to be given if needed during surgery, and drug intervention, where a
      drug is given before surgery to help increase red blood cell production, thereby maintaining
      hemoglobin and oxygen levels in the body during surgery. This is a multi-center observational
      study to collect information regarding the methods used to manage blood loss in patients
      undergoing surgical removal of malignant tumors in the Netherlands. Information will be
      collected by study center and by patient over the course of approximately 18 months. For
      study center information, each observation period will last 2 months and there will be at
      least a 2-month interval between each observation period. For patient information there is
      one continuous observation period. General information regarding the frequency of use of
      different blood-saving techniques for the various types of operations performed will be
      collected from each of the centers participating in the study. Data obtained at the onset of
      the study will be compared to follow-up data gathered throughout the additional reporting
      periods and trends or changes in frequency of use of blood-saving techniques will be noted.
      The following information will be collected: medical history, tumor stage, type/site of
      operation, anticipated vs. actual blood loss during surgery, most recent hemoglobin and
      hematocrit values prior to the operation, blood-saving techniques used and the number of
      units and types of blood transfusions up to 24 hours after the operation. Information will be
      obtained from patients' medical records. No medication will be supplied by the study Sponsor
      and no specific procedures will be required for the study. Each patient's surgeon and
      anesthesiologist will be responsible for all decisions regarding his/her care and treatment
      during the operation. Information may be collected a maximum of one time from each patient
      during this study and there will be no follow-up information collected from individual
      patients. Since the study involves only the collection of information, no treatment will be
      required by the Sponsor and no medication will be supplied by the Sponsor.
    
  