
    
      OBJECTIVES: The current protocol seeks to develop brain-based intermediate phenotypes of
      response to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in chronic substance use disorder (SUD).
      To date the field has relied on subjective reports, behavioral performance, and long-term
      clinical outcomes as primary measures of TMS efficacy. While certainly ecologically valid,
      these observable behaviors lack the sensitivity necessary to fully quantify the effects (or
      lack thereof) across both individual participants and TMS intervention protocols.

      This proposed within-subjects design seeks to leverage differences in metaplasticity that is,
      the context in which stimulation occurs-by studying the response to stimulation in both sated
      and abstinent states. It is predicted these state manipulations will potentiate response to
      TMS. When a disruptive allostatic load like chronic nicotine exposure or acute abstinence is
      placed on the brain, the underlying network becomes less stable and thus more susceptible to
      TMS intervention. For SUD in general and tobacco use disorder (TUD) in particular, this state
      dependence of TMS response is a potentially valuable tool to improve a given intervention s
      clinical efficacy.

      STUDY POPULATION: Physically and psychiatrically healthy smokers will be recruited. A
      comparison group of non-smokers will be concurrently enrolled. We estimate we will require
      n=51/group of completers to have sufficient power to develop the intermediate phenotypes of
      TMS.

      DESIGN: The protocol is a two group, between/within subject, fully counterbalanced design.
      The between-subjects factor is GROUP (smoker/non-smoker) and the within-subjects factor for
      each GROUP is TMS CONDITION (active/sham). Additionally, and for the smoker group, nicotine
      STATE (sated/abstinent) is a nested within-subjects factor. Each group will receive single
      sessions of active and sham intermittent theta burst stimulation to left dorsal lateral
      prefrontal cortex, followed immediately by an MRI scan to characterize the acute
      neurobiological response to stimulation. Smokers will repeat these procedures both during
      smoking satiety and following an ~48-hour period nicotine abstinence.

      OUTCOMES PARAMETERS: In addition to subjective and behavioral task performance changes
      associated with TMS intervention, changes in MRI BOLD signal will be used to characterize the
      neurobiological response to TMS intervention across groups and states. Taken together, the
      development of brain-based markers of TMS response may thus improve both our mechanistic
      understanding of the causal dysfunctions of TUD as well as the potential efficacy of these
      interventions longer term to address the relevant clinical characteristics of the disease and
      ultimately improve treatment outcomes.
    
  