
    
      Objective:

      Glutamate-based medications including the glutamate modulator ketamine result in rapid,
      robust and sustained (typically up to one week) antidepressant effects in randomized
      controlled trials in treatment-refractory unipolar and bipolar depression. Previous work by
      the investigators' group has demonstrated that a family history of alcohol dependence
      predicts a more robust antidepressant response to ketamine in both treatment-resistant
      unipolar and bipolar depression.

      Recently-detoxified alcoholics and affected first-degree relatives display blunted
      psychotomimetic, cognitive and other neuropsychiatric effects when administered a
      subanesthetic dose of ketamine. A family history of alcoholism also predicts differential
      response to intravenous alcohol. Based on the prior post hoc results, the investigators seek
      to prospectively demonstrate that a family history of an alcohol use disorder predicts a more
      robust antidepressant response to ketamine. The research team will also explore potential
      biomarkers of ketamine's antidepressant effects in treatment-refractory depressed patients at
      greater risk of developing an alcohol use disorder, using physiological and neurochemical
      responses to alcohol.

      Study Population:

      21-65 year old TRD without psychotic features patients in a current major depressive episode
      of at least moderate severity will be recruited and enrolled in this study. All subjects must
      not have a lifetime substance use disorder (except nicotine or caffeine), no lifetime history
      of an alcohol use disorder and socially drink. All subjects must be psychotropic
      medication-free for at least two weeks prior to the first alcohol infusion. The targeted
      number of completers is 50 depressed subjects (60 signing consent to account for attrition):
      25 FHP subjects [as defined by either one first degree relative or two second-degree
      relatives with an alcohol user disorder on the Family Interview for Genetics Studies (FIGS)
      and Family Tree Questionnaire (FTQ)] and 25 FHN negative subjects.

      Design:

      This study is a now two-site, open-label protocol in psychotropic medication-free depressed
      subjects. This protocol consists of two phases. Phase I consists of a medication taper (if
      needed) and at least two week drug-free period. Phase II has three subphases: Subphase IIA
      (alcohol clamp infusion #1 with neurophysiological assessments), Subphase IIB (alcohol clamp
      infusion #2 during 7T-MRI) and Subphase IIC (subanesthetic/antidepressant dose ketamine
      infusion during 7T-MRI).

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary hypothesis/outcome measure will be mean change in MADRS total score from the
      pre-ketamine infusion (baseline) to 7 days post-infusion between the FHP and FHN groups.
      Other exploratory measures include neurophysiological responses to intravenous alcohol,
      glutamate) alterations during intravenous alcohol infusion and ketamine infusions, and
      rs-fMRI as a function of family history status.
    
  