
    
      Postnatal depression (PND) affects at least 12-15% of new mothers, with symptoms including
      fatigue, anhedonia, insomnia and irritability. However, challenges surround the fact that
      there is still no complete treatment solution. Although pharmacological treatment has had
      positive results, these are hampered by low uptake and adherence amongst mothers, while
      psychotherapy has produced mixed results and has similar challenges around low uptake or
      delayed treatment.

      However, many mothers engage in community group activities with their babies, such as
      attending mother-infant play groups. Such activities have been identified as ways of relaxing
      mothers, providing good sources of social interaction, decreasing the monotony of each day
      and also providing a sense of personal fulfillment for mothers. There is also a growing body
      of evidence demonstrating the effects of community group singing on mental health. Singing to
      new babies is practised in cultures around the world, and research has demonstrated valuable
      benefits such as improving mother-infant interaction and reducing distress in babies.
      Listening to music during pregnancy is also associated with higher levels of wellbeing and
      reduced symptoms of PND in the first 3 months post-birth, while daily singing to babies is
      associated with fewer symptoms of PND and higher levels of wellbeing, self-esteem and
      perceived mother-infant bond. Consequently, there is a strong theoretical background to why
      singing could support mothers with PND.

      While small studies have supported the efficacy of this intervention, the present large scale
      study is needed to measure effectiveness and promote the uptake within the NHS, as well as in
      order to fully understand the mechanisms underpinning its efficacy.

      Trial design and aims: These sessions/activities will be delivered for 10-weeks and the women
      will be followed up at 20- and 36-weeks post randomisation. On week 0 (before the start of
      the study), 6, 10, 20 and 36 women will either be visited by members of the KCL research team
      (to be assessed given questionnaires and provide samples) or will complete online
      questionnaires (see table of measures). The end of the trial for a participant will be after
      the 36-week follow up, or withdrawal. This is a multi-centre trial that will be run in
      locations across London (primarily in the boroughs of Lewisham, Lambeth and Southwark),
      specifically in children's or community venues. These venues will be thoroughly safety- and
      risk-assessed in light of COVID-19 and adherence to any COVID-secure measures will be closely
      monitored by Breathe. In the event that one or several women need to self-isolate due to
      confirmed or suspected exposure to COVID-19, the sessions will be delivered to her/them
      online via Zoom. This will allow for the sessions to still be conducted in person with the
      remaining women.

      In order to enrol a sufficiently large sample of women, there will be 12 blocks of the
      10-week singing programme in total: 10 intervention blocks will be for the experimental
      group, and 2 blocks will be for women in the wait-list control group that wish to take part
      in the singing sessions. The 2 wait-list blocks will be offered singing sessions after a
      woman has completed the first 10 weeks of the study and no data will be collected regarding
      these singing sessions, apart from the control follow-up data that this group is expected to
      provide.

      In the event that one or several women need to self-isolate due to confirmed or suspected
      exposure to COVID-19, the sessions will be delivered to her/them online via Zoom. This will
      allow for the sessions to still be conducted in person with the remaining women.

      In the event of the artist or the Breathe officer having to self-isolate, a replacement
      Breathe-trained artist will be ready to step-in and deliver the sessions. The same will apply
      to Breathe staff; there will be another staff member available to be present at the sessions.

      The aims are to explore the clinical effectiveness of the intervention in a larger sample
      size than previous studies for scalability (to ascertain whether the initial findings can be
      replicated at a larger scale) and to explore the implementation effectiveness of the
      intervention, including its uptake, suitability, acceptability, appropriateness and
      feasibility (to identify not just 'if' but also 'why' the intervention works and support our
      understanding). It will also explore the cost effectiveness of the intervention, including
      the cost of delivering the interventions and the balance of benefit for the health sector, in
      order to be able to develop strong business plan for the intervention.

      Participants and Recruitment process: This study aims to recruit 400 women (and their babies)
      that meet criteria on the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Disorders (SCID) for major
      depressive disorder and score equal to or above 10 on the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression
      Scale (EPDS). Participants will be recruited through clinic and the community (including
      study advertisement on social media, patient groups and self-referral). In order to recruit a
      sufficient number of women for this study in the current pandemic, most of the signposting
      will be done through GPs, midwives, health visitors and community mental health teams that
      remain engaged with the population despite the pandemic. In addition, signposting via social
      media, especially targeted advertising in local women's groups will be another valuable route
      for recruitment.

      The women will be explained the trial, given the PIS and ICF and if consented, will be
      randomised (2:1) to an intervention group (M4M singing sessions) or a control group (other
      community-based mother and baby activities). This group will be involved in the clinical and
      the implementation effectiveness of the study. In addition, circa 30-50 wider stakeholders
      involved in the intervention will be recruited by research staff. This group includes
      artists, psychiatrists, GPs, health visitors, commissioners and others involved in the
      delivery of the intervention. The wider stakeholders and mothers involved in implementation
      science research will be provided with a specific ICF and a PIS.

      Measures collected: Measures will be collected from both the intervention and control groups.
      Participants will be visited at their homes (or online via Zoom if necessary) for
      baseline/week 0 and week 10 assessments. Week 6, 20 and 36 visits will be completed online
      due to the self-reporting nature of the measures to be captured. If a mother cannot access a
      computer/laptop to complete the online questionnaires, these will be printed and posted to
      them.

      In order to allow for flexibility in the schedule, a +/-1 week variation in the date of
      collection of the measures below (apart from week 10, when the window will be weeks 10-12)
      will be accepted. These measures will be collected from the control and the intervention
      groups simultaneously. The following measures will be collected:

      Week 0 (screening/baseline): baseline demographics, repeated demographics, Brief Life Events
      Scale, Child Experience of Care and Abuse (CECA-Q), Composite Abuse Scale (CAS) - Pregnancy
      Version, Intrusive Life Events Scale; Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (SCID),
      Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS), Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS), Beck
      Depression Inventory (BDI), Office for National Statistics Wellbeing Scale (ONS), State Trait
      Anxiety Inventory (STAI), Perceived Stress Scale (PSS); CARE-index, Maternal Postpartum
      Attachment Scale (MPAS), Parent Reflective Functioning Questionnaire (PRFQ), UCLA Loneliness
      Scale, Short General Self-Efficacy Scale (G, SE-6), Multidimensional Scale of Perceived
      Social Support (MSPSS); Diurnal saliva samples in mothers and babies.

      Week 1: Pre-post session saliva samples in mothers and babies. Week 6: Repeated demographics,
      EPDS, BDI, ONS, STAI, PSS, MPAS, UCLA Loneliness Scale, GSE-6, MSPSS, Pre-post session saliva
      samples in mothers and babies.

      Week 10: Repeated demographics, EPDS, HRDS, BDI, ONS, STAI, PSS, CARE-Index, MPAS, PRFQ, UCLA
      Loneliness Scale, GSE-6, MSPSS, Pre-post session saliva samples in mothers and babies,
      Diurnal saliva samples in mothers and babies, Hair cortisol sample, focus groups (qualitative
      research).

      Week 20: Repeated demographics, EPDS, BDI, ONS, STAI, PSS, MPAS, UCLA Loneliness Scale,
      GSE-6, MSPSS.

      Week 36: Repeated demographics, EPDS, BDI, ONS, STAI, PSS, CARE-Index, MPAS, PRFQ, UCLA
      Loneliness Scale, GSE-6, MSPSS.

      Collection, transportation and storage of samples: Pre-post session saliva samples collected
      at sessions from mothers and babies will be retrieved using passive drooling (mothers) or
      salivettes (babies) and transported by one of the researchers in the team and used for
      cortisol, oxytocin, cytokines and other stress hormones analysis. The samples will be kept on
      ice and brought to the Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute (King's College London,
      Denmark Hill) to be stored at -80 degree C until analysis.

      Six saliva samples from mothers (and two samples from their baby, providing consent) will be
      collected by mothers at home at awakening, +15, +30+ and +60 min after awakening, at 12 noon
      and 8 pm, and used for diurnal cortisol and other stress hormones. They will be kept in the
      fridge at home, and then posted or transported to the Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience
      Institute (King's College London, Denmark Hill), to be stored at -20⁰C until analysis.

      Hair samples will be kept at room temperature for short-term storage but will be transferred
      to -20⁰C for longer-term storage, until analysis (cortisol and other stress hormones) is
      conducted.

      Samples will be processed, analysed and remaining material will be kept for 10 years after
      completion of the study. Results will be identified according to anonymised codes and stored
      securely.

      Follow-up: Follow-up will be done at weeks 20 and 36, using the questionnaires mentioned
      above. Participants' wellbeing will be monitored through the questionnaires and any issues
      will be flagged by the KCL or UCL team or by Breathe that will do onward reporting if needed.
      No samples will be collected at follow-up.

      Wider stakeholders: a series of questionnaires/interviews will be performed to collect
      implementation science data only.
    
  