
    
      First-time, newly enrolled participants in the MOVE! program will be targeted for treatment.
      Recruitment will take place utilizing flyers and MEDVAMC clinician referral. The research
      coordinator, PI or other study staff will attend the MOVE! assessment group and individual
      MOVE! sessions. During this initial contact, a recruitment letter will be read to all
      potential subjects. The letter will provide an overview of the study and allow potential
      participants the opportunity to express interest in the study. Those who are interested will
      be invited to sign their name to a sheet indicating their interest in the study and their
      willingness to undergo the initial screening for eligibility. In order to determine
      eligibility, patient records will be accessed for inclusion and exclusion information.
      Veterans who meet the inclusion criteria will be contacted to schedule a time to sign the
      necessary consent forms and receive the pre-treatment screening assessment forms. The
      pre-treatment assessment will be conducted face to face and last approximately 1 hour. During
      this time, the research coordinator or other study staff will review the VA consent, VA
      10-3203 consent to voice recording, and VA HIPPA forms and answer any additional questions.
      After all questions regarding consent and study enrollment are answered, the RC or other
      study staff will instruct the participant to sign the consent forms. The participants will
      receive hard copies of the VA consent, VA 10-3203 consent to voice recording, and VA HIPPA
      forms that contain all required signatures. The Veteran will then be provided the intake
      assessment forms. These forms will gather demographic data such as age, gender, ethnicity,
      race, education, marital status, employment, VA disability, and military history. Veterans
      will be asked about medications, other therapies, and hospitalizations. Additional screening
      assessments will measure mental health diagnosis and symptom severity. Veterans who continue
      to meet the inclusion criteria will then be included into the study. Veterans who do not meet
      the inclusion criteria but demonstrate a need or ask for additional services from the MEDVAMC
      will be referred for mental health care. In the randomized controlled trial, once Veterans
      have been consented, they will be randomized to the MH MOVE or enhanced usual-care MOVE!
      treatment group. Those who are randomized to the MH MOVE! group will be administered the 6
      core, 2 optional, and 2 booster depression, anxiety and PTSD focused MH MOVE! treatment
      module sessions via phone.
    
  