
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive 5-azacitidine
      either as an injection under the skin or by vein on Days 1-7 of each 28-day cycle. If by
      vein, the infusion will take about 10-40 minutes.

      You will take sorafenib by mouth 2 times a day about 12 hours apart, with at least 1 cup (8
      ounces) of water on an empty stomach, every day. If you vomit a dose, do not make it up. You
      should wait and take your next scheduled dose.

      Each study cycle may last a little longer than 28 days, depending on how you are doing.

      Study Visits:

      Each week, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Each week for the first 6 weeks, and then as often as your doctor thinks it is needed, you
      will have your blood pressure measured.

      Before each cycle, you will have a physical exam.

      Before every 2-4 cycles, you will have a bone marrow aspirate to check the status of the
      disease.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as your doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drugs if the disease gets worse or
      intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      After you have stopped taking the study drugs, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspirate to check the status of disease.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      After your end-of-study visit, you will return to the clinic every 3 months and have the
      following tests and procedures:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      This is an investigational study. Sorafenib is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of kidney cancer and liver cancer. 5-azacitidine is FDA approved for the
      treatment of MDS, but combining it with sorafenib is investigational. The study doctor can
      tell you how the study drugs are designed to work.

      Up to 52 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  