
    
      This is a prospective, nonrandomized, descriptive, single center study designed to assess the
      rate of successful completion of the study protocol in consecutive patients undergoing S-ICD
      implantation.

      Objectives To prospectively evaluate the same day discharge protocol for patients undergoing
      S-ICD implantation.

      Primary Endpoint 1. Rate of successful completion of S-ICD implantation and discharge of the
      patient on the same day the device is implanted using the analgesia protocol.

      Secondary Endpoints

        1. Procedure complication (failed implantation, infection, hematoma/bleeding, etc…) within
           30 days of procedure.

        2. Serial assessment of patient perception of pain using the graded integer pain scale of
           1-10

        3. Side effects related to medical therapy of protocol.

        4. Time from beginning of recovery (defined as when the patient enters the recovery IPR
           room) to the time of discharge from the recovery unit.

        5. 30 day readmission rate after discharge following S-ICD implant

        6. Number of days that oral analgesics are used post discharge.

      Patients will be approached for participation in the study once they have been consented for
      implantation of the clinically indicated S-ICD

      .

      Pre-procedure analgesia will be given to each patient as follows:

      Acetaminophen 975 mg PO x 1 will be administered 1-2 hours prior to the procedure. and
      Oxycodone 10 mg PO x 1 will be administered 1-2 hours prior to the procedure. Anesthesia will
      be provided by anesthesiology team as MAC or general anesthesia. Local subcutaneous
      anesthetic will be a 50:50 mixture of 2% lidocaine and 0.5% bupivacaine; which will result in
      a concentration of 1% lidocaine and 0.25% bupivacaine.

      Starting at ≈2 hours post procedure, the patient will then enter the "Preparation for
      Discharge" phase. The modified Aldrete scoring system will be used to determine eligibility
      for discharge home.Patients with an Aldrete score ≥ 9 will be deemed eligible for discharge
      home.

      Additional standard ambulatory discharge criteria per the OSUWMC postanesthesia care policy
      statement will be applied by the nursing team, akin to all ambulatory surgery patients at
      OSUWMC. If the above discharge parameters (DP) are not meet, the patient will be reassessed
      every 30 minutes until parameters are satisfied. Once the patient satisfies the DP, the
      patient will complete the Pain Perception Questionnaire and be assessed for ambulation,
      eating/drinking and for understanding of post discharge instructions. The electrophysiology
      device nursing staff will review management of the S-ICD incision, device and post discharge
      care instructions with the patient and with the accompanying family member(s)/friend. The
      patient will be given instructions regarding management of pain and will be provided the
      following prescription for outpatient pain control Percocet 5mg/325 mg (1 tablet every 6
      hours). A 2-day supply will be given.

      Also, the patient will be provided a phone number to contact during business hours as well as
      for after hours to address questions/concerns.

      The electrophysiology nursing staff will contact the patient the following day and again at
      about 3 days post discharge to administer the Pain Perception Questionnaire as well as to
      address any patient questions. The patient will then be evaluated in the Device Clinic about
      10 days post implantation. The Pain Perception questionnaire will be administered and
      assessment of the incision and S-ICD will be completed. The last Pain Perception
      questionnaire will be obtained by telephone at about 30 days post implantation.
    
  