
    
      This prospective, randomize, double-blind study will include 100 children, aged 6 month-12
      years with ASA physical status I-II.

      Children older than 3 years of age shall consume nothing by mouth (NPO) for solids and milk
      for at least 8 hours and children 6 months-3 years of age are NPO for solids and milk for 6
      hours. Children will be allowed to receive breast milk until 4 hours before the beginning of
      the sedation. All the children will be allowed to take clear liquids up until 2 hours before
      the beginning of the sedation. To facilitate IV drug administration, EMLA cream will be
      applied on the dorsum of both hands 1 h before transfer to the preparation room.

      Presedation behavior will be assessed on a 4-point scale, (by an anesthesiologist 1; who does
      not know which drug is administered): 1 = calm, cooperative; 2 = anxious but reasonable; 3 =
      anxious and not reasonable; 4 = crying or resisting. Categories 1 and 2 will be called
      "nondistressed behavior," and categories 3 and 4 will be defined as "distressed behavior."
      Patients will receive: group I; propofol 0.5 mg/kg or group II; thiopental 2.0 mg/kg, for
      anesthetic induction. After initial dose of the drug the sedation level of the children will
      be measured by the anesthesiologist 2 using the University of Michigan Sedation Scale (UMSS).
      The UMSS assigns a score of 0-4 based on the clinical assessment of the level of sedation as
      follows: 0 = awake and alert; 1 = minimally sedated: tired/sleepy, appropriate response to
      verbal conversation and/or sound; 2 = moderately sedated: somnolent/sleeping, easily aroused
      with light tactile stimulation or a simple verbal command; 3 = deeply sedated: deep sleep,
      arousable only with significant physical stimulation, and 4 = unarousable. Scores 3 will be
      accepted as procedural sedation and 4 will be accepted as deep sedation.

      If a UMSS score of 3 will not be achieved after initial dose of propofol and thiopental,
      supplementary boluses of drugs will be added.

      Mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), peripheral oxygen saturation (Spo2), and
      respiratory rate (RR) will be monitored continuously and be recorded at 5-min intervals
      during the study period by anesthesiologist 1. Patients will be allowed to breathe
      spontaneously without an artificial airway throughout the procedure. Oxygen will be
      administered via facemask.

      Quality of the MRI will be evaluated by a radiologist using a three-point scale (1 = no
      motion; 2 = minor movement; 3 = major movement necessitating another scan).

      Recovery time will be accepted as the period of time between the ends of MRI scan and
      reaching a UMSS score of 2 (by an anesthesiologist 2).

      Side effects (apnea, nausea, vomiting, laryngospasm, emergence agitation) could occur during
      and after sedation will be recorded.
    
  