
    
      Since 2003, the proportion of Canadians who were obese has increased 17.5%. Obesity is ranked
      as the fifth leading risk for mortality globally. Obesity has been strongly linked to
      numerous comorbidities, including type II diabetes, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, obstructive
      sleep apnea, heart disease, stroke, asthma, cancer, and depression.

      The pathophysiology of obesity is complex and inadequately understood. Nevertheless, an
      energy imbalance is fundamentally at fault. As recently as 1996, ghrelin, the hormonal
      stimulus for hunger was identified. Further research has revealed that ghrelin, predominantly
      produced in the fundus of the stomach, stimulates appetite and increases serum concentrations
      of growth hormone, adrenocorticotropic hormone, cortisol, prolactin, and glucose.

      Congruously, the complexity of obesity is reflected in the efficacy of modern therapy.
      Treatment for obesity lies along a spectrum of available modalities beginning with diet
      modification, exercise therapy, pharmacotherapy, and surgery. Despite initial positive
      results, diet and exercise frequently prove futile for long-term management of weight loss.
      Likewise, it is uncommon for diabetic remission to be achieved through pharmaco-therapeutic
      agents, most of the medications designed to stabilize and improve diabetic control. This has
      led to the advent of interventional treatment for these conditions.

      Bariatric surgery is the current gold-standard in the treatment of morbid obesity with recent
      evidence revealing that bariatric surgery is more effective than medical treatment for the
      long-term control of obese patients with type 2 diabetes. It is postulated that in addition
      to the restrictive effects associated with bariatric surgery, resection or disruption of the
      ghrelin producing regions of the stomach may play a significant role in eventual weight loss.

      The primary source of blood flow to the fundus of the stomach, where the majority of
      ghrelin-producing cells are found, is the left gastric artery. This artery is commonly
      accessed percutaneously for the management of refractory upper gastrointestinal bleeding.
      Embolizations are typically well tolerated, therefore, it has been purported that selective
      embolization of this artery could induce adequate ischemia to the fundus resulting in a rapid
      decrease in ghrelin-producing cells along with its neurological and metabolic effects.

      In 2007, Arepally et al reported a minimally-invasive method of destroying ghrelin-producing
      cells in a porcine model. With mixed success, Arepally was able to demonstrate a correlation
      between left gastric artery embolizations, weight loss, and fluctuations in ghrelin levels.
      Propagation of his efforts was performed by Bawudun et al, utilizing a liquid sclerosant and
      500-700-mm polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) particles as embolic agents, Bawudun was able to
      demonstrate significant decreases in ghrelin and body weight measurements in the experimental
      arms in a canine model. Subsequently, Paxton, et al. demonstrated lowered ghrelin levels and
      reduced weight gain utilizing 40-micron microsphere particle embolizations in a similar
      porcine model no duodenal upregulation for ghrelin was found. These studies also revealed
      potential complications including non-target embolization, frank gastric ulcerations, and
      gastritis.

      Following these preclinical animal studies, Gunn and Oklu performed a small retrospective
      study of patients who underwent a left gastric artery embolization for upper gastrointestinal
      bleeds. The results, although limited, revealed significant weight loss amongst the
      experimental group as compared with the control (patients who underwent embolization for
      upper gastrointestinal bleeds without left gastric artery selection). Kipshidze et al
      reported significant weight loss amongst all five patients who underwent the first-in-human
      prospective left gastric artery embolization trial utilizing 300-500 µm microspheres. Human
      trials have resulted in few reported complications, namely minor pyrosis and indigestion. The
      safety profile of the procedure is well reported given that elective left gastric artery
      embolizations are offered to stable patients with refractory non-variceal bleeds. Case
      reports have reported on the uncommon instances of hepatic infarction, gastric infarction,
      gastric volvulus, and arterial rupture.

      The momentum behind this procedure has led to the design and implementation of two phase I
      clinical trials [Gastric Artery Embolization Trial for the Lessening of Appetite
      Nonsurgically (GET LEAN) and Bariatric Embolization of Arteries for the Treatment of Obesity
      (BEAT Obesity)] which sought to demonstrate the safety profile of left gastric artery
      embolizations and demonstrate post-procedural weight loss.

      Results have been promising with weight loss and safety demonstrated in both trials.

      Minor complications included post-procedural nausea, vomiting, and mild epigastric discomfort
      which was treated with oral proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) following administration of one
      course of intravenous (IV) PPIs. 3 asymptomatic gastric ulcers were identified on
      post-procedural endoscopy however these resolved within 1 month (a 1-month endoscopy was
      performed).
    
  