
    
      A randomized clinical trial with intent-to-treat analysis will be performed involving
      critical patients at high risk for development of pressure ulcers, that is; those presenting
      a Braden ≤ 14 scale at ICU admission in a one year period.

      According to the Braden scale, six subscales or risk factors are validated: 1 - sensory
      perception, 2 - humidity, 3 - activity, 4 - mobility, 5 - nutrition and friction, and 6 -
      shearing. The total score varies from 6 to 23 points and patients are classified as: very
      high risk (scores less than or equal to nine), high risk (10 to 12 points), moderate risk (13
      to 14 points), low risk (15 to 18 points), and without risk (19 to 23 points).

      The exclusion criteria is aged less than 18 years, length of stay in the ICU less than 24
      hours, contraindication for the performance of the standard PU prevention measures of the
      institution, presence of PU at ICU admission, and absence of the Informed Consent Term (ICT).

      Randomization will be performed using a computerized table and patients will be allocated
      into two groups. Patients in the intervention group will be cared for according to the
      standard PU prevention measures of the institution and use a viscoelastic mattress as a
      bedding surface with the following characteristics: conventional density foam, density 40,
      and viscoelastic, density 60, polyurethane coated reinforced with 100% polyester mesh.
      Patients in the control group will be cared for according to standard PU prevention measures
      of the institution and use a pyramidal foam mattress as a support surface with a density of
      33.

      The institution's PU prevention measures are: apply body moisturizer after bathing without
      massaging bony prominences or areas with hyperemia; inspect the skin in the cephalo-caudal
      direction, especially the areas of bony prominences every 24 hours to observe hyperemias,
      dryness, heat, hardness, and maceration; rigorously evaluate whether the entire oral or
      enteral diet was ingested, taking into account the gastric residue and change in decubitus
      position every 2 hours; evaluate the need for application of dressings to protect bony
      protrusions from friction; always use the traction to mobilize the patient in the bed.

      As this is a non-pharmacological intervention, the blinding of the health team is not
      possible, however the statisticians responsible for the analyzes will be blind regarding the
      identity of the treatments. After the randomization, identification data will be collected,
      date of birth, gender, weight will be measured by the patient lift (Jack 250®), height
      measured by a tape measure, severity score (SAPS 3) on ICU admission, score of organ
      dysfunctions (SOFA), diagnosis of ICU admission, and the Braden scale.

      During the patient follow-up, the following data will be collected daily until discharge from
      the ICU; physical examination for the detection and classification of pressure ulcers,
      maximum vasopressor dose, and the Braden scale. After the first day, the accumulated fluid
      balance will be collected and in the course of the follow-up the date of discharge from the
      ICU and from the hospital. The main outcome of the study is considered as the occurrence of a
      stage 2 PU. Secondary outcomes are time spent in the ICU and hospital. The research was
      approved by the National Commission for Ethics in Research (CONEP), through the Certificate
      of Presentation for Ethical Appreciation (CAAE) no. 51644915.0.0000.5231, and the Committee
      for Ethics in Research Involving Humans of the Evangelical Beneficent Association of Londrina
      - AEBEL, according to Opinion no. 3/2015, of October 30, 2015. 4.3.1.

      The data will be analyzed in the MedCalc program for Windows, version 9.3.2.0 (MedCalc
      Software, Mariakerke, Belgium), establishing analyzes pertinent to this research. The level
      of significance adopted is 5% and the confidence interval is 95%.

      To demonstrate the difference between the study groups, considering the outcome variable the
      occurrence of stage 2 PUs, a significance level of 95%, power of 80%, ratio between exposed
      and unexposed of 1:1, frequency of outcome in the unexposed group of 80%, and frequency of
      outcome in the exposed of 30%, a sample size of 60 participants was calculated, 30 in each
      group.

      For the comparison of two groups of continuous variables with independent samples, the
      Student t test will be used for the variables with normal distribution. For cases where
      distribution is not normal, the Mann - Whitney test will be applied. Kaplan Meier curves will
      be constructed and the Log-rank test applied to compare the main outcome (PU stage 2) between
      the two study groups.
    
  