
    
      Primary myelofibrosis (PMF) is among the Philadelphia Chromosome Negative Myeloproliferative
      Disorders. This diagnosis can be present at a patient's initial diagnosis or it can arise out
      of preceding Polycythemia Vera or Essential Thrombocythemia. While the clinical course is
      variable, it is defined by varying degrees of splenomegaly, anemia, fatigue and other
      constitutional symptoms. Patients with PMF are at increased risk of acute leukemia, bone
      marrow failure and thrombosis. Currently, the only curative treatment for PMF is allogeneic
      stem cell transplant. However, as the median age at diagnosis is in the mid to late 60s, most
      patients are no longer candidates for transplant due to their age and/or other comorbid
      illnesses.

      Unfortunately, all other treatments for PMF are palliative in nature and often of limited
      efficacy. Over the last several years, many advances have occurred that have increased the
      safety and improved the outcomes of allogeneic transplants. Perhaps most important has been
      the ongoing refinement of reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) regimens prior to transplant.
      Over the last few years, many groups have published data suggesting that these RIC
      transplants can be very effective in the treatment of PMF and it is felt to be a potentially
      curative procedure. However, the vast majority of these data are reported in persons younger
      than 65 years old. The current protocol for RIC transplant for PMF available at the
      University of Utah excludes patients older than the age of 65.

      We would like to see if there is sufficient successful experience with transplant in persons
      older than 60 years old (including many older than 65 years of age) to justify the creation
      of a clinical trial using RIC regimens in this older age group. We will be reviewing the
      medical records of approximately 30 patients at four different institutions:

        -  University of Utah/Huntsman Cancer Hospital

        -  Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center

        -  Baylor College of Medicine

        -  M.D. Anderson Cancer Centers

      We will evaluate: engraftment rate, relapse rate, disease free survival, overall survival,
      causes of death and other pertinent statistics. We will compare the outcomes to appropriate
      historical controls. We hypothesize that RIC regimens may be justifiably safe in older
      patients with PMF and hope that our data will allow the development of a corollary clinical
      trial.
    
  