
    
      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common liver disease worldwide. NAFLD includes
      a spectrum of diseases raging from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH),
      cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma.

      The prevalence of NAFLD ranges from 20% in the general population to 80-90% in obese and/or
      diabetic patients. Type 2 diabetes is also associated with disease progression. Some genetic
      conditions are known to be related with NAFLD pathophysiology. Mutation of patatin like
      phospholipase domain containing 3 (PNPLA3) is the most frequent genetic disorder associated
      with NAFLD onset and its accelerated progression. Both type 2 diabetes and PNPL3 mutation are
      the better-known factors associated with liver fibrosis.

      More than the amount of lipid accumulation in the hepatocytes or of liver inflammation, the
      most important prognostic factors in NAFLD is fibrosis, which can occur in all stage of NAFLD
      disease, also in simple steatosis without inflammation or ballooning. Advanced fibrosis (F
      stage ≥ 3) has been related not only with liver-related death but also with death from all
      causes.

      In 2007 a noninvasive system, the NAFLD fibrosis score (NFS), was validated to identify NAFLD
      patients with advanced fibrosis. NFS ≥ 0.676 detects an advanced fibrosis (F3-F4) with a
      positive predictive value of 90%-82% while NFS ≤ -1.455 excludes advanced fibrosis with a
      negative predictive value of 93%-88%.

      In addition, in different settings, a score named Fibrosis-4 (FIB-4) was also validated to
      detect advanced fibrosis in patients with hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C virus /human
      immunodeficiency virus coinfection. Fib-4 ≤ 1.45 excludes advanced fibrosis with a negative
      predictive value of 90%, while Fib-4 ≥ 3.25 detects advanced fibrosis with a positive
      predictive value of 65%.

      Currently, little is known about biochemical and pharmacological factors predicting liver
      fibrosis evolution in large cohorts of NAFLD patients.

      Therefore, the primary aim of the study Is to investigate biochemical and pharmacological
      factors associated with fibrosis progression, identified as variations in noninvasive
      fibrosis scores, in a large population of patients with ultrasonography diagnosis of fatty
      liver disease.

      A growing number of evidences show a higher cardiovascular risk in patients with NAFLD. Most
      of the data are derived from diabetic patients and there are not data derived from ad hoc
      studies. In addition, there are only few data on factors predicting incident cardiovascular
      (CV) events in patients with NAFLD.

      Therefore, the secondary objective of the study is to investigate the association between
      NAFLD and CV events and to detect factors predicting CV events inception.
    
  