
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated doses and sequence of topotecan and ifosfamide
      that can be administered daily for 3 days on an every 4 week schedule in patients with
      refractory solid tumors. II. Evaluate toxicity of topotecan and ifosfamide when administered
      on this schedule in this patient population. III. Evaluate the pharmacokinetics related to
      sequencing of topotecan and ifosfamide and the more efficacious, less toxic schedule of
      treatment. IV. Assess the evidence of antineoplastic activity for this combination of agents.

      OUTLINE: This is an open label, dose escalation study. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive
      ifosfamide at an initial fixed dose plus escalating doses of topotecan by 30 minute infusion
      daily for 3 successive days. Cycle repeats every 28 days. After topotecan dosage is escalated
      for a total of 3 dose levels, then ifosfamide dose is escalated by one dose level. The first
      patient enrolled is treated with ifosfamide followed by topotecan for cycle 1, and for cycle
      2 the order of drugs is reversed. The second patient is treated with the same drugs but with
      topotecan administered before ifosfamide in the first cycle and then reversed in the second
      cycle. From the third cycle onward, ifosfamide is followed by topotecan, but the first two
      cycles continue to alternate with each subsequent patient entered. Filgrastim (granulocyte
      colony-stimulating factor; G-CSF) is given for all cycles on days 5-12 or until the absolute
      granulocyte count has reached its nadir and recovered. If there is no dose limiting toxicity
      (DLT) in a cohort, new patients are entered at the next highest dose level. If 1 of 3
      patients at any level experiences DLT, an additional 3 patients are treated at that level
      before proceeding to a higher level. If 2 or more patients experience DLT at any dose level,
      the level immediately preceding that level is defined as the maximum tolerated dose (MTD).
      Three more patients are treated at the MTD to ensure that no DLT is experienced at that
      level. After MTD is identified, 10 additional patients are accrued at that level. Patients
      with minor response, stable disease, or symptomatic or marker improvement may continue on
      treatment for up to 6 cycles. After 6 cycles, continuation on treatment is at the
      investigator's discretion.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: There will be a maximum of 24 patients accrued into this study over 8
      months.
    
  