
    
      The purpose is to compare treatment of NAS with two different initial medications with
      primary outcome of (1) reducing the duration of opiate medication treatment and (2) reducing
      the number of infants treated with a second medication.

      Design is a randomized, blinded comparison. The comparison is between methadone and morphine

      Research Design:

      a. Procedures: NAS scoring is currently done on infants meeting the inclusion criteria. NAS
      scores are done every 2 hours for 24 hours and then every 4 hours when awake after feeding
      for the duration of observation and treatment.

      i. NAS scores may indicate more than withdrawal. Conditions such as colic (hypercaloric
      formula, transient lactose intolerance), reflux, diaper irritation, prenatal SSRI exposure,
      and nicotine withdrawal or baseline irritability may influence the variability of scores.
      Decisions based on the NAS scores should take into account these factors for the infant.

      b. Emergence of symptom, dosing, and initiation of treatment: Withdrawal significant enough
      to warrant consideration for treatment is defined as 2 NAS scores >8. Once this threshold has
      been reached and consent obtained, the infant is randomized to treatment arm, stratified for
      prenatal exposure to methadone or buprenorphine. Twins will be randomized together to the
      same arm. The treatment arms are either: i. Methadone (1 mg/mL) or morphine (1 mg/mL)
      administered orally every 4 hours. The following is a dosing guide:

      NAS Score Methadone or Morphine 8-12 0.05 mg/kg/dose >13 0.1 mg/kg/dose

        1. Maximum dose of methadone or morphine will be 0.2 mg/kg/dose. (NeoFax)

        2. Additional doses, 0.05 mg/kg, may be given every 12 hours as needed and added to the
           next 24 hour's doses divided every 4 hours, until NAS scores are consistently <8 for 48
           hours.

        3. If the maximum dose of methadone or morphine is reached and if withdrawal is not
           controlled, the infant will be started on clonazepam (0.005 mg/kg/dose q 12h) per
           current treatment.

           c. Tapering medications: When the infant has NAS scores consistently <8 for 36 hours:
           i.The taper will be on a daily basis of 10% of the final maintenance dose. Dosages will
           be decreased in a measured amount to maintain NAS scores <8. After the last dose, there
           will be a 24 to 36 hour observation period.

           d.Non-tolerance of tapering: Non-tolerance of tapering is defined as 2 NAS scores >8
           during the 12 hour period prior to the next taper dose: i.The tapering should be stopped
           at the current level. ii.If necessary, an extra dose of methadone or morphine can be
           given and added to the next day's dose divided into 6 doses. If withdrawal re-emerges
           after this dose (2 NAS scores >8), then the maintenance dose should be increased back to
           the last level; an extra dose may be given up to 4 to 5 hours after the previous dose.

           iii. If an extra dose is not given, the wean schedule can be resumed after 24 hours of
           NAS scores <8; when dosing is resumed, the frequency should be changed to every 4 hours
           with the same total daily dose.

           e. Holding of doses: Methadone or morphine will be held for poor feeding, respiratory
           depression, or somnolence at any time in the protocol.
    
  