
    
      You will have a positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) scan to check the
      status of the disease. For up to 6 hours before the PET/CT scan, you must not eat or drink
      anything except water. A small tube will be placed in your arm, and you will receive an
      injection of a very small amount of a mildly radioactive sugar material into your
      bloodstream. The radioactive nature of this injected material allows the scanner to "see" it
      in certain places in your body. After the injection, you will need to rest quietly until it
      is time for the scan. The amount of rest time may vary, but be prepared to wait for between
      45 and 90 minutes. During the scan, you will lie flat on your back on a table. The scan
      itself may last up to 1 hour.

      The study doctor will discuss the test results with you. If the test shows that you are not
      eligible to take part in the study, you will not be enrolled. Other treatment options will be
      discussed with you.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. You have an equal chance of being assigned to
      either group.

      If you are in Group 1, you will have an extraperitoneal laparoscopic lymphadenectomy followed
      by chemoradiation therapy.

      If you are in Group 2, you will receive standard-of-care chemoradiation therapy only.

      Study Procedure and Visits:

      If you are in Group 1, you will have an extraperitoneal laparoscopic lymphadenectomy, a
      procedure where surgeons remove and examine the lymph nodes in the abdomen. The study doctor
      will explain the risks for this procedure to you and you will sign a separate surgical
      consent form. This procedure will be performed 7-10 days before chemoradiation treatment
      begins.

      During the laparoscopy procedure, a telescope-like instrument with a small camera on the end
      (a laparoscope) will be placed through a small cut in the abdomen. Three (3) other small cuts
      will be made to place instruments that may be needed to complete the surgery. Before the
      laparoscope is inserted, carbon dioxide gas will be pumped into your abdomen making it easier
      for the surgeon to see. The laparoscope will then be placed through the small cut. Using a TV
      monitor, the surgeon will use the camera to find the lymph nodes in the abdomen and then
      remove them. After the procedure is finished, the carbon dioxide gas will be removed and you
      will be taken to the recovery room.

      If these lymph nodes contain cancer, the area of the body treated with radiation can be
      "extended" to treat new areas. Future treatment options will be based on what is found. This
      means that radiation will be used to treat both the lymph nodes in the abdomen and the
      standard area of radiation in the pelvis.

      Participants in both groups will then have radiation for 5 days in a row for 5 to 5½ weeks.
      If the study doctor thinks it is needed and you agree, you will have extra radiation
      treatments.

      Participants in both groups will receive cisplatin chemotherapy by vein over about 2 hours, 1
      time every week for about 6 weeks. In most cases, treatment is given on Mondays (Days 1, 8,
      15, 22, 29, and 36).

      After 5 to 5½ weeks of chemotherapy and radiation treatment, participants in both groups will
      receive implants in the pelvis for about 48 hours. You will remain in the hospital at this
      time. The study doctor will explain the risks for this procedure to you and you will sign a
      separate surgical consent form.

      Length of Study:

      You may be on study for up to 5 years. Your participation on the study will be over after you
      have completed radiation treatment and the follow-up visits described below. You may be taken
      off study if intolerable side effects occur or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      The following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a PET scan to check the status of the disease 3 months after you complete
           radiation treatment.

        -  You have a CT scan to check the status of the disease every 6 months for the next 3
           years after that.

      You will visit the clinic for a physical exam:

        -  Every 3 months for the first 2 years

        -  Every 6 months for the next 3 years, and

        -  One (1) time each year after that, up to 5 years

      This is an investigational study. The extraperitoneal laparoscopic lymphadenectomy is
      considered investigational. Chemoradiation treatment is FDA approved for the treatment of
      cervical cancer.

      Up to 600 patients will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 40 will be enrolled at MD
      Anderson. Up to 15 will be enrolled at the Harris Health System.
    
  