
    
      Although they represent only 15% of the larger homeless population, chronically homeless
      people utilize substantially more services. This finding is understandable given that chronic
      homelessness is characterized by long or frequent episodes of homelessness paired with
      medical, psychiatric, and substance use disorders. Although epidemiologic data for
      chronically homeless people are scarce, studies conducted with the larger homeless population
      indicate that 80% of homeless people report current alcohol use, and 38% have severe alcohol
      use disorders (AUDs). This disproportionately problematic use results in alcohol-attributable
      mortality that is 6 to 10 times higher than in the general US population. Alcohol-related
      harm impacts the affected individual; however, it also has secondhand effects on the larger
      community as well, including caretaking burden, noise complaints, verbal altercations, and
      physical and sexual assault.

      Unfortunately, the most widely available approach-individual-level, abstinence-based
      treatment-does not effectively engage or treat this population. In our prior research,
      chronically homeless people with AUDs indicated they were not interested in abstinence-based
      approaches, having experienced a mean of 16 abstinence-based treatment episodes in their
      lifetimes. Further, our research has shown that improvements in alcohol outcomes in this
      population are associated with intrinsic motivation for change but not with abstinence-based
      treatment attendance. Instead, chronically homeless people with AUDs have indicated that they
      prefer community-based, harm-reduction approaches that support their own self-defined
      pathways to recovery. They are particularly interested in creative and socially engaging
      activities that bear personal meaning.

      As applied to alcohol use, harm reduction refers to a broad range of compassionate and
      pragmatic approaches applied at the individual, community, population or policy levels that
      aim to reduce alcohol-related harm and improve quality of life (QoL) for affected people and
      their communities. Housing First, also referred to as harm-reduction housing, is one such
      approach. Housing First entails the provision of immediate, permanent, low-barrier,
      supportive housing without preconditions such as alcohol abstinence or treatment attendance.
      Our own and others' research has shown Housing First to be associated with reductions in
      alcohol-related harm as well as publicly funded service utilization and cost (e.g., emergency
      medical services, emergency department, jail) for people experiencing chronic homelessness.
      Despite these positive outcomes, many Housing First residents still experience
      alcohol-related harm due to their own and their neighbors' alcohol use. There is thus a need
      for further interventions to address alcohol use in this setting.

      In response to this need, our research team used a community-based participatory research
      approach to work together with Housing First residents, management and staff to develop and
      initially test the effectiveness of a community-level intervention, the Life Enhancing
      Alcohol-management Program (LEAP) to improve alcohol and quality-of-life (QoL) outcomes for
      residents living in Housing First settings (K01AA021147; PI: Clifasefi). We first conducted
      needs assessments with residents, staff, and management and then formed a community advisory
      board to oversee the development, implementation, and evaluation of the LEAP. Together, we
      developed LEAP values, processes, and components. LEAP components for residents included
      leadership opportunities, LEAP activities, and pathways to recovery. Once developed, the LEAP
      was tested in a nonrandomized controlled pilot (N=116) with residents at 3 Housing First
      sites: 2 sites served as services-as-usual control sites and 1 received LEAP. Findings were
      promising: LEAP participants reported significantly more engagement in meaningful activities
      than control participants. This finding is important because engagement in meaningful
      activities is associated with improved medical, psychiatric, and substance-use outcomes. In
      within-subjects analyses, LEAP participants showed significant pre-post reductions in alcohol
      use and alcohol-related problems. These changes showed a dose-response effect based on
      participants' attendance at LEAP activities: high levels of LEAP programming engagement (>2
      activities per month) predicted significant reductions in alcohol quantity and
      alcohol-related harm (ps < .01).

      To establish a more definitive evidence base for LEAP, we propose to test LEAP effectiveness
      using a 2-arm, 12-month, cluster-randomized controlled trial at 10 Housing First sites
      (N=500). Sites will be randomized to the services-as-usual control or LEAP conditions.
      Quantitative analyses will test LEAP effectiveness in improving participants' alcohol and QoL
      outcomes from baseline through the 3, 6-, and 12-month follow-up assessments.

      The specific aims are to test:

        1. LEAP effectiveness in reducing alcohol use and alcohol-related harm and improving QoL.
           Compared to controls, LEAP participants will report less alcohol use; less first- and
           secondhand alcohol-related harm; and improved health-related and general QoL over the
           follow-up.

        2. Group differences in participants' engagement in meaningful activities as well as its
           role as a mediator of changes on alcohol and QoL outcomes.

             1. Over time, it is expected that LEAP participants will report more engagement in
                meaningful activities than control participants.

             2. It is expected that greater engagement in meaningful activities will explain the
                hypothesized positive LEAP effect on outcomes.

        3. LEAP effects on costs associated with healthcare and criminal justice service
           utilization (i.e., emergency medical services, emergency department services, jail).
           Compared to control participants, LEAP participants will show greater decreases in
           service utilization costs over time.
    
  