
    
      A randomised interventional clinical care pathway study of early supported discharge (termed
      'HOME FIRST') versus standard hospital care for patients hospitalised with LRTI.

      HOME FIRST will provide co-ordinated multidisciplinary team (MDT) care, provision of 24hr
      emergency telephone cover, access to fully trained respiratory study nurse(s) and study
      doctor(s). The HOME FIRST MDT consists of:

        -  Study doctors (trained respiratory physicians - consultants and senior SpRs)

        -  Highly trained respiratory specialist nursing staff

        -  Close links with a physiotherapist (mobility and respiratory)

        -  Home help provision (temporary assistance with ADLs by carers) which may include
           occupational therapy or social worker involvement (HOME FIRST has fast access to
           meals-on-wheels)

        -  Close links with pharmacy for rapid dispensing of discharge medication.

      Patients hospitalised with LRTI at the Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen (RLBUHT) Teaching
      Hospitals between October 2012 and April 2014 will be approached.

      Patients (or the next of kin if the patient is unable to give informed consent) will be
      offered participation in the study if they fit the strict inclusion/exclusion criteria. They
      will be then be randomised to receive HOME FIRST or standard hospital care (SHC). The
      investigators will aim to recruit 25 patients to each arm of the study.

      Patients randomised to HOME FIRST care will initially receive up to twice daily respiratory
      specialist nurse visits for the first 48 hours. After this time period, the frequency and
      duration of visits will depend on clinical need. The study nurse will establish the need for
      the involvement of other MDT team members. Laboratory tests will be performed as clinically
      indicated at the discretion of the study team. Venepuncture will be performed by fully
      trained research staff for clinical purposes as needed in the HOME FIRST limb: as for those
      patients in the SHC limb frequency of venepuncture depends on clinical assessment of need by
      their regular medical team.

      Patients randomised to standard hospital care (SHC) - All management and discharge decisions
      will be made by the patient's usual hospital team. Clinical tests will be performed at the
      discretion of the medical team. If any significant or concerning clinical issues are noted
      during study team's visits, the usual medical team will be alerted.

      All patients will be discussed at a weekly case-note MDT meeting. All patients will be
      followed-up on discharge in the 'Respiratory Infection' out-patient clinic (in the patient's
      own home if necessary) at 6 weeks, with a repeat chest X-ray if needed.
    
  