
    
      Adolescents (ages 13 to 18) with TTH will be randomly assigned to either a Hatha yoga
      intervention (n = 20) or a wait-list control condition (n = 20). The yoga intervention will
      consist of 8 weekly classes lasting one hour each taught by an experienced yoga teacher. Each
      class will have a maximum of 10 participants. A baseline assessment including an experimental
      pain protocol, questionnaires, and hair samples (to determine cortisol concentrations in the
      past month) will be completed prior to the intervention. Biweekly questionnaires will be
      completed by both intervention and wait-list groups during the 8-week intervention period.
      The post-intervention assessment will include the experimental pain protocol, questionnaires,
      and hair samples (to determine cortisol concentrations in the past month). The wait-list
      control group will subsequently receive the yoga intervention and complete post-intervention
      and follow-up assessments (i.e., the wait-list group will complete one more experimental pain
      protocol and will provide one more hair sample than the intervention group); these data will
      then be merged with that of the yoga group to examine pre- and post-intervention effects.
      Both intervention and wait-list groups will complete questionnaires 3 months following
      completion of the yoga protocol.

      Specific Aim 1: To determine the safety, feasibility, and acceptability of an 8-week Hatha
      Yoga Protocol (HYP) in adolescents (ages 13 to 18) with tension-type headache (CTTH).
      Hypothesis: At least 80% of adolescents will complete the HYP. Attrition rates will be
      compared between HYP and control groups to determine whether results may be biased given
      different durations of the study protocols between the two groups and interval between
      recruitment and intervention (i.e., control group will be in the protocol for two additional
      months and the intervention will be delayed by 8 weeks).

      Specific Aim 2: To evaluate changes in primary outcomes (frequency and intensity of
      headaches, pain-related functional disability, health-related quality of life, medication
      use) from baseline to post-intervention in the HYP and usual care wait-list controls.
      Hypothesis: Participants in the HYP group will demonstrate greater reduction in headache
      frequency and intensity, decreases in pain-related functional disability, improvement in
      health-related quality of life, and reduction in medication use compared to wait-list
      controls from baseline to post-intervention. Secondary analyses will examine changes from
      pre- to post-intervention for the entire sample once the waitlist group has completed the
      HYP; in addition, sustained intervention effects will be determined by examining changes from
      post-intervention to 3-month follow-up for the entire sample.

      Specific Aim 3: To assess changes in potential mediators of clinical outcomes following the
      HYP, including responses to experimental pain [conditioned pain modulation (CPM), temporal
      summation to second pain (TSSP)], alterations in stress response systems [hair cortisol
      concentrations, self-reported stress levels, stress hormone responses to experimental pain
      (cortisol, alpha-amylase, DHEA), heart rate variability responses to experimental pain] and
      pain-related cognitions (catastrophizing, self-efficacy, acceptance). Hypothesis:
      Participants in the HYP group will show increased CPM, decreased TSSP, reduced hair cortisol
      concentrations and self-reported stress levels, lower cortisol and alpha-amylase responses to
      experimental pain, higher DHEA responses to experimental pain, lower heart rate variability
      prior to experimental pain, reduced pain catastrophizing, increased pain self-efficacy, and
      increased pain acceptance compared to wait-list controls at post-intervention.

      Although yoga has shown promise as a complementary health approach for chronic pain in
      adults, few studies have examined the potential efficacy of yoga for adolescents with chronic
      pain. Anticipated findings from the proposed study will help to determine whether - and how -
      an 8-week yoga intervention can improve pain-related outcomes in adolescents with TTH; these
      findings will be critical for refinement of the HYP for youth with TTH and for the design and
      implementation of a larger-scale, randomized controlled trial with an active control
      condition.

      Background and Significance

      TTH is common in youth and associated with significant functional disability. Complementary
      health approaches such as Hatha yoga, which emphasize physical postures, breathing exercises,
      and meditation, have been shown to reduce chronic pain-related disability. The only known
      pilot study of yoga for youth with headache showed moderate but non-significant improvement
      in daily functioning from baseline to post-intervention (Hainsworth et al., 2014). A
      randomized controlled trial of yoga for headache pain in adults found that the yoga group
      exhibited reduced migraine frequency and intensity, lower pain severity, and less medication
      use for headache compared to the control group after 12 weeks. Potential mechanisms
      underlying improvements in pain outcomes following yoga interventions include physiological,
      behavioral and psychological changes. Adults with TTH are characterized by impaired CPM and
      enhanced TSSP. Moreover, increased pain sensitivity in adults with TTH appears to be
      exacerbated by chronic stress, sustained physiological arousal, and negative cognitions. The
      proposed study addresses a critical gap in the literature by investigating the safety,
      feasibility, and efficacy of Hatha yoga as a complementary treatment approach for youth with
      TTH.

      Preliminary Studies

      Members of this research team have previously employed a similar experimental pain protocol
      to demonstrate elevated TSSP in female adolescents with functional abdominal pain, elevated
      TSSP in adolescents with both functional abdominal pain and a history of physical or sexual
      assault/abuse, and racial differences in both TSSP and CPM in healthy youth ages 10 to 17.

      Sample Size Justification and Statistical Analysis Plan

      Sample size estimation: Prior yoga interventions in youth with chronic pain suggest
      medium-to-large effect sizes (Cohen's d comparing mean changes from baseline to
      post-intervention) for indices of changes in pain-related functional disability. For power
      calculations, G*Power 3.1.9.2 was used to estimate the sample size required for estimated
      effect sizes ranging from .50 to .80. Assuming a Type I error rate of α = .05 and statistical
      power of 0.80, results indicated a range from 16 to 34 total participants. Assuming a 20%
      attrition rate and adopting the more conservative anticipated total n = 34, the investigators
      estimate that 40 total subjects will need to be recruited (20 per group).

      Data analytic strategy: Group differences in primary outcomes (Specific Aim 2) will be tested
      using analysis of covariance, controlling for baseline scores on these outcome variables. An
      intent-to-treat analysis of primary outcome measures (including all enrolled participants and
      utilizing the last observation carry forward approach) will be conducted to confirm findings
      in participants who complete the HYP.

      A series of linear regressions will test the direct effects of the intervention on outcome
      variables and the indirect effects of mediators on the relationship between mediator and
      outcome (Specific Aim 3). Mediation analyses will be run using the Preacher and Hayes (2008)
      SPSS Macro for Multiple Mediation. In order for statistical mediation to occur, two criteria
      are necessary: 1) there is an effect to be mediated (i.e., a significant association between
      intervention and the outcome), and 2) the indirect effect of intervention on outcome via
      mediator was significant. The indirect effect will be considered significant at the p < .05
      level if the corresponding bootstrapped confidence interval does not contain zero.
      Bootstrapping procedures will test each mediation model by generating a 95% confidence
      interval (bias corrected) around the indirect effect test statistic in a series of 1000
      Bootstrap samples repeatedly drawn from the full sample.

      Potential limitations. The pilot study sample size is modest but will yield critical data
      regarding effect sizes for primary pain-related outcome variables as well as potential
      mediators of treatment effects.
    
  