
    
      Indiana University School of Medicine and the Indiana University Institute of Personalized
      Medicine in collaboration with the Eskenazi Health and IUH Systems will be conducting a NIH
      funded randomized trial beginning in 2014. The study will evaluate the economic and clinical
      outcomes of associated with embedding a pharmacogenomics program in a system that serves as a
      health care safety-net in Indianapolis, Indiana, and handles over 1.2 million outpatient
      visits a year at its hospital and network of 10 community health centers. There are over
      990,000 outpatient visits and 15,000 adult admissions annually, and the payor mix includes
      45% uninsured, 26% Medicaid and 18% Medicare patients. This health care system has more than
      40 years of experience in digital medical record implementation and a proven track record of
      innovation in medical informatics that is based in the Regenstrief Institute.

      The goal of Personalized Medicine (PM) is to implement advances in biomarker pharmacology,
      molecular diagnostics and genomics to improve the health of patients afflicted by a wide
      range of medical conditions. Dramatic advances in genomics have identified numerous
      disease/therapeutic associations now placing this goal within sight. For the full benefits of
      personalized genomic medicine to be realized, it is now critical that progress made on a
      small scale be extended. The fruits of outstanding scientific discovery are often enjoyed by
      a small number of academic medical centers but are not scalable, and therefore not available
      to the masses of patients found in larger health care systems. In addition, such advances
      often bypass underserved populations, resulting significant inequalities of care.

      Study Aims:

      Aim 1: To test the hypothesis that a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment certified
      genotyping targeted at 24 widely used drugs is associated with significant reductions in
      hospital and outpatient economic costs incurred over 1 year.

      Aim2: To test whether pharmacogenetic testing is associated with significant improvements in
      clinical outcomes over 1 year.

      The INGENIOUS trial will enroll a total of 6,000 patients, with 2,000 patients assigned to a
      pharmacogenetic testing arm and 4,000 to a control arm who will be followed, but not tested.
      The study is prospective since practice patterns change, and retrospective designs cannot be
      used to assess the impact of a prospective change. It is randomized between an intervention
      arm and one that receives no intervention in order that a genotyped group can be compared
      with one in which undisturbed, routine clinical care is carried out in patients taking the
      same drugs. Both arms will be followed for a year. Subjects will be enrolled starting at 6
      months into the funding period, and investigators will enroll subjects for a total of 2
      years, so that the last person enrolled will be at 2.5 years, and follow up will be completed
      at 3.5 years, allowing 6 months for analysis at the end of the study. A pharmacogenetic test,
      involving 51 Single nucleotide polymorphisms in 16 genes will be carried out at the beginning
      of the study in patients in the testing arm upon prompting by an index medication: one of 24
      selected as being supported by validated guidelines.
    
  