
    
      Claudication due to peripheral artery disease (PAD) causes patients to walk less and slower,
      lose independence in daily living activities, and be sedentary compared to their healthy
      counterparts. The investigators' research has identified functional limitations in the
      walking patterns of claudicating patients. The most prominent and consistent deficit is of
      the posterior calf muscles, the ankle plantarflexors, to generate healthy ankle torque and
      power during walking. Previous work in the investigators' laboratory has established that
      these functional deficits are related to the presence of a myopathy in the legs of patients
      with PAD which is characterized by myofiber degeneration and muscle fibrosis. An intervention
      that compensates for impaired muscle physiology and performance is needed to improve walking
      ability and independence in patients with PAD.

      The long-term goal of this project is to improve the quality of life of patients with PAD by
      using assistive exoskeletons. Currently, there is a critical treatment gap for those patients
      with PAD whose disease presentation does not warrant operative revascularization (based on
      risk-benefit analysis that considers multiple factors including disease severity, comorbid
      conditions and operative risk), but who desire to regain their walking ability and
      independence. Ankle-foot orthoses have recently been implemented to reduce the demands for
      biological ankle plantarflexor torque and to compensate for power deficiency. Biological
      ankle torque/power is torque/power generated by the plantarflexor muscles apart from that
      provided by an assistive device. The investigators have developed a lightweight and low-cost
      3D printable elastic exoskeleton and footwear combination called exoskeleton footwear (EF).
      The EF assists with push-off by using springs that mimic ankle plantarflexor forces.
      Exoskeletons that assist propulsion address both the myopathy and low blood flow problems
      associated with claudication. Mechanical force from the EF compensates for insufficient
      muscle propulsion force, while decreasing blood flow demand and the muscular stress caused by
      ischemia. A properly designed exoskeleton will likely allow patients with PAD to walk longer
      without pain or walk the distance needed for completing daily activities with less stress to
      the affected leg. As a first step the investigators propose to determine the effect of EF on
      walking performance, focusing on how different levels of EF support contribute to changes in
      the biological ankle torque and power, energy cost, and calf muscle oxygenation. The
      investigators will test healthy older adults to ensure and confirm comfort, low risk of
      injury to the foot and calf, and high potential for device adoption in patients with PAD.

      The EF will then be evaluated in patients with PAD. Healthy older individuals are selected
      for the initial phase of the project because, like patients with PAD, they produce less
      push-off torque and power during walking compared with healthy young; making them an
      appropriate model for PAD limitations. Furthermore, compared to patients with PAD, healthy
      older can tolerate longer walking trials, which are necessary to identify effective device
      parameters and also have a significantly lower risk of developing foot and calf injuries
      while the comfort and shape of the EF are assessed and adjusted to accommodate individuals
      with different foot and leg morphologies.

      Hypothesis: Walking performance will improve with EF in healthy older and patients with PAD.
      The investigators hypothesize there will be an EF assistance level to satisfy
      subject-reported preference and walking performance goals.

      Specific Aim 1: To determine the levels of EF assistance force which produce better walking
      performance in older subjects. Improvements in walking performance will be assessed by
      measuring how different levels of EF assistance contribute to changes in the biological ankle
      torque and power during push-off, the energy cost of walking, and the calf muscle oxygenation
      during walking.

      Specific Aim 2: To determine the levels of EF assistance force which produce better
      subject-reported preference in older subjects. Preference will be measured using
      visual-analog scales, perceived exertion and pain questionnaires, and interview-style surveys
      about acceptability (satisfaction, intent to use), demand (perceived demand), and
      practicality (effects, ability of participants to use EF).

      Specific Aim 3: To determine the effect of EF assistance levels on walking performance and
      subject-reported preference in patients with PAD. Results from Aims 1 and 2 will guide the
      assistance levels tested in this aim.

      Research Design and Methods Healthy elderly will be evaluated in a total of seven conditions
      in Aims #1 and #2: five different EF stiffness levels including EF: Stiffness 1 (5.6 kN/m),
      EF Stiffness 2 (7.9 kN/m), EF Stiffness 3 (10.5 kN/m), EF Stiffness 4 (13.3 kN/m), EF
      Stiffness 5 (17.2 kN/m), EF with a disengaged spring and one normal walking condition (no
      EF).

      PAD patients will be evaluated in four conditions in Aim #3: two different EF stiffness
      levels, one condition in which the subjects will wear the EF with a disengaged spring and one
      normal walking condition (no EF). Spring stiffness will be adjusted as a function of body
      mass to provide a normalized torque input across subjects. These stiffness levels were chosen
      based on previous research work using a similar, device in healthy young individuals. The EF
      will be set to release the spring at 42% of the stride. Increases in energy cost at stiffness
      values above and below the optimal value will be an indicator the stiffness levels are within
      the appropriate scale. Healthy older adults and patients with PAD will be tested to determine
      the effect of EF assistance force on walking performance and energy cost and subject-reported
      preference with varying EF assistance levels

      A total of 50 adults, ages 50 years and older from the Nebraska and Western Iowa Veterans
      Affairs' Medical Center (VAMC) and the surrounding Omaha community to complete Aims 1 and 2
      will be recruited. Aim 3 will include 25 patients with PAD recruited from the VAMC.

      Data collection Protocol for Aims #1 and #2:

      Walking: Subjects will complete seven minutes of walking at their preferred walking speed on
      an instrumented treadmill (AMTI, Watertown, MA) while kinetics and kinematics are captured at
      100 Hz with a 17 camera digital motion capture system (Cortex 6.2, Motion Analysis Corp,
      Santa Rosa, CA). The three minutes of walking will be for subjects to get accustomed to the
      new assistance level in the EF. Preferred walking speed will be determined prior to
      collecting any data and it will be held consistent across the seven conditions.

      Subject will also walk on flat ground for seven different conditions.

      Muscle Oxygenation: Bilateral gastrocnemius muscle oxygenation (StO2) will be measured using
      continuous-wave near infrared spectroscopy (PortaMon, Artinis Medical System, Netherlands)
      before, during and after each treadmill walking condition (described above).

      Energy cost: A portable metabolic cart will be used to measure gas exchange on a
      breath-by-breath basis, providing a measure of oxygen consumption during each of the seven
      treadmill walking conditions.

      Perceived comfort and fatigue: A visual analog scale will be used to capture subjects'
      perception of comfort and fatigue after each treadmill and flat ground condition. The visual
      analog scale will range from 0 (low comfort; high fatigue) to 10 (high comfort; low fatigue).

      Rate of perceived exertion: Self-reported perceived exertion values from the Borg Rate of
      Perceived Exertion scale (6 (no exertion) to 20 (maximal exertion)) will be recorded after
      each condition.

      Data collection Protocol for Aims #3:

      Walking performance and subject-reported preference will be assessed in the same manner as in
      Aims 1 and 2 except the treadmill walking test will be replaced with maximum walking distance
      tests (see description below). For this reason, testing will be divided into two days, with
      two maximum walking distances tests completed on each day. Subjects will rest until any
      claudication pain subsides between each maximum walking distance tests. Subjects will
      complete testing of the same outcomes (1-7 below) exactly as described in Aims 1 and 2 and
      maximum walking times (8 below). Maximum walking times are the best indicator of the
      implications of PAD on daily walking ability and participation in community activities.

      All outcomes from the older subject's protocol will be assessed for PAD patients including 1)
      walking: On the treadmill test, biomechanics variables during the zero degree incline portion
      of the test will be collected. Rest time will be given between the conditions as needed for
      claudication pain to subside.

      2) Muscle oxygenation, 3) Energy cost, 4) Perceived comfort and fatigue, 5) Rate of perceived
      exertion, 6) Feasibility.

      Two additional outcomes measured for the PAD patients will be:

      Perceived pain: Following the approach of perceived comfort and fatigue, a visual analog
      scale will be used to capture subjects' perception of pain after each condition. The visual
      analog scale will range from 0 (no pain) to 10 (intense pain) and will be assess after each
      EF condition.

      Claudication Onset and Peak Walking Times: Walking ability will be determined with a
      progressive-load treadmill test with initial and maximum claudication distances as outcomes.
      Patients will walk on a treadmill that starts at 0% grade and 2.0 mph. Every two minutes, the
      grade will be increase by 2% up to a maximum of 15% grade, and the speed held constant
      throughout the test. The initial distance walked prior to the onset of pain (Claudication
      Onset Time - COT) and the distance patients walked until the test had to be stopped due to
      pain (Peak Walking Time -PWT) will be the outcome measures.
    
  