
    
      Patients with cirrhosis are prone to infections due to the abnormal bacterial translocation
      and immune dysfunction. Infections are more common when these patients are admitted into the
      hospital. Infections are life-threatening complications of cirrhosis which can precipitate
      hepatic encephalopathy, acute kidney injury, and the acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF)
      syndrome. The survival rate is significantly decreased once infections set in, especially
      when the first-line empirical antibiotic therapy is insufficient or inappropriate. Moreover,
      the prevalence of multi-drug-resistant organism (MDRO) is naturally increasing across the
      world due to the overuse of antibiotics. Patients with cirrhosis, especially those at the
      decompensated stage are at high risk of developing MDRO due to recurrent hospitalizations and
      repeatedly exposed to antibiotics either for treatment or prophylactic purposes. Empiric
      antibiotic therapy could be very difficult without understanding the profile of antibiotic
      resistance and could be varied significantly among different areas.

      The issue of infection in patients with cirrhosis has been recently highlighted by
      International Club of Ascites with its "GLOBAL" study (ILC2018, GS-001) showing that the
      global prevalence of MDRO across the world was 34% (95% CI=31-37%). The prevalence of MDRO
      varies across the world with the highest in India followed by South America and other Asian
      countries. The source of acquisition (Community acquire, health-care related or nosocomial
      origin), site of infection (Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, urinary tract, blood,
      respiratory tract, etc.) and category of the organism (Gram negative or positive) had an
      influence on the prevalence of MDRO and response to empirical antibiotic treatment. The
      results highlight the need to develop different empirical antibiotic strategies across
      different continents and countries, although China was not included in this study.
      Epidemiology data and investigation on the role of bacterial/fungal infection in patients
      with cirrhosis from China is therefore urgently needed.

      The overarching aim of this study is to investigate the epidemiology and clinical impact of
      bacterial/fungal infections in hospitalized patients with liver cirrhosis in China within the
      collaborative network. We also aimed to build up the national prospective cohort of
      hospitalized cirrhosis in China to stand in the future for the backbone of various research
      programs focused on infection, other complications of cirrhosis, organ failure, the ACLF
      syndrome, end-stage liver disease and beyond.
    
  