
    
      Timely decompression of post-hemorrhagic hydrocephalus (PHH) due to intraventricular
      hemorrhage in premature babies is key to reducing long-term cognitive and motor disability.
      Exactly when to place a ventricular shunt for decompression and alleviation of increased
      intracranial pressure (ICP) remains a dilemma for neurosurgeons, and the only guidance is
      based on changes in size of the ventricles not necessarily reflective of cerebral
      hemodynamics. There is a dire need for a novel diagnostic tool that can perform serial,
      bedside assessment of cerebral perfusion. At times, intermittent shunting may be needed
      depending on the dynamic changes in brain perfusion, and this is not practical with the
      current diagnostic tools. While most diagnostic techniques require sedation or transport
      (i.e. magnetic resonance imaging), few available bedside techniques (i.e. near infrared
      spectroscopy or Doppler ultrasound) are limited soft tissue contrast, depth of penetration,
      and/or ability to quantify cerebral perfusion. Potential long-term effects of sedation in
      neonates are also relatively unknown. In this regard, contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) is
      easily repeatable technique that can be performed at bedside in less than 5 minutes and
      provide dynamic cerebral perfusion quantification. The aim of the proposed project is
      therefore to utilize the CEUS technique to detect cerebral perfusion changes before and after
      ventricular shunting in neonatal cases of PHH. The specific hypothesis behind the proposed
      research is that impaired cerebral perfusion in PHH correlates with long-term cognitive and
      motor disability. The hypothesis is based on the following evidence. First, substantial data
      from animal studies of hydrocephalus demonstrate a significant role of impaired cerebral
      hemodynamics in the pathophysiology of brain injury in PHH. Second, animal studies have
      clearly shown that early treatment of hydrocephalus reduces brain injury and cognitive
      development. Third, preliminary studies of human infants validate aforementioned findings
      from animal studies. The expectation of the proposed project is to validate statistically
      significant cerebral perfusion differences before and after shunting in neonates with PHH, as
      a preliminary feasibility study prior to conducting a large scale, prospective clinical trial
      incorporating therapeutic interventions.
    
  