
    
      Untreated mental illness and substance use disorders are prevalent and can have devastating
      consequences for the individual, their families and the community. Co-occurring opioid use
      disorders (OUD) with either depressive disorders and/or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
      are of particular concern, because depression and PTSD are prevalent in people with OUD,
      co-occurring mental illness is linked to an increased risk for opioid misuse and overdose,
      and because of the high prevalence of the chronic use of prescription opioids in individuals
      with mental illness, a risk factor for heroin use and the development of an OUD. Primary care
      is an important and underutilized setting in which to provide treatment for all three
      disorders, because OUD, depression and PTSD are frequently co-morbid with medical conditions.
      However, despite the effectiveness of treatments for all three disorders, many individuals
      never receive treatment; and, when treatment is provided, quality is low. With the rising
      number of opioid-related fatalities, this is a critical treatment and quality gap in a
      vulnerable and stigmatized population. Collaborative care (CC) has never been tested with
      co-occurring disorders (COD), despite research by our team suggesting it may be effective. CC
      consists of a team of providers that includes a care coordinator, a primary care provider
      (PCP) and a behavioral health consultant (BHC), who provide evidence- and measurement-based
      care to a panel of patients using a clinical registry. In our CC model for COD (CC-COD), the
      CC team also includes a behavioral health psychotherapist (BHP); the evidence-based
      treatments supported include medications for OUD (MOUD), pharmacotherapy for depression and
      PTSD, motivational interviewing (MI), problem solving therapy (PST) and Written Exposure
      Therapy (WET).

      The current study consists of a multi-site, randomized pragmatic trial in 13 rural and urban
      primary care clinics located in Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSA) of New Mexico to
      adapt, harmonize and then test whether CCCOD improves access, quality and outcomes for
      primary care patients with co-morbid OUD and depression and/or PTSD. The study will randomize
      900 patients with co-occurring OUD and depression disorder and/or PTSD to receive either
      CC-COD or enhanced usual care (EUC).
    
  