
    
      Subjects Participant of the study will be all patients newly admitted to selected wards at
      the Royal Hospital for Sick Children (and possibly RAH Paisley). An average of 8 patients per
      day are admitted to the relevant wards and this study will aim to recruit a total of 200 over
      a 4 month period, after an initial pilot with up to 20 patients.

      Recruitment The researcher will identify those patients eligible for screening by visiting
      the wards. The researcher will give an information leaflet to the patient's carer to
      introduce and explain the study. The researcher will allow plenty at least an hour for them
      to consider the study. The researcher will then approach the family and answer any questions.
      If the carer is happy to participate, the researcher will ask him/her to complete a consent
      form. A copy of the consent form will be given to the carers and another will be placed in
      the child's medical notes. The researcher will first complete the iPYMS scoring sheet for
      each child Discriminant validity will then be tested using body composition measurement using
      triceps (TSF) and subscapular skinfold thickness and the mid upper arm circumference (MUAC)
      and SGNA (Subjective Global Nutritional Assessment). To test the concurrent validity, the
      results from the infant screening tool will be compared with the results of STRONG kids
      (Screening Tool Risk on Nutritional Status and Grow).

      Global Nutritional Assessment for infants (SGNA) The researcher will ask the main carers of
      patients to complete the eating behavior questionnaire about the infant's diet (type of milk.
      supplementary feeding and weaning diet), weight loss (poor weight gain), gastrointestinal
      symptoms,and daily activity. A rough visual assessment of the child's muscle stores and fat
      will be carried out by the researcher. This is a global nutritional assessment procedure
      recently validated in paediatric patients (Secker & Jeejeebhoy, 2007). The researcher will
      extract equivalent items for SGNA about the child's food intake, diarrhoea, vomiting, weight
      loss or poor weight gain or no weight gain, during the few days before admission. An
      observational assessment of patients will be also carried out by the researcher in terms of
      diminished subcutaneous fat, muscle mass and hollow face (subjective clinical assessment the
      same as d). In addition, the researcher will use information recorded in the medical notes of
      the patient to assess patients' underlying illness with a risk of malnutrition (Anorexia
      nervosa, Celiac disease, Cystic fibrosis, cardiac disease, and trauma).

      Infant EBQ This questionnaire has been developed using population data from a cohort study
      and is designed to identify infants at risk of weight faltering. This will be completed by
      the main carers of patients to assess the patient's general appetite and eating behaviour.

      Bioelectrical impedance (BIA) This has been developed for assessment of nutritional status in
      children based on indices of lean and fat adjusted for body size. This study will explore
      whether this method is practical and effective in this young age range and how it relates to
      nutrition score.

      Length of hospital stay as a secondary outcome will also be collected from hospital
      admissions statistics or through the notes. Patients' birth weight will be collected by the
      maternal report in order to calculate weight trajectory

      Power Calculation 70 subjects in each group gives 80% power to detect a difference of 0.5 SD
      in any of the measures between any two of the groups. This study thus aim to recruit 210-250
      subjects.

      Analysis The data will be used to test the utility of PYMS score, growth trajectory, body
      mass index and behaviour questionnaire as predictors of low adiposity and stunting.
    
  