
    
      Background:

        -  Of the several drugs and drug combinations approved for treatment of relapsed and
           refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the reported complete response rates are
           no greater than 30%.

        -  Obinutuzumab is a glycoengineered, humanized type 2 anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody
           thought to engage the immune system by directly activating antibody-dependent,
           cellmediated cytotoxicity (ADCC); it is approved for treatment of chronic lymphocytic
           leukemia in combination with chlorambucil.

        -  The key mediators of ADCC are polymorphonuclear neutrophils, monocytes, and natural
           killer (NK) cells.

        -  Recombinant human Interleukin-15 (rhIL-15) is a stimulatory cytokine that promotes the
           differentiation and activation of NK cells, monocytes, and long-term CD8+ memory Tcells.
           In a Phase I trial, administration of rhIL-15 as a 5-day continuous intravenous infusion
           (civ) was associated with up to 45-fold increase in the number of NK cells at well
           tolerated dose levels.

        -  Preclinical murine lymphoid malignancy models have shown increased efficacy of
           monoclonal antibodies when administered together with rhIL-15; BL/6 mice inoculated with
           EL4-CD20 cells (a syngeneic lymphoma line); including significant prolongation of
           survival with the IL-15/Rituximab combination compared to either drug given as single
           agent (90% v. 30% alive at 75 days).

      Objectives:

      - To determine the safety, toxicity profile, dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) of civ rhIL-15 administration in combination with intravenous (IV)
      obinutuzumab treatment

      Eligibility:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years old

        -  ECOG performance status less than or equal to 1

        -  Diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with greater than or equal to 50% of B
           cells xpressing CD20

        -  Patients must have measurable or evaluable disease

        -  Patients must have CLL that is refractory or relapsed following therapy with a Bruton s

      tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor OR have relapsed/refractory CLL and are intolerant to
      ibrutinib therapy; patients with del(17p) must also be refractory or relapsed after, or
      intolerant to BTK inhibitor therapy; patients with del(17p) must also be refractory or
      relapsed after, or intolerant to, therapy with venetoclax

        -  Adequate organ function parameters as defined within the protocol

        -  Active disease requiring treatment, as defined within the protocol

      Design:

        -  This is a single institution non-randomized Phase I dose escalation study evaluating
           increasing doses of civ rhIL-15 in combination with obinutuzumab using a standard 3 + 3
           dose escalation design.

        -  On days 1-5 of each 4-week cycle, rhIL-15 will be administered by civ at dose levels
           0.5, 1, and 2 mcg/kg/day.

        -  During the first cycle, obinutuzumab will be administered at a dose of 100 mg by IV on
           day 4, 900 mg on day 5, 1,000 mg on day 11, and 1,000 mg on day 18; then 1,000 mg on day
           4 of each subsequent cycle.

        -  Infusion reaction, antimicrobial, and tumor lysis syndrome prophylaxis will be
           administered per manufacturer s recommendations.

        -  Treatment will continue up to 6 cycles, or until unacceptable toxicity or progressive
           disease.

        -  Up to 24 patients will be enrolled in the study.
    
  