
    
      Abdominal diastasis recti (ADR) persists after pregnancies in one third of women.
      Traditionally plain ADR has been managed conservatively. There is some evidence that ADR
      reduces abdominal integrity and functional strength, contributing to pelvic instability and
      back pain. However, patients are referred to a surgeon mainly because of some other primary
      concern and ADR is an additional condition: in the case of excess skin-subcutis, the person
      is referred to a plastic and reconstructive surgeon for abdominoplasty and in the case of
      midline hernia, to a general surgeon.

      In combination with abdominoplasty the plication of the superficial aponeurosis of recti
      muscles is the most commonly used reconstructive technique. There is a wide variety of
      different plication procedures available. Convincing data of the long-term results of ADR
      repair are lacking especially when ADR is severe. Some studies have reported large recurrence
      rates. Polypropylene mesh repair is an evidence-based technique to ensure a strong and
      reliable abdominal wall repair in ventral hernias or in high risk laparotomy wounds. Large
      retromuscular or intraperitoneal meshes have been used also in ARD repair.

      This study reports a novel surgical technique aimed at reliable and mini-invasive open repair
      of ADR with or without midline hernia combined by abdominoplasty for symptomatic ADR
      patients. In RmB (roll mesh in between) method the investigators bury a narrow piece of
      self-gripping mesh inside the plicated linea alba to give tensile strength to plication.
      Patients are randomized to a suture plication group or RmB group.

      Outcome evaluation is performed by clinical examination with video recorded movement control
      tests and with structured questionnaires for Quality of Life (RAND36) and for low back pain
      (LBP) (Oswestry 2.0). Evaluation is done three times: when recruiting the patient, after a
      conservative 3-6 months therapy with written instructions and one year after the
      intervention. Complications and recurrences are recorded as well.

      Outcomes The effect of ADR repair on LBP and movement control problems Patient satisfaction
      and complications of ADR repair after the two techniques
    
  