
    
      Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) is a malignant disorder of the haematopoietic system
      characterized by the presence of the Philadelphia chromosome arising from t(9;22)(q34;q
      11).The annual incidence of CML is reported to be around 1-2 cases per 100,000 population.In
      Hong Kong, the age-standardised incidence rate of CML has remained static in recent years.

      However, as the incidence of CML increases with age and Hong Kong has an ageing population,
      the crude incidence rate is expected to follow a rising trend. On the other hand, the
      prognosis of CML patients has improved significantly since the advent of tyrosine kinase
      inhibitors (TKis) more than two decades ago. With the efficacious TKis, CML has changed from
      a deadly cancer to a treatable chronic condition. It has been shown that life expectancy of
      CML patients is approaching that of the general population now.The prevalence of CML is
      expected to rise considerably in view of the increasing incidence in an ageing population and
      improved prognosis. The Hong Kong Cancer Registry only provides data on the incidence rates
      of cancers but it has yet to provide cancer prevalence data. A clinical registry is "an
      organized system that uses observational study methods to collect uniform data to evaluate
      specific outcomes". A disease registry specifically designed for CML would provide more
      accurate and comprehensive data and allow an in-depth study of the epidemiology and
      characteristics of CML in Hong Kong.

      At present,there are three TKis approved for front-line treatment of newly diagnosed
      chronic-phase CML,viz.,imatinib, nilotinib and dasatinib.lmatinib is a first-generation TKI
      while nilotinib and dasatinib are second-generation TKis (2G-TKI) . Nilotinib and dasatinib
      demonstrate better in vitro efficacy and achieve molecular responses faster and deeper than
      imatinib,but these drugs not been proven superior to imatinib in conventional clinical
      endpoints including overall survival and progression-free survival.Besides, nilotinib and
      dasatinib are not without side effects and their long-term safety profiles are unclear. For
      example, nilotinib is associated with increased cardiovascular risk while dasatinib often
      leads to pleural effusion and less frequently,pulmonary hypertension.The safety of imatinib
      has been well established over the past 15 years and its side effects are generally
      considered tolerable. However, the generic formulation of imatinib has been recently
      introduced to public hospitals and substituted for branded imatinib in CML patients. There
      have been reports that patient switching to generic imatinib develop adverse drug reactions
      not experienced with branded imatinib. Other less commonly used therapeutic agents include
      bosutinib and ponatinib, which still play an important role in the management of CML.
      Therefore, it is important to determine the "real-world" clinical effectiveness of various
      drugs, and monitor their side effects and long-term toxicities in a population-based
      approach.

      As physicians in Hong Kong are facing a growing patient population on long-term TKI,the
      demand on health care services and financial burden of drug costs will escalate accordingly.
      lt is pivotal for the investigators to understand the disease and patients in the locality
      better by systematic data collection, in order to improve quality of care, allow service
      planning and facilitate medical research and advances .
    
  