
    
      Rationale. Pathogenesis and progression of COVID-19 is a multistep process, which requires
      correct therapeutic strategy on various steps of initiation of overall defense response to
      pathogen and its resolution. Consequently, effective treatment of COVID-19 requires
      pharmaceutical corrections of many components innate, adaptive immune system, phases I-III
      metabolizing enzymes of detoxifying and repairing systems, and the SARS-Cov-2 virus' life
      cycle and proliferation.

      It can be achieved by multitarget pharmaceutical intervention of herbal preparations with
      polyvalent and pleiotropic actions on host defense systems, e.g., adaptogens Andrographis
      paniculata L. (Burm. F.) Wall. ex. Nees and Eleutherococcus senticosus (Rupr. & Maxim.)
      Maxim, known as natural stress-protective plant extracts that increase adaptability,
      resilience, and survival of organisms.

      A growing body of evidence suggests that extracts of Andrographis paniculata L. (SHA-10) and
      Eleutherococcus senticosus (SHE-3) are effective and well-tolerated medications for
      preventing and treating acute viral respiratory infections. WHO recognizes the use of
      Andrographis paniculata in the symptomatic treatment of upper respiratory infections,
      bronchitis, and pharyngotonsillitis. Recently, Thailand's health ministry approved using an
      Herba Andrographidis extract to treat the early stages of Covid-19 as a pilot program amid a
      flareup in the coronavirus outbreak in Thailand.

      The fixed combination of these plants' extracts, the herbal medicinal product Kan Jang®, has
      been used in Scandinavia for treating symptoms of viral respiratory diseases, such as common
      colds and influenza, for >30 years. The clinical evidence accumulated indicates that Kan Jang
      has strong and, in many cases, significant effects on various common cold symptoms. In
      general, significant improvements were observed in nasal symptoms (e.g., secretion (g/day)
      frequency, and congestion, throat symptoms (soreness), respiratory problems (incl. cough,
      frequency of cough), headache, general malaise, fatigue, earache, sleep disturbance, and the
      objective parameter body temperature and decreased overall total symptoms scores in 5 days of
      treatment. Furthermore, Kan Jang® sped up patients' recovery and reduced post-influenza
      complications during the influenza viruses A1 and A3 periods in 1999 and 2000.

      Both A. paniculata and E. senticosus and their fixed combination, Kan Jang®, exhibit
      antiviral, immunomodulatory, and anti-inflammatory effects. Kan Jang® is significantly more
      effective than the two active ingredients A. paniculata, and E. senticosus extracts alone,
      presumably due to synergistic interactions in molecular networks deregulated by Kan Jang. A
      recent study direct antiviral activity of Andrographis, Eleutherococcus, and their
      combination Kan Jang®, against coronavirus, has been demonstrated: Kan Jang significantly
      inhibits coronavirus growth in isolated human cells. The antiviral activity of the
      combinations of Andrographis and Eleutherococcus is more significant than expected. Further
      studies in COVID-19 patients are warranted to verify whether this observation of the direct
      antiviral activity of Kan Jang® has clinical significance.

      Assessment of primary and secondary endpoints

      Treatment benefits will be evaluated by assessment of clinical outcomes, including
      clinician-reported outcome; observer-reported outcome; performance patient-reported outcomes
      and biomarkers

      Treatment benefits will be evaluated by assessing clinician-, observer- and patient-reported
      outcomes, including performance outcomes and biomarkers.

      Efficacy primary and secondary endpoints will be obtained by intergroup comparison of
      clinical outcomes changes from baseline during the treatment and follow-up (from Day 1 to Day
      14 and day 21 after randomization) in Kan Jang control groups.

      A description of the statistical methods to be employed, including the timing of any planned
      interim analysis (es).

      Clinical data at each visit will be recorded using a standardized clinician assessment form
      and a set of patient rating scales. The data will be entered into an Excel database used as
      input to statistical software GraphPad (San Diego, CA, USA) Prism software (version 6.03 for
      Windows), which will be the primary software used for data development and analysis.

      Statistical analysis will involve evaluating the patient's change in scores on the test scale
      from the initial visit (baseline) to intermediate and the final visit and at each scheduled
      visit of the study. Analysis of changes within treatment groups during the study (Visits
      1,2,3 and 4) will be performed by:

        -  One-way, repeated measures ANOVA (variables with normal distribution),

        -  Friedman test for repeated several measures (nonparametric data), Results will be
           calculated using parametric or non-parametric statistical methods depending on the
           nature of data and applied on intention to treat and per-protocol study groups.

      We will evaluate two main questions.

      Question 1: was randomization successful, and are groups equal at the beginning of the study?

      To assess whether the treatment groups are similar at baseline, we will compare the mean
      values at baseline for subjects who receive Kan Jang vs. placebo by the Student's parametric
      independent-measures t-test (variables with normal distribution) or Mann-Whitney
      non-parametric test, depending on results of normality test.

      Question 2: is the effect of Kan Jang treatment superior to the Placebo effect?

      Assessment of the efficacy of study medications will be achieved by comparison of mean
      changes from the baseline (differences before and after treatment of every single patient)
      between groups using two-way between-within ANOVA in which an interaction effect indicates a
      different response over time between the two groups and would therefore signal a treatment
      effect, as well as by multiple comparison t-test (one unpaired test per row),

      The primary endpoint is defined as the Duration of the Symptoms. Kaplan-Meier curves will be
      generated for all endpoints, and medians will be calculated from those curves. The treatment
      arms will be compared by Mantel-Cox log-rank and Gehan-Breslow-Wilcoxon tests. we will
      calculate the estimates of treatment hazard ratios based on log-rank tests and 95% CIs.

      Intergroup comparison of the number of patients with particular symptoms will be assessed
      using the odds ratio (OR) statistics of endpoints according to Altman; A/B test of
      significance of differences of endpoints at 95% confidence, and z-statistic at 95% confidence
      of statistical significance (Figure 3 b and Supplement 2)
      (https://www.medcalc.org/calc/odds_ratio.php)

      The effect size of the individual and overall symptoms will be calculated as the difference
      between the effects of Kan Jang and placebo. We will evaluate an overall relative estimate of
      overall effect size (%) between two treatment groups as.

      Effect size (%) = KJ™ - Placebo / KJ™ X 100

      We will use a statistical significance level of 5% in the Protocol approved by the health
      authorities.

      We will perform statistical analysis on an intent-to-treat basis.

      Safety Analyses

      Descriptive statistics (mean, median, standard deviation, minimum, and maximum for continuous
      variables, and frequencies and percent for categorical variables) will be used to summarize
      safety measures, which include adverse experiences, physical examination, vital signs, and
      clinical laboratory tests, etc.

      The incidence of adverse events will be compared across treatment groups for descriptive
      purposes and to identify possible differences in the safety profiles using the odds ratio
      (OR) statistics of endpoints according to Altman; A/B test of significance of differences of
      endpoints at 95% confidence; and z-statistic methods for categorical data
      https://www.medcalc.org/calc/odds_ratio.php.
    
  