
    
      In the last 25 years, obesity in children has increased dramatically in Germany (Lampert et
      al. 2007, Stolzenberg et al., 2007) and other western societies. Lack of physical activity
      (PA) is one important factor contributing to obesity development. However, healthy behaviors
      are established early in life (adiposity rebound: Reilly 2008), which underlines the
      importance of early interventions. Preschools therefore might be an ideal setting for
      interventions to promote physical activity. While previous preschool interventions were
      directly aimed at the children's physical activity behaviors (e.g. promoting activity by
      sports lessons), parents as influential caregivers were mainly involved in educational ways
      and by information (e.g. newsletters, physical activity homework).

      The current intervention takes a participatory approach to involve parents as active agents
      of behavioral change. The study aim is to evaluate the effects of the participatory
      preference-based parental intervention on preschoolers' objectively measured physical
      activity behaviour and Body Mass Index (BMI). The intervention can easily be added as a
      parent module to existing children-focused physical activity programmes.

      In several workshops, parents are presented a set of possible project ideas for improving
      everyday physical activity in the preschools. After forming teams, they either select project
      ideas from the preexisting menu or develop ideas de novo and then implement them into the
      local preschool environment.

      The intervention is implemented in the frame of an existing state-sponsored physical activity
      (PA) program offering twice weekly sports lessons by external gym trainers to preschoolers
      over a period of 6 months. Preschools in the control arm get the state-sponsored PA program
      only. Preschools in the intervention arm get the participatory parent-focused PA intervention
      in addition to the existing state-sponsored PA program.
    
  