
    
      Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is the most common disease of middle aged and elderly
      people which cause urinary tract symptoms (LUTS). transurethral resection of prostate(TURP) ,
      began to replace the traditional open surgery in 1930s, still is as the "gold standard"
      operation for surgical treatment of BPH. However, compared with the traditional open
      operation, TURP has the following flaws:(1), due to the incomplete resection , maximum flow
      rate(Qmax) after TURP is lower than Qmax after open surgery. (2), there are serious
      complications, such as water intoxication and hemorrhage. (3) TURP has limitation to large
      prostate.

      Transurethral plasmakinetic enucleation of prostate(TUKEP), an operation mode devised by Liu
      Chunxiao Team in southern medical university urology department, have offset the advantage of
      TURP. The theory of the operation is using transurethral resectoscope instead of the finger
      in the open operation, to find the surgical capsule of prostate and to peel the hyperplastic
      prostate gland visually in a antidromic way. One the one hand, TUKEP effectively solve the
      situation that It should repeatedly cut and stop bleeding and difficultly find the surgical
      capsule in TURP, which obviously reduce the rate of bleeding, prostatic capsula perforation,
      transurethral resection syndrome(TURS) and External sphincter injury. On the other hand,
      TUKEP is the minimally invasive surgery. It also achieves the effect of open surgery
      resolving the residual gland and reoperation post TURP.

      The investigators plan to setup a a multicentric randomized control trial with 4-year
      follow-up comparing perioperative and postoperative outcomes for TUKEP and TURP. Through
      analyzing the perioperative and postoperative data between TUKEP group and TURP group, The
      purpose demonstrating superiority of safety, efficacy and economic benefit in TUKEP group.
    
  