
    
      Investigators propose a 5-year observational study which includes establishing a
      population-based longitudinal cohort to determine the prevalence and incidence of
      cardiovascular risk factors and diseases in Haiti. Cardiovascular risk factors include
      hypertension, diabetes, obesity, kidney disease, dyslipidemia, smoking, alcohol use, physical
      inactivity, poor diet, and inflammation. Cardiovascular diseases include myocardial
      infarction, heart failure, stroke and cardiac death. The cohort will include 3,000 adults
      (>18 years) living in Port-au-Prince who will be followed for 2 to 3.5 years, depending on
      time of study enrollment. Participants will be selected via multistage random sampling using
      census blocks . The GHESKIO Community Advisory Board and GHESKIO community health workers
      (CHWs) will conduct community sensitization about the study prior to study recruitment. CHWs
      will introduce the study to selected households and individuals, who will then be referred to
      the research team at GHESKIO for informed consent and study enrollment procedures.
      Participants will complete the study enrollment, 12- and 24-month study visits at GHESKIO.
      These study visits include a study questionnaire, measurement of blood pressure and
      assessment for cardiovascular symptoms and events. Laboratory measures and an
      electrocardiogram will be done at study enrollment and the 24-month visit. Participants will
      also provide blood, urine and stool samples for biobanking at study enrollment and again at
      24 months (blood only). CHWs will perform home visits at 6 and 18 months on all participants
      (and every six months after 24 months for patients with longer follow-up) to update locator
      information, measure blood pressure, and ask about cardiovascular symptoms and events. CHWs
      will also call the participant every three months to confirm contact information. Any
      participant who reports a cardiovascular symptom or event to research staff at any time
      during the study will be referred to the GHESKIO clinic or to a GHESKIO-affiliate hospital
      for clinical care. The research team will abstract data from medical records of referred
      patients on information regarding diagnosis codes, laboratory results, diagnostic imaging and
      cause of death.
    
  