
    
      In this study, the investigators will evaluate the clinical features of healthy participants
      and those participants with neurologic disorders by applying dedicated clinical scales. Also,
      the investigators will assess voice impairment by using perceptual examination tools. Then,
      the investigators will apply spectral analysis to assess the main frequency components of
      voice in healthy participants and in patients affected by neurologic disorders with a
      prominent voice impairment. To distinguish between healthy participants and patients affected
      by various neurologic diseases, the investigators will apply a voice analysis based on
      support vector machine (SVM) classifier that included a large number of features in addition
      to the main frequency components of voice.

      For these purposes, the investigators will assess in detail the sensitivity, specificity,
      positive predictive value, and negative predictive value and accuracy of all diagnostic
      tests. Furthermore, the investigators will calculate the area under the receiver operating
      characteristic (ROC) curves to verify the optimal diagnostic threshold as reflected by the
      associated criterion (Ass. Crit.) and Youden Index (YI). To assess possible
      clinical-instrumental correlations, the investigators will also use a modified algorithm of
      SVM analysis to calculate a continuous numerical value (the likelihood ratio [LR]) providing
      a measure of voice impairment severity for each participant.

      Voice recordings will be performed by asking participants to produce a specific speech task
      with their usual voice intensity, pitch, and quality. The speech task will consist of a
      sustained emission of a close mid-front unrounded vowel /e/ for at least 5 seconds. Voice
      recordings will be collected by using a high-definition audio-recorder placed at a distance
      of 5 cm from the mouth. Voice samples will be recorded in linear PCM format (.wav) at a
      sampling rate of 44.1 kHz, with 24-bit sample size. Voice analysis will consist of three
      separate processes: feature extraction, selection and classification. For feature extraction,
      the investigators will use the OpenSMILE (audEERING GmbH, Germany), dedicated software. Then,
      the investigators will select and classify voice feature by using SVM algorithm included in
      Weka.
    
  