
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease the neurochemical hallmark of
      which is dopamine deficiency in nigrostriatal pathways, and characterized clinically by a
      movement disorder consisting of rest tremor, bradykinesia, rigidity, impairment of postural
      reflexes and gait difficulties. The disease may leads to severe neurological dysfunction
      within several years.

      Essential tremor (ET) is a neurological disorder characterized by the presence of action
      tremor in different body parts mainly in the hands, head, larynx (voice box), tongue, and
      chin. The lower body is rarely affected.

      INSIGHTEC uses MR guided Focused Ultrasound to perform a "non-invasive" thalamotomy to
      relieve medication refractory tremor in patients with ET or tremor-dominant PD. The effect of
      MRgFUS is based on tissue destruction targeted to the Vim nucleus of the thalamus which
      enables a highly accurate and controlled thermal effect.

      Ultrasound energy is delivered across the skull, without an incision or craniotomy, heating
      the targeted tissue above the protein denaturation threshold at temperatures near 60°C. Prior
      to the delivery of high temperatures, destructive sonication delivery of lower energy focused
      ultrasound allows for proper anatomic localization, as well as physiologic evaluation of
      symptom relief and/or any unwanted side effects. This process allows for adjustments before
      making a permanent lesion. Treatment effects are immediate and the several hour treatment is
      generally well tolerated with mild sedatives.

      The FUS-T procedure was shown as an efficacious procedure for tremor in both ET patients and
      PD patients; Elminda developed an algorithm of Brain network activation (BNA) Mapping
      Functional Networks of Brain Activity Using EEG.

      Studying brain morphology and function with Neuroimaging and electrophysiological measures is
      critical for our understanding of the pathology and pathophysiology of PD and ET.

      The BNA network can shed a lite on the brain connectivity changes that occur as a result
      treatment in neurological patients, in this case patients with either PD or ET tremor going
      through FUS-T.

      BNA can help understanding the effects of FUS-T on the brain physiology and perhaps to
      identify biomarkers that may serve as tools for chosing the best candidates for this
      treatemnt and optimal treatment parameters.
    
  