
    
      Prospective, randomized, single-blinded study will be conducted from January 2017- December
      2017. A total of two groups will present. Patients with planned circumcision surgery will
      initially be identified by the surgeon. Patients will then be randomized into treatment
      (perioperative ketorolac) or control groups (no ketorolac).

      A computer-generated randomized block design program will be used to allocate patients to
      either the treatment (ketorolac) or control (no ketorolac) group. All children will receive a
      15 mg/kg oral dose of acetaminophen prior to surgery unless contraindicated. General
      anesthesia will be induced with sevoflurane via facemask. After establishing venous access, a
      laryngeal mask will be inserted, and anesthesia maintained with 1 minimum alveolar anesthetic
      concentration (MAC) of sevoflurane in oxygen/air 50/50 mixture. The DPNB nerve block will be
      performed by a pediatric urologist using a 23 GA needle inserted below the Buck fascia. Once
      the needle tip is positioned appropriately, and after a negative aspiration test, 0.2mL/kg
      (maximum 10mL) of 0.25% bupivacaine is injected in small aliquots, with intermittent
      aspiration throughout. In all patients, skin incision is performed at least 5 min after
      placement of the nerve block. At the beginning of the circumcision procedure once the patient
      is asleep, patients in the treatment group will receive a 0.5 mg/kg intravenous dose of
      ketorolac. Patients will be advised to take ibuprofen and acetaminophen post-operatively as
      needed.

      Patients' demographic information, time needed to perform the block, time of block onset and
      duration of surgery will be recorded. The mean arterial pressure, heart rate and oxygen
      saturation, expired sevoflurane end tidal concentration and MAC will be systematically
      collected pre-operatively, intra-operatively and post-operatively in the recovery room. The
      primary outcome of post-operative pain will be evaluated through the use of the Face, Legs,
      Activity, Cry, Consolability (FLACC) pain score or Wong-Baker FACES scale ascertained by a
      nurse or research assistant blinded to the anesthetic technique. The usage of these two
      scales will be performed as deemed appropriate by the research assistant. The FLACC scale
      will be used in children who have difficulty verbalizing pain and in sleeping children
      (regardless of age) while the Wong-Baker FACES scale will be used in patients capable of
      self-assessment. The FLACC score is a well-established postoperative pain measure using 5
      items scored between 0-2, which has been validated in patients from 6 months up to 7 years of
      age (9.10). The Wong-Baker FACES pain scale that has been used post-operatively that allows
      patients to select a face that relates to their current feeling of pain (11). These faces are
      rated on a scale of 10. A FLACC or Wong-Baker FACES score will be recorded every 15 minutes
      for the first hour and every 30 minutes for up to 2 hours following discharge from the PACU
      into the day stay surgical unit. If the score is found to be >3 (moderate pain 4-6, severe
      pain 7-10), the patient will receive an intravenous morphine dose of 0.05mg/kg. An additional
      dose may be given 15 minutes following the initial dose of morphine if analgesia is
      inadequate (score >4). Postoperatively, the child will be monitored every 15 minutes during
      the first hour and every 30 minutes for the next 2 hours until discharge home. Discharge will
      be based on normal institutional criteria including level of awareness, hemodynamic stability
      and absence of pain, bleeding, nausea and vomiting. Prior to discharge, parents will be
      provided with any additional analgesics required at home and will be contacted 24 hours
      following their surgery to complete the parents' postoperative pain measure (PPPM) (12). The
      PPPM is a well-established post-operative pain assessment tool with high inter-rater
      reliability and construct validity, which has been designed specifically for use by parents
      in the post-operative care of their children. The measure includes 15 items scored between 0
      and 1. The questionnaire will be completed over the telephone at a time corresponding to 24
      hours post-surgical closure. Amount of pain and analgesia consumption data will then be
      collected by contacting the parents 24 hours post procedure.

      As there are no previous studies analyzing the post-operative analgesic effects of ketorolac
      in pediatric patients undergoing circumcision this study will act as a pilot study. A total
      sample size of 30 patients will be used based on previous recommendations for pilot studies
      and accounting for 20% attrition. There will be 15 patients in both the ketorolac and no
      ketorolac groups.

      The primary outcome variable will be the averaged FLACC or Wong-Baker FACES pain score during
      hospital stay (average of all pain scores taken every 15 minutes for the first hour and every
      30 minutes thereafter until discharge). Normality (using the Shapiro-Wilk test) will be
      assessed for the primary outcome variable, as this will guide our choice of parametric or
      non-parametric statistical analysis (e.g. unpaired t-test or Mann-Whitney U test). We will
      also complete statistical analysis to assess differences in patient characteristics (e.g.
      weight, height, age) and pre-op pain scores between the two groups. As such, Shapiro-Wilk
      tests will be required to assess normality and guide test selection. With respect to within
      factor comparisons, repeated measures ANOVA analysis with post-hoc Bonferroni correction for
      multiple comparisons will be used to assess differences in pain scores within patients
      receiving the same treatment (e.g. to access whether significant differences in pain scores
      occurred in patients receiving ketorolac across the time points of pain score recording). An
      analogous within factor repeated measures ANOVA will thus be used to assess differences in
      pain scores at collected time points in patients that did not receive ketorolac. Significant
      differences in nominal data between the two groups will be assessed using Fisher's exact test
      or Pearson's chi-square test for association.

      An independent group of experts not directly involved in the conduct of this study will be
      assembled by open invitation to participate. This board will periodically review and evaluate
      the accumulated study data for participant safety, study conduct and progress, and, when
      appropriate, efficacy. Furthermore, they will make recommendations concerning the
      continuation, modification, or termination of the trial. The board will meet before the start
      of the trial to discuss the protocol, definition of a quorum, and guidelines for monitoring
      the study. Thereafter, the board will convene as often as necessary, but at least once
      annually.
    
  