
    
      RATIONALE Preoperative chemotherapy enables breast-conserving surgery for some patients with
      breast cancer, and it might be advantageous in several other ways. For example, the response
      to primary treatment may be used as a prognostic marker, since it has been demonstrated to be
      associated with a longer disease-free survival (DFS) compared with no response. In particular
      the degree of response (pathological complete remission (pCR)) predicts overall outcome in
      terms of DFS.

      However, pCR can be achieved only in a minority of patients with estrogen receptor
      (ER)-positive disease. Studies in the medical literature indicate that pCR rates range from
      2% to 10% in those patients whose tumors express ER suggesting that objective response and
      decrease of Ki67 must be considered within this subset of tumors.

      The results of phase II studies and randomized phase III trials have clearly shown that
      preoperative endocrine therapy is a feasible and safe option among patients with
      hormone-receptor positive tumors. Letrozole has been shown to induce greater rates of
      clinical responses and of breast-conserving surgery in postmenopausal women as compared with
      tamoxifen.

      In premenopausal women with ER and progesterone receptor (PgR) positive breast cancer, the
      preoperative endocrine therapy includes a combination of a gonadotropin-releasing hormone
      analogue (GnRH) plus tamoxifen. Recent studies suggest that neoadjuvant endocrine therapy
      with a combination of GnRH analogue and aromatase inhibitors (AIs: letrozole or anastrozole)
      is effective in selected premenopausal patients. The GnRH analogue, also known as a
      luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist (LHRH agonist) or LHRH analogue, is a synthetic
      peptide drug modeled after the human hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). A
      GnRH analogue is designed to interact with the GnRH receptor and modify the release of
      pituitary gonadotropins, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) for
      therapeutic purposes. Upon administration of a GnRH analogue, an initial stimulating action
      of the hypophysis occurs - termed a "flare" effect - which eventually causes a paradoxical
      and sustained drop in gonadotropin secretion. This second effect has been termed
      "downregulation" and can be observed after about 10 days. While this phase is reversible
      following cessation of medication, it can be maintained when GnRH agonists' use is continued
      for a long time. For a select group of patients, there is a delay of approximately 2-4 months
      before downregulation of the gonadotropins is observed.

      Degarelix (INN) or degarelix acetate (USAN) (tradename: Firmagon) is a hormonal therapy
      approved for the treatment of prostate cancer. Since testosterone, a male hormone, promotes
      the growth of many prostate tumors, reduction of circulating testosterone to very low
      (castration) levels is often the treatment goal in the management of advanced prostate
      cancer. Degarelix, an antagonist of GnRH, has immediate onset of action through binding to
      GnRH receptors in the pituitary gland and blocking their interaction with GnRH. The result is
      a fast and profound reduction in LH, FSH and in turn, testosterone suppression. Its activity
      in suppressing the ovaries of premenopausal women might therefore be faster than other GnRH
      analogues, possibly by several weeks. The probable difference in onset of action could have
      significant clinical value for patients who are candidates for short-term neoadjuvant
      endocrine treatment.

      TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH A tumor block from the diagnostic core biopsy and one from final
      surgery will be collected and banked for central review and future translational research at
      the IBCSG Tissue Bank hosted by the European Institute of Oncology in Milan, Italy.

      PATIENT-REPORTED SYMPTOMS The patient-reported symptoms (PRS) will be assessed using the
      Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Endocrine Subscale (FACT-ES) comprising 18 items
      (each has score range from 0 to 4) with a possible maximum total score of 72. Functional
      Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) guidelines will be used for scoring and
      interpretation of the FACT-ES total score. Patients will be asked to complete a PRS Form at
      baseline (prior to randomization), at day 1 of cycle 2, at day 1 of cycle 4, and prior to
      surgery.

      The objectives are

        -  To assess the differences in PRS score over time between the two treatment arms

        -  To correlate the estradiol (E2) levels and total PRS score measured on day 1 of cycle 2
           and day 1 of cycle 4 of triptorelin or degarelix administration

        -  To summarize each of the 18 individual (endocrine symptom) items of the FACT-ES
           descriptively over time as the proportion of patients with "clinically significant"
           symptoms (those scoring 3 or 4)

      STRATIFICATION Stratification will be performed according to:

      - Age(in years): less than or equal to 39 versus 40 or more

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS To achieve the primary objective, E2 levels will be determined
      centrally from samples taken at day 1 of the first treatment cycle before the administration
      of the first dose of degarelix or triptorelin (baseline), and thereafter at 24 and 72 hours,
      7 days and 14 days after the first injection, and on day 1 of cycles 2 to 6 before the
      administration of degarelix or triptorelin.

      For sample size calculation, we assume that the cumulative percentages of patients in the
      triptorelin arm achieving optimal ovarian function suppression (defined as E2 ≤2.72 pg/mL or
      ≤10 pmol/L) will be 30% within 2 weeks, 60% within 4 weeks and 75% within 8 weeks, and that
      degarelix will provide more rapid suppression (i.e., 60% within 2 weeks, 95% within 4 weeks
      and 100% within 8 weeks). Enrollment of 25 patients in each treatment arm will provide at
      least 90% power to detect a difference in time to optimal ovarian function suppression
      between the two groups, using a two sample log-rank test with a two-sided significance level
      of 0.05.

      Randomized patients who receive at least one injection of triptorelin or degarelix will be
      included in the primary analysis. The primary endpoint will be compared between the two
      treatment arms using a stratified two-sample log-rank test, with age as stratification
      factor. The distribution of the primary endpoint will be summarized using the method of
      Kaplan-Meier and the two-sided 95% confidence interval (CI) for the difference in proportion
      of patients who achieve optimal ovarian function suppression between the two treatment arms
      at the end of the 1st, 2nd and 4th cycle will also be provided.

      The toxicity, changes in Ki67 expression levels, the Preoperative Endocrine Prognostic Index
      (PEPI) score at the time of surgery, disease response, node-negative disease status at
      surgery and breast-conserving surgery (BCS) rate will also be summarized and differences
      assessed between treatment arms with confidence intervals.

      The primary endpoint for patient-reported symptoms (PRS) analysis is the total PRS score
      measured at baseline, day 1 of cycle 2 and day 1 of cycle 4 of triptorelin or degarelix
      administration, and prior to surgery. The differences in PRS measurements between the two
      treatment arms over time will be explored using the repeated measures analysis based on
      generalized estimating equation (GEE) model.
    
  