
    
      Specific Aims

      The primary aims of this study are:

        1. To develop a nurse-led, home-based self-management psychosocial education programme,
           entitled HOMe-based HEart Failure Self-Management Programme (HOM-HEMP)

        2. To examine its effectiveness on improving HF self-care, cardiac self-efficacy, anxiety
           and depression levels, health-related quality of life (HRQoL), perceived social support,
           and clinical outcomes among patients with HF in Singapore.

      Study Hypotheses

      Study participants will be randomised into one of the three groups: a Control Group
      (receiving usual care), an Experimental Group A (receiving HOM-HEMP without a supplementary
      smartphone App), and an Experimental Group B (receiving HOM-HEMP with a supplementary
      smartphone App).

      It is hypothesised that participants in the Experimental Group A or B as compared with
      participants in the Control Group will have significantly:

        1. Better HF self-care

        2. Better cardiac self-efficacy.

        3. Lower levels of anxiety and depression

        4. Better HRQoL

        5. Better perceived social support.

        6. Better clinical outcomes, including improved NYHA functional class, and less unplanned
           health service utilization (i.e. unplanned medical consultation, emergency department
           visit due to heart disease, and hospital readmissions due to heart disease).

      Approach adopted in the development of HOMe-based HEart Failure Self-Management Programme
      (HOM-HEMP).

      The HOM-HEMP, is designed as a six-week home-based psychosocial education programme
      comprising of a specifically developed HF education and self-management toolkit and three
      biweekly home visits by the research nurse. The duration of the programme is determined based
      on the literature, in which the psychosocial interventions for patients with HF varied from
      two to 16 weeks across studies, with the average length being six weeks. In addition,
      participants in Experimental Group B will receive a supplementary smartphone app.

      HOM-HEMP Education and Self-Management Toolkit Development

      The toolkit will be developed for the participants to use whenever they encounter problems
      related to their condition at home. Participants can always read the education manual in the
      toolkit by themselves or with their family members/caregivers repeatedly to reinforce the
      learning of key information. The toolkit is therefore an important element of the whole
      programme.

      The development of the content of the toolkit will follow patient-centred principle, which
      will be driven by patients' needs. The results of our recent study exploring the needs and
      living experiences of patients with HF in Singapore will be used to guide the research team
      to develop the toolkit. This is an important part of the development of the toolkit because
      it is crucial to ensure that the information presented is updated and relevant for local
      patients. This will help patients to make the necessary changes (e.g. healthier local food
      options instead of their current unhealthy choices) in their lifestyle, which is a key part
      of the recovery process. Another key emphasis of the development of the HF education manual
      is the psychosocial-related content which includes relaxation techniques, stress management,
      family and social support, and symptoms monitoring (e.g. shortness of breath, angina).The
      content of the HOM-HEMP education manual will include: (1) HF facts (e.g. definition, risk
      factors, signs and symptoms), and self-care principles, (2) stress and anxiety management
      (e.g. stress coping strategies, relaxation techniques), (3) medication management (e.g.
      effects and side-effects of medication), (4) physical exercises, (5) dietary and fluid
      management including practice tips, (6) smoking cessation (for smokers), and (7) family and
      social support (for family members and caregivers).

      A panel of experts will be invited to validate the content of the toolkit to ensure it is
      relevant and helpful. The panel will include cardiologist, cardiac advanced practice nurse
      (APN), cardiac case manager, and one researcher who have experience in developing and running
      psychosocial education programmes. Special attention on the readability of the manual for
      older people will be considered when we design the manual, e.g. large-type print, short
      sentences, avoidance of medical terminology and jargon. Two lay HF patients will be also
      invited to review the drafted content. It is assuming that the educational level of most
      potential users would be at the lower end of reading skill required the easy use of written
      material.

      HOM-HEMP Smartphone App Development

      A smartphone app will be developed by a team of software engineers from School of Computing,
      National University of Singapore. The content and scope of the app will be mainly guided
      based on the content of the toolkit. The proposed functions included in the app are: (1)
      visual material including video clips of educational talks given by heart experts (e.g.
      triggering factors of CHF, signs and symptoms of CHF), relaxation techniques (e.g. deep
      breathing, meditation, muscle relaxation), stress management techniques (e.g. stress
      alleviating exercise) and recommended physical exercises (e.g. walking exercise, exercise
      logs) and Dietary matters (e.g. practical tips of selecting food, healthy recipes to try);
      (2) fluid calculator, (3) individualized scheduled reminders for doing exercise and
      relaxation, taking medication, medical appointment; salt/fluid targets; (4) weight/vitals
      logs (e.g. weight monitor, blood pressure and heart rate monitor with the use of
      Bluetooth-enabled devices such as Polar H7 or Wahoo Tickr) and (5) chat room with the
      research nurse.

      The app will be designed as "elderly friendly" with features like large font size, using
      videos and pictures, and sound/voice reminders. There will be a monitoring function when
      participants log in the system. After the development of the app, it will be uploaded to
      mobile app stores, and users can download it from Googleplay (for Android users) or Apple app
      store (for IOS user) Technical issues such as compatibility, ease of use, potential causes of
      crashes will be tested. Once the test is completed, a field test will be conducted with 5
      participants and/or their caregivers. They will be required to provide their overall
      evaluation of the app, and their feedback regarding the utilization of the app will guide the
      study team to further revise the app.

      Study Design, Setting and Participants

      A stratified randomised controlled, three-arm, pretest and repeated posttest design will be
      used in this project with both quantitative and qualitative measures. The study will be
      conducted at the cardiac ward of one of the largest acute public hospitals in Singapore.
      After the baseline measurements, the participants will be randomly assigned to one of the
      three groups using stratified randomization. These three groups are: the Control Group, in
      which participants will receive usual care; the Experimental Group A, in which participants
      will receive usual care and the HOM-HEMP intervention but without the supplementary
      smartphone app; the Experimental Group B, in which participants will receive the usual care,
      the HOM-HEMP intervention and the supplementary smartphone app.

      One research nurse (RN) will be trained to conduct the intervention, and another research
      assistant (RA) will conduct the data collection. The RN will be responsible for delivering
      the HOM-HEMP to the participants (i.e. intervention), while the RA will be responsible for
      data collection. The RA will be blinded to participants' group assignment to prevent
      subjective bias stemming from the knowledge of grouping.

      Four measurements will be conducted at the baseline prior to the intervention (T0), at 6
      weeks from baseline, i.e. immediate after the intervention (T1), at 3 months from the
      baseline (T2), and at 6 months from the baseline (T3).

      Outcome measures

      Outcome measures include: Self-Care of Heart Failure Index (SCHFI), Cardiac Self-efficacy
      Scale (CSS), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Minnesota Living with Heart
      Failure Questionnaire (MLCHFQ), Short Form of the Social Support Questionnaire (SSQ6), NYHA
      Functional Classification, and unplanned Health service use.

      Data will be collected at 6 weeks (immediate after the intervention), 3 months and 6 months
      from baseline.

      Data analysis

      The IBM SPSS 24.0 will be used for data analysis. Baseline categorical demographic
      characteristics across the 3 groups will be examined using Chi-squared or Fisher's Exact
      test; quantitative variables using ANOVA if normality and homogeneity assumptions satisfied
      otherwise Kruskal Wallis test will be used. General Linear Mixed Model (GLM) will be used to
      compare the study outcomes between 2 intervention groups against the Control group using
      Dunnett test at each individual time point. To correct for type 1 error on the multiple
      comparisons for each time point, statistical significance is set at p < 0.01. For the
      differences in the unplanned health service use between the experimental two groups against
      the control group, logistic regression will be performed adjusting for relevant covariates. A
      repeated measurement analysis will be performed to analyse the trend of groups' numerical
      outcomes over time setting significance level at p<0.05 and at two-tailed test.

      For all qualitative data obtained from the face-to-face interviews, all audio taped
      interviews will be transcribed verbatim. Latent content analysis, which involves an
      interpretative reading of the symbolism underlying the surface structure in the text, will be
      used for the qualitative data-set. There are three basic steps involved in content analysis
      namely, developing meaningful units, developing the set of categories, and developing the
      rational and illustration to guide the coding of data into categories. This principle will
      guide the researcher to analyze the qualitative data gained from the interviews.
    
  