
    
      Before any study specific procedure is performed the patient will sign an informed consent
      form.

      Every effort should be done to obtain a new tumor biopsy from relapsed-metastatic disease,
      but a new biopsy is not necessary to participate to the study.

      Patients will undergo radiologic staging investigations according to guidelines, including
      pre-treatment head and neck MRI and whole body FDG-PET (or thorax and abdomen CT scan) and
      clinical evaluation with fiberendoscopy.

      Patients will receive pembrolizumab 200 mg intravenously (IV) on Day 1 of every 3-week dosing
      cycle (Q3W) and olaparib 300 mg capsules twice a day (BID) every day starting from Day 1 of
      Cycle 1. Treatment with protocol therapy will continue until objective disease progression,
      any prohibitive toxicity or until a maximum of 35 treatment cycles (up to 2 years).

      Patients who must discontinue one of the two drugs in the combination due to adverse events
      may continue the study with the other combination drug. Once patients have been discontinued
      from study treatment, other treatment options will be at the discretion of the investigator.

      Dose reductions will be allowed according to protocol-specified rules. Tumor response will be
      evaluated by clinical/endoscopic evaluation every 3 weeks and by radiological imaging every 9
      weeks (±7 days) since treatment start. After the first year, the radiological imaging
      frequency can be modified as clinically indicated. Radiologic response will be assessed by
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1).

      Blood samples for plasmatic EBV-DNA analysis will be performed at baseline, and, if positive,
      at week 3, week 9 and then every 9 weeks since treatment start (however in concomitance with
      the radiological imagining) and at every follow up visit (in case of EBER-positive tumor).

      Patients will be evaluated for treatment safety at each clinical visit by means of clinical
      and laboratory exams. All adverse events will be recorded by Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5.0; the investigator will assess whether those events are
      drug related or not. All enrolled patients will be included in overall safety analyses.

      Change in the Quality-of-Life (QoL) since baseline using the European Organization for
      Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Head and Neck Module (EORTC
      QLQ-HN43) will be evaluated at first visit, every 9 weeks during treatment and at the follow
      up visit.
    
  