
    
      Background:

      Testing patients with a Helicobacter pylori (Hp) 13C-urea breath test and treatment with
      eradication of Hp if positive - test-and-eradicate - have proven as effective and safe as
      prompt endoscopy for management of dyspeptic patients in a primary health care setting.
      However, empirical treatment with an ulcer-healing drug is often used in dyspeptic patients,
      as reflected in a growing proportion of long-term users without known ulcer or
      gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD). This group of patients contributed to 59% of the
      total use of acid-suppressive medication in the County of Funen in Denmark in 1997.

      Aim/purpose:

      It is our aim to examine the need for continued medication with prescribed, acid-suppressive
      drugs in primary health care.

      Our secondary objective is to investigate the profile of symptoms, quality of life,
      Hp-status, consumption of drugs and use of health care services in the same context.

      Methods:

      To conduct a randomised, placebo-controlled, blinded, clinical discontinuation trial, 500
      long-term users of acid-suppressive drugs are identified by general practitioners. Long-term
      use is defined as treatment for more than 2x28 days during a 6-month period. The patients are
      included with a 13C-urea Hp-breath test and randomised for treatment with PPI or placebo.
      Hp-positive patients are treated with an Hp-eradication treatment. The patients are followed
      for 1 year; the primary outcome is the need for open treatment with acid-suppressive
      medication due to failing symptom relief despite treatment with the randomised project
      medication. The patients are to fill in a symptom and medication diary every month for
      periods of 1 week. Questionnaires are to be given to the patients 3 times during the
      follow-up period. Medication diaries as well as questionnaires have proven useful in similar
      studies. The main outcome is analysed using Kaplan-Meier survival estimates analysis.
    
  