
    
      Objective To assess the efficacy and safety of an immediate pre-emptive first-line treatment
      with fibrinogen concentrate in patients with trauma haemorrhage in need of haemostatic
      resuscitation.

      Hypothesis Immediate, pre-emptive first-line treatment of fibrinogen concentrate in trauma
      patients with ongoing critical haemorrhage will increase the clot strength.

      Background Trauma haemorrhage remains a leading cause of morbidity and mortality. Fibrinogen
      is an essential endogenous component of haemostasis and the plasma level is associated to
      bleeding, transfusion and outcome.

      Trial rationale Fibrinogen concentrate is widely used to correct acquired
      hypofibrinogenaemia, recommended by several international guidelines including in trauma, but
      evidence is lacking regarding the treatment safety and efficacy.

      Trial population The trial population are patients' ≥ 18 years admitted to the Trauma Centre
      at Rigshospitalet with immediate need for blood transfusion at arrival and an expected need
      for haemostatic resuscitation with multiple transfusions during the initial resuscitation.
      Estimated 30-day mortality is 20 % in the population. Patients included in the trial will be
      temporarily incompetent because of acute, severe illness related to the ongoing critical
      bleeding needing multiple transfusion and immediate intervention to control bleeding.

      Trial design This is a single centre, randomized (1:1, active:placebo), placebo controlled,
      double-blind investigator-initiated phase II trial in patients with traumatic, critical
      bleeding, investigating the safety and efficacy of immediate and pre-emptive administration
      of fibrinogen concentrate (Riastap®) or placebo as i.v infusion in 40 patients. All patients
      will receive standard of care including damage control surgery, radiological interventions
      and haemostatic resuscitation as part of their treatment at Rigshospitalet.

      Patients considered to be included in the trial will be temporarily incompetent because of
      the acute, critical bleeding related to trauma, so scientific guardians will co-sign the
      informed consent form. Next-of-kin and the patients' general practitioner or the patients
      will co-sign as soon as possible.

      During the study blood samples will be taken at different time points. Patients will be
      observed and assessed continuously throughout the first 72 hours. During the extended follow
      up period at day 30, contact will be made with the patients to follow up on safety events and
      establish potential mortality.

      Investigational product Immediate intravenous administration as a single dose of fibrinogen
      concentrate (Riastap®, CSL Behring), when haemostatic resuscitation is deemed necessary by
      the clinician. The aim is to give the intervention < 1 hour of arrival, and the intervention
      should, when possible, be given prior to blood products.

      Placebo and blinding Saline 0.9% will be used as placebo. The volume of placebo to be
      administered is equal to the volume active drug administered. The content (Riastap® or
      placebo) will be provided in opaque syringes and infusion sets (yellow-coloured) to disguise
      the content of the allocation to the treatment team.

      Outcome measures

      Primary outcome measure:

      • Thrombelastograph (TEG®) Functional Fibrinogen (FF) maximum amplitude (MA) in mm at 15 min
      post intervention

      Secondary outcome measures:

        -  TEG® FF MA in mm at 2, 6, 24 and 72 hours post intervention

        -  TEG® MA in mm at 15 min., 2, 6, 24 and 72 hours post intervention

        -  Transfusion requirements (Red blood cells (RBC) or fresh frozen plasma (FFP) or
           platelets (PLT)) at 2, 6, 24, 72 hours and in total at day 30

        -  Total use of haemostatic therapy (i.e. use of coagulation factor concentrates and
           tranexamic acid) in the first 24 and 72 hours, omitted from this is active treatment
           (intervention)

        -  Time to intervention or placebo

        -  Time to FFP and PLT transfusion

        -  Percentage of patients receiving intervention or placebo < 1 hour of arrival

        -  Time to surgical control of bleeding as noted by the surgeon

        -  Severe adverse reactions at day 30, defined as symptomatic thromboembolism at day 30 and
           anaphylaxis at day 30

        -  24-hour and 30-day mortality
    
  