
    
      Background and Literature Review

        -  There have been four documented studies investigating loop diuretics in the management
           of postpartum hypertensive disorders- Matthews et al2, Ascarelli et al3, Amorim et al4,
           and Veena et al. Of these studies, only Amorim and Veena were able to show statistical
           significance on any parameters. Amorim was able to show that there was an improvement of
           SBP, DBP and MAP, but the research was only presented as an abstract at a conference and
           not published, thereby making it impossible to draw any conclusions or practice
           guidelines. Veena demonstrated that by using furosemide and nifedipine in combination,
           the need for additional antihypertensive medication in severe pre-eclampsia in the
           postpartum period was reduced when compared to nifedipine alone.

        -  A systematic review5 of postpartum hypertensive disorder management suggested that there
           was insufficient data to recommend any single pharmacological intervention at this time
           in the management of gestational hypertensive disorders. The review emphasized the need
           for further studies to be conducted to help guide management of patients affected by
           gestational hypertensive disorders in the future.

      Objectives

      ● Main Question

        -  Does the use of furosemide plus labetalol improve blood pressures in the postpartum
           period of patients with gestational hypertensive disorders versus labetalol alone?

        -  Primary

           ■ Will there be a requirement to escalate antihypertensive therapy to control blood
           pressures

        -  Secondary

             -  Improvement of gestational hypertensive disorders by measurement of systolic blood
                pressure, diastolic blood pressure and mean arterial pressure

             -  Shortened hospital stay in patients with hypertensive disorders

             -  Breastfeeding status at 1 week postpartum visit in mothers planning to breastfeed

             -  Readmission for postpartum hypertensive disorders

      Significance to patient, institution, and profession

        -  As a referral center and being the region's leader, Miami Valley is very accustomed to
           accepting transfers of high acuity patients often times with hypertensive disorders
           being the root cause of the transport

        -  The majority of the OB staff population being served at Miami Valley Hospital is African
           American. According to Myatt6, the incidence of pre-eclampsia in the African American
           population is greater than double the Caucasian population (11% to 5%) thereby making
           this study very applicable to the patient population served at Miami Valley Hospital.

        -  With the construct of the study, costs abe kept low by utilizing already established
           resources and practices (blood pressure cuffs, nurses, routine one week blood pressure
           checks) while only adding on the unit cost of furosemide.

        -  If treatment with labetalol and furosemide is found to be useful, it would be not only a
           very inexpensive, cost effective way of improving patient outcomes and possibly
           decreasing lengths of stay stateside, but in improving global practice in places that
           are lacking in resources privy to first world countries.

      Methods

        -  The study would be designed as:

             -  A prospective randomized 1:1 controlled trial including postpartum women with
                gestational hypertension or preeclampsia

             -  Patients with chronic hypertension would be excluded from the study

             -  One arm receiving 400mg labetalol BID alone on PPD#1 or 24 hours after magnesium
                sulfate

             -  One arm receiving 400mg labetalol BID and a five day course of furosemide 20mg QD
                on PPD#1 or 24 hours after magnesium sulfate

             -  Recording any occurrence when an increased amount of labetalol is needed to
                maintain blood pressures below 150 SBP and/or 100 DBP per ACOG recommendations.7

                ■ In the event of persistently elevated blood pressures, labetalol will be
                increased to 400mg TID and escalated to 600mg TID and finally 800mg TID as
                indicated

             -  Measurement of blood pressure every four hours after administration until patient
                discharge

             -  Measurement of urine output every 12 hours until discharge

             -  Compare average systolic, diastolic and mean arterial pressures between the two
                groups during admission and at one week postpartum

        -  Data will be collected using the OB Staff population at Miami Valley Hospital Main
           Campus.

        -  The research will be analyzed and interpreted by the research team conducting the study.

        -  Potential difficulties and limitations include compliance concerns of mandatory one week
           blood pressure follow up appointment.

        -  Using the Veena et al paper as a frame of reference, a sample size of 140 divided evenly
           across the two treatment arms would achieve statistical significance in determining the
           need to escalate anti-hypertensive therapy.

        -  The unit cost of one tablet of labetalol 200mg and furosemide 20mg is currently $0.32
           and $1.23, respectively. 8,9

        -  The study would use already readily available automated blood pressure cuff machines on
           the postpartum wing.
    
  