
    
      RATIONALE:

        -  CT-011 is a humanized immunoglobulin G 1 (IgG1) kappa recombinant monoclonal antibody
           against PD-1 receptor that blocks the interaction of PD-L1 with PD-1. CT-011
           specifically binds to an epitope that is shared between the murine and the human PD-1
           receptors on activated T cells, B cells, natural killer (NK) cells, and myeloid cells
           (CD14+ cells) and primarily functions in effector/memory T lymphocytes and in NK cells.
           In a functional bioassay, CT-011 was demonstrated to block the activity of PD-1 and to
           operate on CD4+CD45RO+ effector/memory T lymphocytes leading to attenuation of apoptotic
           processes.

        -  CT-011 was studied in experimental murine tumor models of melanoma, lung cancer,
           fibrosarcoma, leukemia/lymphoma and colorectal carcinoma and was shown to inhibit tumor
           growth and extend the survival of tumor-bearing nude mice, and to generate
           tumor-specific protection against tumor re-challenge.

        -  Recent findings have demonstrated that chemotherapies like paclitaxel, etoposide or
           fluorouracil (5-FU) induce the expression of the PD-L1 on tumor cell lines leading to an
           immune-suppressive environment and promoting PD-L1-mediated T cell apoptosis

      The study will be conducted as an optimal two-stage phase II trial, in order to rule out an
      unacceptably low 50% of patients who do not receive the full dose of CT-011 (p0=0.50) in
      favor of a modestly high 80% fraction who receive the full dose of CT-011 (p1=0.80). It is
      anticipated that up to 32 patients may be enrolled onto this trial.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Primary endpoint: To determine the feasibility and safety of the combination of CT-011
           and Gemcitabine in patients after primary macroscopic resection of pancreatic carcinoma.

        -  Secondary endpoint: To determine if the addition of CT-011 to Gemcitabine can improve
           the median disease-free survival in resected pancreatic cancer.

      DESIGN:

        -  Eligible subjects will be screened with a full medical history and physical examination,
           blood and urine tests, and imaging studies.

        -  Participants will receive adjuvant combination CT-011 and Gemcitabine in 28-day cycles.

        -  CT-011 will be given at a dose of 3mg/kg by intravenous infusion over 2 hours on day 1,
           one week prior to the first Gemcitabine infusion of each cycle.

        -  Gemcitabine will be given at a dose of 1000mg/m^2 by intravenous infusion over 30
           minutes on Days 8, 15 and 22 of each cycle.

        -  Treatment will be continued for a total of 6 cycles or until disease recurrence or grade
           IV non-hematological toxicity if occurred before the completion of 6 cycles.

        -  Participants will be monitored with frequent blood and urine tests throughout their
           treatment visits. Every other cycle (about every 2 months), participants will also have
           imaging studies to evaluate the experimental treatment.

        -  Participants will have follow-up visits with additional blood tests every 2 months after
           stopping treatment for up to 2 years.
    
  