
    
      The prevalence of pediatric obesity has increased significantly, and approximately 11% of
      American children and adolescents are obese. Of particular concern, the greatest increase in
      prevalence has occured among the heaviest children. Severe pediatric obesity (defined as >
      150% of ideal body weight for height) is associated with higher rates of medical and
      psychosocial morbidity than milder obesity is. Moreover, severely obese children are likelier
      than less severely obese children are to become obese adults and suffer the long-term health
      consequences of obesity. Although the efficacy of family-based behavioral weight control
      programs in the treatment of moderate pediatric obesity is well established, few studies have
      focused on the treatment of severe obesity. Thus in this application, we propose a randomized
      controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of a family-based behavioral weight control program
      in the management of severe pediatric obesity.

      Two hundred children aged 8-12 will be randomized to a six-month family-based program or
      usual care, and will complete assessments at pre- and post- treatment and 6-month and
      12-month follow-ups. We hypothesized that: 1) Children who participate in the family-based
      program, when compared to children who receive usual care, will show favorable changes in
      body mass index, body composition, food intake, activity level, and cardiovascular risk
      factors. 2) Children who participate in the family-based program, when compared to children
      who receive usual care, will report higher levels of self-esteem, social competence and
      health-related quality of life, and report fewer psychiatric symptoms. A secondary aim of the
      the proposed investigation is to examine the relationships among gender, race, compliance to
      diet and exercise. level of parent adherence and treatment outcome. The proposed
      investigation is significant as the first effort to systematically evaluate a treatment
      program for severely obese children. It will provide data about a serious public health
      problem and establish a foundation for programmatic research to develop effective treatments
      for an underserved population.
    
  