
    
      Consent will be obtained the day of the subject's scheduled endoscopy in a clinical room or
      at a routine office visit prior to the endoscopy. The study investigator will explain the
      study including the reasons why subject may be eligible, risks, and benefits. The subject
      will be given a chance to address any questions or concerns they may have.

      If the patient agrees to participate in this study all of the procedures listed below will be
      performed the day of the scheduled endoscopy exam. The procedures listed are part of the
      routine standard of care for an endoscopy exam, except for the images that are being taken
      and the additional 2-6 biopsies taken from any abnormal areas that are seen with the new
      imaging technique. The use of the imaging technique described in this research study will not
      change the standard of care procedures.

      The endoscopic procedure is outlined below:

        1. White Light Examination: Examination will initially be performed in the standard
           white-light endoscopic mode as is routinely done. Abnormal gastric mucosa areas and
           nodularities will be recorded. Any "Suspicious" areas (visible abnormalities, etc.) will
           be photographed and the location recorded (distance from incisors and endoscopic
           quadrant, eq. 34 cm; greater curvature, lesser curvature, etc).

        2. Vital-Dye Enhanced Fluorescence Examination: Following this, the stomach will be sprayed
           with 1-10 ml of 0.01% proflavine using a standard endoscopic spray-catheter. Using the
           fluorescent imaging, the location of any VFI-"Suspicious' areas will be recorded.
           Additionally, VFI examination of any suspicious areas seen on WLE will be performed. The
           endoscopist will label the surface-appearance of each WLE abnormal area based on its VFI
           appearance. Thus, each area will be labeled as: "Not Suspicious," or "Suspicious for
           Neoplasia."

        3. HRME examination: WLE and VFI suspicious appearing areas will be further imaged with
           HRME. HRME will be inserted through the biopsy channel of the endoscope, gently placed
           against the mucosa, and images of suspicious areas will be obtained. The endoscopist
           will label the surface-appearance of each WLE abnormal area and VFI abnormal area, based
           on the HRME appearance. Thus, each area will be labeled as: "Not Suspicious," or
           "Suspicious for Neoplasia."

        4. Biopsy Protocol: Biopsies will be obtained of any area suspicious on any of the imaging
           modalities (WLE, VFI or HRME). Additionally, two 'control' areas (normal on imaging)
           will also be biopsied. Lastly, routine, biopsies will be performed per clinical care to
           determine areas of intestinal metaplasia and H pylori infection as per routine standard
           of care.

        5. Pathologic Interpretation: All samples will be evaluated by a single expert
           gastrointestinal pathologist who will be blinded to the endoscopic findings
    
  