
    
      BACKGROUND:

      It is important to identify the safest and most cost effective strategies for providing
      platelet support that will achieve effective disease management without depleting platelet
      supplies. Informative clinical data have been provided concerning the platelet transfusion
      trigger. In contrast, the optimal quantity of platelets to be used per transfusion remains a
      highly controversial subject. No prospective platelet transfusion studies have been performed
      in which patients are randomized to an assigned platelet dose throughout their period of
      thrombocytopenia.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      After obtaining consent and verifying eligibility requirements, the patients will be
      randomized to one of three doses for prophylactic platelet transfusions (lower, medium, or
      higher dose). The dosage is based on the patient's body surface area (BSA). The dose targets
      are as follows: 1) the lower dose is 1.1 x 10^11/m²; 2) the medium dose is 2.2 x 10^11/m²;
      and 3) the higher dose is 4.4 x 10^11/m². A dose within 25% of this value in either direction
      is considered to be in the target range. For many adult patients, the typical dose of one
      unit of apheresis platelets would fall in the target range for the medium dose. All
      prophylactic transfusions provided while the patient is in the study will be given according
      to the randomized target dose range. Only blood bank staff, not clinical staff, will have
      access to the target dose range for each patient.

      The patient's morning platelet count will be taken every day. If this value is less than or
      equal to 10,000, a prophylactic platelet transfusion will be given. Otherwise, no
      prophylactic platelet transfusion will be given that day. Platelet transfusions may be given
      at any time, and at any dose, to treat active bleeding or in association with an invasive
      procedure. A hemostatic assessment will be carried out every day to identify any bleeding the
      patient may experience. This assessment involves a patient interview, physical assessment,
      and a chart review. Data on all transfusions (e.g., platelets and red blood cells), all
      transfusion-related events, all serious adverse events, and protocol deviations will also be
      recorded.

      Patients will participate in the study either until 30 days after the initial platelet
      transfusion, until they have not received a platelet transfusion for 10 days after the most
      recent platelet transfusion, or until hospital discharge (whichever comes first).

      Each of the three pairwise dose comparisons is of interest. Therefore, the primary and
      secondary endpoints will be analyzed using three separate pairwise comparisons, each at the
      0.017 significance level to adjust for multiple comparisons.

      This study has been approved by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
      (NHLBI)-appointed protocol review committee and data and safety monitoring board (DSMB), and
      each participating institution's institutional review board. An interim monitoring plan was
      developed by the protocol team and DSMB, and is described in the protocol. The study is being
      monitored in accordance with this plan.
    
  