
    
      Genitourinary Syndrome of Menopause (GSM) is the new terminology for "vulvovaginal (VVA)".
      Although women may present with some or all of the clinical signs and symptoms, the most
      common symptom of VVA/GSM is vaginal dryness. Vaginal dryness appears early at menopause with
      a subsequent increase of prevalence as postmenopausal years' progresses and is associated
      with rising occurrence of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS).

      The therapeutic management of GSM includes lubricants and moisturizers as a first line
      therapy and low-dose vaginal estrogens as a second one, especially for women with a history
      of estrogen dependent cancer. However, lubricants and moisturizers can only be used for
      symptoms relief during sexual intercourse. They do not restore the local pathophysiology and
      they are inefficacious when LUTS are present. However, the quality of evidence is low or
      very-low when estrogens efficacy is compared to placebo, while the risk to the endometrial
      thickness with sustained vaginal estrogen use is not clear.

      Recently, intravaginal laser therapy has been proposed for the management of GSM. There are
      currently two lasers available. All available studies consistently suggest that both lasers
      (CO2-laser and Er:YAG-laser) are safe and have a high efficacy on alleviating vaginal dryness
      and dyspareunia, as well as restoring the local pathophysiology. Additionally, data regarding
      CO2-laser indicate LUTS improvement, as well as sexual function-satisfaction and quality of
      women's life. Relevant published data are not available for the Er:YAG-laser. Moreover, there
      is lack of studies comparing the 2 laser-technologies for the management of postmenopausal
      women with GSM.

      The aim of the current study is to assess whether the CO2-laser results in superior
      alleviation of GSM symptoms compare to Er:YAG-laser. Specifically, we will compare objective
      and subjective measurements of symptoms and clinical signs of GSM, between groups of
      postmenopausal women with GSM receiving treatment with CO2-laser or Er:YAG-laser.
    
  