
    
      There will be 20 participants in phase 1 and 384 participants in phase 2. Participants in
      both phases will be pregnant women age 18-35 years who score positive on a frequently used
      and well-validated screening tool for alcohol use risk in pregnancy (the T-ACE). The
      investigators will also add an additional requirement of either drinking weekly or more in
      the past month, or having 4 or more drinks at a time at least monthly in the 12 months before
      becoming pregnant. To be eligible for the study, participants must also report mobile device
      ownership (e.g., smartphone), willingness to receive study-related text messages and to use
      their mobile device for study-related assessments and/or booster sessions, and being at 20
      weeks gestation or less. Participants will be excluded if they are not planning to carry the
      pregnancy to term, or are unable to communicate in English. All participants must reside in
      Connecticut, Massachusetts, or Michigan. Completion of the baseline assessment is an
      enrollment criterion that is also necessary for inclusion.

      Participants (Phase 1 and Phase 2) will be recruited via community flyers as well as ads
      placed on social media (Facebook and Instagram). The flyers and ads will contain basic
      information indicating that they are for a health-related study for women 18-35 years of age
      who can communicate in English. Interested women meeting these criteria will be provided a
      website address, Quick Response (QR) code, or link to a study website, where they will be
      provided with additional basic information about the study and link to the screening
      information sheet and screening survey via their own smartphone or tablet. Clicking on the
      link will first take them to the screening information sheet in Qualtrics.Those who click "I
      agree" at the end of the information sheet, will then be offered the initial
      computer-directed screening survey. This survey will ask a range of questions so that the
      study's inclusion and exclusion criteria are not readily apparent (in order to limit fraud).
      Both the information sheet and screening survey will be accessible via their own smartphone
      or tablet.

      The screening survey will be used to determine whether initial inclusion criteria have been
      met [(age, state of intended delivery of baby, pregnancy status, and alcohol risk (T-ACE
      positive and either drinking weekly or more in the past month, or having 4 or more drinks at
      a time at least monthly in the 12 months before becoming pregnant)]. Study staff will contact
      interested women who meet study inclusion criteria by phone in order to validate their
      eligibility (survey completed by a real person, who can communicate in English, has a working
      smartphone, is willing and able to receive text messages, and understands study
      requirements). The following strategies will be implemented to reduce the possibility of
      fraudulent participation: 1) manual review of Internet Protocol (IP) addresses to screen for
      duplicates, identify addresses of non-US origin, detect fraudulent completion (e.g., bots),
      2) manual review of Qualtrics survey data to detect suspicious response times (e.g.,
      completing the survey too quickly), unusual patterns in responses, respondent names,
      respondent email addresses, and patterned completion timestamps indicating that one
      person/bot is completing the survey repeatedly until eligible, and 3) inclusion of a required
      open-ended narrative response to detect fraudulent completion. IP addresses will be deleted
      from the participant's screening survey data when no longer needed for fraudulent
      participation detection purposes. Only interested women who pass these screens and can be
      confirmed via the phone call will be enrolled.

      The full trial consent will also be presented electronically and will proceed only if
      participants provide written informed consent via e-signature (using DocuSign). Participants
      who meet all eligibility criteria and who provide consent will then be randomly assigned to a
      study condition during the baseline assessment. The staff member who enrolls the participant
      will not have access to the assigned condition/content, which will aid in blinding study
      staff.

      This trial includes varying levels of two separate interventions. The interactive and
      tailored baseline MommyCheckup single-session e-SBIRT was built on principles of Motivational
      Interviewing and Self-Determination Theory, and is presented to participants directly via
      their own electronic device (e.g., smartphone, tablet), which interacts with them through an
      animated talking narrator. The e-SBIRT booster sessions will be sent to participants as a
      text message that includes a link to the booster content. Participants will be texted these
      links on two occasions: 6 weeks following the baseline session, and at 30 weeks gestation.
      Participants assigned to the text messaging intervention will receive a test message at the
      conclusion of their baseline session, in order to confirm that the software has the correct
      cellphone number. These participants will then begin receiving text messages twice weekly
      until after the 34-week assessment, or until they text back "STOP" to end the messages.

      Following the baseline session, participants will be asked to complete follow-up assessments
      at 4 weeks post-baseline, at 27 weeks gestation, 34 weeks gestation, and at 4 weeks
      postpartum. In addition, all participants will be mailed a nail specimen collection kit at 36
      weeks gestation asking them to provide nail clippings that will be analyzed for Ethyl
      Glucuronide (EtG). Fingernails will be collected at 36 weeks gestation, or toenails may be
      collected at 38 weeks gestation as an alternative to fingernails. (Nails will be gathered
      from Phase 1 participants at 6 weeks post-baseline for fingernails, or 8 weeks post-baseline
      for toenails, in order to assess the effectiveness of the specimen collection procedures).
      Nail types may not be mixed for a single specimen collection. Specimens from all available
      fingernails or toenails weighing 50-100 mg gathered at 36 weeks (fingernails) or 38 weeks
      (toenails) will allow for sufficient nail growth to capture EtG as evidence of alcohol use
      concentrated in the timeframe of approximately 20-34 weeks gestation, based on typical
      fingernail and toenail growth rates. Additionally, this timeframe will allow us to avoid
      detecting post-delivery alcohol use since it takes approximately two weeks for fingernails
      and four weeks for toenails to grow sufficiently for detectability. Participants will be
      reminded of the upcoming nail specimen collection at their 27-week and 34-week data
      collections, plus reminders will be included when the survey links are sent by text for these
      data collection timepoints. In the event of preterm birth, nail specimens will be requested
      immediately. The level of detectability for either nail type will be set at 8 ng/mL, which is
      the lower level of quantitation used for research (the standard level of detectability used
      for non-research testing is 20 ng/mL).
    
  