
    
      Dasatinib is indicated in Europe for:

        -  Treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+)
           chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in the chronic phase

        -  Chronic, accelerated or blast phase CML with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy
           including imatinib

        -  Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and lymphoid blast CML with resistance or
           intolerance to prior therapy Compared to imatinib, dasatinib in CML achieves faster and
           better responses. Dasatinib is known for its selected toxicities (fluid retention,
           edema, pleural effusion, and hematological toxicity) requiring dose reductions or
           treatment interruptions; these toxicities are more frequent in the first two years of
           treatment. A randomized dose optimization trial for QD dosing vs. BID dosing has
           demonstrated non-inferiority with regards to efficacy with an improved toxicity profile.
           In a pilot study, analyzing patients with dasatinib toxicity, a fixed dasatinib weekend
           holiday allowed safe toxicity management without impairing efficacy. Furthermore the
           alternated schedule was also able to improve response parameters in patients that had
           never achieved an acceptable response prior to the onset of dasatinib holiday dosing
           schedule. The biological rationale for a holiday dosing schedule is that dasatinib has
           shown an improved cell death of CML cells even after short exposure times; this improved
           cell death exceeds the killing rate observed with imatinib in vitro. In summary, the
           reported preclinical and clinical evidence indicates that efficacy seems to require
           adequate dasatinib Cmax, while low Cmin (five half-lives between doses) does not impair
           efficacy nor induces drug resistance. It is speculated that a weekend holiday, allowing
           a better tolerability, would improve patients' drug adherence. The Investigators
           hypothesize that a dasatinib holiday schedule (5x100mg+2x0mg weekly) compared to a
           regular dose (7x100mg weekly) will reduce the rate of clinically significant toxicity
           (e.g., fluid retention, hematological toxicity, musculoskeletal pain) by 20% observed
           within the first two years of treatment. The Investigators also hypothesize that the
           dasatinib holiday schedule is non-inferior to dasatinib regular dose in achieving the
           European LeukemiaNet (ELN) recommended levels of response within the first 24 months.
    
  