
    
      1. Procedures The patients showed deficiency or insufficiency in vitamin A (≤1.05 umol/ L)
           and vitamin D (≤50 nmol/L) are stratified by gender and randomly assigned in
           double-blind fashion in a 1:1:1 ratio to the vitamin AD supplementation group, vitamin D
           supplementation group or the placebo group. The participants will be given the related
           interventions. Placebo constituents by oily liquids without vitamin A and vitamin D.
           Placebo, vitamin AD and vitamin D are identical in the appearance to guarantee blind.
           These patients will be followed up at weeks 4 and 8 to evaluate the changes of ADHD
           symptoms after adding the adjunctive therapy to methylphenidate. And serum concentration
           of retinol and 25(OH)D are measured at weeks 8. Accordingly, the placebo group and
           vitamin D group will be prescribed with vitamin A and vitamin D supplementation on the
           grounds of retinol and 25 (OH)D concentration after the study.

        2. Demographic questionnaire and clinical data The demographic questionnaire is completed
           by the child's primary caregiver, detailing child's name, gender, date of birth, height,
           weight, blood pressure, heart rate ; supplementation of vitamin A/D products or vitamin
           A/D-containing products. Clinical data will be ascertained from the medical records,
           including information about DSM-5 diagnosis, disease classification, current treatment,
           and comorbid conditions.

        3. Sample size This study is a randomized double-blind controlled trial. Intervention
           groups are vitamin AD group and vitamin D group, control group is placebo group. The
           primary outcome index is changes in ADHD symptoms evaluated by Vanderbilt Assessment
           Scales and Questionnaire - Children with Difficulties (QCD) in the last 4 weeks or 8
           weeks. The second outcome is the serum concentration of vitamin A and vitamin D.
           Conner's Parent Rating Scale (CPRS) was considered as the main outcome in the previous
           literature, the mean ± SD of ADHD index was 55.84 ± 10.2, 56.79 ± 9.6 for vitamin D +
           methylphenidate(n = 25), placebo + methylphenidate (n = 29) respectively. The
           investigators cautiously presume that the mean ± SD for vitamin AD + methylphenidate is
           54 ± 9.88. Considering 0.05 of the alpha and 0.80 of power, a sample of 453 subjects
           divided among 3 groups are calculated by PASS 2020. And 504 subjects are enrolled in the
           study based on the dropout rate of 10%.

        4. Statistical analysis All the data are analyzed using SPSS 19.0. The normality of
           variables are assessed by Kolmogorov Smirnov test. Comparison of parametric and
           nonparametric variables between groups are examined by F test and Kruskal-Wallis test,
           respectively. Paired t-test and Wilcoxon signed-rank test are used to investigate
           within-group differences. Confounding factors are adjusted by the analysis of
           covariance.

        5. Bias control the investigators will describe both responders and non-responders on
           demographic questionnaire and clinical data in detail to assess the selection bias. And
           in order to decrease the dropout rate, the investigators will contact with the patient's
           parents about compliance to therapy by Wechat, E-mail, sometimes telephone contact is
           necessary.

        6. Ethical matters and data protection The patients participated in the study will sign the
           informed consent (obtained from the guardian). And this study was approved by the local
           ethics committee . Patient's name will be abbreviated and the research data will be
           assigned a code then to provide to the researcher. The authorization from parents on the
           patient's health information remains valid until the study is completed. After that,
           researchers will delete private information from the study record.
    
  