
    
      Rationale:

      Neonatal jaundice, caused by hyperbilirubinemia, is frequently seen in healthy newborns.
      Severe hyperbilirubinemia can cause bilirubin encephalopathy (kernicterus). Assessment of the
      degree of jaundice is usually done visually,and if necessary serum bilirubin is investigated
      in a blood sample. The visual assessment is subjective and can alternatively be replaced by
      transcutaneous measurement.The transcutaneous bilirubinometer is a validated
      measurement-tool, which provides us with an estimated serum bilirubin-concentration. Little
      is known about the effect of the actual use of a bilirubinometer on the quality of care.
      Further evidence is needed to evaluate whether transcutaneous bilirubin measurements improve
      clinical outcome (use of blood tests, phototherapy and exchange transfusion), shorten length
      of stay and reduce costs.

      Objective:

      To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of implementing the use of a transcutaneous
      bilirubinometer in jaundiced neonates.

      Study design:

      Randomized controlled trial

      Study population:

      All jaundiced newborns beyond a gestational age of 32 weeks and younger than 8 days who are
      admitted at the maternity-ward or the neonatal-ward of our hospital.

      Intervention:

      Assessment of jaundice by use of a transcutaneous bilirubinometer.

      Control:

      Visual assessment of jaundice (current standard of care)

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Primary outcome variable:

      The number of blood punctures for bilirubin measurement.

      Secondary outcome:

      Phototherapy duration in hours, amount of bilirubin-values above the exchange transfusion
      limit, highest measured serum bilirubin, costs (blood test, use bilirubinometer, costs
      admittance)

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Burden: A non-invasive transcutaneous measurement using a transcutaneous bilirubinometer
      (harmless light-reflection-technique). It takes at most 5 seconds to perform the measurement
      at the forehead or sternum.

      Risk:It could be possible that a severe hyperbilirubinemia will be missed. This is a greater
      risk in the control group, due to the fact that visual assessment is known to be unreliable.
      When in doubt, the clinical team will have the authority to determine the serum
      bilirubin-value.
    
  