
    
      Background Long waiting times for certain medical, diagnostic and surgical procedures are the
      result of high demand for relatively scarce resources. Most western countries have
      established queues for elective procedures and consultations. Among elective surgical
      procedures, total hip and knee replacements have the longest waiting lists, twice as long as
      waits for elective cardiovascular and eye surgery. The data on waiting lists are not highly
      reliable, nevertheless it is clear that in British Columbia the wait for hip and knee
      arthroplasty grew from 2 months 1995 to 6 months in 1999 and that a similar increase took
      place in Ontario. At Vancouver Hospital the median wait for these procedures over the past
      year has been 7-8 months. Patients are not usually considered candidates for hip or knee
      replacement until pain and dysfunction have become severe. But waiting prolongs dysfunction
      and pain that already warrant surgery. A number of studies have demonstrated the burden of
      suffering that could be relieved by short waits. The question of whether and how much prompt
      access to surgery could benefit our patients over the long term has attracted very little
      research. A study we are proposing will for the first time directly address the short- and
      long-term benefit of expedited surgery with patient-based measures and economic costs, and
      will do so using valid reliable methods and instruments so that its results can be clearly
      understood and widely accepted.

      Objectives The primary research question is: Does expedited hip and knee replacement result
      in improved lower-extremity function at 36 months post randomization as measured by the WOMAC
      functional dimension? A secondary component to the functional question is whether expedited
      surgery improves pain and stiffness scores as measured by WOMAC and generic quality of life
      (QOL) as measured by SF-36 and HUI3? Secondary questions are: Does joint-specific and generic
      QOL deteriorate significantly during waiting? Does prolonged waiting increase the economic
      cost associated with hip and knee arthroplasty? And does expedited surgery have an effect on
      patient satisfaction with major joint replacement? Hypothesis Reducing waiting time may
      improve patient outcomes. This is biologically plausible that prolonging the arthritic
      process in these joints may result in muscle atrophy, tissue contractures and deterioration
      of general medical condition that may not be fully recoverable post-surgery. There is some
      evidence for the harm concurrent with waiting but none for its deleterious long-term effects
      on hip and knee replacement patients. Our hypothesis is that prolonged waiting is a
      significant independent risk factor for reduced long-term benefit following surgery. Our
      secondary hypothesis is that prolonged waiting for hip and knee arthroplasty increases the
      total economic cost associated with treatment of these disorders.

      Research plan The plan involves a randomized controlled clinical trial assigning joint
      replacement candidates to either a 1-2 month wait or a 7-8 month wait. We will ask patients
      on both waiting lists to complete QOL and economic assessment questionnaires at the start of
      waiting, the end of waiting and every six months for 36 months post randomization. Outcome
      measures will be the WOMAC, the Oxford 12-Item Hip and Knee score, the SF-36, the HUI3,
      resource utilization information drawn from patient questionnaires and administrative
      databases, and a measure of patient satisfaction. The analysis will use univariate and
      multivariate predictive models. In addition we will be assess health trajectories and
      relative utilization costs.
    
  