
    
      Shortening the duration of treatment for patients with drug sensitive tuberculosis from 6 to
      4 months has been attempted many times in clinical trials but thus far all have failed. These
      failures reveal our incomplete understanding of factors driving the need for such extensive
      treatments. Consistently, trials have demonstrated that 80-85% of patients are successfully
      cured after 4 months of therapy, including the extensive set of studies from the British
      Medical Research Council (BMRC) in the 1970s and 1980, the Tuberculosis Research Unit (TBRU)
      treatment shortening study in non-cavitary patients who achieve early culture conversion, and
      the more recent treatment shortening trials using fluoroquinolones like REMoxTB. The current
      standard of care is to over-treat all patients for a total of 6-months to avoid relapse in a
      small subset of patients at higher risk for incompletely understood reasons.

      For decades, clinical investigators have attempted to establish culture conversion as a
      predictor of treatment success. Despite the appealing logic, the real correlation of culture
      conversion as a surrogate endpoint has been consistently disappointing. In the REMoxTB trial,
      in particular, the intensive microbiological data collected revealed unambiguously that
      clearance of bacteria from the sputum did not sufficiently correlate with relapse risk to be
      a useful surrogate for durable cure. An important subset of patients, despite clearing their
      sputum of TB quickly and complying with all of their medications, still remained at high risk
      of relapsing with active disease after stopping treatment. Likewise there are patients who
      clear their sputum of bacteria slowly that nontheless go on to achieve durable cure.
      Intuitively this makes sense: only those bacteria at the surface of a cavity are directly
      open to the airways to seed the sputum. Yet this is not the full story as there are also
      heterogeneous lesions within each individual patient which respond differently to treatment
      with chemotherapy.

      This protocol builds upon the historical trials and several successful small studies that
      suggest that directly monitoring lung pathology using (18F)- FDG PET/CT correlates better
      with treatment outcome than culture status. We will prospectively identify patients at low
      risk based on their baseline radiographic extent of disease, and further refine this risk
      score by evaluating the rate of resolution of the lung pathology (CT) and inflammation (PET)
      at one month as well as checking an end-oftreatment GeneXpert test for the sustained presence
      of bacteria. Patients classified as low risk will be randomized to receive a shortened 4-
      month or a full 6-month course of therapy. If successful, this trial will both offer a badly
      needed alternative to culture status as a trial-level surrogate marker for outcome as well as
      provide critical information for preclinical and early clinical efforts to identify new
      agents and combinations with the potential to shorten therapy.

      The NIAID Data Safety Monitoring Board conducted its 7th interim review of unblinded data on
      September 11, 2020. Following this review, the DSMB recommended halting randomization to Arms
      B and C. This recommendation is based on the result of the interim analysis, when 1/3 of
      randomized participants have been followed for 72 weeks from study entry. The protocol
      stopping guideline for inferiority of the treatment shortening arm was met. The DSMB was also
      presented with conditional power calculations relating to the futility interim analysis;
      although the protocol-specified time for this analysis had not been reached, the results of
      the analysis were consistent with a decision to terminate randomization into Arms B and C,
      but to continue enrollment into Arms A and B at the discretion of the investigators.
      Pre-emptive retreatment of participants who have completed the course of treatment in Arm C
      is not recommended and should be left to the discretion of the treating clinician.

      Hypothesis: A combination of radiographic characteristics at baseline, the rate of change of
      these features at one month, and markers of residual bacterial load at the end of treatment
      will identify patients with tuberculosis who are cured with 4 months (16 weeks) of standard
      treatment.
    
  