
    
      RATIONALE:

        -  A significant proportion of patients referred to IUCPQ-UL catheterization laboratory are
           overweight (body mass index >25 kg/m²).

        -  Ongoing research and early clinical experience suggest that embolization of the left
           gastric artery could drastically reduce ghrelin levels and be associated with
           significant weight loss.

        -  In obese patients, catheterization using femoral artery access is associated with higher
           risks of vascular complications and peri-procedural bleeding compared to a radial artery
           approach.

        -  Given the anatomy (angle) of the celiac artery, selective catheterization of the celiac
           and left gastric arteries remains challenging, especially in obese patients.

        -  Before studying the effects of bariatric embolization, more data regarding the access of
           the left gastric artery is necessary.

      HYPOTHESES:

        -  Transradial angiography of the celiac artery/left gastric artery is feasible and safe.

        -  Given the angulation of celiac artery, catheterization through a radial approach could
           be simpler.

        -  Selective angiography of the celiac artery and the left gastric artery can be performed
           in the setting of uncomplicated coronary angiography/percutaneous coronary intervention
           (PCI).

        -  Detailed anatomy of the celiac artery and its branches can be visualized by selective
           transradial angiography.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  The primary objective is to demonstrate the feasibility and safety of performing
           selective angiography of the celiac artery using a transradial approach in obese
           patients referred for diagnostic coronary angiography and/or PCI.

        -  The secondary objective is to observe anatomical variations of the celiac artery and the
           left gastric artery.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      > A prospective pilot study performed at Quebec Heart & Lung Institute (Institut
      Universitaire de Cardiologie et de Pneumologie de Québec - Université Laval; IUCPQ-UL).
    
  