
    
      Chagas disease (CD) ranks among the world's most neglected diseases. In Latin America, 21
      countries are endemic for CD with an estimated 108 million people at risk of contracting the
      disease. Estimates from the 1980s indicated that some 16 million to 18 million individuals
      were infected. In the 1990s, after a series of multinational control initiatives, estimates
      of the number of infected people were revised to 9.8 million in 2001. The estimated burden of
      disease in terms of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) declined from 2.7 million in 1990
      to 586,000 in 2001. Recent estimates from Pan American Health Organization (PAHO, 2006)
      indicate 7.54 million infected people and 55,185 new cases per year.

      The only two medicines available - benznidazole (BZN) and nifurtimox (NFX) - are known to
      cause serious toxicity with unsatisfactory cure rates, especially when used in adult chronic
      CD patients.

      Novel antifungal triazole derivatives have arisen as alternative treatments for CD. They
      inhibit T. cruzi ergosterol biosynthesis, which is essential for parasite growth and
      survival, and have pharmacokinetic properties suitable for the treatment of this disseminated
      intracellular infection. Several triazole derivatives have been tested in animal models of
      CD, including D08701, posaconazole, ravuconazole (RAV), albaconazole, and TAK-187. In
      particular, RAV has previously been shown to have potent in vitro and in vivo activities,
      inducing parasitological cure in mice with acute infections, including those caused by
      benznidazole-resistant strains of T. cruzi. Suppressive activity was also seen in dog models.

      E1224 is a water-soluble monolysine salt form of the RAV pro-drug. It is a broad-spectrum
      triazole antifungal with in vitro activity against most Candida and Aspergillus species, some
      non-Aspergillus species of filamentous fungi, Cryptococcus, dermatophytes, and fungi that
      cause the endemic mycoses.

      RAV was evaluated extensively in animal models and in human trials including Phase 2 safety
      and efficacy trials in oropharyngeal and esophageal candidiasis and onychomycosis, and for
      prevention of invasive fungal infections in hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients.

      With the benign safety profile and the encouraging results of animal studies and favorable
      pharmacokinetics, E1224 is considered a priority candidate for clinical development for the
      treatment of Chagas' disease.

      The general objective of this phase II trial is to determine whether each of three different
      dosing regimens of E1224 are efficacious and safe in eradicating T. cruzi parasitemia in
      individuals with the chronic indeterminate form of CD, in comparison to placebo.
    
  