
    
      Pancreatic cancer is one of the deadliest tumor types of the alimentary system. Despite of
      the dramatic progress of diagnostic methods and surgical technics, the overall 5-year
      survival is still around 5%. Resection is the only curable method to treat pancreatic cancer,
      although only a small proportion of patients are eligible for operation. However, even if
      radical resection is achieved, the 5-year survival rate is only 15-20%. The main cause of
      death is tumor recurrence, which is as high as 50-70% in 3 years after operation. By now, it
      is widely accepted that pancreatic cancer is a systemic disease. Systemic treatments are
      recommended in neoadjuvant and adjuvant manners. It's reported adjuvant radiation can prolong
      survival and improve quality of life after surgery, especially for patients who undergo a R1
      (microscopic positive margin) and R2 (macroscopic positive margin) resection. For R0
      (microscopic negative margin) resection patients with advanced stages (T3 or N1), the value
      of adjuvant radiation is still in debate. Some argues adjuvant radiation after radical
      resection makes no effect on preventing local recurrence and metastasis but may impair
      patients' quality of life and overall survival. On the contrary, some other researchers draw
      the conclusion that adjuvant radiation may facilitate the local control of tumor recurrence
      in small cohorts. It's warranted to explore the role of adjuvant radiation for patients after
      radical resection of pancreatic cancer with advanced stages (T3 or N1) in large, prospective,
      and randomized cohorts.

      Traditionally, radiation may take more than one month to deliver and the dosage is restricted
      to prevent damage to surrounding tissues. The size effects and duration impair patients'
      compliance. Recently, the application of Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) makes
      radiation less harmful and more flexible. The advantages of SBRT are higher dosage of
      radiation, less damage to surrounding organs, and significant reduce of duration. To our
      knowledge, there is no big randomized clinical trial to evaluate the value of SBRT for
      patients after radical resection of pancreatic cancer with advanced stages (T3 or N1). It is
      hoped that adjuvant SBRT may benefit post-operative patients with advanced stages and one day
      adjuvant SBRT combined with chemotherapy become the standard of care for pancreatic cancer
      patients.
    
  