
    
      1. Purpose of the Clinical Study

           : To transplant autologous adipose derived mesenchymal stem cells with hyaluronic acid
           to patients with chronic low back pain caused by a degenerative lumbar disc to examine
           the procedure's safety and efficacy.

        2. Phases and Design of the Clinical Study

           : This clinical study is a I/IIa phase single-group, open, investigator initiated trial.

        3. Investigational Product : Autologous adipose derived mesenchymal stem cells separated
           from the subject (2 x 10^7 cells/mL /vial or 4 x 10^7 cells/mL /vial).

      The investigational product mixed with 1 mL of the concomitant drug Tissuefill (hyaluronic
      acid derivatives, Cha Meditech Co., Ltd.).

      4. Inclusion Criteria

        1. Males and female subjects aged 18 or over and less than 70.

        2. Subjects who have experienced pain in the lower back or buttocks who have failed to
           respond to conservative therapies performed for a period of 3 months or longer.

        3. Oswestry Disability Index of 30 % or higher.

        4. Visual Analogue Scale of 4 or higher.

        5. Subjects who have received a Magnetic Resonance Imaging (hereinafter referred to as MRI)
           assessment of grades 3 to 4 for Lumbar 1 - Sacral 1, according to the Pfirrmann grading
           system.

        6. Subjects who are assessed to have a similar degree of pain as usual when a discogram is
           performed on the degenerative lumbar disc(s) identified by MRI, having one or two discs
           that cause the concordant pain.

        7. Subjects who have signed the informed consent form for stem cell transplantation
           therapy.

      5. Exclusion Criteria

        1. Subjects with severe lumbar stenosis or herniated nucleus pulposus in the lumbar
           exhibiting symptoms of nerve compression and requiring surgery.

        2. Subjects with spinal instability, spondylitis, or vertebral fractures

        3. Patients with severe intervertebral disc degeneration that has resulted in a reduction
           of the disc height by ½ or more.

        4. Subjects with severe osteoporosis (with an average T-score of -2.5 or below in the
           lumbar bone density test)

        5. Patients who have received intra-discal procedures such as stem cell therapy or the
           injection of steroids into the disc or surgery such as discectomy on the disc on which
           the cell transplantation is planned to be performed.

        6. Patients who have received a lumbar epidural steroid injection within a week prior to
           the cells transplantation.

        7. Subjects who are hypersensitive to sodium hyaluronate.

        8. Pregnant or breastfeeding women

        9. Female patients with the possibility of pregnancy during the period of the clinical
           study who are not using a medically acceptable method of contraception.

       10. Subjects with mental illness or a drug or alcohol addiction or subjects who are
           incapable of understanding the purpose and method of this clinical study.

       11. Subjects who have participated in another clinical study in the 30 days prior to this
           study.

       12. Subjects with a severe medical disease (hypertension unresponsive to drug treatment,
           diabetes unresponsive to drug treatment, hepatocirrhosis, renal failure, tumor) that can
           affect the outcome of this clinical study.

       13. Subjects with any other clinically significant findings that renders the subject
           unsuitable for the clinical study, as judged by the investigator responsible for the
           clinical study.

      6. Dosage and Administration

      : The autologous adipose derived mesenchymal stem cell as the investigational product (2 x
      10^7 cells/mL /vial or 4 x 10^7 cells/mL /vial) and Tissuefill 1mL/syringe are supplied to
      the operating room. The investigational product and the Tissuefill (hyaluronic acid
      derivatives) are mixed and placed in a 22 G syringe. A single dosage of 2ⅹ10^7 autologous
      adipose derived mesenchymal stem cells per person is administered on 5 subjects, and a single
      dosage of 4ⅹ10^7 cells per person is administered on 5 subjects, injected into the center of
      the nucleus pulposus.

      7. Primary Endpoint: Evaluation of Safety and Tolerability The transplantation will be
      considered to be safe and tolerable, in the absence of the following types of
      counterevidence.

      - Adverse events of grade 3 (NCI grading system) or above related to the cell products/ any
      evidence that the cells were contaminated by pollutants / any evidence that the cells exhibit
      tumorigenic potential

      8. Secondary Endpoint

        1. Change in the T2 MRI signal intensity of the nucleus pulposus in autologous adipose
           derived mesenchymal stem cells at 6 and 12 months after the transplantation compared to
           before the transplantation

        2. Change in the VAS at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after the transplantation of autologous
           adipose derived mesenchymal stem cells, compared to before the transplantation

        3. Change in the ODI at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after the transplantation of autologous
           adipose derived mesenchymal stem cells, compared to before the transplantation

        4. Change in the Short Form (SF)-36 at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after the transplantation
           of autologous adipose derived mesenchymal stem cells, compared to before the
           transplantation

        5. Assessment of the overall improvement in the Disc Height Index (hereinafter referred to
           as DHI) at 6 and 12 months after the transplantation of autologous adipose derived
           mesenchymal stem cells, compared to before the transplantation
    
  