
    
      Rates of treatment resistant depression (TRD) in randomized controlled trials range from
      50-80% using SSRIs and SNRIs. Innovative treatments are sorely needed. Modulation of the
      opiate system may be a novel treatment approach for TRD. Buprenorphine (BUP) is a partial
      agonist at mu-receptors, and also displays affinity for kappa and delta receptors. BUP has a
      favorable safety profile with low risk of respiratory depression, and the pharmacokinetics
      are not affected by advanced age or renal dysfunction. This combination of mu-agonism and
      kappa-antagonism produces less dysphoria than methadone, and animal studies suggest that
      kappa-antagonism may exert antidepressant effects. In this small proof of concept RCT (n=20),
      the investigators hypothesize that there will be differences between the group receiving
      buprenorphine and the group receiving placebo for the following: 1) depression, anxiety, and
      sleep, and 2)activation of the limbic system and brain structures rich in opiate receptors
      and critical to reward circuits. In addition, the investigators hypothesize that there will
      not be differences for measures of safety (vital signs, measures of memory and reaction time,
      and falls) between the two groups. This pilot project will provide compelling preliminary
      data to support a R01 application to test the efficacy of buprenorphine for these
      therapeutically challenging patients.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Describe the relative safety of BUP in adults with TRD. The investigators hypothesize
           that there will be no differences in vital signs, measures of memory and reaction time,
           or falls between the two groups.

        2. Describe the clinical effect of BUP in adults with TRD. The investigators hypothesize
           that depression, anxiety, sleep, and health-related quality of life, will improve to a
           greater extent among those receiving BUP.

        3. Characterize the change in the phMRI responses to buprenorphine compared to placebo. The
           investigators will compare activation of the limbic system (rACC, insula, and amygdala)
           and brain structures rich in opiate receptors (periaqueductal grey) and critical to
           reward circuits (nucleus accumbens) before and immediately after administration of BUP
           or placebo.

      The investigators are recruiting 20 community-dwelling adults, age 21 and older, who have
      tried at least two FDA-approved antidepressant medications at therapeutic doses each for at
      least 6 weeks during this episode of depression, and are still depressed.
    
  