
    
      The current incidence of post-operative surgical infections varies between 6% for patients
      undergoing non-cardiac surgery to greater than 30% in high-risk surgery. 1 The administration
      of an antibiotic preoperatively is an important intervention that helps to reduce the risk of
      post-operative health-care associated infections (HCAI). These include urinary tract,
      surgical site and blood stream infection. Based on the current Surgical Infection Prevention
      Project, (SCIP) recommendations, the choice of the antibiotic is based on the nature and site
      of the surgery and the presence of a β-lactam allergy (Table 2). The antibiotic of choice for
      perioperative prophylaxis remains first and second generation cephalosporin. These drugs have
      a broad range of antimicrobial activity against common skin pathogens and have an excellent
      safety profile.

      Based on current recommendations, the cephalosporin is administered 1 hour prior to
      incision.1 Timing is critical, as both early and late administration of the antibiotic is
      associated with an increase risk of HCAI. Additional doses of the cephalosporin are
      administered at pre-set intervals based on the duration of the surgery in an attempt to
      maintain antibiotic concentrations at a desired level.

      Antibiotics can be classified into two broad classes, based on their bacterial killing
      characteristics. Antibiotics with concentration-dependent killing characteristics require a
      high ratio between the peak concentration and the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of
      the pathogen, during the dosing interval. Therefore large infrequent doses of these
      antibiotics will result in optimal antibacterial activity.

      In contrast β-lactam antibiotics, like cephalosporins, demonstrate time-dependent
      pharmacokinetics. This means that effective microbiological activity only occurs if the
      unbound (or free) plasma concentration of the drug is above the MIC for a specified time
      period. In infection models, bacteriostatic and bacteriocidical activity occurs when
      antibiotic concentrations are maintained above the MIC for 35-40% and 60-70% of the dosing
      interval respectively. However, in surgical prophylaxis, it is preferred that antibiotic
      concentrations are maintained above the MIC of the likely pathogen/s for the entire duration
      of the procedure. Therefore more frequent dosing or use of extended or continuous infusion of
      these drugs will better maintain the pharmacokinetic goals. Recent studies have shown that
      plasma levels of β-lactam antibiotics fall below the MIC 1-2 hours after the initial bolus
      dose in both normal and obese patients.2, 3 Even with appropriate re-dosing of the β-lactam
      antibiotic, there are times when the plasma concentration of the drug is below the MIC. The
      combination of sub-MIC plasma drug level and high bacteremic load can potentially increase
      the risk of developing a post-operative HCAI. It follows that to effectively prevent
      microbiological activity in the perioperative period the β-lactam antibiotic must remain
      above the MIC during the entire operative period. This is of particular importance in
      patients undergoing major abdominal surgery where the risk of perioperative surgical site
      infection (including superficial, deep and organ specific infection) is 13.1%. The aim of
      this study is to compare the pharmacokinetics of bolus and continuous cefazolin infusion
      during major abdominal surgery.

      Hypothesis to be Tested Hypothesis A continuous infusion of cefazolin maintains the unbound
      plasma concentration above Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) for the duration of the
      operative procedure better than the traditional bolus administration at every four hours.

      Specific Aims

      1. Compare the pharmacokinetics of a bolus versus continuous cefazolin (Ansef) infusion in
      major surgery

      A. Preliminary studies

      There are 2 studies in the abdominal surgery population. The study by Troconiz et al studies
      the pharmacokinetics of a bolus dose of cefoxitin.3 The study by Suffoleta studied a
      postoperative continuous infusion in the postoperative colorectal group.4

      B. Experimental design and methods (including data analysis)

      Informed consent for the study will be obtained in the PETC (Pre-anesthesia Clinic) prior to
      surgery.

      Induction and maintenance of anesthesia will be at the discretion of the attending
      anesthesiologist. Intraoperative analgesia will be provided at the discretion of the
      attending anesthesiologist and may include intravenous narcotics and/or intrathecal morphine.
    
  