
    
      The blockage in the abdominal transverse plane (TAP Block) with local anesthetic has
      demonstrated efficacy and safety in patients with various types of abdominal surgery by
      laparotomy as both laparoscopically.

      The blockage in the abdominal transverse plane is a single entry in the triangle of Petit, to
      access a greater number of nerves that allow a wider spread of analgesia. The innervation of
      the anterolateral abdominal wall is given by the anterior branches of spinal nerves T7 to L1
      (these include the intercostal nerves T7 at 11, the nerve subcostal nerve T12 and ilio
      hypogastric and ilio inguinal L1

      The anterior divisions of the nerves T7 to T11 continues from the intercostal space and enter
      the abdominal wall between the internal oblique and transversus abdominis, reaching the
      rectus abdominis, which pierce and innervate the skin of the anterior abdominal region. In
      its course also innervate the external oblique muscle via the lateral cutaneous branch is
      divided into anterior and posterior innervating the external oblique and dorsal latium

      The anterior branch of T12 is connected to the ilio hypogastric nerve and gives branch to the
      piriformis muscle, the lateral cutaneous branch pierces the internal and external oblique
      muscles and descends over the iliac crest innervate the anterior part of the buttocks.

      The ilio hypogastric nerve,L1, is divided between the internal oblique and transversus
      abdominis near the iliac crest in two anterior and lateral cutaneous branches, the first
      innervate the skin of the buttocks and the second the hypogastric region.

      The ilio inguinal nerve communicates with the ilio hypogastric nerve between the internal
      oblique and transversus abdominis, near the anterior iliac crest and innervates the anterior
      and medial thigh and part of the skin covering the genitals.

      The aim of the nerve block is to deposit local anesthetic in the plane between the internal
      oblique and transverse abdominal looking to infiltrate the spinal nerves at this level, so
      the skin innervation on muscle and parietal peritoneum will interrupted. Obviously if the
      surgery goes through the peritoneal cavity, visceral pain will not be interrupted.

      This block is indicated in any lower abdominal surgery and has been used effectively in
      laparoscopic surgery, so far no work described in LH, this block allows analgesia from T7 to
      L1 even with minimal side effects, low cost, without altering surgical time, and low risk.
      Among the complications described above, a puncture of the liver in a patient with liver
      elongated and some small punctures without serious consequences.

      The ambulatory management could be more efficient with the use of blockage in the abdominal
      transverse plane (TAP Block) with local anesthetic. In order to study the benefits that the
      TAP Block could offer to our patients, we suggest a randomized controlled trial comparing the
      blockage in the abdominal transverse plane with placebo.
    
  