
    
      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to response to prior therapy and risk factors
      (those with presence of all 3 risk factors and failed primary therapy or primary progressive
      disease vs. patients who relapse more than 100 days after an autologous stem cell
      transplant).

        -  Salvage chemotherapy (IGV or MOPP): Patients who have previously received
           mechlorethamine hydrochloride receive IGV; patients who have previously received a
           gemcitabine-based regimen receive MOPP.

             -  IGV (ifosfamide, gemcitabine hydrochloride, and vinorelbine ditartrate): Patients
                receive IGV combination chemotherapy comprising ifosfamide IV on days 1-4,
                gemcitabine hydrochloride IV on days 1 and 4, and vinorelbine ditartrate IV on day
                1. Treatment repeats every 2-3 weeks for 2-3 courses in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  MOPP (mechlorethamine hydrochloride, vincristine, procarbazine hydrochloride, and
                prednisone): Patients receive MOPP combination chemotherapy comprising
                mechlorethamine hydrochloride IV on days 1 and 8, vincristine IV on days 1 and 8,
                oral procarbazine hydrochloride on days 1-14, and oral prednisone on days 1-14.
                Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for at least 2 courses in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with no progression of disease after salvage chemotherapy (at allograft work-up)
      proceed to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation [AHSCT]* within 60 days after
      completion of salvage chemotherapy.

      NOTE: *Patients with a nodal mass > 5 cm that has not ben previously irradiated and in the
      absence of extranodal disease may undergo involved-field radiotherapy twice daily for 2
      weeks, prior to AHSCT.

        -  AHSCT with reduced-intensity or non-myeloablative conditioning: Patients achieving
           partial response or stable disease after salvage therapy receive fludarabine phosphate
           IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to -2; melphalan IV over 15 minutes on days -6 and -5; and
           undergo AHSCT on day 0 (reduced-intensity conditioning). Patients achieving complete
           response after salvage therapy receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days
           -6 to -2; cyclophosphamide IV over 15 minutes on day -6; total-body irradiation over
           20-30 minutes on day -1; and undergo AHSCT on day 0 (non-myeloablative conditioning).

        -  Graft-vs-host disease prophylaxis: Patients with related or unrelated donors receive
           cyclosporine IV over 2-4 hours or orally on days -3 to 100 followed by a taper,
           mycophenolate mofetil IV or orally on days -3 to 46 followed by a taper, and
           methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11.

      Patients who received umbilical cord blood receive cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil as
      above (no methotrexate).

      Follow-up period of 2 years post-transplant.
    
  