
    
      Interferon beta-1a is established as therapy of the first choice in the treatment of the
      chronic MS. The PRISMS study has shown that the therapy with Rebif reduces the frequency and
      seriousness of clinical attacks or episodes over 4 years and the progress of the disability
      slows down. This clinically identifiable effectiveness is supported by the significant
      decrease in the nuclear spin-tomographically provable disease activity and total lesion
      stress. The interferon-beta therapy cannot heal the MS but the therapy with Rebif can however
      reduce number and seriousness of attacks or episodes and can clearly delay progress of the
      disability. The Rebif therapy is a long-term treatment, as a result the subject may not feel
      the positive effects immediately, but effects of the therapy can only be noticed after a
      longer period.

      At the beginning of the therapy, interferon-beta-specific side effects such as fever,
      fever-like symptoms, muscle and joint pains as well as reactions at the injection points can
      occur. The described reactions are individually dependent on respective subjects in duration
      and seriousness, however they are normally mild and temporary.

      OBJECTIVE

      The objective of this study was to document the effectiveness and compatibility of Rebif 44
      or 22 µg proven in clinical studies in the therapy of the chronic MS under practical
      conditions on a large collection of subjects. Especially the handling of injection aid of
      Rebiject II when using with Rebif pre-filled syringe was documented.

      The observation period in this study was 3 months per subject and approximately 500 subjects
      with clinically safe diagnosis of a chronic MS and ability to walk (also with aids) were
      recorded in the case series. Demographic data as well as details about the diagnosis, course,
      current status and previous therapy of MS was recorded at the beginning of the case series.
      All data collected within the framework of the therapy, such as e.g. of blood count test or
      determination of the liver function test values for checking the possible influence of Rebif
      on these parameters was part of the case series and hence were documented.
    
  