
    
      At the first meeting the patient will receive a full explanation of the study, the potential
      efficacy and risks. After that the patient will be asked to sign an informed consent form,
      and will be asked about general medical condition and any problems related to sexual
      dysfunction. Than the patient's sexual function will be assessed by sexual function
      questionnaires. The criteria for inclusion and exclusion will be reviewed, as well as
      physical examination. During the visit, the patient will be assigned to one arm of the study
      (random), and by the arm he belongs he will receive an explanation about this procedure. Then
      shall obtain reporting sexual encounter diaries (SEP) and will be asked to avoid using
      PDE5i's for a month (washout), then it would be the first visit. At the first visit (Visit 1)
      The patient will be questioning the sexual function questionnaires without PDE5i's and will
      pass examination performance Endothelial - FMD, the test takes about 10 minutes, it is not an
      invasive test (not involved in inserting an instrument or any medication) and is painless.
      The patient may be asked to also undergo Doppler ultrasound. At the end of the visit 1 the
      patient will begin treatment series and will continue to study under the arm belongs, as
      described: 1.Series of 12 treatments, in which the subject will be treated twice a week for 3
      weeks (6 treatments), then would be discontinuation of the study for 3 weeks, and at the end
      of this period will be treated twice a week for 3 weeks (6 treatments). 2.Series of 12
      treatments, in which the subject will be treated twice a week for 6 consecutive weeks,
      without intermission. 3.Series of 8 treatments, in which the subject will be treated twice a
      week for two weeks (4 treatments), then would be discontinuation of the study for 3 weeks,
      and at the end of this period will be treated twice a week for two weeks (4 treatments).
      4.Series of 6 treatments, in which the subject will be treated once a week for 3 weeks (3
      treatments), then would be discontinuation of the study for 3 weeks, and at the end of this
      period will be treated once a week for 3 weeks (3 treatments).

      Four weeks after the treatment series ends the patient will come for another visit will be
      asked to fill in questionnaires and perform the FMD test again.
    
  