
    
      Drugs used to treat cardiovascular and lung diseases are the most frequent cause of
      hospitalizations and emergency department visits related to inadequate therapy or ADEs. ADEs
      occur in 25% of patients who are able to walk and may cause up to 17% of hospital admissions
      among the elderly. A lack of communication and coordination between the hospital setting and
      the patient's own community setting, upon patient discharge, may contribute to the high
      number of ADEs. By expanding the role of pharmacists and encouraging communication between
      hospitals and pharmacists, the number of ADEs may be reduced. There have been a few small
      studies that have examined the way patient information is transferred between hospital and
      community pharmacists, but these studies did not involve the patients' primary care
      physicians nor did they fully evaluate the effect of communication between hospital and
      community pharmacists. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of
      providing a pharmacist case manager to hospitalized patients with cardiovascular or lung
      disease at reducing the number of ADEs, re-hospitalizations, and unscheduled medical visits.

      This study will enroll individuals with certain conditions or diseases who are admitted to
      the hospital. Participants will be randomly assigned to either a control group, a minimal
      treatment group, or an enhanced treatment group. Participants in the minimal and enhanced
      treatment groups will meet with a pharmacist case manager while in the hospital to conduct a
      medication history review. The case manager will also meet with participants at the time of
      hospital discharge and provide them with a discharge summary and educational materials.
      Additionally, for participants in the enhanced treatment group, the case manager will do the
      following: transfer the discharge summary data to the participant's community physician and
      pharmacist; call the participant 3 to 5 days following discharge from the hospital and as
      needed thereafter to resolve medication problems; and communicate with and make
      recommendations to the participant's community physician and pharmacist. All participants
      will meet with a study research nurse immediately after study entry to complete
      questionnaires. Study nurses will also call all participants 30 and 90 days following
      hospital discharge to collect adverse event information. Surveys will be completed by each
      participant's pharmacist and primary care physician 90 days following the participant's
      discharge from the hospital.
    
  