
    
      hypertensive disorders are one of the most important complications during pregnancy, which in
      combination with hemorrhage and infections make a dangerous triad, making them the major
      cause of maternal morbidity and mortality in 3.7-5% of all pregnancies.

      Hypertensive disorders during pregnancy are classified into 4 categories, as recommended by
      the National High Blood Pressure Education Program Working Group on High Blood Pressure in
      Pregnancy:

        -  Chronic hypertension

        -  Preeclampsia-eclampsia

        -  Preeclampsia superimposed on chronic hypertension

        -  Gestational hypertension (transient hypertension of pregnancy or chronic hypertension
           identified in the latter half of pregnancy). This terminology is preferred over the
           older but widely used term "pregnancy-induced hypertension" (PIH) because it is more
           precise .

      In 2008, the Society of Obstetricians and Gynecologists of Canada (SOGC) released revised
      guidelines that simplified the classification of hypertension in pregnancy into 2 categories,
      preexisting or gestational, with the option to add "with preeclampsia" to either category if
      additional maternal or fetal symptoms, signs, or test results support this .

      Chronic hypertension is defined as blood pressure exceeding 140/90 mm Hg before pregnancy or
      before 20 weeks' gestation. When hypertension is first identified during a woman's pregnancy
      and she is at less than 20 weeks' gestation, blood pressure elevations usually represent
      chronic hypertension.

      In contrast, new onset of elevated blood pressure readings after 20 weeks' gestation mandates
      the consideration and exclusion of preeclampsia .

      Chronic Hypertension Chronic hypertension is a primary disorder in 90-95% of cases and may be
      either essential (90%) or secondary to some identifiable underlying disorder, such as renal
      parenchymal disease (eg, polycystic kidneys, glomerular or interstitial disease), renal
      vascular disease (eg, renal artery stenosis, fibro-muscular dysplasia), endocrine disorders
      (eg, adreno-corticosteroid or mineralocorticoid excess, pheochromocytoma, hyperthyroidism or
      hypothyroidism, growth hormone excess, hyperparathyroidism), coarctation of the aorta, or
      oral contraceptive use. About 20-25% of women with chronic hypertension develop preeclampsia
      during pregnancy .

      Chronic hypertension occurs in up to 22% of women of childbearing age, with the prevalence
      varying according to age, race, and body mass index. Population-based data indicate that
      approximately 1% of pregnancies are complicated by chronic hypertension, 5-6% by gestational
      hypertension without proteinuria, and 1-2% by preeclampsia .

      Differential Diagnosis

        -  Antiphospholipid Antibody Syndrome and Pregnancy

        -  Antithrombin Deficiency

        -  Aortic Coarctation

        -  Autoimmune Thyroid Disease and Pregnancy

        -  Cardiomyopathy, Peri-partum

        -  Common Pregnancy Complaints and Questions

        -  Cushing Syndrome

        -  Diabetes Mellitus and Pregnancy

        -  Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation

        -  Eclampsia

        -  Encephalopathy, Hypertensive

        -  Fetal Growth Restriction

        -  Gastrointestinal Disease and Pregnancy

        -  Glomerulonephritis, Acute

        -  Glomerulonephritis, Chronic

        -  Graves' Disease

        -  Hashimoto Thyroiditis

        -  Hematologic Disease and Pregnancy

        -  Hemolytic-Uremic Syndrome

        -  Hydatidiform Mole

        -  Hyper-aldosteronism, Primary

        -  Hyperparathyroidism

        -  Hypertension

        -  Hypertension, Malignant

        -  Hyperthyroidism

        -  Hypothyroidism

        -  Nephrotic Syndrome

        -  Normal Labor and Delivery

        -  Preeclampsia

        -  Protein C Deficiency

        -  Protein S Deficiency

        -  Pulmonary Disease and Pregnancy

        -  Systemic Lupus Erythematosus

        -  Systemic Lupus Erythematosus and Pregnancy

        -  Teratology and Drug Use During Pregnancy

        -  Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura Gestational Hypertension Gestational hypertension
           refers to hypertension with onset in the latter part of pregnancy (>20 weeks' gestation)
           without any other features of preeclampsia, and followed by normalization of the blood
           pressure postpartum. Of women who initially present with apparent gestational
           hypertension, about one third develops the syndrome of preeclampsia. As such, these
           patients should be observed carefully for this progression. The pathophysiology of
           gestational hypertension is unknown, but in the absence of features of preeclampsia, the
           maternal and fetal outcomes are usually normal .

      Gestational hypertension may, however, be a harbinger of chronic hypertension later in life
      Furthermore, hypertension before pregnancy or during early pregnancy is associated with a
      twofold increased risk of gestational diabetes mellitus. Transient hypertension of pregnancy
      (ie, the development of isolated hypertension in a woman in late pregnancy without other
      manifestations of preeclampsia) is associated strongly with later development of chronic
      hypertension .

      Although maternal diastolic blood pressure greater than 110 mm Hg is associated with an
      increased risk for placental abruption and fetal growth restriction, superimposed
      pre-eclamptic disorders cause most of the morbidity due to chronic hypertension during
      pregnancy .

      Preeclampsia is defined as the new onset of hypertension and either proteinuria or end organ
      dysfunction after 20 weeks of gestation in a previously normotensive woman. In 2013, the
      American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists removed proteinuria as an essential
      criterion for diagnosis of preeclampsia. They also removed massive proteinuria (5
      grams/24hours) and fetal growth restriction as possible features of severe disease because
      massive proteinuria has a poor correlation with outcome and fetal growth restriction is
      managed similarly whether or not preeclampsia is diagnosed. Oliguria was also removed as a
      characteristic of severe disease.

      Hypertension before 20 weeks' gestation is almost always due to chronic hypertension;
      new-onset or worsening hypertension after 20 weeks' gestation should lead to a careful
      evaluation for manifestations of preeclampsia .

      Signs suggesting a secondary medical cause of chronic hypertension Centripetal obesity,
      "buffalo hump," and/or wide purple abdominal striae suggest glucocorticoid excess; other
      clinical signs may demonstrate hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, or growth hormone excess. In
      addition, a systolic bruit heard over the abdomen or in the flanks suggests renal artery
      stenosis, whereas radio femoral delay or diminished pulses in the lower versus upper
      extremities suggests coarctation of the aorta .

      Women with chronic hypertension in pregnancy should be monitored for the development of
      worsening hypertension and/or the development of superimposed pre-eclampsia (the risk is
      approximately 25%). Laboratory investigations for pre-eclampsia should be repeated if the
      patient's blood pressure increases or if she develops signs or symptoms of preeclampsia .
    
  