
    
      Inadequate treatment of chronic pain is an interrelated public health crisis. An Institute of
      Medicine Pain Report noted that chronic pain affects ~100 million American adults and costs
      $635 billion annually. There is a critical need to better integrate behavioral medicine and
      self-management strategies to treat pain comprehensively and apply a 'whole person' approach
      to pain care. To date, the U.S. lacks scalable behavioral medicine for pain thereby
      underscoring the need for solutions that are accessible, low-cost, and low-burden.

      Poor access to behavioral pain care contributes substantially to chronic pain burden because
      patient-level factors-such as pain catastrophizing-remain untreated and the multidimensional
      nature of pain ignored. Pain catastrophizing - a pattern of negative cognitive and emotional
      responses to actual or anticipated pain is a potent prognostic for pain and disability
      trajectories. Pain catastrophizing is effectively treated with 8-week skills-based group
      cognitive behavioral therapy for chronic pain (pain-CBT), yet pain-CBT is inaccessible to
      most Americans due to few trained therapists and the burdens of treatment time and costs.
      Efficient, effective solutions are urgently needed to provide access to skills-based
      behavioral medicine that equips patients to reduce pain catastrophizing and better
      self-manage chronic pain. To address this unmet need, the investigators developed and tested
      a single-session, 2-hour, pain-CBT skills-based behavioral medicine class ("Empowered
      Relief") to reduce pain catastrophizing and pain correlates. In a 3-arm randomized controlled
      trial involving in-person delivery of treatments, results suggest that Empowered Relief was
      non-inferior to 8-week cognitive behavioral therapy and superior to a health education class
      for reducing pain catastrophizing and improving multiple secondary outcomes at 3 months
      post-treatment in individuals with chronic low back pain.

      In the current study, Empowered Relief is being translated from class delivery to an online
      format. Implementing a 2-arm randomized controlled trial of a single-session, video
      conference-based, group-intervention version of "Empowered Relief" and comparing it to Usual
      Care in mixed etiology chronic pain. Outcome 1, Empowered Relief will be superior to the
      Usual Care for reducing pain catastrophizing at the 1-month follow-up. Outcome 2, Empowered
      Relief will be superior to Usual Care for reducing pain bothersomeness and sleep disturbance
      at the 1-month follow-up. Outcome 3, Empowered Relief will be superior to Usual Care for
      reducing pain intensity, anxiety, depression, physical function at the 1-month follow-up.
      Patient outcomes will be longitudinally tracked at weeks 1 & 2 and months 1, 2, & 3 after the
      intervention session.
    
  