
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Depression is a risk factor for morbidity and mortality following an acute MI and unstable
      angina. Two recent studies (sertraline versus placebo and sertraline plus cognitive therapy
      versus usual care) reported only modest reductions in depression following an acute MI or
      unstable angina, and many treated patients remained depressed. Neither study reported better
      medical outcomes in the treated patients. Earlier studies found that even subclinical
      depression increases the risk of mortality in cardiac patients. Thus, more effective
      treatments are needed to eliminate depression and improve medical outcomes in patients
      following an acute MI or unstable angina. Omega-3 FAs have been shown to augment the efficacy
      of antidepressants for major depression and to improve several cardiac risk factors. However,
      these findings have been shown in separate lines of research. No previous study has
      investigated whether omega-3 FAs can simultaneously improve depression and reduce
      cardiovascular risk factors in post-MI patients.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      One hundred fifty patients who meet the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
      (DSM-IV) criteria for a current major depressive episode and who score 15 or higher on the
      Beck Depression Inventory II with a history of acute MI, unstable angina, or other cardiac
      event will be enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of omega-3
      augmentation of sertraline. The participants will be randomly assigned to receive either
      sertraline plus omega-3 or sertraline plus placebo for 10 weeks. At baseline and again after
      ten weeks, the subjects will complete the following: 1) assessments of depression and
      psychosocial functioning; 2) 24-hour electrocardiogram monitoring for heart rate variability
      analysis; and 3) blood draws to measure procoagulant and proinflammatory markers, and plasma
      levels of sertraline and omega-3. If this study shows that omega-3 reduces depression and
      improves cardiovascular disease markers, there will be a basis for proposing a larger
      clinical trial to determine whether it can also improve survival after hospitalization for
      acute MI or unstable angina.
    
  