
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Assessment of Anti tumour activity to PARP-1 inhibitor rucaparib in patients with
           locally advanced or metastatic breast or advanced ovarian cancer shown to express the
           BRCA 1 or 2 mutations.

        -  To evaluate the toxicity of treatment with Rucaparib in these population's.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the time to progression and overall survival in patients treated with this
           drug.

        -  To study pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patient populations.

        -  To evaluate the Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) activity in peripheral blood
           lymphocytes from BRCA 1 and 2 heterozygotic patients.

        -  To determine a tolerable and effective dosing regimen of the Rucaparib oral formulation.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study followed by an open label multicenter study. The
      study was originally set up with an IV formulation. An oral formulation of the PARP-1
      inhibitor rucaparib will be used from now on. Patients are stratified according to tumor type
      (breast vs ovarian) and mutation status ( BRCA 1 vs BRCA 2). In addition, patient with
      high-grade serous ovarian cancer can be enrolled into Stage 1 of the study. All patients
      enrolled will receive PARP-1 inhibitor rucaparib oral formulation once daily for either 7,
      14, or 21 days of each cycle, (two possible dosages for 21 days treatment). Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients who achieve stable or responding disease may receive additional courses of treatment
      at the discretion of the chief investigator or Drug Development Office (DDO).

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic
      studies. Samples are analyzed for tumor marker (CA 125 and/or CA 15.3) measurements,
      rucaparib plasma levels via liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry, PARP
      activity, and PARP protein expression via western blotting immunoassays. Paraffin embedded
      sections from original diagnostic biopsy are also collected and analyzed for PARP protein
      expression via immunohistochemical technique. Pleural and ascitic fluid may be collected and
      analyzed for DNA DS break repair proficiency via immunohistochemical technique. Some patients
      also undergo biopsy of tumors and samples are analyzed for BRCA 2 mutation as well as PARP
      activity via validated PARP immunoblotting assay.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 28 days.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.
    
  