
    
      Introduction: Stress urinary incontinence (SUI) is defined by involuntary loss of urine.
      According to the literature, its prevalence ranges from 30 to 60%. the first-line treatment
      of female SUI is pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT). The assessment of pelvic floor muscle
      (PFM) contraction is essentially clinical, based on the modified OXFORD system associated
      with symptom questionnaires.

      Objective: The main objective of this study will be to carry out a validation study of
      ultrasound measurements in women with pelvic floor dysfunctions (urethral mobility, movement
      of the ano-rectal angle, elastography): Inter/intra-observer reproducibility; variability
      versus measurement by correlation with clinical examination (modified Oxford scale);
      sensitivity to change before/after PFMT Secondary objectives will be to show a correlation
      between the different ultrasound measurements and the clinical symptoms assessed by validated
      questionnaires (ICIQ-SF, Contilife) in these patients. A quantitative pulseal elastography
      analysis by Ultra-fast shear wave elastography (Supersonic Imagine) will also be performed
      before and after PFMT, looking for changes after PFMT. We will also assess the satisfaction
      of patients who receive an ultrasound during PFMT Materials and Methods: This is a
      single-center prospective study involving patients in PFMT for predominant SUI. Patients will
      benefit from a 10-week PFMT protocol. An evaluation will be conducted at the beginning and
      end of the program. This will include an assessment of symptoms using validated
      questionnaires (ICIQ-SF, CONTILIFE), a clinical examination (modified Oxford scale), as well
      as transperineal ultrasound measurements of urethral mobility (Bladder Neck Desent, BND
      measured in centimeters), movement of ano-rectal angle and quantitative elastography
      measurements (Ultra-fast shear wave, elasticity E expressed in kiloP).
    
  