
    
      Hypertensive disorders are frequent during the course of pregnancy-puerperal cycle and an
      important cause of maternal morbidity and mortality, fetal and perinatal. The high frequency
      of maternal death can be explained by the presence of numerous complications such as
      eclampsia. Eclampsia is an obstetric emergency capable of prophylaxis. To prevent and control
      seizures, there is no doubt that the magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) is the ideal drug. However,
      there are still questions regarding its use and dose. The scheme and the optimal time of
      administration remain to be elucidated. Currently, allows the use of either 1 g / h to 2 g /
      h of magnesium sulphate during the maintenance phase to prevent eclamptic convulsions.
      However, there is no report in the literature of randomized controlled trials comparing
      different doses of magnesium sulfate in the maintenance phase to prevent eclampsia.

      The objective of this study is to compare the effectiveness and safety of intravenous
      magnesium sulfate in the maintenance phase 1g / h versus 2 g / h to prevent eclampsia in
      pregnant and postpartum women with severe preeclampsia (pure or superimposed).There will be a
      trial randomized and triple blind in the Integrative Medicine Institute Prof. Fernando
      Figueira (IMIP) from March 2015 to April 2017, and will be included 2000 women randomized
      into two groups: MgSO4 maintenance dose of 1 g / h or 2 g / h. Patients who had eclampsia
      before loading dose, with use of other medications or illicit drugs that may interfere with
      maternal hemodynamics or with contraindications to the use of magnesium sulfate will be
      excluded. The primary endpoint will be the incidence of eclampsia. Other complications such
      as oliguria, bleeding, recurrence of seizures, disseminated intravascular coagulation,
      maternal death, presence of side effects related to the use of MgSO, neonatal outcome and
      other variables will be considered secondary outcomes. Randomization for preventive treatment
      of eclamptic seizures with MgSO4 1g / h or MgSO4 2g / h will be held according to a table of
      sequential numbers from one to 2000, using the letters A and B and not knowing its meaning.
      The analysis will be performed with the groups identified as A or B, breaking the secrecy
      only after the results obtained and prepared the tables, or by resolution of the External
      Monitoring Committee.
    
  