
    
      Individuals who are eligible to participate and provide informed consent will complete
      baseline questionnaires and be randomly assigned in a double-blind manner to the Psilocybin
      or Active Placebo group. The first MRI assessment will take place shortly thereafter using a
      3T head-only Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Spectroscopy scanner (Magnetom Allegra, Siemens
      medial Solutions, Malvern, PA), optimized for neuroimaging applications.

      Preparation sessions (see below) and the drug administration session will take place in a
      room at the Clinical Research Unit designed to be as comfortable, aesthetically pleasing
      (i.e., living-room like), and safe (e.g., no furniture with sharp corners or glass objects)
      as possible, with a directly adjacent, private restroom.

      All participants will undergo four weekly preparation sessions of approximately 2 hours each.
      The purpose of these sessions is to: 1) develop strong therapeutic alliance between the
      participants and the guide (Dr. Hendricks) and secondary monitor (Dr. Cropsey); 2) establish
      comfort and rapport between participants and the remainder of the research team; 3) discuss
      participants' aspirations with regard to their drug administration experience (e.g., What do
      participants hope to gain from their experience?); 4) discuss the treatment rationale and
      putative mechanisms of action of psilocybin (e.g., insight and reorientation that boost
      motivation to quit and abstinence self-efficacy, reduction of withdrawal/craving secondary to
      mood improvement); 5) obtain a detailed personal history of the participant, with a focus on
      those factors contributing to their current difficulties; 6) prepare participants for drug
      administration, including a detailed account of all potential effects of the drug; 7) discuss
      all aspects of the drug administration protocol (i.e., logistics and procedures), including
      plans of action in the event that participants experience acute distress; and 8) administer
      cognitive-behavioral treatment for cocaine use. Any participant who demonstrates significant
      anxiety, discomfort, or unease regarding drug administration at the conclusion of the four
      preparation sessions will be provided up to two additional preparation sessions. If these
      sessions are unsuccessful at mitigating the participant's anxiety, discomfort, or unease, the
      participant will be removed from the study.

      Approximately one week after their final preparation session, participants will be instructed
      to eat a low-fat breakfast prior to presenting for their drug administration session at 8:00
      am, approximately 1 hour before drug administration. A urine sample will be collected to
      verify drug-free status and participants will be encouraged to relax and reflect before drug
      administration. The drug administration session will take place over the course of 8 hours.
      The guide and secondary monitor will be present with participants throughout this session (at
      least one individual will always be present with the participant, even during brief intervals
      when the guide or monitor may be using the restroom). During this time, participants will be
      encouraged to lie down, use an eye mask to block external visual distraction, and use
      headphones through which a supportive music program will be played. Participants will be
      instructed to focus their attention on their inner experiences throughout the session.

      Any participant reporting significant distress will be provided reassurance verbally or
      physically (e.g., with a supportive touch to the hand or shoulder). Although no contemporary
      studies have reported the need for pharmacological intervention, in the event that
      psychological distress is insufficiently managed with reassurance alone, medication will be
      administered under the guidance of the study physician.

      Blood pressure will be assessed at regular intervals via automatic blood pressure monitor
      (e.g., pre-administration, and at 30, 60, 90, 120, 180, 240, 300, and 360 minutes
      post-administration), and medication for the treatment of acute hypertension will be
      administered should blood pressure exceed 190 systolic and 100 diastolic.

      Sessions will be videotaped and reviewed to verify session procedures.

      Seven hours after drug administration, when the major drug effects have subsided,
      participants will complete questionnaires assessing their experience. Participants will then
      be released into the care of a friend or family member oriented to be emotionally supportive
      of the participant (as arranged during preparation sessions) and instructed not to drive an
      automobile or engage in any other potentially dangerous activity for the remainder of the
      day. Participants will be provided with the guide's pager number should they feel the need
      for support that evening.

      Within 2 days after the drug administration session, participants will meet with the guide
      for approximately 2 hours to discuss and reflect on their experience. The guide will assess
      for potential adverse effects at this time. The second MRI session will take place shortly
      thereafter. Participants will then meet with the guide once per week over the next 4 weeks
      with an emphasis on integration of their medication session experience in the context of
      achieving abstinence from cocaine; continued cognitive-behavioral treatment for cocaine use
      will be provided during these follow-up meetings.

      Long-term assessment visits will take place 3 and 6 months after the final follow-up meeting.
      A battery of measures will be delivered at these times. At the conclusion of the 6-month
      assessment meeting, participants will be debriefed.
    
  