
    
      This single-center prospective observational cohort study seeks to clarify the role of
      glycemic control as a risk determinant for survival of dental implants and biologic
      complications of dental implant therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes. Long-term implant
      stability and implant-related complications will be assessed in relation to glycated
      hemoglobin levels over time in poorly-controlled and well-controlled diabetics and in
      non-diabetic participants.

      Primary: To determine the impact of glycemic control in type 2 diabetes patients on
      implant-related biologic complications, integration and survival for dental implants under
      long-term functional loading (>1 year).

      Secondary: To examine these associations relative to long-term effects of sub-optimal
      glycemic control on two different anatomic/restorative schemes (fixed partial or removable
      complete) Outcomes: Assessments include implant survival, implant-related biologic
      complications and resonance frequency analysis as a measure of implant stabilization.
      Outcomes will be analyzed relative to glycated hemoglobin levels (HbA1c) taken at 6-month
      intervals over the course of the study.

      The total study population will consist of 163 participants who will be followed for at least
      2 years. This will include enrolling from a group of 141 patients who have previously
      received implant therapy as part of short-term assessments regarding diabetes.

      In addition, the study plans to enroll 42 participants who would benefit from implant
      supported denture therapy as done in the prior studies. These participants will be classified
      into 3 separate groups depending on the A1C reading at time of implant placement. The
      criteria being followed for the groups are HbA1c< 6.0% (non-diabetic), 6.0%<HbA1c<8.0% (well
      controlled diabetic) and 8.0%<HbA1c<12.0% (poorly controlled diabetic).

      A review of the potential participant's health is completed at the time of screening. The
      implant surgeon will determine if a patient is healthy for surgery with no anticipated health
      complications. If a health concern is evident that precludes implant placement, the patient
      will be excluded from study participation.

      The age requirement for the study is 25 years of age or older. It is expected that most
      participants will be 50 years and over due to the specific clinical requirements for the
      treatment being followed. Individuals of any gender, race, and ethnicity may participate in
      this study. Most patients live locally in San Antonio, TX and some are from the surrounding
      cities.
    
  