
    
      Triflusal, 2-(acetyloxy)-4-(trifluoromethyl) benzoic acid, is an antiplatelet agent with a
      chemical structure similar to aspirin, but with a different pharmacokinetic and
      pharmacodynamic profile. The drug is administered orally and its bioavailability ranges from
      83% to 100%. It binds almost entirely (99%) to plasma proteins and crosses readily organic
      barriers. Triflusal is deacetylated in the liver, forming its main metabolite
      2-hydroxy-4-trifluoromethyl benzoic acid (HTB). In contrast to the inactive aspirin
      metabolite salicylic acid, HTB exhibits antiplatelet activity and has a long plasma half-life
      of approximately 40h. Triflusal irreversibly inhibits COX-1 and reduces TxA2 production, but
      to a lesser extent compared with aspirin. It inhibits COX-1 and AA metabolism selectively in
      platelets, preserving PGI2 synthesis in vascular endothelial cells 1. Except of platelet
      COX-1 triflusal and in particular HTB inhibit phosphodiesterase, the enzyme that degrades the
      cyclic nucleotides, cyclic adenosine monophosphate (c-AMP) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate
      (c-GMP), both of which inhibit platelet function.

      Triflusal has similar to aspirin efficacy for the secondary prevention of vascular events in
      patients with acute myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, while it reduces the incidence of
      intracranial and gastrointestinal haemorrhage compared with aspirin. It should be noted that
      triflusal is well tolerated in patients with aspirin-induced asthma.

      Aspirin (acetyl salicylic acid) remains for over 50 years the cornerstone of antiplatelet
      therapy due to its proven clinical benefit and very good cost effectiveness profile. Aspirin
      selectively and irreversibly acetylates the hydroxyl group of a single serine residue at
      position 529 within the polypeptide chain of PGH synthase-1. Thus aspirin inhibits the COX-1
      activity but it does not affect the hydroperoxidase activity PGH synthase-1. By blocking
      COX-1, the production of TXA2 is reduced, leading to reduced platelet aggregation. Aspirin
      improves clinical outcome in all cardiovascular syndromes in primary and secondary
      prevention, including acute events. In high-risk patients, aspirin substantially reduces the
      risk of vascular death by ~15% and non-fatal vascular events by ~30% as it reported by a
      meta-analysis of over 100 large-scale randomized trials. Several studies the last years have
      suggested that a proportion of patients (5 to 65%) exhibit a hyporesponsiveness (resistance)
      to aspirin treatment which could be associated with recurrent ischemic events. Aspirin
      resistance may result from several causes, such as low compliance, interference with
      non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) and protein glycation occurring in type 2
      diabetes mellitus. Increased platelet turnover observed in various diseases such as ACS,
      peripheral arterial disease and diabetic angiopathy associated with faster re-appearance of
      newly formed, non aspirinated platelets, may also account for aspirin resistance.

      Although triflusal is chemically related to aspirin and has similar effectiveness, it appears
      to have a better tolerability profile than aspirin. Results from large-scale clinical trials
      and a meta-analysis suggest that its use may be preferable to that of aspirin, in several
      clinical settings where antiplatelet therapy is indicated. Furthermore, in selected
      populations, such as in geriatric patients, because of an increased risk of bleeding
      complications, in patients suffering from asthma, chronic sinusitis and nasal polyps, or in
      cases of aspirin resistance, triflusal may be a choice worth considering. Furthermore, when
      combination antiplatelet-fibrinolytic or antiplatelet-anticoagulant therapy is needed,
      clinical data support triflusal use based on its efficacy and better safety than aspirin.
      Unlike aspirin, triflusal, also, less likely affect the efficacy of antihypertensive drugs,
      especially angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. The aim of the present trial is to
      investigate the efficacy and safety of triflusal in comparison with aspirin in patients with
      stable coronary artery disease (CAD) and in those with a history of an acute
      non-cardioembolic ischemic stroke.
    
  