
    
      This is a double blind randomised controlled pilot study to assess feasibility of copper
      impregnated wound dressings and maternity pads for the healing of obstetric wounds. All women
      having a caesarean section or with perineal sutures after a vaginal delivery will be
      recruited from the antenatal clinic (in case of an elective caesarean section) or from the
      maternity wards within Croydon Health Services. All women will be given a patient information
      sheet describing the study prior to consent and will be giving adequate time to read the
      information before signing the Informed consent. Participants will be followed up via a
      telephone questionnaire 7, 14 and 30 days after the delivery.

      Randomisation:

      After inclusion all participants will be randomised for a wound dressing or maternity pad
      with (study group) or without copper (control group). The two sets of wound dressings and
      pads will be marked "A" or "B". Both the clinician and the participant will be blinded to the
      randomised group. Only the manufacturer will be aware of which group contains copper.

      Copper impregnated dressings:

      As soon as possible, but within 12 hours after primary closure of the caesarean section
      incision, the randomised study dressing will be applied. The two study dressings were
      equivalent to the dressing normally used within this Trust, except the foam of one set of
      dressings was impregnated with 3% copper oxide ions. The two sets of wound dressings were
      marked "A" and "B" and both the women and clinician were blinded to the randomised group.
      According to local protocol the wound dressing will be left intact for 7 days following
      surgery and will be renewed if necessary.

      Copper impregnated maternity pads As soon as possible, but within 12 hours after suturing,
      women will be asked to wear the study maternity pads, which will be provided. The two sets of
      study maternity pads will be equivalent to the currently recommended pads, except that one
      set of pads will have a thin top layer of non-woven polyester fibres with 3% copper oxide
      ions permanently attached to it. Women will be asked to use the pads for 14 days.

      Patient data, history and physical examination:

      Demographic data such as age, ethnicity, height and weight will be collected as well as
      obstetric data and delivery details. Past medical history such as concomitant (chronic)
      diseases and the use of medications will be obtained. Wound infection will be assessed via a
      telephone questionnaire after 7, 14 and 30 days after delivery. The data will be stored in a
      secure room within Trust facilities. All electronic data will be stored within password
      protected IT system within the Trust, which is only accessible by the clinical and research
      team.

      Questionnaire:

      For the assessment of surgical site infection, the Post Discharge Questionnaire used by the
      HPC surgical site infection surveillance will be used, which is according to the worldwide
      used definition of surgical site infection by the CDC.

      Statistical analysis Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS version 20.0 or
      higher. Infection rates in the perineal tear group and the caesarean section group will be
      analysed seperately. The infection rates in the study group (with copper) will be compared to
      the control group and possible risk factors for infection will be explored. the Chi-Square
      will be used to analyse categorical variables and the T-test or Mann Whitney-U test will be
      used to analyse continuous variables. Multivariable logistic regression will be used to
      investigate risk factors for development of infection.

      Sample size calculation Since the effect of copper on infection rates is currently unknown,
      we will conduct a pilot study for 12 months.
    
  