
    
      All subjects who present for endoscopy will be screened. Consent will be taken from subjects
      who are scheduled to undergo gastroscopy. Gastric biopsies to test for the presence of H.
      pylori using the rapid CLO test and for culture and sensitivity will be obtained. Based on an
      estimated prevalence of H. pylori of 20%, we aim to screen approximately 1000 subjects for H.
      pylori with the rapid CLO test during gastroscopy.

      Subjects who have a negative CLO test during endoscopy will be excluded from the study and
      will be managed accordingly by their physician.

      Subjects who are confirmed to have H. pylori gastritis based on the CLO test will then be
      recruited into the study.

      Diagnosed H. pylori positive patients (n=252) will be enrolled into four study groups:

        -  Group A: Omeprazole 20mg bd/ Amoxicillin 1g bd/ Clarithromycin 500mg bd for 14 days

        -  Group B: Esomperazole 20mg bd/ Amoxicillin 1g bd/ Clarithromycin 500mg bd for 14 days

        -  Group C: Rabeprazole 20mg bd/ Amoxicillin 1g bd/ Clarithromycin 500mg bd for 14 days

        -  Group D: Vonoprazan 20mg bd/ Amoxicilllin 1g bd/ Clarithromycin 500mg bd for 7 days

      Randomization codes will be generated by a computer program, and all codes are placed into
      sealed opaque envelopes and kept by an independent biostatistician. After obtaining informed
      consent, the investigators would call the research assistant to open the envelope for the
      allocated regimen. The allocation ratio for TTV and TTP groups is 1:1, with 126 patients in
      each group. Within the TTP group, the distribution of patients to each of the three PPIs
      (Omeprazole/Esomeprazole/Rabeprazole) will be equal (n=42 each). The compliance to treatment
      in terms of percentage of drugs taken will be assessed during clinic review.

      This will be a single centre, prospective, open-label, randomized controlled study to (i)
      compare the eradication rates of H. pylori by TTP regimen vs TTV regimen in a multi-racial
      Asian cohort, (ii) evaluate the prevalence of antibiotic (clarithromycin/ amoxicillin/
      levofloxacin/ tetracycline) resistance in H. pylori-infected patients of both treatment
      groups, and (iii) assess the safety of the TTV regimen. The proposed study workflow is
      outlined in Figure 1. This study will be conducted in CGH, in accordance with the ethical
      principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki, and are consistent with
      Good Clinical Practice, applicable regulatory requirements.

      The demographic profile (age, gender, ethnicity) and clinical notes (endoscopic findings,
      antibiotic sensitivity testing results, drug regimen prescribed, extent of treatment
      compliance, duration of therapy, treatment outcomes i.e. eradication rate, occurrence of
      adverse events, etc.) of all patients enrolled into the study will be documented for data
      analysis.

      The following experiments will be conducted for the study:

      Efficacy assessment:

      The success of treatment i.e. eradication of H. pylori is defined as a negative Carbon-13
      urea breath test (CUBT) or negative histology test performed at week 6. CUBT or histology
      will be performed based on the clinical indication as determined by the attending physician.
      All patients should be off antibiotics and PPI or Vonoprazan for at least 4 weeks prior to
      assessment of the success of treatment, as per standard practice. All routine laboratory
      tests will be carried out in Microbiology Lab, Department of Laboratory Medicine, CGH. The
      technologists will be blinded to the treatment regimens.

      Antibiotic susceptibility testing:

      For patients with H. pylori infection diagnosed during endoscopy from a positive rapid urease
      test kit, the material from the test kit will be cultured for antibiotic sensitivity testing.
      The antibiotic sensitivity testing results may be of value in guiding the choice of
      antibiotics for second line salvage treatment should first line treatment fails. This has
      potential usage in the clinical management of patients.

      Gastric biopsy specimens collected from both greater gastric corpus and antrum during
      endoscopy will be inoculated into H. pylori transport medium and transported with ice packs
      to the laboratory. The biopsy samples will be ground with a tissue homogenizer, cultured,
      followed by susceptibility testing and determination of the minimum inhibitory concentration
      (MIC). Briefly, culture will be performed with blood agar medium for Helicobacter with
      addition of 10% CO2 at 35°C for 7 days. The identity of H. pylori is defined as Gram-negative
      bacillus with catalase test positive, oxidase test positive, and urease test positive. The
      MIC of antibiotics (clarithromycin/ amoxicillin/ levofloxacin/ tetracycline) will be
      determined by E-test or agar plate dilution method in accordance with the guidelines
      established by the NCCLS Guidelines M100-S9. Mueller-Hinton agar (5% horse blood) will be
      used with addition of 10% CO2 at 35°C for 72 hours (21). The breakpoint for clarithromycin,
      amoxicillin, levofloxacin, and tetracycline resistance is defined as ≥ 1.0mg/L, 0.5mg/L,
      1mg/L, and 1mg/L, respectively, according to the European Committee on Antimicrobial
      Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST) (21,22). The laboratory personnel involved in the antibiotic
      sensitivity testing will be blinded to the study group allocation.

      Safety assessment:

      An adverse effect questionnaire (AEQ) will be completed by all patients during therapy. The
      AEQ will contain a checklist to assess the occurrence of loose stools, skin eruption,
      abdominal bloating, constipation, nausea, epigastric pain, and dysgeusia.

      Detection of mutational hotspots for clarithromycin resistance:

      An in-house real-time PCR assay will be done on the DNA extracted from the cultured H. pylori
      isolates to detect mutational hotspots for clarithromycin-resistance.

      Post-hoc CYP2C19 genotyping:

      Genomic DNA will be extracted from peripheral leukocytes of whole blood using standard
      desalting methods. Genotyping for the two predominant single nucleotide polymorphisms
      (CYP2C19*2 and CYP2C19*3) leading to intermediate (heterozygous mutant) and poor metabolizer
      phenotypes (homozygous mutants) will be performed using sequencing of restriction fragment
      length polymorphism methods.
    
  