
    
      It is well-known that low fiber diet before colonoscopy is at least equivalent to liquid
      diet. However, tolerance is better with low fiber diet. There is no current evidence whether
      the number of days on low fiber diet before colonoscopy have any influence on bowel cleansing
      quality.

      This is the first controlled, randomized trial to compare bowel cleansing by using two
      different protocols: one day low fiber diet versus three day low fiber diet.

      A researcher will offer to participate in the study to scheduled for outpatient colonoscopy,
      who meet all the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria. The researchers will
      explain the purpose of the study and will ask to sign the informed consent. They will give
      verbal and written information on the diet and the bowel cleansing solution to be taken.
      Thus, according to the allocation group, participants must comply with a low fiber diet the
      previous day of the examination or 3 days prior to the examination. In both cases, patients
      will take a liquid diet the night before.

      Patients from both groups will receive low volume preparation with 1 L of polyethylene glycol
      plus ascorbic acid 12 hours prior to the appointment of the colonoscopy and 1 L of PEG with
      ascorbic acid 5 hours before the appointment for colonoscopy.

      Patients must complete a baseline questionnaire at the inclusion visit and another
      questionnaire at the colonoscopy visit.

      The hypothesis of the study is that in non-selected population, a 3-day low fiber diet before
      colonoscopy is superior to 1-day low fiber diet in achieving an acceptable bowel cleansing
      assessed by a validated scale (Boston Bowel Preparation Score).

      For the present study, a 10% improvement in the quality of colonic cleaning was hypothesized
      in the group of patients receiving 3 day low fiber diet regimen. Taking into account a power
      of 80%, alpha error of 5% and losses of 15% will require 202 patients per group.
    
  