
    
      Calcium and vitamin D are essential nutrients for optimal bone health throughout life.
      Research has shown that postmenopausal women who consume appropriate amounts of these
      nutrients have better bone strength and fewer fractures than those who don't. However,
      researchers have recently questioned the safety of calcium and vitamin D obtained through
      supplements as they might increase the risk of cardiovascular events such as heart attacks
      and strokes.

      The investigators propose to estimate the effect of dietary intake of calcium as compared to
      supplemental calcium on vascular and bone health in postmenopausal women.

      Eligible participants will be assigned by chance (like a coin toss) to one of three groups:
      (1) 1200 mg of calcium from dietary sources and 1 capsule of 400 IU vitamin D supplement
      everyday after the first meal of the day; (2) 450 mg of calcium from dietary sources, 2
      tablets of 250 mg calcium citrate supplement and 1 capsule of 800 IU vitamin D supplement
      everyday after the first meal of the day and 1 tablet of 250 mg calcium citrate supplement
      after the evening meal or snack; or (3) unrestricted calcium from dietary sources and 1
      capsule of 400 IU vitamin D supplement everyday after the first meal of the day. Participants
      have an equal chance of being assigned to any of these three groups until 26 participants
      have been assigned to group (3). At this time participants will continue to be assigned by
      chance to either of the two remaining groups only.

      Participants will also attend appointments at the Montreal General Hospital every 6-months
      where they will undergo anthropometric measurements, blood tests, urine tests, non-invasive
      ultrasounds to measure arterial stiffness and questionnaires. The questionnaires ask about
      health; lifestyle habits such as physical exercise, diet, and smoking; use of medications and
      dietary supplements; family history of illness, and past medical diagnoses. Participants will
      also receive monthly phone calls from study staff to monitor for adverse events and
      adherence.
    
  