
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Socioeconomic status as measured by education, income and/or occupation is generally
      inversely associated with hypertension-risk. John Henryism research is designed to test the
      psychosocial stress hypothesis that low SES Blacks who are strongly predisposed to overcome
      difficult life circumstances through effortful active coping might have higher blood pressure
      than their more relaxed neighbors and that John Henryism and anger suppression are positively
      correlated in Blacks.

      The first two years of the project analyzed data collected on 1,548 Black and white men and
      women in Edgecombe County, North Carolina. The Edgecombe County data were collected in 1983
      to provide data for a representative sample of households to be used in evaluating the
      effectiveness of a community high blood pressure control program. Approximately 50 percent of
      the sample was Black and 56 percent women. In the first year, measurements were made in all
      four race-sex groups of the effect-modifying role of John Henryism on education and on
      alternative measures of SES. In the second year, analyses were conducted on the degree to
      which job security, marriage, and socioeconomic mobility predict blood pressure in each
      race-sex group.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A survey was conducted of 2,017 Black men and women in Pitt County, North Carolina. Study
      variables included age, sex, marital status, socioeconomic status (SES), John Henryism
      (behavioral predisposition to cope actively with psychosocial environmental stressors),
      social support, anger-coping style, social desirability, dietary variables including sodium,
      potassium, calcium and alcohol, blood pressure, height, weight, and pregnancy. In the
      cross-sectional study, blood pressure was the continuous outcome as measured by linear
      regression. Three years after baseline all normotensive persons were re-examined in order to
      measure changes in blood pressure from baseline after exposure to selected psychosocial and
      dietary factors. The study provided an estimate of the degree to which John Henryism, social
      support, anger-coping and dietary factors modify the association between SES and blood
      pressure in Blacks.

      The study was renewed in 1993 to re-examine the 1,429 respondents (571 men, 912 women) with
      untreated, mean diastolic blood pressure < 95 mmHg at baseline, and again at follow-up, on
      changes in blood pressure during the intervening four to five years (1988-1992/93). The
      social variables included socioeconomic status, John Henryism, stress, and social support;
      the dietary variables included alcohol, sodium, potassium, and calcium; and the
      anthropometric variables included body mass index (BMI) and waist/hip ratio (WHR). With an
      emphasis on SES, physical activity, dietary habits, and cigarette smoking, the predictors of
      weight gain, and changes in patterning of body fat were also examined. Multiple linear
      regression was the primary analytic tool used to study these longitudinal relationships. In
      cross-sectional analyses which controlled for physical activity and other important
      variables, the roles of insulin resistance in mediating associations between obesity and
      blood pressure, and stress and blood pressure, were also examined.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  