
    
      Participants will be ultra-endurance athletes competing in Racing the Planet's 250 mile/7 day
      4 Desert events in 2014 (Jordan, Gobi, Madagascar, and Atacama. A convenience sample will be
      used, with full consent signed before inclusion into the study, with participants being
      informed that study inclusion is entirely optional and will not affect medical care.
      Randomization will be conducted for each participant, a coin will be flipped to determine
      which foot is to be taped, heads - right foot, and tails, left foot. The non-taped foot will
      be used as a control. The runner's normal sock/shoe system will be used to reflect natural
      wilderness conditions. Participants will have demographic data collected prior to the race,
      including age, gender, country of origin, number of marathons run prior, pack weight, and
      sock type. The study endpoint occurs when a hot spot or blister develops on either the
      treated or untreated foot. Runners will be instructed to treat suspected blisters or hot
      spots as they normally would, and to inform the study administrators the same day for visual
      inspection and final questionnaire to determine if they develop blisters or hot spots,
      whether they applied or re-applied tape themselves, removed tape, and the reasons for these
      actions.

      Participants will have tape applied to area(s) prone to blister on 1 foot, if no blister
      history, 1 area will be randomly assigned. The tape will be left on the selected foot until a
      blister or hot spot develops on either foot or the end of the race, whichever comes first. At
      that point, the study is over and the participant can continue or stop taping at their
      choice. If participants are prone to blisters or hot spots in particular areas, 1" paper tape
      applied to that site on trial foot. However, if the participant has no previous blister or
      hot spot experience, a site will be randomly assigned by picking a piece of paper out of a
      bag with the site written on a piece of paper (heel, toe, instep, head of 5th metatarsal).
      Therefore, a single participant can have more than 1 site on an individual foot.
    
  