
    
      The IRONPAD Study is a phase IV randomised controlled trial with two branches of treatment on
      the efficacy of intravenous iron therapy for the optimisation of blood use and prognosis in
      the perioperative period of patients with anaemia undergoing revascularisation for chronic
      lower limb ischemia.

      Patients admitted to hospital with anaemia and indication of elective revascularisation
      surgery for chronic ischemia of the lower limbs will be eligible for screening. Anaemia in
      this study is established following the WHO criteria with haemoglobin (Hb) <130 g/L in men
      and <120 g/L in women 21.

      Patients will be selected according to the usual practice, without excluding patients because
      of comorbidity or other reasons that may affect results (selection bias).

      Prior to inclusion, freely given written informed consent will be obtained from all patients.
      Once included, each patient will be masked into a unique identity number (correlative
      according to inclusion), as a reference of patient ID in the registry.

      Each patient will be randomised to a line A or line B of treatment.

        -  Line A: a single, ferric carboxymaltose (Ferinject®) 1000 mg IV iron dose
           administration. The infusion will be according to product specifications with an
           approximate duration of 15 minutes during hospitalisation and will not require an
           additional site visit or extended period of hospitalisation.

        -  Line B: control. The control group will not receive specific treatment. In case of
           severe iron deficiency anaemia, oral iron supplements (iron sulphate dihydrate) will be
           given.

      Both lines may be followed in addition to taking vitamin B12 and folic acid, if indicated.

      The patient, once included in the study, may receive a blood transfusion if the following
      criteria are met:

      - Absolute indication: Hemodynamic instability Active bleeding Hb <7 g/dl

      - Relative indications: in case of Hb <8.5 g/dL or haematocrit <28% following the clinical
      criteria of the medical specialist.

      Interventions to be measured:

      The data collected at baseline will include patients' past medical history, medications,
      blood tests (including hemogram, iron tests and renal function), comorbidity index (Charlson
      Scale), lower limbs chronic ischemia category and the limb scheduled for revascularisation
      (including registry of any trophic lesions and if they have signs of active infection),
      height, weight and body-mass index of the patient. In addition, already validated quality of
      life questionnaire, the Short Form-36 Health Survey (SF-36) will be completed.

      Procedure data will record: date of IV iron treatment, if received, dose and any adverse
      events during or after administration; ASA (American Society of Anaesthesiologists) risk
      level; type of surgery performed for revascularisation of lower limbs, information on
      clinical success and complications of the intervention. Blood records will include
      haemoglobin before and first day after surgery and number of red blood cell units of or any
      other blood component transfused during the surgical procedure. If surgery does not finally
      take place, data from the 30 days after inclusion will be registered for analysis with
      intention to treat.

      The hospital discharge visit will record: date of discharge; last hemogram; number of blood
      transfusions from the postoperative period until discharge; days in intensive care; adverse
      events such as medical and surgical complications as well as mortality.

      The final follow-up visit will take place 30 days after the main surgery (with +/- 15-day
      window) it would be performed by telephone, in the outpatient consultation or in the hospital
      if the patient continues to be hospitalised; in that case, the discharge visit and final
      visit will be made simultaneously. It will record: blood tests (including hemogram, iron
      tests), clinical success, serious adverse events (SAE) and mortality, which may have occurred
      between hospital discharge and the visit in addition to Short Form-36 Health Survey (SF-36).
      See Fig. 1 for Assessment flow diagram.
    
  