
    
      Pancreatic blood flow or perfusion is difficult to quantify due to the complex vascular
      supply to the organ and its retroperitoneal location, adjacent to the abdominal aorta. The
      pancreas is supplied by the superior gastroduodenal artery from the celiac plexus, branches
      from the hepatic and splenic arteries, which originate from the celiac plexus, and the
      inferior gastroduodenal artery, which originates from the superior mesenteric artery.
      Identifying changes in flow in all these vessels with good spatial and temporal resolution is
      challenging but important in understanding many of the chronic conditions of the pancreas.

      Chronic pancreatitis (CP) is an inflammatory condition of the pancreas leading to
      irreversible damage to the tissue. It is increasing in incidence in all nations, and is
      related to rising alcohol consumption and improved diagnostic techniques. In Europe the
      incidence is approximately 6-7/100,000 population. 73-91% of patients affected are male with
      an average age of 49-60yrs. Patients affected by CP have a high morbidity, such as diabetes
      and chronic abdominal and/or post-prandial pain in 80-90%, which required frequent hospital
      admission, control-drug prescriptions and intervention by specialist hospital services.
      However the mechanisms of chronic and post-prandial pain for CP patients are not well
      understood, but tissue ischaemia, inflammation and neurological changes have been proposed.
      These mechanisms may be inter-related with pancreatic inflammation and neurochemical changes,
      such as an increase substance P, which can produce vasoconstriction, reducing pancreatic
      perfusion and worsening ischaemia of intra-pancreatic nerves(3). A greater understanding of
      the ischaemic and inflammatory mechanisms behind the pain in CP, would greatly enhance the
      development of treatment for this and other debilitating conditions.

      There are a few studies of pancreatic tissue perfusion in humans, those studies which have
      assessed perfusion have used invasive techniques such as endoscopic or laparoscopic
      measurement and hydrogen gas clearance methods. Although these methods have demonstrated
      decreased resting blood flow and little response to secretin stimulation in CP patients
      compared to healthy controls, the techniques are highly invasive, time consuming and
      expensive and can cause the participant significant morbidity. This has led to several
      non-invasive techniques including infusion of oxygen-15 water and positron emission
      tomography (PET), contrast-material-enhanced trans-abdominal ultrasound (US) or
      contrast-enhanced dynamic computer tomography (CT). However these techniques involve infusion
      of an exogenous marker to detect the change in flow rate and often require a radiation
      exposure or are operator dependant and give poor spatial or temporal resolution, limiting the
      usefulness of the studies.

      MRI is an attractive alternative for the assessment of pancreatic perfusion, providing good
      spatial and temporal resolution with no radiation exposure. Two methods can be used,
      Contrast-Enhanced (CE) MRI or Arterial Spin Labelling (ASL) techniques. ASL provides a tool
      for quantitative assessment of tissue perfusion without the need for contrast administration.

      Contrast-enhanced MRI using gadodiamide has been used to explore the changes in pancreatic
      perfusion with secretin stimulation. This study in 10 healthy volunteers demonstrated that at
      rest there was a higher blood flow within the body and the tail of the pancreas, compared to
      the head. With secretin stimulation there was a significant increased perfusion in all
      regions of the pancreas. ASL techniques, do not require exogenous contrast agents, only two
      previous studies have measured pancreatic perfusion with ASL, one exploring pancreatic
      exocrine functions in type 1 diabetics. A recent study at the Nottingham Digestive Diseases
      Centre on pancreatic perfusion measurement using ASL at baseline and after intravenous
      secretin stimulation has standardised the MRI technique of measuring pancreatic perfusion.

      There are no studies using MRI ASL to measure pancreatic perfusion in patients with chronic
      pancreatitis after secretin stimulation. This pilot study aims to test the feasibility of
      using MRI ASL to measure pancreatic perfusion in patients with chronic pancreatitis with a
      view to perfecting the technique. This will allow future studies comparing pancreatic
      perfusion in healthy adult controls to patients with chronic pancreatitis thus improving the
      investigators understanding of the pathophysiology of pain in patients with chronic
      pancreatitis.
    
  