
    
      Over 1.5 million people live in 16,000 nursing homes (NH) in the USA and experience an
      average of 2 million infections a year. It is well known that NH residents are at risk of
      infection because of frequent hospital stays, advanced age, exposure to multiple courses of
      antibiotics, numerous comorbidities, diminished immune response, malnutrition, and cognitive
      impairment. The most common are pneumonia, UTIs, diarrheal illnesses, and skin and soft
      tissue infections. Infections in NH residents have been associated with adverse clinical
      outcomes, including high rates of morbidity and mortality, re-hospitalization, prolonged
      hospital stays and substantial healthcare expenses.

      The identification of fever is a key component in the detection of infections. Studies have
      shown that standard definition for fever, 100.5 degrees F, is not sensitive to identify
      infections in elderly populations. The recommendation therefore is a fever of 99 degrees F or
      an increase of 2.4 degrees F from baseline. These changes in temperatures are also a
      significant indication that infection is present.

      The collection of episodic temperatures in nursing home residents is challenging. The
      collection of baseline measurements for all residents is logistically unachievable. The
      continuous measurement of body temperature in any mobile population would be nearly
      impossible by any clinically standard means.

      With the advent of microelectronics, long battery life, and wireless transmission, it is now
      possible to continuously measure, record and report body temperature.

      What remains unknown is the feasibility and clinical utility of obtaining these measurements.

      Therefore it is proposed that for a period of three months, residents of a single, long-term
      care facility have a wearable, thermometer applied to their skin. The medical-grade adhesive
      and thermometer will be changed every 2-3 days. The thermometer will provide continuous
      temperature measurement that will be sent wirelessly via Bluetooth to access points
      positioned throughout the facility.

      The temperatures are reported wirelessly every minute and stored in a secure server. All
      participants and care providers are blinded to the temperature readings.

      At the conclusion of the monitoring period, the temperature readings will be compared to the
      longitudinal healthcare record for each of the participants. Particular attention will be
      toward hospitalizations, antibiotics, nursing records, and clinic visits to determine
      episodes of infectious illness.
    
  