
    
      Postoperative pulmonary complications are frequent after cardiac surgery, affecting
      approximately 30% of all patients. Such complications result in increased morbidity,
      mortality and health care utilization. During and immediately after surgery, mechanical
      ventilation is required to control the patient's breathing. Recent scientific literature
      showed the striking importance of specific mechanical ventilation settings (which often
      constituted a bundle of interventions and were generally called "protective mechanical
      ventilation") in other areas of medicine (i.e., critical care, abdominal surgery, management
      of organ donors) to prevent the onset or propagation of lung injury as well as multiple organ
      dysfunction. These protective settings include tidal volume of 6 ml/kg of ideal body weight
      (as opposed to the traditional tidal volume of 10-12 ml/kg), use of positive end expiratory
      pressure (PEEP), recruitment maneuvers (temporary periodic application of higher respiratory
      pressures or volumes on the mechanical ventilator in order to re-open collapsed areas of the
      lungs) and attention at avoiding lung collapse during patient transfer and suctioning (i.e.
      maintaining PEEP during transfer and avoiding disconnection from the breathing circuit during
      suctioning of respiratory secretions). Such interventions could play an even more important
      role during cardiac surgery, where several insults to the lung take place. These insults
      result from the inflammatory cascade triggered by cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), myocardial
      injury and areas of lung collapse (atelectasis). Indeed, a recent retrospective study showed
      that the tidal volume utilized during and after cardiac surgery impacts significantly on
      organ dysfunction, with a tidal volume less than 10 ml/kg of ideal body weight providing
      better outcomes than larger tidal volumes.

      The investigators hypothesize that our proposed bundle of protective mechanical ventilation
      settings aimed at minimizing lung injury by continuation of mechanical ventilation during
      cardiopulmonary bypass, recruitment maneuvers, and use of systems that prevent lung collapse
      during patient transfer and suctioning (i.e. PEEP valves and closed respiratory circuits)
      will reduce postoperative pulmonary complications compared to the current standard of care,
      hence significantly improving patients outcomes and reducing health care costs.
    
  