
    
      The prevalence of overweight in Spanish children in the puberty age is among the highest in
      the world and increasing quickly. Our group has done so far two interventions based on
      after-school program of recreational physical activity to control obesity and other
      cardiovascular risk factors in primary school children (8-to-11 years) in Cuenca.

      This intervention, in its first edition showed moderate effect in reducing adiposity and
      improving the lipid profile, but did not significantly improve overall cardiometabolic risk
      by not reduce blood insulin. In a second edition (MOVI-2), increased duration and intensity
      of the sessions and worked over the development of muscle strength. Preliminary analysis also
      show a decrease in body fat, a reduction of global cardiometabolic because of decreasing
      insulin levels.

      Our project integrates a multidimensional intervention to promote physical activity, with a
      mixed design (cross-over randomized trial, and a qualitative study) and two sub-projects
      share the same study population, "Effectiveness of an intervention of physical activity
      promotion in schoolchildren on preventing obesity during the adiposity rebound period: a
      cross-over randomized cluster trial" and "Effectiveness of physical activity intervention to
      prevent obesity and improve academic performance in children with and without ADHD risk".

      The two interventions are based on cross-over randomized trial to test the effectiveness of
      an intervention to promote physical activity in the school environment (MOVI-KIDS), two-year
      in 22 schools (20 public and two private schools) in the provinces of Cuenca and Ciudad Real,
      Spain.

      This subproject (subproject-2) will assess the effectiveness of the intervention of the
      MOVI-KIDS Program in improving attention and cognition in students at risk for ADHD.
      Furthermore, this project will evaluate the effectiveness of MOVI-KIDS Program in improving
      motor skills and academic achievement in the overall sample, and the impact that changes in
      the year have on the amount of physical activity that the students in the sample performed
      during recess.

      The hypotheses of this third edition are that a multidimensional intervention promoting
      physical activity in children at the adiposity rebound period (4-7 years),in the school
      environment (MOVI-KIDS), lasting two-years, will to:

        1. Reduce body fat percentage in the intervention group versus the control group in 2% in
           children adiposity rebound age (4-7 years),

        2. Improve academic performance and motor skills in children with and without attention
           deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD),

        3. Reduce adiposity and sedentary time, improve academic performance, quality of life and
           the duration and quality of sleep in children with and without ADHD.
    
  