
    
      The use of herbal supplements is widespread in Africa, particularly for the management of HIV
      and AIDS. In Zimbabwe, the prevalence of herbal medicine use in HIV-infected people is as
      high as 79% (Sebit et al., 2000). Several studies have shown that the herb Moringa oleifera
      is among the top 10 herbs most commonly used by HIV-positive people in Zimbabwe (Makomeya et
      al 2004, Monera et al 2008). Another review also cited Moringa as one of the 53 most
      important African medicinal plants presently traded (van den Bout-van den Beukel et al 2006).
      Others included Hypoxis hemerocallidea (African potato) and Sutherlandia frutescens-(Cancer
      bush). Moringa is rich in β-carotene, protein, vitamin C, calcium and potassium and act as a
      good source of natural antioxidants (Anwar et al.,2007).It is recommended by non-governmental
      organisations and some African governments as an immune booster and a nutritional supplement
      for people living with HIV and AIDS (Ncube, 2006). Most advocates and users believe that
      since the herb is natural, it is free from all side effects and interactions.

      Concomitant use of herbs with conventional drugs may lead to herb-drug interactions in the
      same way that two or more co-administered drugs may interact. Herbal constituents that are
      substrates for the same enzymes or transporters of conventional drugs may induce or inhibit
      the enzymes and/or transporter activity. Pharmacokinetic endpoints such as area under the
      curve (AUC), time to maximum plasma concentration (tmax), peak plasma concentration (Cmax),
      trough concentration (Cmin), clearance (CL), volume of distribution (Vd/F) and half-life
      (T1/2) may be altered significantly resulting in toxicity, more severe adverse effects,
      sub-therapeutic drug concentrations, HIV resistance and treatment failure.The risk of
      interaction increases as the number of co-administered drugs increases (de Maat et al 2003).
      As a result, people taking herbal medicines while on antiretroviral therapy are at very high
      risk because of the multitude use of highly active antiretroviral drugs and treatment of
      opportunistic infections, and also because herbs contain a wide range of bioactive chemical
      constituents.

      However, evidence based information of such effects is usually lacking and as such; health
      practitioners' ability to make relevant clinical decisions is limited. Results of a review of
      in vitro studies suggest a need for in vivo metabolic drug-drug interaction studies (van den
      Bout-van den Beukel et al 2006). Preliminary in vivo studies in animal models can serve as a
      basis for clinical trials, the results of which are considered the gold standard in this era
      of evidence-based medicine.

      Primary objectives

        1. To compare the steady-state pharmacokinetics of nevirapine and efavirenz in HIV-positive
           patients before and after supplementation with Moringa oleifera leaf powder

        2. To compare the single dose pharmacokinetics of nevirapine and efavirenz in rat models
           before and after supplementation with Moringa oleifera leaf powder

           Secondary objectives

        3. To determine the bioavailability of Moringa oleifera leaf powder in humans after oral
           dosing using beta carotene as a bio marker.

        4. To compare urine chemistries and liver function tests in HIV patients before and after
           supplementation with Moringa oleifera leaf powder

        5. To determine the presence of any genetic variation in the participants in the genes that
           code for CYP3A4 and CYP2B6
    
  