
    
      Background. With a reported incidence of up to 70%, liver failure is the most frequent
      complication necessitating intensive care and prolonging hospital stay. Animal studies
      suggest that the glycogen content of the liver is a key regulator of liver function and that
      glycogen depletion, a mandatory consequence of preoperative fasting, is associated with poor
      clinical outcome.

      The results of a pilot study demonstrate that metabolic preconditioning, i.e. the avoidance
      of preoperative fasting by intravenous administration of dextrose preserves hepatic glycogen
      and prevents hepatic dysfunction after liver resection. Liver function in this protocol was
      assessed by a score originally proposed by Schindl including serum concentrations of total
      bilirubin and lactate, prothrombin time and degree of encephalopathy. Due to alterations
      induced by anesthesia and surgery, e.g. blood loss necessitating transfusion, hypothermia,
      inflammatory responses and use of drugs with impact on hepatobiliary metabolism, liver
      function scores do not necessarily reflect functional integrity and metabolic capacity of the
      liver. In contrast, measuring the production of proteins that are exclusively synthetized by
      hepatocytes such as albumin allows a more specific and quantitative assessment of hepatic
      performance under perioperative conditions.

      Hypothesis. We propose a randomized double-blinded study to test the hypothesis that, in
      patients scheduled for resection of liver cancer, metabolic preconditioning with intravenous
      dextrose preserves hepatic glycogen resulting in improved hepatic metabolic function
      postoperatively. We further hypothesize that the benefit of avoiding preoperative fasting is
      more pronounced in patients undergoing more extensive liver resection. Hepatic synthetic
      capacity will be assessed by measuring albumin synthesis using a stable isotope tracer
      technique.

      Research plan. In order to test the validity of our assumptions, we will perform studies in
      patients scheduled for minor (study I; one or two liver segments, n=30) or major (study II;
      three or more liver segments, n=20) liver resection. In a double blinded fashion patients
      will be randomly assigned to receive either intravenous dextrose at 2 mg/kg/min or saline
      from 15:00 on the day before the operation until surgical skin incision. Metabolic processes
      at the organ level (liver, muscle), i.e. fractional synthesis rates of albumin, hepatic acute
      phase proteins (transthyretin (=prealbumin), fibrinogen, total plasma proteins) and muscle
      protein will be determined one day before and one day after the operation using
      primed-continuous infusions of L-[2H5]phenylalanine. Stable isotopes (L-[1-13C]leucine,
      [6,6-2H2]glucose) will be applied to assess dynamic changes in whole body protein and glucose
      metabolism before and after surgery, i.e. protein breakdown, amino acid oxidation, protein
      synthesis, glucose production and glucose uptake.

      Significance. The demonstration that the preconditioning with dextrose preserves metabolic
      performance of the liver would have important implications for the clinical management of
      surgical patients with liver cancer. If preoperative dextrose administration attenuates
      hepatic dysfunction after liver resection, it will provide these patients with a readily
      available, safe and inexpensive therapy.
    
  