
    
      This project responds to the problems of non-standardized care and discontinuity at hospital
      discharge. Post-discharge adverse events are common and have been well documented. However,
      to date, there are no studies demonstrating the effectiveness of any procedures or tools
      designed to reduce them. This work builds on our "Safe Practices Implementation Challenge
      Grant" in which we developed the "Reengineered Hospital Discharge" tool, a set of 10
      discrete, mutually reinforcing components. Hypotheses: The newly designed "Re-engineered
      Hospital Discharge" intervention will (1) reduce the percentage of patients experiencing a
      post-discharge adverse event, and (2) reduce subsequent hospital utilization (emergency
      department visits and rehospitalization) within 30 days following hospital discharge.
      Population Studied: Patients from a network of Community Health Centers discharged from a
      general medical service at an urban hospital. The subjects studied represent a low-income,
      ethnically diverse urban population. This study meets AHRQ guidelines for the inclusion of
      priority populations in research. Methods: 432 adult patients admitted to the general medical
      service of Boston Medical Center will be enrolled and randomized to (1) those receiving
      routine discharge as defined by our "Process Map" (Control Group); and (2) those receiving
      our "Re-engineered Hospital Discharge" intervention, a set of 10 discrete, mutually
      reinforcing components provided by a Discharge Advocate and re-enforced by a telephone call
      2-4 days after discharge by a clinical pharmacist (Intervention Group). Outcome Measures: The
      primary patient centered outcomes are: the combined 30-day subsequent hospital utilization
      (readmission and emergency department use), and health status as measured by the SF-12.
      Process outcomes include the number and severity of the adverse events related to the
      discharge 30 days after discharge. Although not a primary outcome, an economic analysis will
      be completed. Expected Results: This project will provide valuable information about whether
      the "Re-Engineered Discharge" will reduce adverse events related to discharge and decrease
      subsequent hospital utilization. Deliverables/Dissemination: An advisory committee of senior
      Boston Medical Center leaders will oversee the project and, if proven effective, will
      implement the intervention throughout our Academic Medical Center. The "Re-engineered
      Hospital Discharge" tool will be widely generalizable and widely disseminated.
    
  