
    
      The occurrence of a postoperative frozen shoulder after tendon repair of the rotator cuff of
      the shoulder is a devastating complication. It causes stiffness and slows down recovering. It
      associates a synovitis and a capsular retraction generating a transient but very
      incapacitating passive and active joint stiffness.

      The evolution of capsulitis occurs in three phases:

        -  The first phase or cold phase is distinguished mainly by pain. The stiffness settles
           gradually. This phase lasts 2 to 9 months

        -  In the second phase or frozen phase lasting 4 to 12 months, the pain is less severe, but
           the rigidity is substantial.

        -  In the third phase, the function is gradually recovered and the pain disappears. This
           phase can last up to two years.

      Some patients will get back full mobility of their shoulder in 12 to 18 months, while others
      may have persistent symptoms for several months.

      The International Society of Arthroscopy, Knee Surgery and Orthopedic Sports Medicine
      recently codified the clinical diagnosis: active anterior elevation less than 100 °, external
      rotation elbow to body less than 10 °, internal rotation less than L5.

      So if the diagnosis is better codified , prevention is the main concern. Some etiologies have
      been clearly identified. Systemic etiologies are reported: diabetes, thyroid pathologies,
      Dupuytren's disease and other factors such as ipsilateral breast surgery and myocardial
      infarction.

      Psychological predispositions have long been suggested as risk factors for capsulitis, but a
      significant relationship has not been clearly established. The fear of having pain or an
      apathetic temperament could lead to a stay of the pains and curb the reeducation. In 1953,
      Coventry already evoked a "so called periarthritic personality" associating apathy, muscle
      contractures and a threshold of low pain. In 2014, De Beer investigated whether personality
      traits favored the occurrence of a retractable capsule primary or secondary to surgery but
      did not identify specific personality significantly more prone to stiffening of the shoulder.

      Moreover, the fear of pain during movement or kinesiophobia and the avoidance behaviors
      generated are known factors in the persistence of pain and chronic limitations of function.

      The main objective of our study is to determine whether preoperative anxiety, depression and
      kinesiophobia are risk factors for retractile capsulitis after arthroscopic rotator cuff
      repair to best support these patients. patients postoperatively.

      Our hypothesis is that there is a psychological ground predisposing to the postoperative
      occurrence of a retractile capsulitis of the shoulder.
    
  