
    
      2.1 Study Rationale.

      This Phase 1 study will be conducted to explore the dose regimen in humans and to evaluate
      the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), pharmacodynamics (PD), and toxicological
      effects of meplazumab in healthy subjects, thus providing a new macromolecule antibody drug
      for the prevention and treatment of P. falciparum infection.

      2.2 Background.

      Malaria is a mosquito borne infectious disease that manifests as acute fever. Malaria is
      caused by Plasmodium spp., a parasite which is transmitted to humans by the bite of an
      infected female Anopheles mosquito (malaria vector).1 When the infected mosquito bites a
      human, Plasmodium sporozoites in the mosquito's saliva enter the bloodstream and migrate to
      the liver where they reproduce within hepatocytes. This stage is known as the exoerythrocytic
      phase.2 Multiplying merozoites reproduce to form schizonts, which contain several thousand
      merozoites. Mature schizonts rupture to release merozoites into the blood where they invade
      erythrocytes,3 hence initiating the merozoites reproduction in the erythrocytic phase.2
      Malaria may develop into severe or even fatal disease if not treated in time. Five species of
      Plasmodium infect humans, including Plasmodium falciparum (P. falciparum), P. vivax, P.
      ovale, P. malariae, and P. knowlesi.4 Among these, P. falciparum and P. vivax are the most
      common species, with the former as the most dangerous one which has a high morbidity and may
      result in rapid progression and high mortality.

      Current methods toward malaria elimination usually involve the combination of prevention and
      treatment. Early diagnosis and treatment can mitigate disease progression and reduce deaths.
      Artemisinin based combination therapies are currently recommended by the World Health
      Organization for treatment of malaria. Antimalarial drugs mainly include drugs to eliminate
      Plasmodium during the erythrocytic phase or during the exoerythrocytic phase.

      From the 1950s, falciparum malaria has progressively developed resistance to all
      antimalarials marketed including chloroquine, sulfadoxine pyrimethamine, etc leading to
      ineffective malaria control. Plasmodium spp. Have recently developed resistance to the
      current frontline drugs, artemisinin combination therapy. Therefore, new antimalarial
      therapies and drugs are urgently needed to combat drug resistance of Plasmodium.

      2.2.1 Meplazumab, a Humanized Anti-CD147 IgG2 Monoclonal Antibody

      Meplazumab (Ketantin®) is a lyophilized powder for injection of small volume. The main active
      ingredient of the product, meplazumab, is a humanized immunoglobulin (Ig) G2 monoclonal
      antibody, consisting of the complementary-determining regions of anti CD147 murine antibody
      and the human framework region. It acts as an erythrocytic stage-macromolecular antibody drug
      that has the potential to mediate both treatment and prophylaxis of falciparum malaria.

      2.2.2 Preclinical Data

      Preclinical studies and pharmacological studies have indicated that meplazumab for
      intravenous (IV) injection is safe and effective with well controlled quality. The
      nonclinical studies of meplazumab include pharmacology, PD, PK, and toxicology studies. Refer
      to Section 4 of the current IB for meplazumab for further details.
    
  