
    
      Carboplatin is designed to interfere with the growth of cancer cells by stopping cell
      division.

      Docetaxel is designed to stop the growth of cancer cells, which may cause the cells to die.
      It is believed to be weakly effective at killing blood vessels in cancer cells as well.

      Etoposide is a drug that has been shown to interfere with the growth of cancer cells, which
      may cause them to eventually die.

      Cisplatin has an atom at its center that contains platinum. The platinum is supposed to
      poison the cancer cells, which may cause them to eventually die.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive carboplatin plus
      docetaxel by a vein or central line in a vein. You will receive carboplatin over about 30
      minutes and docetaxel over about 60 minutes. You will receive this therapy combination on Day
      1 of each cycle of therapy (every 3-4 weeks), depending on the recovery of your bone marrow.
      These 3-4 weeks are considered 1 cycle of therapy. This therapy combination will be given on
      an outpatient basis. If you experience any side effects, your dose of docetaxel plus
      carboplatin may be decreased.

      You will be given dexamethasone, by a vein in your arm, by central line in a vein, or by
      mouth, before your therapy begins with docetaxel plus carboplatin. Dexamethasone will help
      decrease bone marrow inflammation. You will also be given a colony stimulating factor (when
      the doctor thinks it is needed) to help maintain your white blood cell count to help decrease
      any chance of infection. Colony stimulating factor will be given as a subcutaneous injection
      (under the skin), at the discretion of the treating physician, during therapy.

      You will have about 2-3 tablespoons of blood drawn at the beginning of each cycle of therapy
      for routine blood tests and blood tests for cancer markers. You will be asked about any
      medications you are currently taking.

      At the end of the first 2 cycles of therapy, you will have some or all of the scans
      (performed during the screening visit) repeated to evaluate your disease. If your disease is
      responding well to the therapy, you will continue on docetaxel plus carboplatin for 2 more
      cycles. In this case, you will continue receive the study combination until your doctor
      thinks you have received the most benefit. You will then be followed with some or all of the
      scans (performed during the screening visit) every 2 months unless your cancer progresses
      (gets worse) or until you begin on a new therapy after your treatment has ended on this
      study.

      If you are already taking hormone therapy with an luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone
      (LHRH) agonist (such as Lupron or Zoladex) , you will continue taking these medications. If
      you are taking an anti-androgen drug (such as Casodex), you should stop taking it.

      If your cancer is progressing after having had a maximal response, if your disease does not
      respond after 2 courses of therapy, or if you are not able to tolerate some side effects of
      docetaxel plus carboplatin, your chemotherapy will be switched to etoposide plus cisplatin.
      If this is the case, etoposide plus cisplatin will be given to you by a vein in your arm or
      central line in a vein. You will receive this therapy combination once a day (etoposide over
      60 minutes and cisplatin over 2 hours) for the first 3 days during each cycle of therapy, and
      then therapy will be repeated every 3 to 4 weeks.

      Therapy with etoposide plus cisplatin will be continued as long as your cancer responds well
      to this therapy and you are not experiencing any intolerable side effects. If you experience
      any side effects, your dose of etoposide plus cisplatin may be decreased. This treatment
      combination may be given on an inpatient basis.

      You will be removed from this study if your disease gets worse or you experience any
      intolerable side effects.

      If you come off this study because you completed therapy, your disease got worse, or you
      experienced intolerable side effects, you will have an end-of-study visit. During this visit,
      you will have blood drawn (about 3 tablespoons) for routine tests. You will have a complete
      physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs. You will also have your complete
      medical history recorded and you will be asked about any medications you are currently
      taking. You will have imaging scans to evaluate your disease (similar to those at screening)
      if they have not been done in the last 28 days.

      Once you are no longer on this study, the research staff will periodically check up on you
      (about every 6 months). This update will consist of a phone call, an e-mail, or a review of
      your medical and/or other records. No clinic visits or additional diagnostic studies are
      required by the study. If contacted by phone, the call would only last a few minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Carboplatin, docetaxel, etoposide, and cisplatin are all
      commercially available and approved by the FDA. Up to 120 patients will take part in this
      multicenter study. Up to 90 will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  