
    
      More people than ever are surviving life-threatening illnesses such as major trauma. However,
      until now doctors and researchers have focused more on improving short term survival than on
      the serious, long-term complications experienced by survivors of critical illness. In
      response, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) and patient-clinician
      partnerships such as the James Lind Alliance, have now prioritised research into the
      diagnosis, follow-up and treatment of critical care survivors.

      Development of chronic kidney disease and persistent muscle weakness are two commonly
      encountered complications which significantly impact long-term health and wellbeing after
      critical illness. Worsening of kidney function strongly predisposes to development of heart
      disease, premature death or need for long-term dialysis. Similarly, the muscle wasting
      experienced by almost all survivors of critical illness can result in persistent, life
      changing limitations to daily living, inability to work and decreased quality of life.
      Importantly, the human and economic consequences of critical illness may be particularly
      profound in major trauma victims who are often young and previously healthy. In this project,
      investigators will aim to simultaneously measure changes in kidney function and muscle mass
      after critical illness allowing researchers to understand how these processes interact in
      affecting longer-term patient outcomes.

      The investigators will recruit 62 patients, 31 admitted to intensive care after major trauma
      and 31 admitted for other reasons. Complementary methods will be used to accurately monitor
      muscle mass and kidney function. Six months after discharge from hospital, patient's ability
      to manage their daily activities and quality of life will be assessed alongside measurements
      of muscle mass, strength and kidney function. The study will be performed at the Royal London
      Hospital, an internationally renowned centre for critical care and trauma research.
    
  