
    
      With the global ageing population, neurodegenerative disorders including synucleinopathy are
      major burdens to patients, carers and society. Synucleinopathy refers to a group of
      neurodegenerative diseases characterized by abnormal aggregation of alpha-synuclein protein
      in the central nervous system (CNS). Common examples of synucleinopathy are Parkinson's
      disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and multiple system atrophy (MSA). These
      diseases often run debilitating and progressive courses that affect millions of people
      worldwide. Up till now, there is no curable treatment and hence the development of
      disease-modifying agents is of utmost importance. However, it is often too late for
      intervention once the patients start to have the clinical presentations of these diseases.
      For example, it was reported that there would be at least 80% of dopaminergic neuronal loss
      when one starts to develop clinical motor features of PD. Thus, researchers are now focusing
      on identifying at-risk subjects for early intervention. There are on-going studies to look
      for biomarkers to identify subjects at risk for PD through population based cohort and family
      studies, such as the Honolulu-Asia Aging Study (HAAS) and the Prospective Validation of Risk
      factors for the development of Parkinson Syndromes (PRIPS). However, these studies require a
      very large sample size and long duration of follow-up for the outcome evaluation.1 Another
      approach is to follow-up subjects at preclinical or premotor phase of PD. Among all the
      premotor clinical markers that have been identified, REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is
      associated with the highest likelihood ratio of developing PD.2 In addition, it has been
      shown that almost all RBD patients (over 80%) eventually developed neurodegenerative diseases
      (mean follow-up years = 14.2).3 Hence, RBD helps to understand the progression of underlying
      neurodegenerative diseases and will serve as a potential window for neuroprotective
      interventions.

      Gastrointestinal dysfunction and synucleinopathy In addition to RBD, gastrointestinal
      dysfunction often precedes the onset of motor symptoms in patients with PD. Studies reported
      that constipation could precede the onset of motor symptoms in PD by 20 years. Comparing to
      those with daily bowel open, men with bowel movement frequency of less than 1 per day had an
      odds ratio of 2.7 in developing PD.4 In addition, PD with co-morbid RBD seem to have more
      severe constipation than PD only subjects. Constipation and other gastrointestinal
      dysfunction are also more common in patients with iRBD than healthy controls.5 According to
      Braak staging, the involvement of pontine areas (Stage 2) could result in both RBD and
      constipation. Hence, RBD and constipation may have an interactive effect in predicting
      synucleinopathy.6

      What is gut microbiota and its associations with PD In recent years, several key studies have
      advanced our understanding regarding the roles that brain-gut-microbiota axis plays in the
      pathogenesis of brain diseases, including PD.7 It has been shown that gut microbiota is
      implicated in a series of pathophysiological changes in PD, including motor deficits,
      microglia activation, and αSyn pathology in mice model with overexpression of αSyn.8
      Furthermore, some microbiotas, such as enterobacteriaceae, have been shown to be positively
      associated with the severity of PD symptoms, including postural instability and gait
      difficulty.9 The crucial roles of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of PD are also evidenced
      by other observations.10 For example, catecholamine levels are altered in germ-free mice when
      compared with control mice. Antibiotics are able to reduce Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio and
      prevent nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurodegeneration in MPTP model of PD. Probiotics increase
      production of L-DOPA by Bacillus and alleviate constipation in PD patients. Fecal
      transplantation decreased GI pathology in neurodegenerative diseases. Finally, H. pylori
      infection seems to increase symptom severity of PD. Taken together, growing evidence suggests
      that gut microbiota may play a critical role in pathogenesis, disease progression, and
      symptom fluctuation of synucleinopathy.

      The exact mechanisms underlying the association between microbiota and Parkinson's disease
      remain unclear. It is believed that local and systemic inflammation and oxidative stress play
      a critical role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.11 In human subjects, it has been
      shown that proinflammatory dysbiosis is present in PD patients, which may trigger
      inflammation-induced misfolding of α-Syn and development of PD pathology.12 Gut microbiota is
      considered as an important but neglected organ for immune and inflammation. It has been shown
      that anti-inflammatory butyrate-producing bacteria and proinflammatory proteobacteria were
      significantly more abundant in feces and mucosa samples in patients with PD than healthy
      controls.12 Taken together, these findings suggest that gut microbiota, which is likely to
      increase inflammatory pathway, plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's
      disease.

      Limitations and knowledge gaps Nonetheless, the answers for several key questions regarding
      the roles of gut microbiota in the progression of synucleinopathy are still unclear. First,
      whether these microbiotas found in previous studies are the causes or the effects of PD
      should be further clarified. It has been shown that medications treating PD also affect the
      gut microbiome.13 Moreover, the microbiota may be affected by a number of factors commonly
      found in PD, such as constipation per se and diet.14. In this regard, it is crucial to
      compare the microbiota among individuals at different stages of synucleinopathy. In view of
      slow progression of synucleinopathy and a relatively low prevalence of synucleinopathy in the
      general population, it is impractical to run a prospective study to examine this research
      question. In this regard, a case-control study with high-risk subjects is able to recruit
      sufficient cases at different stages of synucleinopathy.

      Aims:

        1. To identify the differences in colonic bacterial composition in mucosa and feces among
           early PD converted from iRBD, iRBD, first degree relatives (FDRs) of patients with iRBD,
           and healthy controls;

        2. To correlate the abundance of those microbiota with clinical biomarkers of
           synucleinopathy.

      We hypothesize that

        1. Colonic bacterial composition, especially those related to inflammation (such as
           Blautia, Coprococcus, and Roseburia), in mucosa and feces is more abundant in different
           stages of synucleinopathy, namely early PD without dementia (converted from iRBD), iRBD,
           FDRs of patients with iRBD, and healthy controls with a dose-response pattern.

        2. The abundance of microbiota is associated with other biomarkers, for example, subtle
           motor signs and constipation, in relation to PD and RBD.
    
  