
    
      The treatment consisted of initial TUR of the tumor, with multiple random biopsies of
      normal-appearing bladder urothelium, followed by durvalumab 1500 mg i.v. plus tremelimumab 75
      mg i.v., every 4 weeks for a total of 3 doses.

      Two weeks after the initiation of immunotherapy, normofractionated external-beam radiotherapy
      with high-energy photons will be started. Radiotherapy will be administered concurrently with
      immunotherapy at doses of 46 Gy to the minor pelvis and 64-66 Gy to the bladder.

      Six weeks after the end of radiotherapy, ALL patients will undergo a new cystoscopy with
      biopsies of the tumor bed and all residual present lesions as an efficacy determination. In
      patients with persistent prominent inflammatory reaction at this moment, the cystoscopy can
      be performed 1-2 weeks later (6 to 8 weeks after the end of radiotherapy). Response is
      defined as an absence of invasive cancer at post immunotherapy biopsy (≤cT1). Patients with
      response to immunotherapy will be candidates to bladder preservation, whereas in those with
      residual muscle invasive tumor the possibility of salvage radical cystectomy must be
      evaluated. Patients developing an isolated bladder invasive relapse during follow-up will be
      also possible candidates to salvage cystectomy, whereas those developing a superficial
      relapse in the preserved bladder will be managed with TUR and intravesical BCG.

      Patients will be followed up every 3 months the first year, every 4 months the second year
      and every 6 months thereafter with abdomen and pelvis CT scan, Rx thorax, urine cytology.
      Additionally, the mandatory efficacy cystoscopy and bladder biopsy (6w post RT), other
      cystoscopy and bladder biopsy will be performed in case of detection abnormalities in the
      cytology or imaging studies. The study will be closed 2 years after the last patient
      inclusion.
    
  