
    
      Chronic respiratory failure of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease belongs to the category
      of "lung distention", "asthma syndrome", "dyspnea" and "phlegm drink" in traditional Chinese
      medicine. According to traditional Chinese medicine, the pathology of this disease is mainly
      the dysfunction of lung ventilation. The basic pathogenesis is that the viscera are
      repeatedly affected by evil, the lung qi is damaged due to long-term disease, the lung
      function is damaged, the air mechanism is blocked, the application is publicized, the phlegm
      is turbid, the blood stasis is inevitable for a long time, and the lung qi is further
      damaged. The main clinical manifestations are shortness of breath, wheezing, shortness of
      breath, superficial shortness of breath and "drama of wheezing when moving", which may be
      accompanied by cough, expectoration, chest tightness, palpitation, lips, purple darkness,
      swelling of floating limbs, etc. The treatment of chronic respiratory failure patients with
      COPD can be significantly improved clinical symptoms such as shortness of breath and
      wheezing, reduce the number of acute exacerbations of patients, but there is still a lack of
      high-level evidence-based medicine research. Therefore, this project puts forward the
      hypothesis that "syndrome differentiation therapy can reduce AECOPD of COPD".It is proposed
      to adopt a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial design, taking the
      patients with chronic respiratory failure caused by chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as
      the research object. The patients who meet the inclusion criteria, are divided into heart
      lung qi deficiency and lung kidney qi deficiency according to syndrome differentiation. The
      participants are randomly divided into the experimental group of 60 cases and the control
      group of 60 cases. The control group is given placebo treatment, and the experimental group
      is given Chinese medicine granules. The patients were followed up for 26 weeks. The main
      outcome indicators include the number of times of acute exacerbation of COPD, and the
      secondary outcome indicators include all-cause mortality, severity of acute exacerbation of
      COPD, clinical symptoms, CCQ score of COPD clinical questionnaire, quality of life score,
      dyspnea score, 6MWD, arterial blood gas analysis index, incidence and use time of mechanical
      ventilation, use time of oxygen therapy, serology index, health and economy Learning
      indicators, safety indicators, etc. To establish the TCM treatment scheme of chronic
      respiratory failure of COPD, reduce the acute aggravation of AECOPD, improve the clinical
      symptoms, improve the quality of life, reduce the mortality rate, preliminarily explore the
      mechanism of action, and lay the foundation for further research.
    
  