
    
      Chordoma is an uncommon (400 case/year in the U.S.) and potentially fatal bone tumor derived
      from remnants of embryonic notochord. It occurs primarily in the axial skeleton and has a
      mean age at diagnosis of 55 years, with a range from early childhood to over 70 years. This
      tumor usually presents at an advanced stage and the associated mortality is high due to local
      destruction and distant metastases. Chordoma is rare in African-Americans and is typically
      sporadic; there are few reports of these tumors arising congenitally or within members of the
      same family.

      In 1996, we have identified and studied one large family in which 8 relatives in three
      generations have chordoma; the inheritance pattern suggests transmission of a mutation in an
      autosomal dominant gene. Using information from this family, we tentatively mapped this gene
      to the long arm of chromosome 7. To confirm this finding, and to fine map and clone the gene,
      we needed to study additional chordoma families.

      In an effort to identify such families, we have developed collaborations with four SEER
      registries covering the populations of Detroit, Los Angeles, Iowa, and New Mexico. Each
      registry will identify all chordoma cases diagnosed since 1988 and invite them (or the next
      of kin of deceased cases) to participate in our study. Through 1997, the registries have
      identified a total of 140 chordoma cases, 96 of whom are living. The registries will invite
      these patients (or their next of kin) to participate in the study. The study components
      included completion of a self-administered personal and family medical history questionnaire,
      retrieval of medical records and pathology reports pertaining to chordoma, and collection of
      paraffin-embedded chordoma tissue and buccal mucosal cells for genetic studies. NCI carried
      out all the data collection activities for the study subjects identified through the Detroit
      registry. NCI also conducted the buccal cell collection component of the study for all
      patients identified by the other three registries. These three registries will carry out all
      other study activities on these patients/next of kin and sent the data and slides prepared
      from the paraffin blocks to NCI. NCI will analyze the questionnaire data to determine if any
      unusual patterns of cancers other than chordoma or other medical conditions appear to cluster
      in families of the chordoma patients. Selected members of any families with two or more
      relatives with chordoma will be invited to participate in a separate clinical and molecular
      study conducted at NIH to try to identify the chordoma gene. DNA from the buccal cells and
      tumor blocks from all other patients with 'sporadic' chordoma identified through the
      registries (likely to comprise most patients) will not be studied until we or others have
      identified such a gene.
    
  