
    
      Women patients with breast cancer referring to Shohaday-e- Tajrish Hospital of Tehran who are
      under chemotherapy treatment. In order to blind the investigator, medications are named as
      "A" for syrup of HB and B for placebo. The patients don't aware of the type of drug they are
      assigned to. In addition, the groups are entered into statistical analysis as "A" and "B.

      The patients will revive either A or B syrup for 4 weeks. At the beginning of the trial
      demographic data would be gathered. Also, a blood sample would be drawn at the beginning time
      and after the end of intervention period (week 4).

      Data would be analysed by SPSS software using T-test. Main outcome variables The mean of
      score of "Hemoglobine (Hb)", 2. The mean of score of "white blood cell count (WBC)", 3. The
      mean of score of "platelet count (Plt)"

      Main outcome variables The mean of score of "Hemoglobine (Hb)", 2. The mean of score of
      "white blood cell count (WBC)", 3. The mean of score of "platelet count (Plt)"

      Participants/Inclusion and exclusion criteria Inclusion criteria: women suffer from breast
      cancer who are; 1.Age between 18- 70 years old; 2. Hemoglobin level is at least 8g/dl; 3.
      Hematocrit level at least 30%; 4. normal TSH. Exclusion criteria: 1. Heart disease with
      unstable conditions; 2. Disabling Pulmonary Disease and History of Asthma; 3. Severe kidney
      disease; 4. Creatinine level greater than 2mg/dl; 5. Proteinuria; 6. The SGOT level more than
      3 times of the normal threshold; 7. Bilirubin levels greater than 2mg/dl; 8. Positive history
      of hypersensitivity to saffron, rose water and honey; 9. severe infection; 10. Systemic
      disease;11. Positive history of gout or high level of uric acid; 12. An individual who uses
      antidepressants due to depression; 13. Simultaneous use of drugs that affect fatigue; 14.
      Uncontrolled pain; 15. Unwillingness to participate in the study.
    
  