
    
      Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most common developmental
      disorders experienced in childhood, with a prevalence of 5 -10%, and can persist into
      adulthood (1) It is characterized by a combination of overactive, poorly modulated behavior
      with marked inattention and may involve physical aggression, which may be associated with a
      number of structural and functional abnormalities in the central nervous system (2).

      Pharmacological treatment is often the treatment of choice; however its effectiveness is
      limited and often involves considerable side effects (3).

      Meditation has been proposed to be used as a tool for attentional training and modulating
      autonomic nervous system activity in the ADHD population. A systematic review of meditation-
      based interventions for children with ADHD could not reach definite conclusions regarding
      their efficacy due to poor methodological quality of the studies (4).

      A pilot randomized controlled study published few years ago demonstrated that three months of
      TM practice resulted in significant improvement of ADHD symptoms (5).

      The mechanism by which TM may have an effect on ADD/ADHD is not understood. Furthermore, it
      is not clear whether TM may have a differential effect on the two subclasses of this
      condition: inattentive- and hyperactive- type

      Individuals with ADHD probably have imbalances in autonomic nervous system activity, which
      may be associated with impairment of sustained attention (6) and emotional regulation
      (7,8,9).

      Heart Rate Variability (HRV) represents the beat to beat changes of heart rate in the
      interbeat interval, resulting from dynamic balance of sympathetic and parasympathetic inputs
      to the heart being a non-invasive tool to study autonomic nervous system, has been proposed
      to be related to cognitive performance (10) and be a potential marker of stress (11). A lower
      resting HRV has been associated with greater difficulties in emotional regulation, especially
      a lack of emotional clarity and impulse control (12), depression and anxiety states (15),
      while higher levels - with higher cognitive performance, increased emotional regulation and
      perception of well-being (13, 14).

      There is however no agreement as to the nature of autonomic dysregulation of ADHD (9,16,17).

      The effect of meditation on autonomic nervous system via changes in heart rate variability
      has been studied recently. Interestingly, some of the techniques were associated with lower
      HRV (18), while others - with increased parasympathetic activity and HRV (19). To the best of
      our knowledge, the differential effect of meditation on ADHD symptoms: according to the
      baseline HRV of the participants, or ADHD subtypes has not been assessed.

      Aims

      Primary objective:

      To collect the data on ADHD adolescents who will get TM training

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To assess whether improvement of symptoms may be sustained for 3 months after the
           intervention.

        2. To assess whether the effect of TM on ADHD symptoms may be correlated with the baseline
           HRV or ADHD subtypes of the participants.

      Participants and Methods

      Study design TM classes are going to take place in the facility of Community Center at the
      Kadima Zoran Community Center for Culture and Sport (as an out-of-school program): a group of
      TM instructors will provide TM teaching to the adolescents with ADD/ADHD of the Zoran school,
      with the consent of the teachers and the parents of the children.

      Since March 2019, the TM classes will be offered to all children aged 11.5 y-16y, with a
      confirmed diagnosis of ADD/ADHD, under supervision of the school teachers.

      About 50 adolescents out of 60 adolescents, diagnosed with ADHD shall participate in this
      program.

      The assessment and follow-up on these children will be performed by pediatric neurologist and
      HRV monitoring.

      The instruction of TM shall be in two groups (of 20-30 children each). TM training for each
      group shall be 3 months. The children in both groups shall be followed up for 6 months, and
      assessed by the same parameters.

      Participants:

      About 50 adolescents out of 60 adolescents, diagnosed with ADHD who study at this school, are
      expected to participate in this program.

      A senior pediatric neurologist will examine the children, confirm the diagnosis, according to
      the DSM 5 criteria, and shall obtain a written informed consent for the evaluation of the
      children during this program.

      Current pharmacological treatment, ADHD subtype (e.g. inattentive type, combined type or
      mixed type) and the comorbidities will be documented.

      Group 1

      Two certified teachers of TM will teach these children according to the following protocol,
      as previously described by Grosswald et al(20):

      Each participant will have an individual instruction for 1 hour, followed by a course of 3
      weekly group meetings (1-1.5 hours) The students shall meditate in a group for 10 minutes,
      twice a day, during 3 months, under the supervision of school teachers who will be instructed
      in TM technique.

      A group follow-up will be performed 10 days after a completion of the course, and then each
      participant will receive personal meetings with TM instructor on a weekly basis during the
      first month, and then twice a month.

      After additional 3 months participants in this group will be examined again, to assess
      sustainability of the effect.

      Group 2 Following the completion of the first 3 months period, the second group will receive
      TM training as above, and during the first 3 months this will be a reference (control) group.

      Data analysis

      The data will be analyzed according to the treatment groups. Similarly to the previous study
      (20) the expected statistical power of 93%will be calculated for comparison of means (Student
      T-test) .The assumed difference between groups is 0.1 and adopted Standard Deviation within
      the groups is ±0.1 (20).

      Additional observations will be assessed according to the baseline HRV (sympathetic or
      parasympathetic predominance) and the ADHD subgroups (inattentive or hyperactive
      predominance), while the two ADHD subgroups and two HRV subgroups will be assessed
      independently with dichotomous outcomes. In the probable case that the two TM groups (A&B)
      shall not be significantly different, both groups may br assessed as one cohort with n=50,
      assuming dichotomous outcomes. This project may provide a preliminary assessment of the
      impact of ADHD subtype and of baseline HRV on the differential effect of TM on ADHD symptoms.
    
  