
    
      The Protein for Life project was funded by the Research Councils UK 'Priming Food
      Partnerships' initiative which is supported by four councils: Biotechnology and Biological
      Sciences Research Council (BBSRC), Medical Research Council (MRC), Engineering and Physical
      Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) and Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC). The
      initiative supports pre-competitive research, with the aim of stimulating innovative research
      and technological advances of relevance to the food industry. The project has five key
      objectives related to the development and dissemination of guidelines for the formulation of
      palatable, cost effective, higher-protein foods for an ageing population.

      The population of the UK is aging, and it is estimated that by 2039 more than 43% of adults
      will be aged over 60 (ONS 2015). One significant healthcare challenge associated with aging
      is sarcopenia. This refers to the decline of skeletal muscle tissue with age (Walston, 2012),
      and can affect physical functioning and quality of life. One reason older adults may lose
      muscle more easily is due to a decrease in protein intake. The current recommended daily
      intake of protein in the UK is 0.8g/kg body weight. However, this is an estimate for the
      entire population, tends to be based on a few younger individuals to determine this
      (Phillips, Chevalier, & Leidy, 2016). Studies which have used older adults to estimate
      protein and amino acid requirements have suggested that protein requirements in an older
      population may be well above the recommended daily intake (Rafii et al., 2015; Tang et al.,
      2014). Despite this, older adults do not consume increased amounts of protein. The purpose of
      this experiment is to explore the psychological mechanisms underlying the reduced intake of
      protein in older populations.

      As part of the Protein for Life project, design rules have been established which outline the
      processes which need to be considered when designing higher protein products. These design
      rules have been used to create a range of exemplar higher protein biscuits. Consumer feedback
      is needed to validate the set of design rules. This project will assess the consumer
      acceptance of higher protein biscuits made from plant and animal based proteins.

      As set of design rules have been established which outline the processes which need to be
      considered when designing higher protein products. These design rules have been used to
      create a range of exemplar higher protein biscuits. Consumer feedback is needed to validate
      the set of design rules.

      Study Objective

      The project will assess the consumer acceptance of 5 biscuits, each with differing protein
      quantities and sources. The aim is to test the design rules created in the protein for life
      project. Outcomes of the consumer testing will inform the project of the optimal protein
      source (plant or animal) and quantity for consumer acceptance.

      The purpose of the trial is to assess the organoleptic properties of 4 ready to eat higher
      protein biscuits and one control in a healthy adult population aged 40+ years.

      Methods

      5 products have been developed by Campden BRI Ltd. Products have been created in a food safe
      facility. All ingredients are Generally Regarded As Safe (GRAS) ingredients. Once produced a
      full list of allergens and ingredients will be made available. Safety and storage analysis
      certification will also be available.

        1. Animal based protein biscuit containing 12% of total energy as protein (source of
           protein animal (SA))

        2. Plant based protein biscuit containing 12% of total energy as protein (source of protein
           plant (SP))

        3. Animal based protein biscuit containing 20% of total energy as protein (high protein
           animal (HA))

        4. Plant based protein biscuit containing 20% of total energy as protein (high protein
           plant (HP))

        5. A generic taste matched wheat based biscuit (control (C))

      Study Outcomes

      The products will be assessed for taste, mouth feel and appearance using comparative
      profiling testing. Data will be recorded using a computerised questionnaire. The
      questionnaire is internet based so is accessible at multiple sites.

      Study design

      Each participant will assess each type of product and two control foods twice per session
      along with one training plate. The layout of the plates will be set as below. Plate order and
      order of samples on each plate will be advised using a random order as to negate any
      sequencing bias and samples will be given a randomised number for each plate.

      Plate Sample order Training plate SA SP HA HP C Plate 1 SA SP HA HP C Plate 2 SP HA HP C S

      Participants

      Participants will be recruited from 4 sites, Newcastle University, Bristol University,
      Aberdeen University and Sheffield University. All participants will be healthy free-living
      adults. Participants will be recruited to ensure equal gender distribution with groups
      separated into 40-54, 54-69 and 70+ for analysis. Up to 20 participants of each age group
      will be required at each site.
    
  