
    
      People living with renal failure have to endure a demanding treatment regimen to keep them
      alive including haemodialysis, a restricted diet and fluid intake and multiple drug
      treatments. These demands have a profound effect on the patient's quality of life. It is not
      surprising that many find it very difficult to manage some treatments even when they are
      known to be important for the patient's survival. Restricting fluid intake (often as little
      as 500ml per/day) is an essential treatment for many patients with advanced kidney failure
      receiving haemodialysis, but many find it difficult to adhere. Estimates of fluid restriction
      non-adherence range between 10-70%. Not adhering to the recommended maximum fluid intake
      leads to fluid overload, which is associated with pulmonary oedema, cardiovascular disease
      and premature death.

      Understanding how to help patients improve their treatment adherence is challenging and
      multifaceted. A recent Cochrane Review concluded that: "For long-term treatments, no simple
      intervention, and only some complex ones, led to improvements in health outcomes.". The
      healthcare service has tried to help patients by promoting the patient's own role in their
      healthcare and in educating patients about their illness and the treatments. However, it is
      widely acknowledged that education alone is insufficient to change a patient's behaviour.
      Educating patients about the consequences of non-adherence is often unsuccessful as for some
      patients, they have become entrenched in poor health care behaviour over extended periods of
      time. In this case, repeated exposure of the patient to threatening health-risk information
      might be ineffective as the patient has likely become well rehearsed in discounting the
      information being provided, and the behaviour of the patient will not change.

      The proposed study is designed to investigate a novel intervention to promote behaviour
      change that has been shown to be effective in changing behaviour in public health (e.g.
      unhealthy dietary intake, unsafe sun exposure, hazardous drinking and smoking cessation) The
      intervention is simple to implement, requires little training of staff and may have major
      benefits for the patients and the NHS. The intervention is based on self-affirmation theory.
      Central to this body of work is the recognition that most health-risk education confronts
      people with information that is threatening, both to survival, and to their sense of self.
      The person's response is to interpret the information in a way that reduces the threat to
      them, for example by denigrating the veracity of the information. In turn the bias with which
      the information is interpreted reduces its ability to change behaviour. The theory suggests
      that if the person's sense of their own worth (e.g. sense-of-self) is boosted at the time of
      receiving the threatening health-risk message, the person is less likely to interpret the
      information in a biased way, rendering them more likely to accept the message, have increased
      intention to change and believe that they can (self efficacy), and ultimately change their
      behaviour. For example, Armitage examined adults' reactions to alcohol education materials,
      and in a randomised controlled trial compared participants who self-affirmed by completing an
      experimental questionnaire with participants who completed a control questionnaire.
      Self-affirmation not only significantly increased participants' receptiveness to the message,
      but also improved the effectiveness of the education in that 29% (27/92) fewer people were
      engaged in hazardous drinking at the end of the study if they had self-affirmed.

      Until recently, this behaviour change intervention method had not been tested in a patient
      group experiencing a long-term condition like renal failure. In a recent pilot study (UKCRN
      Portfolio study 74185), the team evaluated the potential for a self-affirmation intervention
      to promote improved phosphate medication adherence among non-adherent patients. Interim
      results from this study have highlighted key issues for which further research is necessary.
      Firstly, this intervention is known to be more effective in people with low motivation and
      this informed the recruitment strategy, targeting patients who appeared (on the basis of high
      serum phosphate levels) to be non-adherent in taking their phosphate medication. However,
      despite the patient sample's higher average phosphate levels, the majority of the patient
      group reported to be motivated to improve phosphate control. Therefore, it is likely that for
      many of these patients there are other reasons for their higher average phosphate levels,
      such as forgetting to take their medication. In the group of patients who did report low
      motivation to taking their medication (25% of the sample), the effects of the
      self-affirmation were observed. There was a trend for patients who self-affirmed, to report
      the health-risk message to be higher quality; greater self-efficacy and intention to improve
      phosphate control and ultimately their serum phosphate levels were significantly reduced at
      one month compared with the control group. It is important to now test the intervention with
      a larger group of patients reporting low motivation towards the required health behaviour.
      The team identified another treatment (fluid management) that most renal patients must follow
      and evaluated 93 patients' thoughts about managing their fluid intake. The results of this
      brief study suggest that a larger proportion of patients are less motivated to manage their
      fluid intake and therefore, assessing the feasibility and efficacy of the self-affirmation
      intervention would be achievable in this treatment group. Fluid management is a central
      adherence issue to address as it is not only clinically very important but it is a
      particularly difficult aspect of treatment for patients to manage.

      The second issue that arose in the first study is the longevity of the intervention. The
      apparent effects of self-affirmation on behaviour change to improve phosphate control
      observed at one month were not sustained at three month follow-up which suggests that
      self-affirmation might require repeated interventions. An important feature of this new study
      would be to include repeated self-affirmations in the intervention group to investigate this
      further.

      A randomised controlled pilot trial is proposed. The study aims to recruit 120 patients
      across a network of dialysis units, focussing on patients who have higher than average
      interdialytic weight gains (IDWG). The trial is designed to build upon routine education
      about fluid management during dialysis visits, and will compare a group of patients who have
      received a self-affirmation intervention to boost their sense-of-self (self-affirmation arm)
      to a control group (control arm). It is expected that patients in the self-affirmation arm
      should have a more positive evaluation of the health-risk information about fluid management,
      feel more able to, and intend to change their fluid control behaviour. The appropriate
      methods of analysis include logistic regression, and mixed multilevel models, but the
      relatively small sample size will limit the extent of the modelling that can be undertaken.
      Thus the aim of the analysis will be examine the size of the observed effects and to design a
      larger study. The study will inform the extent to which psychological and clinical factors
      contribute to the outcome and should be used in future studies.

      As this intervention is targeting non-adherent patients (as defined by higher IDWG levels)
      and therefore not necessarily representative of all patients on dialysis, it is important to
      establish the true clinical context. Patients who appear to be managing their treatment well,
      based on their current clinical measures, might well be highly motivated. However, it is also
      possible that some of those patients also experience low motivation, which in time, as their
      illness becomes more severe, would be revealed by worsening adherence and clinical outcomes.
      Thus, the study also aims to examine the psychological and clinical factors associated with
      treatment adherence and non-adherence in a wider patient sample.
    
  