
    
      Leptomeningeal metastases (LM), is a diffuse dissemination of tumor cells into the
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and leptomeninges.[1] Up to 8% of all patients with cancer develop
      LM. Gadolinium enhanced MRI of the symptomatic location of the nervous system is the
      radiological method of choice when LM is clinically suspected. In patients with a
      metastasized tumor, based on clinical signs of LM and contrast enhancement of either the
      leptomeninges, pia mater/cortex or cranial or spinal nerves on MRI, the diagnosis LM can be
      made. The sensitivity of MRI with gadolineum for LM is 75% and the specificity 77%. If MRI
      does not show equivocal abnormalities, CSF cytology needs to be performed. In 55% of patients
      with LM from solid tumors, malignant cells are found during the first CSF examination. The
      sensitivity raises to 80-90% after the second CSF sampling, as determined in the pre-MRI era.
      The volume of sampled CSF determines partly the sensitivity of CSF cytology. If possible, 10
      ml CSF needs to be taken and the material must be processed as quickly as possible.

      Recently, Patel et al (2011) described the detection of breast cancer cells in the CSF using
      the Cell Search System (Veridex). [6] Using this method, the CSF is enriched
      immuno-magnetically for the epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM). Next nuclear staining
      with 4 ',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) and immunofluorescent detection with cytokeratin
      and CD45 is performed in 5 patients with leptomeningeal metastases from breast cancer and
      approximately 104 circulating tumor cells (CTCs)in 7,5 ml CSF were found, using this method.
      There seemed to be an association between the number of CTCs and response to intrathecal
      administered chemotherapy in this small group of patients.

      In the future, the determination of CTCs in the CSF could be a new quantitative method for
      the anti-tumor response assessment of systemic or intrathecal therapy (as opposed to CSF
      cytology, which is subjective and not a quantitative method). If the method shows greater
      sensitivity than CSF cytology and can reliably measure single tumor cells, the sensitivity of
      CSF examination in patients with a clinical suspicion of LM will increase. Possibly, this
      method can also be used to detect micrometastases in the CSF in patients without neurological
      symptoms, but with a high risk of CNS metastases.
    
  