
    
      90 post-stroke patients who meet the working criteria were called by phone. All of them were
      followed up in the stroke outpatient clinic of the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
      Clinic. Only 77 patients were reached. Permission was asked for questioning from the patients
      reached. The health and social status of the patients who agreed to participate in the study
      during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic period was questioned with the form we prepared. Form template
      included socio-demographic features, physical, and detailed medical histories. In addition,
      the fear based on the SARS-CoV-2 virus was examined with the Covid-19 phobia scale (CP19-S),
      while anxiety and depression were evaluated with the hospital anxiety and depression scale
      (HADS). Furthermore, Brunnstrom stages, Barthel index and functional ambulation
      classification (FAC), which was evaluated in the last 6 months, was recorded from the files
      to explore mobilization of the patients.

      The C19P-S is a self-report instrument with a five-point Likert-type scale to assess the
      levels of SARS-CoV-2 phobia. All items are rated on a 5-point scale from "strongly disagree
      (1)" to "strongly agree (5)." The scores on the scale can range between 20 and 100 and a
      higher score indicates a greater phobia in the respected subscales and total scale. In the
      present study, total scale scores ranged from 20 to 100. The scale examines four main
      factors: psychological, psycho-somatic, economic and social HADS that includes anxiety and
      depression subscales. HADS is a self-report scale. It consists of 14 items, 7 of which are
      depression and 7 of which are symptoms of anxiety. Answers are evaluated in four Likert
      formats. The cutoff scores of the Turkish form of the HAD scale were determined as 10 for the
      anxiety subscale and 7 for the depression subscale. The purpose of the scale is not to make a
      diagnosis, but to determine the risk group by screening anxiety and depression in a short
      time in those with physical illness.
    
  