
    
      Targretin® (bexarotene) Gel 1% a synthetic vitamin A compound that is approved for the
      topical treatment and oral treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma (CTCL). Vitamin A compounds
      can influence the growth of skin cells, and can cause the death of T-cells. Researchers hope
      that the bexarotene may get rid of T-cells around the hair follicles in AA (alopecia areata)
      lesions.

      Before treatment starts, patients will have a complete medical history and a brief physical
      exam. Researchers will ask about alopecia disease history, date of first diagnosis, and
      earlier treatments and responses. Blood test (about 4 teaspoons) will be performed before and
      after the end of treatment. Additional blood tests will be done if needed. Women able to have
      children must have a negative blood pregnancy test within 7 days before the start of
      treatment. Blood pregnancy test must be repeated once a month while receiving treatment.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to treat
      alopecia areata lesions on only one half of their head. Half of the participants will have
      the left side treated while the other half will have the right side treated. Sealed envelopes
      will be given to participants, telling them which side of the head to treat. The other half
      of the head will remain untreated and serve as the control.

      Patients will treat alopecia lesions on one-half of the head including facial hair as
      designated by the investigator. The other half of the head will have control (untreated)
      alopecia lesions. Up to 5 index lesions for treatment and 5 control lesions will be
      designated at baseline to follow and measure during the study. Patients will be treated with
      Targretin® gel 1% in a dose escalation regimen starting at once every day. At the start of
      Week 3 patients will begin applications of twice a day applications if tolerated. Patients
      will continue BID dosing, if tolerated, unless the investigator determines a further increase
      in application frequency may benefit the patient and the patient agrees to comply.

      Patients will be seen at baseline and at weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24 and at a 4-week
      follow-up. Telephone evaluations will be done at week 1 and as needed.

      Study visits for evaluation of safety and efficacy will be made at Week 2 and 4 after the
      start of treatment and then every 4 weeks up until Week 24. Telephone safety evaluations will
      also be made at Week 1 and other times as needed.

      Skin irritation or changes in health during the study may require participants to stop
      treatment or withdraw from the study.

      At withdrawal from the study, about 4 teaspoons of blood will be drawn. The total study
      duration is 24 Weeks with a 4-week follow-up period. At the 4-week follow-up visit, a
      physical exam, including measurement of vital signs and weight will be performed. An
      evaluation of both treated and untreated sides of the head will be performed.

      Patients who show a response at 6 months (24 weeks) will be given the option to continue
      therapy for an additional 6 months and will be able to apply the medication to both sides of
      the head. Patients will come every 2 months (3 additional visits) and will have the same
      examination as they have had during the study with evaluation of irritation, hair loss, hair
      thickness, measurement of lesions, and the physician's global assessment, which is the
      evaluation of hair re-growth. The same dose adjustment and withdrawal from treatment will be
      applied during this 6-month period. Every 2 months, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn
      for pregnancy tests and to look at your triglycerides (fat) levels and complete blood cell
      counts.

      This is an investigational study. Targretin® Gel 1% is commercially available and approved by
      the FDA for use in the treatment of cutaneous lesions in patients with CTCL. Initially up to
      42 participants will be enrolled in the study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  