
    
      This will be a prospective interventional, multi-centre study. Patients will be identified
      from multidisciplinary team meetings. All patients presenting with primary adenocarcinoma of
      the rectum and undergoing resectional surgery (with or without prior neo-adjuvant treatment)
      will be eligible for inclusion in the study. Patients will be approached following the MDT at
      their pre-op clinic and asked to participate in the trial. If they agree, they will be asked
      to sign a consent form before surgery.

      Local Radiologists will be asked to complete a study Imaging CRF for the baseline MRI scan,
      and post-preoperative treatment MRI scan, if applicable, which will include standard staging
      information and, additionally, information on the presence of Tumour Deposits (mrTD). (Before
      site initiation, local study Radiologists will be offered training in identifying mrTDs and
      asked to complete an assessment for quality assurance purposes.)

      Prior to surgery, imaging CRFs and pre-operative MRI scans will be sent to the Royal Marsden
      so that the COMET Chief Investigator (or one of her Radiology Registrars) can create an array
      of images and complete a central review CRF (see Figures 1 and 2) from the pre-op MRI scan.
      Each mrTD will be labelled (e.g E1, E2, E3). These images will be sent to the site study
      pathologist prior to histopathology processing of the specimen.

      Histopathology

      As well as following standard pathological procedures, additional sections will be taken from
      the area mrTD are thought to be present on MRI, and these will be kept separately from lymph
      nodes and clearly labelled. Deeper sections and elastin staining will only be carried out if
      the pathologist would do this as standard practice (i.e. it will not be requested as part of
      the trial). The pathologist will assess the specimen and report whether TD are present using
      a proforma. Tumour differentiation, CRM, T and N stage and the presence of EMVI will also be
      reported as standard. All pathology reporting will adhere to the Royal College of
      Pathologists Dataset Requirements for Reporting in Colorectal Cancer(19) to ensure
      standardisation between sites. A photograph of the tissue slices on a numbered grid will be
      sent into the Trial Office and used for mapping purposes. This should be accompanied by a
      completed Pathology CRF and anonymised histopathology report.

      All tissue (including slides, blocks and cassettes) will be sent to the Royal Marsden COMET
      trial team for central review and to allow for further assessment with additional
      examination, staining and DNA extraction for genetic testing and KRAS, NRAS, BRAF and PIK3CA
      analysis. Due to the known problems with inter-observer variability in distinguishing TD from
      LN(17), we will attempt to objectify this by specifically asking the Study Pathologist at the
      Royal Marsden as well as another Pathologist at Radboud University Medical Centre in the
      Netherlands to identify whether any features of a LN are present for each nodule examined as
      well as recording the presence of vascular and neural invasion. Features which would be
      specific to the lesion being a LN will be given an "L" score and those which suggest a lesion
      of non-LN origin will be given an "E" score. If the patient subsequently presents with
      metastatic disease and a pathology specimen is available (either in the form of a resection
      or a biopsy), this will also be obtained for the same testing. Scanned-in images of slides
      taken from the nodules will be used for their LN assessment and central review.

      Patients will undergo standard clinical follow up for a minimum of 5 years from the date of
      surgery. Clinic visits, imaging, blood tests and endoscopic follow-up will be carried out
      according to local protocols.
    
  