
    
      This is a retrospective observational study in women admitted to the HDU of Princess
      Christian Maternity Hospital (PCMH), Freetown, Sierra Leone, from 2nd October 2017 to 2nd
      October 2018. The study received ethical approval and waiver of informed consent from the
      Sierra Leone Ethics and Scientific Review Committee (18/12/18).

      A set of predefined variables was assessed at hospital admission, HDU admission and at
      discharge from HDU. The primary data source was the HDU patient chart, with data crosschecked
      with the hospital patient charts and the HDU admission book for quality control purpose. Data
      of hospital deliveries, admissions and mortality were form the hospital register and the
      maternal mortality hospital database. Data were retrospectively collected by a study
      physician (CM) and included: patient demographics; admission date and source; main reason for
      admission in hospital; main reason for admission to the HDU (classified as: haemodynamic
      instability; sepsis; haemorrhage; acute renal failure; neurological impairment; respiratory
      distress; severe malaria; coagulopathy; other diagnoses). These are clinical diagnoses
      included in the hospital checklist to facilitate communication of referral to HDU and are
      thus based on the clinical assessment of the attending physician rather than on a strict
      research definitions.

      Vital signs and treatments collected at admission included body temperature, heart rate,
      respiratory rate, neurological status according to the AVPU scale, systolic and diastolic
      blood pressure, transcutaneous saturation (SpO2). The ratio between SpO2 and fraction of
      inspired oxygen (SpO2/FiO2) was also measured. The obstetric modified early warning score
      (OEWS) was also calculated.

      Specific treatments received at any point during HDU stay were extracted from the patient
      file and included: oxygen supplementation, use of vasopressors, blood transfusions,
      antibiotic therapy, activation of the magnesium protocol for eclamptic seizures prevention
      and hypotensive treatment protocol with hydralazine. Point of care laboratory parameters such
      as capillary lactates levels and haemoglobin were collected when available. Time from PCMH
      admission to HDU admission was calculated. Length of stay and patient outcomes (classified as
      death in HDU, discharge to ward, or transfer to other facility) were reported at discharge.
    
  