
    
      Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous clonal disorder characterized by immature
      myeloid cell proliferation and bone marrow failure. Diagnosis of AML is based on
      morphological diagnosis with proliferation of blast cells ≥ 20% of bone marrow cells, flow
      cytometric analysis and cytogenetic abnormalities.

      The etiological agent and pathogenesis of AML are not entirely clear, only few AML cases can
      be accurately classified through traditional cellular morphological classification Thus, it
      is very difficult to judge the disease condition and predict prognosis. Improper expression
      of specific genes is a common finding in AML and may induce clinically relevant biological
      subsets. Cytogenetic abnormalities and molecular alterations provide the most powerful
      prognostic information in AML. Consequently, identification of novel biomarkers which could
      predict outcome or guide treatment choice will make more contribution to the clinical
      management of AML.

      Gene repression is the deactivation of an active gene that causes shut down of transcription
      and it represents a powerful tool in controlling gene expression in order to prevent the
      metabolic dysregulation during the development or the differentiation program Polycomb
      repressive complex 2 (PRC2) is the sole enzymatic complex capable of establishing
      gene-repression through high-degree methylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27), therefore
      it plays critical roles in regulation of normal hematopoiesis. Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2
      (EZH2) gene is the catalytic subunit of PRC2, located on chromosome 7q36.1. EZH2 gene encode
      EZH2 methyltransferase which mediates transcriptional inactivation through trimethylation of
      lysine 27 of histone H3 (H3K27me3). Methylation activity of EZH2 facilitate heterochromatin
      formation thereby silences gene function which is important for development, differentiation,
      and cell fate determination.

      Accumulating studies have proved that EZH2 dysregulation is involved in human cancers. EZH2
      may have a dual role in cancer development, acting as a tumour suppressor or an oncogene
      depending on the type of cancer. Overexpression of EZH2 was observed in numerous solid
      tumours, and targeting EZH2 can cause regression of carcinogenesis.

      EZH2 inactivation medicated by mutation or under-expression in myelo-dysplastic syndromes
      (MDS) or myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) can contribute to disease pathogenesis and is
      associated with a poor prognosis. In AML, EZH2 dysregulation caused by mutation and
      under-expression may act as potential biomarkers predicting prognosis and guiding the
      treatment choice between transplantation and chemotherapy. EZH2 was found to have tumor
      suppressive and oncogenic functions in different phases of AML.

      However, it remains to be defined whether deregulation of various PRC2-associated partners is
      also involved in malignancy development.

      PHF 19 (PHD finger protein 19) a polycomb-like member of PRC2 cofactors, acts as a critical
      mediator of tumorigenesis. PHF 19 located in chromosome 9q33.2, encodes a member of the
      polycomb group (PcG) of proteins that functions by maintaining repressive transcriptional
      states of many developmental regulatory genes.

      PHF19 has been shown to be a major modulator of histone methylation thereby regulating
      transcriptional chromatin activity. PHF19 directly recruits the polycomb repressive complex 2
      (PRC2) via binding to H3K36me3 and leads to activation of Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 (EZH2)
      as enzymatic subunit of PRC2, thereby resulting in tri-methylation of H3K27. Previous studies
      confirmed that PHF19 is dysregulated in several types of cancer, resulting in the
      derepression of PRC2 target genes and can be used as a marker of aggressive disease.

      To date, there is no published data about role of both PHF19 and EZH2 in AML. So, this study
      was designed to explain unexplored critical oncogenic pathway of AML in which PHF19 pattern
      of expression and EZH2 gene deletion promote malignant progression and detect their
      prognostic role.

      Aim of the work:

        1. To detect pattern of expression of PHF19 gene by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and
           EZH2 gene deletion by Fluorescence in situ Hybridization (FISH) in newly diagnosed AML
           patients.

        2. To study the association between expression PHF19 gene and EZH2 gene deletion in AML
           patients.

        3. Evaluation of the role of EZH2 and PHF19 genes as predictor markers of AML patient
           outcome.
    
  