
    
      Objectives Tinnitus is one of the most distressing disabilities and innovative ways of
      managing the related health care burden is required. A cognitive behavioural therapy (CTB)
      based internet intervention (iCBT) has been developed to improve access to tinnitus
      treatments. This study aims to determine the feasibility and effectiveness of iCBT in
      reducing the impact associated with tinnitus in the United Kingdom (UK) compared to standard
      face-to-face clinical care.

      Design A two-armed Randomized Control Trial (RCT), will be used to evaluate the effectiveness
      iCBT on tinnitus distress. Participants placed in the experimental group will receive iCBT
      and those in the control group will undergo standard face-to-face hospital based clinical
      care.

      Setting: This will be an multi-center study, recruiting from three tinnitus clinics in the
      East of England, UK; namely: Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital Trust, Milton Keynes
      University Hospital and Hinchingbrooke Healthcare NHS Trust

      Participants: Recruitment will be undertaken from 3 separate clinical settings. Adult
      patients seen by ENT Consultants or Audiologist at these centers who mention being
      significantly bothered by tinnitus, and who would normally be referred for tinnitus services
      will be considered for the study. 80 Participants will be recruited and will be randomly
      assigned to either receiving face-to-face clinical clinical care consisting or or
      internet-based intervention (iCBT).

      Intervention:

      i) iCBT group: This group will undergo a CTB-based internet intervention, providing an
      opportunity to learn about new ways of coping with tinnitus during everyday life. It is 8
      week long e-learning intervention, with new modules introduced weekly and assignments given
      to practice techniques learnt.

      ii) Standard clinical care group: receive individual face-to-face tinnitus appointment
      providing the care deemed most important to this individual and follow-up appointments as
      required.

      Outcome measures: The main outcome measure is the Tinnitus Functional Index. Secondary
      outcome measures are the Tinnitus Handicap Inventory- Screening version and self-reported
      measures for insomnia, hearing disability, cognitive functioning, hyperacusis, anxiety and
      depression and quality of life. These will be measured at baseline, 3 months post-
      intervention and 6-months post- intervention, to assess the intervention effects over time.

      Hypothesis: If iCBT proves feasible and is effective compared to standard clinical care, it
      may have implications for the way tinnitus suffers are managed in the UK. It may be that a
      subset of tinnitus suffers can be managed though an e-learning treatment program, freeing up
      services for those with more severe problems that need face to face treatment.
    
  