
    
      This is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, multicenter proof of concept and
      dose-finding phase II study using two doses of ADRECIZUMAB in patients with early septic
      shock and a bio-ADM plasma concentration at admission of > 70 pg/ml.

      "Early" septic shock is defined as a life-threatening organ dysfunction due to dysregulated
      host response to a proven or suspected infection which leads to a decline of Mean Arterial
      Pressure (MAP) < 65 mmHg, which is refractory to fluid resuscitation and requires
      vasopressors. Early is defined as a maximum of less than 12 hours between onset of the
      cardiovascular organ-dysfunction and administration of ADRECIZUMAB. Refractoriness to fluid
      resuscitation is defined as a lack of response to the administration of 30 mL of fluid per
      kilogram of body weight or is determined according to a clinician's assessment of inadequate
      hemodynamic results.

      It is intended to enroll 300 patients from surgical, medical and mixed ICU at multiple
      centers in Europe.

      All patients will be treated according to "International Guidelines for Management of Severe
      Sepsis and Septic Shock".

      Eligible patients (confirmed by central verification) will be randomized (1:1:2) to
      ADRECIZUMAB treatment arm A (2 mg/kg) or to ADRECIZUMAB treatment arm B (4 mg/kg) or to
      placebo as control group. Patients assigned to the treatment arm A or B will be administered
      a single dose of ADRECIZUMAB as intravenous infusion over approximately 1 hour; patients
      assigned to the control group will be administered placebo as intravenous infusion over
      approximately 1 hour.

      As long as the patients are on the ICU, daily measurements of clinical signs and laboratory
      data will be collected for safety reasons and for determination of Sequential Organ Failure
      Assessment Score (SOFA score). Additional blood samples for central laboratory analyses will
      be taken at inclusion on day 1, day 3, day 5, day 7 or day of discharge (whatever comes
      first) for measurement of biomarkers.

      The SOFA score and its components will be determined daily for all patients over the entire
      stay on the ICU (28 days or until discharge whatever comes first). Safety monitoring for each
      patient will begin at the time of signing the Informed Consent Form and continue for 90 days
      after end of short-term infusion of study medication.

      At selected study centers a pharmacokinetic (PK) substudy will be performed to determine the
      profile of ADRECIZUMAB in 80 randomized patients.

      An interim analysis for efficacy is planned after 50% of patients have completed the study
      (n=150).
    
  