
    
      The investigators will recruit a total of 20 patients between the ages of 15-25.Ten patients
      will be randomized to the "rest" group and ten to the "exercise" group.

      All patients will then be invited to complete balance testing and a 5 minute resting state
      EEG at the Perception Action Lab at UBC's Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health within
      48 hours of their concussion. At this time all patients will be provided with an Actigraph
      GT3X+ from Actigraph Corp and requested to wear this on their wrist or ankle 24 hours a day,
      and record times in which the device is removed. The patients will wear this device until
      returning to UBC on day 7 post-injury. Daily questionnaires describing their physical and
      mental activity levels, and any concussion related symptoms they experienced will also be
      completed. This initial meeting will take approximately 90 minutes.

      Afterwards, all patients will be invited to attend a standard post-concussion management
      visit with a physical therapist at FORTIUS Sport and Health in Burnaby BC, 48-72 hours after
      their injury. Both the rest and exercise groups will receive a "standard post-concussion
      management visit". In this visit, physical measures of c-spine range of motion (ROM), c-spine
      proprioception with laser (within 7 cm pass, >7 cm fail), strength, presence/absence of
      subjective symptoms, numeric c-spine rating scale, and neurocognitive testing will be
      completed. Those assigned to the exercise group will additionally complete 15 minutes of
      light-moderate aerobic exercise on a stationary bike. Activity levels will be determined by
      the physical therapist to individualize each program using heart rate reserve (HHR) and
      perceived exertion between 11-12 on the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for "Rating of Perceived
      Exertion". Patients will aim to achieve 65% of their HHR. The visit will take approximately
      60 minutes, with an additional 20 minutes for those assigned to the exercise group.

      On day 4 post-injury, all patients will continue with the standard care and recovery at home,
      completing their daily questionnaires of activity levels and post-concussion symptom
      reporting. Those assigned to the exercise group will be asked to complete 30 minutes of
      continuous leisurely walking at their convenience.

      All patients will complete a second standard post-concussion management visit to FORTIUS
      Sport and Health on day 5 or 6 post-injury to repeat their standard concussion care and
      neurocognitive testing. Those in the exercise group will be invited to complete 30 minutes of
      light-moderate aerobic exercise (65% HHR) on the stationary bike following the aforementioned
      criteria. On the remaining day, all patients will continue with standard care and recovery at
      home; completing their daily questionnaires of activity levels and post-concussion symptom
      reporting. Those in the exercise group will again complete 30 minutes of continuous leisurely
      walking at their convenience while at home.

      On day 7 post-injury, patients will return to UBC for a follow up appointment in which
      balance testing, and resting state EEG will be re-assessed. Patients will return their
      Actigraph, and complete a final questionnaire. At this stage, participation will be
      considered complete
    
  