
    
      Study Design: This study uses a mixed methods approach and will inform the design of a
      pragmatic clinical trial to improve the delivery of tobacco use treatment services to cancer
      patients.

      Study Setting: The pilot study will be conducted at the UF Health Medical Oncology and Ear,
      Nose & Throat (ENT) clinics. Smoking is the leading cause of head and neck cancers, and
      almost one-third of patients continue to smoke after their head and neck cancer diagnosis,
      making this a priority population for intervention.

      Population: UF Health cancer patients ≥18 yrs old who are current smokers and smartphone
      users; for mCBT, the investigators will also ensure CO breath sample >5 parts per million
      (ppm). Patients with unstable medical or psychiatric illness or use disorder for illicit
      drugs will be excluded.

      Procedures: The investigators will request Epic access to identify potential subjects and
      schedule recruitment during clinic hours. Research assistants (RAs) will be at the Medical
      Oncology and ENT clinics to meet with eligible patients during their visit. RAs will approach
      eligible patients at checkout after they are introduced by someone who has a clinical
      relationship with the patient. Following screening and brief counseling by the provider, RAs
      will offer eligible patients the 3 TUT options (i.e., AHEC, Quitline, or mCBT), obtain
      informed consent using REDCap (eConsent) or a paper consent (if desired by the patient),
      administer the Patient Exit Interview (PEI) in REDCap, and arrange a follow-up phone
      interview. Patients who choose AHEC/Quitline will be referred by a nurse using Epic. Those
      choosing mCBT will be trained on the use of Vidyo and the iCOTM Smokelyzer® by the RA, and
      follow-up will be arranged with a CTTS counselor.

      Participants in mCBT will meet with a trained certified tobacco treatment counselor on Vidyo
      for 30 minutes, once a week, for 6 weeks. The counselor will cover topics that include
      addiction, withdrawal, dealing with triggers, overcoming cravings, and relapse prevention. At
      enrollment, investigators will offer mCBT participants-if interested-a 2-week supply of
      nicotine replacement therapy (NRT). The 2-week supply of NRT is consistent with what is
      offered to participants at AHEC and the Quitline. Participants who smoke less than 10
      cigarettes per day will receive 14 mg of NRT, and those who smoke more than 10 cigarettes per
      day will receive 21 mg of NRT. Medical clearance from the provider will be obtained prior to
      NRT administration. At the end of the study (week 12), participants (all participants in mCBT
      and a random sample of patients referred to AHEC/Quitline) will complete the follow-up
      telephone interview. At the end of the study, participants (AHEC/Quitline & mCBT) may also
      provide a saliva sample to test their cotinine level; this process will be remotely monitored
      via Vidyo for participants in mCBT and participants in AHEC/Quitline will be encouraged to
      contact study staff to answer any questions they may have. Evaluation tools also consist of
      Patient Exit Interviews and Telephone Survey to be administered among research participants.

      Analysis Plan: All data collected will be entered in a REDCap database. The primary analysis
      will be the estimation of rates/means, with 95% CIs. To demonstrate the feasibility of the 3
      implementation strategies, investigators will measure reach as the number of smokers visiting
      the 2 clinics who are referred to any TUT (i.e., AHEC/Quitline/mCBT) divided by the total
      number of smokers visiting the clinics. For each TUT, investigators will calculate enrollment
      as the total number of smokers who enroll in a given treatment divided by the total number of
      referred smokers; investigators will compare the rates of patients selecting into each of the
      3 TUT programs. Investigators will assess TUT completion as the number of enrolled smokers
      who complete the program. Investigators will also evaluate acceptability using TAQ. As
      secondary outcomes, investigators will measure prolonged abstinence at week 12 and the change
      (baseline to week 12) in past-7-day point prevalence (all programs), as well as CO-verified
      abstinence at weeks 6 &12 (mCBT only). CO levels will also be modeled across time (weeks 1,
      6, 12) to assess for reductions over time via linear mixed models.
    
  