
    
      Survivors of head and neck cancer (HNC) often have significant impairments, functional
      limitations, and reduced quality of life (QL). Rehabilitation services, such as
      speech-language pathology to improve swallowing, physiotherapy to improve neck mobility, and
      occupational therapy to enable return to work, can effectively reduce the impact of
      impairments, restore function, and improve QL. However, access to rehabilitation for
      survivors of HNC is extremely limited. A trans-professional self-management program is needed
      to provide resources, links to community providers, and instruction in problem-solving
      strategies. The program should fit seamlessly into the cancer care system with minimal
      additional resources. To meet these specifications, an innovative intervention, the
      Rehabilitation Planning Consult (RPC), was developed and evaluated. The RPC is delivered in 1
      to 2 sessions and, in a single arm pilot study, had a moderate to large effect on several
      aspects of QL and individualized goal attainment. It remains unknown whether the RPC is
      efficacious in comparison to standard care. In preparation for a Phase III trial, the effect
      of the RPC, as compared to a standard care control will be estimated, on HNC survivors' QL,
      attainment of individualized goals, and self-efficacy related to self-management. To
      facilitate recruitment and ensure ethical provision of services, participants will be
      randomized to a waiting list control (WLC) or RPC. Assessments will be conducted at three
      time points for the RPC group and four times for the WLC group. Based on pilot data,
      approximately 43% of the RPC group are expected to achieve a minimal important difference
      (MID) in QL, thus 56 participants per arm, 112 participants total, will be recruited. The
      primary outcome will be QL related to physical health, measured using the SF-36 Physical
      Component Summary Score (PCS). Secondary measures will include individualized goal
      performance measured using the Brief Rehabilitation Assessment for Survivors of HNC,
      disease-specific QL measured with the FACT-HN, and self-efficacy.
    
  