
    
      Objectives: The main objective of this study is to determine the parameters for a phase III
      study to measure the efficacy of MP in improving CRCI in women with breast cancer who
      received chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy. In addition, the profile of drug side effects will
      be estimated. A better understanding of CRCI and its impact on the activities and QoL of the
      study population is targeted.

      Population: The sample will consist of 40 women in remission of non-metastatic breast cancer
      whose profile meets the following criteria:

        1. receiving follow-up at the radio-oncology department of the CHU de Québec-Université
           Laval or at any other health institutions in Quebec participating in the project;

        2. complaining about cognitive impairment;

        3. not having any contraindications to the taking of MP or any medical condition that may
           interfere with his taking and/or any medical condition that could explain the cognitive
           impairment.

      Before study inclusion, the eligibility of these women will be validated by questionnaires
      and medical records.

      Study design: This study will follow the design of a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled trial that includes a mixed methodology (convergent design).

      Procedures: The study will be divided into two phases. The first phase will start at time T0,
      before any MP is taken, and will last 14 days (T1). Participants will be assigned to the
      intervention group, where they will receive 10 mg of MP controlled-release (SR) for 14 days,
      or the control group where they will receive an identical placebo capsule for 14 days. The
      second phase begins at T1 and ends 14 days later (T2). This phase will explore a higher
      dosage. Participants from the intervention group during phase 1 will received an increased
      dose of MP (20 mg - two capsules) during 14 days whereas participants from the control group
      will receive two placebo capsules during 14 days.

      Measures: Quantitative data. Questionnaires and tests will be used. The effect size
      calculation will be based on the 'Perceived Cognitive Impairments' (PCI) subscale of the
      Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognitive Function questionnaire (FACT-Cog) test and
      will be used to determine the required power for a phase III study. Other tests will be
      explored to assess the sensitivity to measure cognitive changes. Descriptive statistical
      analysis will be performed. Tests such as the T-Test, χ2 and ANOVA will be used to estimate
      the degree of improvement of cognitive function by comparing data of the different groups.
      Qualitative data. Interviews will be conducted with the 40 women included in the study. These
      interviews will focus on their experience of cognitive deficits before and after taking
      MP/Placebo at T0 and T2. In order to document the experience of these women and to assess the
      transferability of the resutls, two methods will be combined to analyze these interviews: an
      intra-case analysis and an inter-case analysis. Each of the components of the study will
      answer its main questions independently. However, the data will also be matched
      (triangulation) to provide a global understanding of the issue and convergence of results
      when possible.
    
  