
    
      "Fearless Physical Activity" will deliver high-quality, meaningful physical
      literacy-enhancing experiences to children, youth and adults with congenital heart disease
      (CHD). People with CHD have historically been much less active than other Ontarians,
      regardless of heart disease severity. 'Fearless' will increase opportunities for
      sport/recreation participation by directly providing 48 days of fun, physical activity
      specifically designed for children, youth and adults with CHD and their families. Each event
      day, physical literacy screening tasks will identify those with CHD who are likely to require
      very significant support to be "active for life". 'Fearless' participants and leaders will
      learn about physical literacy, and it's fundamental role as the foundation of a healthy
      active lifestyle. A physical literacy workshop will educate leaders within the Canadian
      Congenital Heart Alliance (CCHA) about the importance of physical literacy for people with
      CHD and the role that CCHA can play in supporting active lifestyles. Joint organization of
      'Fearless' events will develop new partnerships between the CCHA and the community sport and
      recreation sector. These partnerships will enhance sport and recreation sector capacity to
      understand, and better support, the physical literacy needs of people with CHD. The project
      outcomes will be increased physical literacy among children, youth and adults with CHD, more
      physically active people with CHD and enhanced sport and recreation sector capacity to
      provide opportunities that are accessible to Ontarians with CHD.

      The planning and partnership phase of 'Fearless' (April to December 2016) will lay the
      groundwork for the delivery of the "Fearless Physical Activity" events. The Project
      Coordinator will work collaboratively with the leadership of the Canadian Congenital Heart
      Alliance (CCHA) and existing CCHA chapters in London and Eastern Ontario to develop the
      educational content and desired physical activity opportunities that will be delivered
      through the 'Fearless' events. A previous one-day 'Fearless' event evaluated the feasibility
      of our concept and the interest among families of those with CHD. The previous one-day event
      combined education sessions about physical activity goal setting, identifying personal
      activity interests, and finding community physical activity opportunities with opportunities
      to participate in a wide variety of physical activities (e.g., geocaching, Frisbee golf,
      croquet, beachball volleyball). Feedback from participating families rated all aspects of the
      'Fearless' event as excellent or outstanding. However, this one event was held for children
      with CHD and their families during the summer, therefore the project coordinator and project
      partners will need to develop additional content and activity plans to ensure that we can
      provide events for three age groups (children, youth, adults) and in all four seasons of the
      year. Providing events in all four seasons is important because people with CHD are highly
      susceptible to temperature extremes (cold, hot) and humidity; leading many people with CHD to
      believe that physical activity is not a feasible option at many times of the year. During the
      planning phase, the project coordinator will strengthen existing partnerships and networks
      within the CCHA and the sport and recreation sector, as well as develop the new partnerships
      (recreation/sport partners in western and northern Ontario) and expanded networks (northern
      Ontario) needed to ensure that people with CHD know about the Fearless events, which will be
      offered in all regions of Ontario.

      The 'Fearless' events will be held during 2017 (winter, spring, summer, fall) in each region
      of Ontario. Each one-day event will be held on a weekend, to facilitate the participation of
      people with CHD and their families. Having a series of education and activity sessions on one
      day, rather than shorter sessions held more frequently, will better enable people with CHD to
      attend from across the wide geographic areas served by each CCHA chapter / CHD clinic. Each
      'Fearless' event will include education sessions, participatory physical activity
      opportunities and the completion of physical literacy screening tasks that will identify
      those needing the greatest support to be active for life. The topic for one education session
      will be physical literacy - its importance, how it can be developed throughout life, and its
      relationship to physical and mental health. Each 'Fearless' event will be hosted by a
      community sport and recreation partner, enhancing project sustainability and sector capacity
      to support the physical activity of people with CHD.
    
  