
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the rate of complete response and partial response in patients with
      intermediate or high grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with rituximab plus
      cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP). II. Determine the toxicity
      of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the disease-free and overall survival, time
      to response, and time to disease progression in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to the number of risk
      factors (0-2 vs 3-5). Risk factors include age (no greater than 60 vs greater than 60), tumor
      stage (II vs III or IV), number of extranodal sites (no more than 1 vs more than 1),
      performance status (0-1 vs 2-4), and serum LDH level (no greater than normal vs greater than
      normal). Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1; cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and
      vincristine IV on day 3; and oral prednisone on days 3-7. Patients over 60 also receive
      filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously beginning on day 4 and continuing until blood counts
      recover (all other patients receive G-CSF as secondary prophylaxis). Treatment continues
      every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients who respond receive 2 more courses. Patients who have no measurable disease after 6
      courses receive rituximab IV once weekly for 4 consecutive weeks. This treatment continues
      every 6 months for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients who have measurable disease after 6 courses of chemotherapy receive 2 more courses
      for a maximum of 8 courses of CHOP, followed by maintenance therapy with rituximab (as
      described above). Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 100 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  