
    
      Polyethylene wear is a major factor limiting the longevity of total knee arthroplasty.
      Evaluation of the volumetric wear of explanted polyethylene tibial inserts can provide
      valuable insight into the performance of different designs. Current technologies available to
      measure the volumetric wear of tibial inserts include gravimetric techniques, coordinate
      measuring machines (CMM), laser-scanning, and micro-CT.

      In this study, we will employ micro-CT to determine volumetric wear because it allows us to
      obtain high-resolution three-dimensional images of the entire insert volume, including the
      surfaces as well as the interior of the insert. The micro-CT images will be used to
      reconstruct the entire three-dimensional geometry of the insert (including subsurface voids)
      and we will use image analysis software to partition the reconstructed insert into discrete
      regions (i.e. medial/lateral articulating surfaces, backside, and post), allowing us to
      determine how various regions contribute to total implant wear. By subdividing the insert
      into discrete regions, our analysis techniques will also enable us to account for material
      removed from the insert during explantation when evaluating implant wear. By comparing
      retrieved inserts with unworn controls using three-dimensional image analysis software, we
      will also quantify plastic deformation by measuring the volume of material that has deformed
      outside the confines of the control insert. Additionally, inspection of shape differences
      between the worn and unworn specimens will enable us to distinguish between implant wear,
      plastic deformation and volume differences associated with manufacturing tolerances. Although
      partial voluming effects can make edge detection challenging, high resolution micro-CT images
      tend to minimize these effects and we will use gravimetric measurements to determine an
      insert-specific Hounsfield threshold that will be used to define the image volume for each
      specimen. We will subsequently validate the accuracy of the reconstructed insert volume
      derived from the micro-CT image by comparing it with linear measurements from the actual
      specimen at several discrete locations.

      The use of micro-CT scans to evaluate the in vivo volumetric wear associated with different
      designs will enable accurate measurement of volumetric polyethylene loss from different
      regions of the insert. This information will provide a better understanding of the clinical
      outcome associated with different design strategies and provide data to guide future
      development efforts. We hypothesize that fixed bearing inserts, where the polyethylene is
      locked to the metal baseplate, will demonstrate more volumetric wear than the mobile bearing
      inserts that are designed to slide or rotate on the metal baseplate.

      Articular side wear will be measured by registering micro-CT images from retrieved and
      control inserts on unworn portions of the articular surface using the Analyze image analysis
      software (Mayo Biomedical Imaging Resource, Rochester, MN). Differences in volume among the
      retrieved and unworn control inserts will be evaluated accounting for plastic deformation
      that may occur in vivo. Volumetric wear for the entire insert and subregions will be
      calculated by subtracting the volume of plastic deformation (corresponding to regions of the
      retrieved insert outside the boundaries of the control insert) from the volume of material
      lost within the confines of the original insert geometry. We will compare wear among the
      mobile and fixed bearings using an Independent Sample t-test or Mann-Whitney U, depending on
      the distribution of the data. We will also use multiple linear regression analysis to examine
      the relationship between insert wear and other variables, including time in vivo, terminal
      sterilization technique for the insert and patient-related factors such as gender, age, and
      body mass index (BMI).
    
  