
    
      This is a multi-centre, randomized, controlled Phase II study assessing the use of
      Foscan®-mediated photodynamic therapy versus Brachytherapy in patients with recurrent or
      persistent nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

      The starting point for the PDT arm of the study will be the parameters recommended for the
      treatment of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. These parameters
      (drug dose, 0.1 mg/kg Foscan®; drug-light interval, 48 hours; light dose, 20 J/cm2 at 50 mW)
      have been shown to be effective in a limited number of treatments performed in patients with
      nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

      Patients will be evaluated on a regular basis for 12 weeks following treatment. Patients with
      a persistent tumour (confirmed histologically, where clinically possible) at 12 weeks
      following treatment, and in whom adequate clinical assessment of tumour response is possible,
      may be retreated with Foscan®. A maximum of two Foscan®-PDT treatments may administered to a
      single patient. Patients will be followed up for up to 24 months following the final
      Foscan®-PDT treatment.

      Study population Any patient with recurrent or persistent nasopharyngeal carcinoma, at least
      3 months following a full course of irradiation, is eligible for assessment for enrolment in
      the study provided that the tumour is less or equal to 15 mm in depth and is accessible for
      unrestricted illumination using a nasopharyngeal applicator. Diagnosis of cancer will, in the
      first instance, be made by clinical inspection of the site. The diagnosis must then be
      confirmed histologically. All patients will have a full assessment and diagnostic workup in
      accordance with usual departmental practices, including a CT scan of the skull base and neck.

      The study centres will keep a log of all patients screened or evaluated for inclusion into
      the study and will document the reasons why patients were not included or selected.
    
  