
    
      In 2000, there were 84 pregnancies for every 1,000 women aged 15 to 19 in the US (4). More
      than 90% of the resulting 900,000 teen pregnancies were unintended (6). Nationwide, teen
      pregnancy rates have dropped 28% since their peak in 1990 but dropped only 15% in Hispanic
      teens (4). New York state ranks 38th in the nation with 91 teen pregnancies per 1,000 teens.
      For Whites the teen pregnancy rate is only 52. Teen pregnancy rates are two to three times
      higher in Hispanics (130 pregnancies) and African Americans (167 pregnancies)(4). In New York
      City, the teen pregnancy rate is 99, even higher than the NY state and US rates (8).

      Unintended pregnancy has long-term consequences that can disproportionately affect teens.
      Teen pregnancy negatively affects a teen's socioeconomic status. Pregnant teens are less
      likely to finish their education, more likely to be single parents and less likely to acquire
      work experience (9). Teen pregnancies are more likely to be medically complicated, with
      higher maternal and infant morbidity and mortality rates than in older pregnant women (10).
      Over one third of teen pregnancies end in abortion. Once a teen has one delivery, she is at
      increased risk to have another. Furthermore, a daughter of a teen pregnancy is more likely to
      have a teen pregnancy herself (11). Consistent contraceptive use is the only way to prevent
      pregnancy (and all of its consequences) in sexually-active teens. In a study of OC use in our
      population, 99% of the pregnancies that did occur were in women who had discontinued their OC
      during the study period (1).

      The National Survey of Family Growth, a nationwide study examining contraceptive use in 2,271
      teenagers, showed that 98% of sexually-active teenagers had used a contraceptive method at
      some time (12). Among teen contraceptors, 53% use oral contraceptives (OC) - the highest
      percentage among all age groups (12). The percentage of African American and Hispanic teens
      using contraception is lower than white teens (12). The World Health Organization estimates
      that half of patients take their medication improperly (13). One million of the United
      States' unintended pregnancies result from improper OC use, failure or discontinuation (14).
      Teens discontinue OCs because they experience side effects, misunderstand instructions for
      use and do not establish a pill-taking routine (3). In a study of OC use in inner city family
      planning clinics, we found discontinuation rates of 40% and 61% at three and six months,
      respectively (1). For the 595 teens in that study, discontinuation rates were 53% and 75% at
      three and six months, respectively. High discontinuation rates are also reported elsewhere
      (15-19). Improving OC continuation in the U.S. by just 10% can lead to a 7% reduction in
      unintended pregnancies and an annual savings of $280 million (1995 dollars) (14). Nationally,
      that could mean a reduction of unintended teen pregnancies by 63,000.

      Wireless text messaging is a technology that was effective in improving medication adherence
      in clinical trials of vaccines and smoking cessation in Spain and South Africa (20,21). Text
      messaging has also been found to be more effective than telephone call-backs and scheduled
      clinic revisits in providing patients in London with lab results and decreasing the time for
      them to return to clinic for treatment (22). Cell phones have more recently become widespread
      in America and cell phone use continues to increase. A 2005 survey of wireless providers
      revealed that there were nearly 208 million wireless subscribers in the US, nearly 26 million
      more than in 2004 (23). Americans use cell phones for more than talking; they can use the
      text message function to share photos, to vote for reality television programming
      contestants, to receive daily jokes or to receive ring tones. Sixty-four percent of teens
      with cell phones use text messaging (24). Urban teen girls are more likely to use text
      messaging than boys or adults (24).

      To assess cell phone use in our own population we carried out a survey of 2,521
      racially-diverse reproductive-aged women, including 473 teens, attending family planning
      clinics in NYC. Cell phone usage was 77% among teens, and 81% of them read and send text
      messages (5). One-third of the participants in this feasibility survey worry about forgetting
      to take their medications and 30% would like to receive text message reminders for this (5).
      There are no studies of the effectiveness of text message reminders on contraceptive
      continuation rates.

      Successful teen pregnancy prevention programs use varied, multifactorial approaches (2). We
      propose a study using an existing technology, text messaging, in an innovative way to improve
      OC continuation rates. Daily text messages will provide information regarding side effects,
      their management and instructions for troubleshooting common pill-taking mistakes. They may
      also help teens and young women establish a dosing routine.
    
  