
    
      Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder occurring most frequently in adolescent females,
      characterized by 1/ voluntary dietary restriction, leading to lower than normal body weight
      and, often, loss of considerable amount of weight and, thereby, malnutrition, 2/ intense fear
      of gaining weight, even when the individual is already underweight, starved or malnourished
      and 3/ disturbed body image perception, including extreme emphasis on the appearance.
      Anorexia nervosa is characterized by the potential severity of its prognosis. While complete
      remission occurs in about 50% of cases, up to 20% of patients will develop a chronic
      relapsing form that leads to social disintegration. Moreover, anorexia nervosa has the
      highest mortality rate among psychiatric diseases with a risk of death of up to 10%
      (including suicide and clinical complications of severe malnutrition). If approximatively 30%
      of deaths in anorexia nervosa are attributed to cardiac complications, the nature and the
      frequency of such complications remain insufficiently described, and their screening at a
      preclinical stage is still poorly codified. Echocardiography findings are well documented and
      include reduced left ventricular mass, pericardial effusion (in 22 to 35% of cases), or
      mitral valve prolapse (in up to 35% of cases); in addition, systolic function, evaluated by
      the ejection fraction appears to be preserved whereas a global diastolic dysfunction,
      estimated with trans-mitral flow and global longitudinal strain, is reported. While the
      interest of cardiac echography has been well established, only one study used MRI (magnetic
      resonance imaging) as a means of cardiac evaluation in anorexia nervosa: interestingly, this
      study found local myocardial fibrosis in nearly 25% of patients with anorexia nervosa, which
      could potentially contribute to cardiac rhythm disorders. That said, no study has yet used
      T1-Mapping MRI to evaluate if diffuse myocardial fibrosis is prevalent in this population
      group.

      The investigators aim to conduct a transversal, observational, monocentric study whereby
      malnourished patients with anorexia nervosa (n = 38) and age- and sex- matched, normal
      weight, healthy volunteers (n = 38) will undergo a gadolinium-enhanced cardiac MRI. The
      primary objective of this study is to evaluate and compare the frequency of cardiac fibrosis
      in those populations using cardiac MRI. Other morphological and functional cardiac MRI
      parameters will be described and compared as secondary objectives: local myocardial fibrosis
      using enhanced MRI; myocardial and left ventricular mass; myocardial triglyceride
      quantification using Proton spectroscopy; cardiac high-energy metabolism using Phosphore-31
      spectroscopy. Moreover, non-cardiac parameters evaluated by MRI such as adipose tissue
      distribution (visceral fat, liver fat, bone marrow fat) in anorexia nervosa patients compared
      with controls.

      In addition, patients with anorexia nervosa, a clinical, morphological and biological
      evaluation, including anthropometric parameters, biphotonic absorptiometry, resting
      electrocardiogram, cardiac echography and classical biological markers of malnutrition, will
      be done. Multivariate analysis will then be used to identify possible correlating factors
      between cardiac MRI findings and clinical, morphological and biological parameters in
      malnourished patients with anorexia nervosa, so as to shed light on possible new risk
      stratification models or predictive tools for cardiac complications that could be later
      evaluated by appropriate studies.
    
  