
    
      Methods/ Design

      Ethical approval (B300201215600) was obtained from the local ethics committees of the Antwerp
      University Hospital.

      Study design In the identification of prognostic indicators is derived from a number of
      variables that have predictive potential for therapy outcome. These variables are obtained
      from baseline measurements and have a multidimensional character (impairments,
      activities/participation and contextual factors).

      Patient recruitment Patients will be recruited by doctors at the service of two settings
      located in Antwerp namely the Antwerp University Hospital (UZA) and the Sint-Vincentius
      Hospital. Treatment and measurements will be performed at the site where the patient has been
      recruited.

      Inclusion criteria: Current nonspecific LBP persisting at least three months, consulted a
      medical doctor during the last month because of the persistent low back pain, age between 18
      and 60, sufficient fluency in Dutch to follow treatment instructions and answer survey
      questions.

      Exclusion criteria: spinal canal stenosis, spondylolisthesis and spondylitis, large herniated
      disc sciatica, radiating pain below the knee, previous back surgery, a history of known
      spinal fractures, malignancy, known muscle-, nerve-, skin-, or joint diseases, pregnancy and
      lack of consent.

      Measurements

      Baseline testing As primary (dependent) outcome measure the Modified Oswestry Disability
      Questionnaire is used (MDQ). The MDQ is a disease specific questionnaire to measure
      disability in LBP patients [21-23].

      As secondary (independent) outcome measures the following tests are used:

      First, Measurement of impairments: duration of the LBP/ pelvis impairments / respiratory
      impairments (all three items through anamnesis). Prone instability test, Straight Leg Raise,
      Beighton scale, Active Straight Leg Raise, sitting knee extension test, waiters bow, pelvic
      tilt, side support test, extensor endurance test, active sit-up, Visual Analogue Scale for
      pain (VAS).

      Second, measurement of limitations in activities and participation: hours of physical
      activity/week (trough anamnesis). Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF36), Roland Morris
      Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ).

      Third, measurement of contextual factors: gender/ age / height / weight / body mass index /
      smoking / profession / underwent previous therapy / comorbidity (trough anamnesis). Tampa
      scale for kinesiophobia, Fear Avoidance Belief Questionnaire (FABQ), We performed a
      literature search to select all used clinical tests based on their reliability and validity
      [24]. The Baseline testing takes about 30 minutes.

      Follow-up

      Follow up takes place after completion of the treatment program at nine weeks. All patient
      reported outcome measures (PROMs) from the baseline testing will be re-evaluated at this
      moment.

      Randomization & blinding

      In the Sint-Vincentius Hospital, all included patients will follow the combination treatment
      since this is the only intervention group which is being organized in this hospital.

      In the UZA, patients will be randomly assigned into one of the two treatment groups (motor
      control or isometric training) after baseline testing. The responsible researcher will use a
      randomization list generated with Microsoft ® Excel ® software (version 14.3.9, 2010 ©
      Microsoft Corporation).

      Intervention

      During the nine weeks intervention, patients will be treated two times a week. Patients will
      be assigned randomly into one of three intervention groups (motor control therapy, isometric
      training therapy or combination therapy). Each intervention will take about seventy minutes.
      Ten minutes warming up and cooling down will be the same in each treatment regime. Each group
      receives fifty minutes of therapy specific intervention. Previously trained physiotherapists
      will give the treatment. To ensure that all therapists provide the same exercises, a
      treatment protocol for each treatment group was developed and a treatment diary will be
      filled out after each session.

      Interventions in derivation and validation phase are similar.

      Power analysis

      This study describes the identification of prognostic indicators in which the therapeutic
      effect of the interventions cannot be predicted. Therefore, a two-tailed hypothesis was used
      to calculate the power. A pilot study showed that the standard deviation of the primary
      outcome measure, MDQ, is set at 10.53.6 Given these estimates, 54 patients were needed to
      detect a minimum clinically important difference (MCID, effect size 0.84) with 90% power.
      Consequently, three groups of 18 patients were needed to complete the trial.

      Data analysis

      Prognostic indicators aim to detect potential predictive variables for treatment success
      (dichotomous, yes/no) in a set of baseline measurements. A minimal decrease in the MDQ score
      of 9 points is considered as treatment success.

      Potential predictive variables are selected as follows: first, individual variables from the
      self-reports, history, and physical examination are tested for their bivariate association
      with the reference standard using independent sample t tests, Mann-Whitney U tests or
      Chi-square tests based on the nature of the data. Variables with a significance level of P <
      0.10 are retained as potential prediction variables. We choose a more liberal significance
      level at this stage to avoid excluding potential predictive variables.

      This statistical analysis is performed for each treatment group (motor control therapy,
      general active exercise therapy and isometric training therapy).

      Information form and informed consent

      If patients meet the in- and exclusion criteria they are scheduled for an interview with one
      of our researchers to be informed about the trial. If patients decide to participate they
      will sign an informed consent. Information form and informed consent are made and have been
      approved by the ethics committee of the University of Antwerp.
    
  