
    
      Background

      Effect of Emdogain on wound healing after gingival recession coverage using connective tissue
      graft: a pilot study Emdogain Treatment Emdogain (Institute Straumann, Basel Switzerland) is
      an enamel matrix protein derivative with the vehicle propylene glycol alginate. Emdogain has
      been used for more than 16 years for regenerative periodontal treatment of intrabony, class
      II furcation and recession defects. Animal and human histological studies have provided
      evidence for periodontal regeneration (e.g. formation of root cementum, periodontal ligament
      and alveolar bone) following the application of Emdogain in conjunction with periodontal
      surgery. The use of Emdogain has been shown to significantly improve the clinical outcomes
      evidenced by probing depth reduction, and clinical attachment gain and is considered today as
      a routine procedure.

      Background Therapy of buccal gingival recession is a common indication for treatment in order
      to improve plaque control thus preventing gingivitis and root caries but also to improve
      aesthetics and root sensitivity. The ultimate goal of a root coverage procedure is the
      complete coverage of the root surface and, in the same time, to obtain a similar appearance
      of the regenerated soft tissues to the surrounding intact tissues. The use of palatal
      connective tissue graft in conjunction with a coronally advanced flap (CAF) is a well
      established clinical procedure for the treatment of gingival recessions. Its use has been
      shown to result in predictable root coverage, higher increase in keratinized tissue and more
      stable long-term outcomes compared to the use of CAF and is considered today state of the
      art. Furthermore, recent data also appear to indicate that the combination of Emdogain and
      CTG may additionally improve the clinical outcomes. Therefore, the standard surgical
      procedure for the treatment of gingival recessions at the Department of Periodontology
      includes the use of connective tissue graft either with or without the use of Emdogain.

      Interestingly, despite the fact that Emdogain is commonly used, no information on its effects
      upon early wound healing is available.

      Hence, the aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of Emdogain on early wound healing, as
      assessed by means of clinical parameters and inflammatory markers following recession
      coverage surgery.

      Study population and methodology Patient groups compared: in the treatment group, patients
      undergoing a recession coverage surgery will be treated with Emdogain whereas in the control
      group, patients will not receive Emdogain. A total of 40 patients, 20 in each group will be
      included.

      Preoperative inflammatory markers will be assessed at the preoperative examination and two
      days after surgery by dipping paper points into the crevicular fluid. Furthermore the
      investigators will assess whether remnants of Emdogain are still traceable two days after
      surgery. Wound healing after root coverage procedure is assessed using the "early wound
      healing index (EHI)" defined by Wachtel et al. According to Wachtel et al., wound healing is
      quantified and graded into 5 stages.

      Additionally, the post-operative healing process will be judged by a patient questionnaire.
      Finally root coverage is measured as the distance from the CEJ (Cemento Enamel Junction) to
      the Margo Gingivae in mm.

      Objective

        1. To investigate the benefit of intraoperative use of Emdogain on early wound healing
           during the first two weeks after gingival recession coverage. Early wound healing
           parameters will be assessed at both the site of explantation of the tissue graft as well
           as at the site of implantation.

        2. To investigate the effect of Emdogain on inflammatory markers in crevicular fluid and
           whether Emdogain is traceable after two days after application.

        3. To investigate its influence on post-operative pain and interference with daily
           activities during the first two weeks (patient's questionnaire).

        4. The post-operative result will also be assessed after 6 months.

      Methods

      The present prospective study will include a total of 40 patients, 20 patients in each of the
      2 groups (Emdogain group and control group). All procedures will be elective procedures.
      After oral and written informed consent, the study will comprise the collection of crevicular
      fluid sampling and clinical data as well as the filling of a patient questionnaire. The study
      will be conducted as randomized prospective study. In the treatment group the procedure will
      be performed with Emdogain, in the control group, root coverage will be performed without,
      respectively. All procedures will be performed by one experienced operator. Patients will all
      be treated with the standard surgical procedure of the University of Bern. In the patient
      group with Emdogain, tissue graft and explantation site will be covered with Emdogain, in the
      patient group without Emdogain, no Emdogain will be used. After inclusion of the patients,
      the study duration will last 6 months for each patient.
    
  