
    
      This is a research study designed to test the utility of D-shaped bifocal lenses and PRIO
      Computer Lenses for persons using a computer. These are different types of eyeglass lenses
      and are commonly used when performing computer work. D-shaped bifocal lenses are designed for
      general purpose use and PRIO Computer Lenses are progressive addition lenses designed for
      using a computer and are not useful for driving or other tasks requiring clear distance
      vision. The study will examine how much work a subject completes during a 2-hr visit to the
      laboratory (productivity) and how a subject feels when working (symptoms). The UAB Department
      of Optometry sponsors this research study. Interested individuals must be at least 40 years
      of age and have relatively good vision in each eye when wearing glasses and to do at least
      4-hrs of computer work per workday. There are no other restrictions to enter the study.

      Participating subjects will be provided one of two different types of lenses and a choice of
      eyeglass frames. All subjects will be required to use the pair of glasses provided for all
      computer work for a period of 4 months. During the fourth and eighth weeks of this period,
      subjects will be required to complete three short surveys over the phone (10 questions) a day
      for five days (morning, noon and afternoon) on how the glasses affect their work on a
      computer and how they feel. These surveys should take about 5 minutes or less to complete.
      During the fifth or sixth week, subjects would be required to visit the laboratory at the
      School of Optometry to do 2-hours of editing tasks on a computer and complete the same short
      survey before beginning and after finishing. Participants would be called once a week to
      confirm that they are wearing the glasses. These calls would last about 2-3 minutes or less.

      Upon qualifying for the study, subjects will be randomly (like the flip of a coin) assigned
      by a computer to receive either the bifocal lenses or the variable focus computer glasses.
      This will be a single-blind study, which means that neither your doctors completing the
      survey and the on-site visit will not be informed which type of glasses the subject is using.

      The following periodic measurements will be made during the study: visual and upper extremity
      comfort (surveys) and productivity (editing task). Subjects will be asked to return to the
      clinic for 1 2-hr visit. At each visit subjects will be asked if they have experienced any
      undesirable reactions and how they are tolerating the glasses.
    
  