
    
      Study Population and Data Source This is a cross-sectional, single-center study which will be
      conducted in the Dialysis Center of Tungs' Taichung MetroHarbor Hospital (TTMHH) in the
      coastal region of central Taiwan. A cohort of 450 patients aged 20 or over, who have been on
      HD for at least 3 months prior to enrollment (Dec 1, 2021) will be included. The medical
      charts of these patients are reviewed for eligibility identification, and should be
      compatible with the inclusion/exclusion criteria and enrolled in our analysis.

      In this study, the diagnostic criterion for asymptomatic PAD is an ABI value lower than or
      equal to 0.9 with no clinical symptoms in the lower limb such as muscle discomfort or
      intermittent claudication. PAD is considered symptomatic if patients have an ABI ≤0.9 and
      clinical symptoms or if they undergo previous surgical revascularization procedures or limb
      amputation. The characteristics of patients will be exclude from our study were (1) baseline
      ABI values > 1.3 , (2) symptomatic PAD , (3) decompensated cirrhosis , (4) neoplastic
      diseases , (5) incomplete data, (6) receiving hemodialysis < 3 months and active infection.
      The baseline data such as demographics, comorbidities, anthropometrics, and relevant
      laboratory data, clinical diagnosis of PAD based on measurements of ABI, and medication
      history will be collected.

      Ankle Brachial Index Measurements The ABI was measured by trained technicians using the
      Fukuda Vascular Screening System (VaSera VS-1000™, Fukuda Denshi Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan),
      which measures blood pressure from bilateral arm and ankle (brachial and posterior tibial
      arteries, resp.) simultaneously by an oscillometric method. The systolic pressure of the arm
      without dialysis access and the lower value of the ankle systolic pressure were used for the
      calculation. ABI was calculated by the ratio of the ankle systolic pressure divided by the
      arm systolic pressure. Of the two ABI values, respectively, calculated from the left- and
      right-limb measurements, the lowest value is used in this study. All participants were
      annually measured in a supine position after resting for at least 15 minutes and before
      dialysis.

      In this study, ABI less than 0.90 was considered as evidence of PAD . Absence of PAD was
      defined as ABI between 0.90 and 1.30 . Individuals with ABI greater than 1.30 were excluded,
      because this indicates poorly compressible leg arteries and inability to gauge arterial
      perfusion accurately .

      Laboratory Mesaurements Blood was drawn with EDTA anticoagulant in the morning after an
      overnight fast of at least 12 h before a dialysis session. The samples were separated via
      centrifugation (4000 rpm, 10 min) and immediately stored at -80°C for subsequent assays.
      Glucose, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol HDL), triglycerides and total cholesterol are
      all measured by standard assays using the analyzer. Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL)
      is measured by standard assay. Beta 2 microglobulin, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein
      (hsCRP) and are measuredusing standard nephelometry. Serum hs-cTnT was measured using a
      sandwich immunoassay method, a novel highly sensitive assay with a lower measurable limit of
      3 ng/L. N-terminal probrain natriuretic peptide(NT-proBNP) is measured using a sandwich
      immunoassay method, the lower limits of quantification were 5 pg/mL. The serum levels of
      a-Klotho were measured using an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) system, and this
      assay detects circulating a-Klotho using 2 monoclonal antibodies that specifically recognize
      the extracellular domain of Klotho, the lower limits of quantification were 6.15 pg/mL and
      the intra-assay and interassay coefficients of variation of <10%. Plasma blood concentrations
      of FABP4 were measured by means of (sandwich) ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay).
      Plasma TSP-1 and TSP-4 levels were assessed via ELISA. Calculated intra-assay and interassay
      coefficient of variation for TSP-4 were 9.3% and 7.7%, respectively.
    
  