
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The proposal targets a population of individuals of great public health importance who are of
      high risk for weight gain: pre-school children of overweight parents. Family-based
      interventions are both theoretically and functionally reasonable approaches for use with
      these subjects, and the choice to focus on both increased physical activity and healthier
      food choices in the context of the family's environment is appropriate. The decision to
      include weight management outcomes on the parent as secondary endpoint is strategically wise
      and may provide important insights into the process of weight management. A broad array of
      data is to be collected and strong justification is provided for the inclusion of each.

      The study is in response to an initiative issued by the National Institute of Diabetes and
      Digestive and Kidney Diseases and entitled "Innovative Approaches to the Prevention of
      Obesity". The resulting grant was later reassigned to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood
      Institute.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Approximately fifty child/parent pairs were recruited and randomized evenly to one of two
      groups: usual care versus an intervention focused on diet and activity strategies that
      included weekly group visits (24 weeks), biweekly group visits for parents (12 weeks),
      monthly group visits for parents (6 months) and quarterly group visits (12 months).
      Cognitive-behavioral therapy was used to guide interventions, which focussed on empowering a
      parent as the primary medium by which lifestyle changes were made. Major data collection at
      baseline, twelve, and 24 months included measures of weight; food and activity records;
      activity monitor recordings; biopsychosocial profiles; blood lipids, glucose, and insulin;
      process measures; parenting behavior; and child behavior. The primary study outcome measure
      was age- and gender-appropriate changes in BMI (expressed as a binomial response). Additional
      outcomes of particular interest were weight changes in the parent, diet and physical activity
      levels, parenting skills, and biopsychosocial measures.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  