
    
      Hernias of the abdominal wall occur if intra-abdominal tissue or peritoneum bulges through
      the abdominal wall. The most frequent locations of abdominal wall hernia are the inguinal
      region close to the groin, the umbilicus, and scars. Congenital inguinal hernias occur more
      frequently in the inguinal region if the vaginal process is not closed adequately at birth.
      Surgical procedures for correction of inguinal hernias are frequently carried out in
      children. Laparoscopic procedures to correct inguinal hernias in children are gaining more
      acceptance. The laparoscopic closure of hernias in children is considered effective and safe
      and represents an accepted alternative to the open surgical hernia repair. When compared to
      open surgical hernia repair in children, laparoscopic hernia repair causes smaller scars,
      allows for a faster postoperative recovery of children, requires less pain medication, and
      allows for an inspection of the contralateral side, thus facilitating simultaneous hernia
      repair in the same operation.

      We aim to investigate the short-term results of laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair in
      children. The main outcome parameter of this single-center study is hernia recurrence or the
      occurrence of contralateral metachronous hernia. Secondary outcome measures are postoperative
      complications such as infections of the wound regions, the time between operation and
      discharge from hospital, and postoperative pain medication requirements. We chose a 4-year
      time interval for inclusion of patients. Data are retrieved from hospital records in a
      retrospective evaluation. In addition, a structured questionnaire sent to the families of
      children will document postoperative complaints and complications from 3 months after the
      operation onwards. Families not responding to the questionnaire will be offered a structured
      telephone interview.
    
  