
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS A.1. Overview Obesity is associated with a higher level of inflammation and
      oxidative stress, which in turn are important mediators of sarcopenia, declines in physical
      functioning, and physical limitations in older adults. Several observational studies and
      randomized controlled trials (RCTs) suggest that behavioral interventions targeting weight
      loss through caloric restriction plus exercise (CR +EX) may reduce inflammation and may
      improve function in obese older adults.3 The mechanisms by which CR +EX may influence
      physical functioning and sarcopenia (the involuntary loss of skeletal muscle with age) remain
      largely understudied. It is proposed that CR +EX may avert sarcopenia by reducing
      inflammation, oxidative damage, and consequent apoptosis of skeletal muscle myocytes.

      A.2. Objective of the Pilot Study

      The proposed pilot study will lay the groundwork for a RCT of the effects of CR +EX on
      inflammation, oxidative stress, apoptosis, body composition, intramuscular fat, sarcopenia,
      muscle strength, and physical functioning in obese older adults. The specific objectives of
      the proposed study are as follows:

        1. Demonstrate the feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy of the proposed intervention,
           including:

             1. Ability to recruit 40 sedentary, older obese adults with mild to moderate
                functional disability;

             2. High rate of attendance at treatment sessions (Mean > 75%); and

             3. Good response to treatment (Mean body weight loss > 7%).

        2. Evaluate the biological effects of the CR +EX intervention, including changes in:

             1. Inflammation (i.e., tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF- α], interleukin-6 [IL-6],
                myeloperoxidase [MPO]);

             2. Oxidative stress (RNA and DNA oxidative damage in leucocytes)

             3. Apoptosis (as assessed by caspases and nuclear DNA fragmentation);

             4. Body composition (as assessed by dual x-ray absorptiometry [DXA)] and

             5. Sarcopenia and muscle composition (i.e., fat free muscle and intramuscular fat, as
                assessed by Magnetic Resonance Imaging [MRI] and Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy
                [MRS]).

        3. Examine functional changes associated with weight loss including:

             1. Upper and lower extremity muscle strength (as measured by grip strength and
                isometric and isokinetic ankle and knee strength);

             2. Response to the Short Physical Performance Battery; and

             3. Self-reported disability.

        4. Test whether the expected beneficial effects of the CR +EX intervention on physical
           functioning are mediated by changes in inflammation, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and
           sarcopenia;

        5. Determine the effect size of the CR +EX intervention on the key outcomes so as to
           provide the basis for sample size calculations for the planning of the larger RCT.

      A.3. Research Hypotheses for the Future RCT

      The synergistic effects of CR +EX may be effective in reversing the effects of inflammation,
      oxidative distress, apoptosis, and sarcopenia on both muscle strength and physical
      functioning in older adults. Thus, the primary goal of this pilot study is to provide support
      for a future RCT to test the hypothesis that a lifestyle intervention targeting a 7% loss in
      body weight through CR + EX will produce greater reductions in these outcomes, as compared to
      a (no weight loss) control condition. The future RCT would be designed to test the following
      primary and secondary hypotheses:

      Primary hypotheses. As compared with a control condition, the CR +EX Intervention will:

        1. Decrease inflammation (as measured by TNF-α, IL-6, and MPO);

        2. Decrease oxidative stress (as measured by DNA and RNA damage in isolated leucocytes);

        3. Decrease the rate of apoptosis (as measured by caspases and DNA laddering);

        4. Produce favorable changes in body composition (i.e., a decrease in total fat mass and an
           increase in appendicular lean mass, as assessed by DXA); and

        5. Produce favorable changes in muscle composition (i.e., a decrease in intramuscular fat
           and an increase in fat-free muscle as assessed by MRI/MRS).

        6. Increase muscle strength and performance (as assessed through validated strength
           measures)
    
  