
    
      Acute lung injury (ALI)/adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is clinically important
      (16% of mechanically ventilated patients acquire ALI, of whom one third die), yet no
      pharmacological therapy has been shown to impact significantly on outcome. This is in part
      due to inadequate stratification of patients with neutrophil predominant ALI/ARDS and the
      inability to determine disease activity and hence target therapy.

      Molecular Imaging (MI) offers a potential strategy to visualize neutrophil activity in vivo
      in situ. Indeed FDG PET has been used to image neutrophil activity but it is not a bedside
      modality, and moving critically ill patients to remote scanners is dangerous and expensive
      and there there are currently no bedside 'smart' MI solutions that can guide, at the
      cellular/functional level, the diagnostic or therapeutic pathway in patients with
      inflammatory lung disease. Indeed, in ICU, there is a specific need to rapidly diagnose
      patients with deteriorating gas exchange, particularly those with chest X-ray (CXR)
      shadowing. Such CXR infiltrates result from numerous causes including cardiac failure, fluid
      overload, secondary pneumonia and ALI/ARDS. All require different treatments but, at present,
      options to distinguish these conditions are severely limited, resulting in empirical
      'blunderbuss' antimicrobial therapy and non-correction of the primary condition. There is now
      a pressing need to rapidly stratify such patients to inform focused implementation of
      specific targeted therapies.

      Activated neutrophils and their histotoxic products, particularly human neutrophil elastase
      (HNE), have been specifically implicated in the pathogenesis of ALI/ARDS, and there is
      considerable clinical interest in new drugs in this area. However, there is currently no way
      of rapidly determining whether new therapeutic candidates are exerting their predicted
      effects in situ in the human lung prior to embarking upon major clinical trials. Such a
      solution would inevitably accelerate the pathway of new drugs to clinical application.

      The Proposed Solution: probe-based confocal laser endomicroscopy (pCLE) combined with direct
      intra-pulmonary instillation of microdoses (pharmacologically-inactive and non-toxic) of a
      highly specific and sensitive 'smartprobe' (NAP) will detect neutrophil activity and the
      presence of active HNE in the lungs of ventilated ICU patients.

      pCLE itself safely provides high-resolution, real-time images of the human lung at cellular
      resolution in situ. Alone, however, it provides no functional or molecular information. The
      investigators have therefore embarked on a discovery programme to synthesise highly sensitive
      smartprobes, detectable by pCLE and specifically directed against key inflammatory events.
      This provides a new dimension of clinical application for this cutting-edge technology. NAP,
      the prototype has now been validated in vitro and in vivo where it is effective at a dose of
      < 10µg and generates a powerful fluorescent signal in < 30 sec. Our pilot study aims are to
      apply the combined utility of pCLE and NAP in healthy volunteers and patients with
      inflammatory lung disease. The study will also provide a prototypic foundation that can be
      applied to future smartprobes, not only in the lung but in any organ accessible to endoscopy.

      The primary end-point will be a proof of concept demonstration that this technique can be
      used to visualise activated neutrophils over background autofluorescence. Other end points
      include safety. The investigators shall also assess alveolar (by bronchoscopy) neutrophil
      activation and elastase activity in patients. Demonstration of activated neutrophils by pCLE
      in ICU would be expected to lead directly to clinical trials in patients with ALI/ARDS.
    
  