
    
      1. The Aim:

           The aim of the study is to evaluate beneficial effects of biofeedback therapy in
           reducing pain, increased tension of masticatory muscles occurring in patients with
           myogenous TMD and if the therapy influences psychological and sleep parameters. Also to
           verify if the effect of the therapy persists in time.

        2. Patients:

             1. Experimental group 1 - patients diagnosed with myalgia subjected to 4
                EMG-Biofeedback trainings. The group will include approximately 20 adults.

             2. Experimental group 2 - patients diagnosed with myalgia subjected to 8
                EMG-Biofeedback trainings. The group will include approximately 20 adults.

             3. Control group - patients diagnosed with myalgia subjected to physiotherapy (manual
                therapy), stabilization splint usage and counseling (20 adults).

        3. Methods:

      Adult patients diagnosed with masticatory muscles myalgia will be included in this study. All
      participants will be evaluated in accordance to the Diagnostic Criteria for Temporomandibular
      Disorders (DC/TMD). Intensity of pain in the masticatory muscles will be defined using the
      Numerical Rating Scale (NRS). The pressure pain threshold (PPT) will be assessed with an
      dolorimeter and noticed on DC/TMD pain drawing diagram. Each of the qualified patients will
      also undergo the electromyography of temporal and masseter muscles. All participants will
      fill in questionnaires (Graded Chronic Pain Scale (GCPS), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index
      (PSQI), Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9), Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) and Perceived
      Stress Scale-10 (PSS-10) and Somatic Symptom Scale-8 (SSS-8).

      Patients qualified to the experimental groups will be divided in to 2 subgroups composed of
      20 participants each.

      Experimental group 1 will undergo a cycle of 4 meetings (1 per week) of 20 minute
      EMG-Biofeedback- assisted training decreasing the masseter and temporalis muscle tension. 10
      minutes of training for each group of muscle.

      Experimental group 2 will undergo a cycle of 8 meetings (1 per week) of 20 minute
      EMG-Biofeedback- assisted training decreasing the masseter and temporalis muscle tension. 10
      minutes of training for each group of muscle.

      Postcycle examination:

      After completing the cycle, patients from the study group and control group will be
      reevaluated. All participants will be evaluated in accordance to the Diagnostic Criteria for
      Temporomandibular Disorders (DC/TMD). Intensity of pain in the masticatory muscles will be
      defined using the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS). The pressure pain threshold (PPT) will be
      assessed with an dolorimeter and noticed on DC/TMD pain drawing diagram. Each of the
      qualified patients will also undergo the electromyography of temporal and masseter muscles.
      All participants will fill in questionnaires (Graded Chronic Pain Scale (GCPS), Pittsburgh
      Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9), Beck Anxiety Inventory
      (BAI) and Perceived Stress Scale-10 (PSS-10) and Somatic Symptom Scale-8 (SSS-8).

      The postcycle examination will take place after last planned training and during follow-ups -
      6 and 12 weeks after completion of EMG-Biofeedback therapy.
    
  