
    
      A significant problem in education is that the transition period between a treatment school
      and a district school represents a high-risk time for failure. Education service district and
      school district leadership in Lane County contacted the Oregon Social Learning Center to
      collaborate on this project stating that during this transition period the students have
      insufficient strategies, services, and supports for generalizing the gains made at Lane
      School (the treatment school) back into the district middle school setting. They reported
      that this is a period of high stress and instability for many students and their families.
      Additionally, district schools lack the resources and supports to import the strategies that
      supported students to be successful at Lane School. Lane School works to track students'
      placement and services following completion of their program and data indicate that in the
      first year after transition, approximately 82% of middle school students transfer to public
      schools in their home district and the remaining students transfer directly to alternative or
      in-patient treatment centers. By the second year after transition, however, the majority of
      students who attended public schools were placed in self-contained classrooms, alternative
      placements, treatment centers, or received out-of-school tutoring due to emotional and
      behavioral problems. In addition, many students have high rates of truancy and low levels of
      parental support. This project is intended to address the gaps in support to increase
      placement stability at the district schools following the transition. To date, four students
      have begun the transition process with support from this project. One student has fully
      transitioned and results from qualitative interviews with the parent and the teacher indicate
      that the intervention is well liked and providing the supports needed to promote student
      success at the district middle school. We will continue to collect data to determine the
      level impact in this domain. A secondary impact is developing strategies to effectively
      collaborate with multiple school districts to support the common goal of transitioning
      students smoothly and sustaining placement stability. It is our goal to disseminate these
      strategies via publications and presentations with other educational researchers and
      practitioners.
    
  