
    
      The question evolves if memory improvement by a standardized meditation program of 8 weeks
      (Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction MBSR) or a specific memory training (My Brain Training
      MBT) is a specific effect on brain networking or mediated by a reduced general activity
      induced by stress reduction. The capacity of MBSR to induce dramatic neuroplastic changes
      such as morphological grey matter changes in the brain, reduced amygdala function and volume
      as well as electric activity level of the somatosensory cortex should allow for a
      discrimination and allocation of various memorial subfunctions such as visual/figural and
      episodic as well as acoustic memory. Although networking effects surely are involved in all
      memory subfunctions, the main brain target regions for verbal/episodic memory is the
      hippocampus (memory malfunctions are associated with hippocampal volume reduction and/or
      neuron losses) whereas those for other subfunctions are not known.

      Therefore, morphological MBSR effects of the brain were compared to specific memory training
      via MBT. In this study, MBSR and MBT memory training are working as competitive effects on
      memory subfunctions, whereas a wellness massage and relaxing program and a
      do-not-change-anything group will serve as active and passive controls. The effects of memory
      function improvement by the respective training will be measured by MAT (Memory and Attention
      Test), a specific and validated computerized memory and attention test. Brain morphology was
      investigated by voxel based morphometry NMR before and immediately after an 8 weeks
      intervention period. Targets for morphometry are hippocampus CA1 region for verbal and
      episodic memory, the visual or acoustic cortex and the combined hippocampus areas for visual
      and acoustic memories, the amygdala volume for stress level and the frontotemporal lobe as a
      combined target of MBSR and memory assessment. Stress levels are measured by cortisol
      profiles of subjects. Compared were 4 groups- "MBSR" group- MBSR students after completed
      training, passive "control" group- subjects following an 8 weeks waiting period for the MBSR
      training without any memory training or wellness program, active control "MBT" group-
      subjects on an 8 week waiting period for the MBSR training doing an 8 week MBT memory
      training instead, "Wellness" group - doing a structured program using relaxing massage and
      calming computerized chair ("Brain Light").

      The hypothesis of the study is that MBSR improves memory function better than MBT when
      measured by MAT. Compared to both active and passive controls, MBSR training induces specific
      morphologic changes in the brain, indicated by a volume change of the voxel based morphometry
      method of 5% of a defined brain region. In comparison to smaller and less neuroplasticity
      induced by MBT on memory brain regions, MBSR induces greater volume changes on hippocampus
      and amygdala and stress reduction than the wellness progam.
    
  