
    
      3-Hydroxy-3 methylglutaryl (HMG) coenzyme A-reductase inhibitors (statins) have an
      established role in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. Their efficacy in reducing
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in secondary and primary prevention has been
      demonstrated in large prospective trials. HMG-CoA-reductase inhibitors inhibit competitively
      the rate-limiting enzyme of endogenous cholesterol biosynthesis. As a consequence, the
      intracellular pool of free cholesterol decreases and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors
      are up-regulated, leading to an increased receptor-mediated clearance of LDL from plasma.
      This mechanism is responsible for a large proportion of their cholesterol-lowering effect.
      However, a statin-induced decrease in lipoprotein production has also been proposed as a
      mechanism for their lipid-lowering effects. The underlying mechanisms in vivo, however, that
      would mediate such an effect, are not fully understood. Except for their pronounced
      cholesterol-lowering properties, statins have also a modest effect (about 15 to 20%) in
      decreasing triglyceride concentrations. In subjects with high intra-abdominal fat stores, an
      increased flux of free fatty acids to the liver produces an increased rate of hepatic
      triglyceride synthesis, which in turn leads to increased very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL)
      production, since the latter is partly determined by the intracellular availability of
      triglycerides. This is also found in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus and there are a
      number of studies showing that in this pathophysiologic state statins are able to decrease
      lipoprotein production. Interestingly, in obese individuals it has been shown that statins
      increase the catabolism of apoB-100-containing lipoproteins but do not alter their rates of
      production or secretion.

      In the present study we focus on subjects with near normal body weight (mean body mass index
      25 +- 3 kg/m2) and normal serum triglyceride concentrations to investigate, in the fasting
      state, whether statins influence hepatic lipoprotein production. Since recent evidence
      suggests that the supply of cholesterol available for incorporation into nascent lipoprotein
      particles also exerts a regulatory influence on apoB secretion by the liver, we investigate
      in addition the acute inhibitory effects of a high bolus dose of simvastatin in order to
      stimulate LDL receptor expression to a maximum degree.

      The main goal of the present study is to determine the influence of simvastatin on apoB-100
      appearance rates and lipoprotein kinetics in fasting non-obese subjects with moderate
      hypercholesterolemia. For this purpose, each subject will be investigated with three turnover
      protocols: once without treatment, once during chronic simvastatin treatment at a standard
      dosage, and once during chronic simvastatin treatment after an additional acute-on-chronic
      high bolus dose of simvastatin.
    
  