
    
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) is a prevalent condition that has been increasingly diagnosed
      in the adult population and is now considered an independent risk factor for the development
      of cardiovascular disease. More specifically, OSA has been linked with thrombosis, or the
      formation of clots in the blood vessels which can lead to heart attack or stroke. A better
      understanding of the mechanisms associated with thrombosis and the development of
      cardiovascular disease in patients with obstructive sleep apnea is needed.

      This research will investigate the function of the enzyme adenosine deaminase (ADA) in
      subjects with sleep disorders. ADA is responsible for metabolizing adenosine, a
      neuromodulator that is released during periods of sleep apnea and that has been found to
      promote vascular thrombosis. There are multiple types of ADA that are genetically determined
      and have different levels of function. Those different forms of this enzyme may determine
      groups that are more susceptible to the development of thrombosis. Given the known
      association between sleep apnea and thrombosis, this study will determine if polymorphisms of
      this enzyme are differentially found in subjects with sleep apnea as compared to other sleep
      disturbances.

      A total of 60 subjects presenting for the evaluation of sleep disorders to the Weill Cornell
      Pulmonary Associates and the Cornell Center for Sleep Medicine practices will be offered
      participation in this study. The subjects with sleep apnea will be ethnically matched to the
      subjects with sleep disorders other than sleep apnea (controls). Once written informed
      consent is obtained by the Principal Investigator, venipuncture will be performed in the
      office by a trained phlebotomist. A total of 15 ml (approximately 1 tablespoon) of blood will
      be collected. The patient will be monitored for ten minutes following the blood draw to
      ensure adequate hemostasis. The blood samples will be utilized for DNA sequencing and
      determination of adenosine deaminase genotype and phenotype.

      Information from clinically indicated overnight sleep studies performed within 6 months of
      (prior or after) the visit will be used to categorize subjects into groups (sleep apnea vs.
      sleep disorder other than sleep apnea).
    
  