
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To investigate whether unrelated donor hematopoietic stem cell transplantation using a
           nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen comprising busulfan, fludarabine phosphate, and
           anti-thymocyte globulin can reduce treatment-related mortality in patients with
           hematologic malignancies.

        -  To investigate whether this regimen can be sufficiently immunosuppressive to enable
           engraftment of HLA-matched unrelated hematopoietic stem cells.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Prior to receiving the conditioning chemotherapy regimen, all patients with acute leukemia,
      chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), and high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (chronic
      myelomonocytic leukemia, atypical CML, and refractory anemia with excess blasts) receive one
      dose of intrathecal (IT) methotrexate. These patients also receive leucovorin calcium IV or
      orally 4 hours after IT methotrexate and every 6 hours for a total of 8 doses.

        -  Nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 30
           minutes on days -7 to -2, busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -7 to -6, anti-thymocyte
           globulin IV over 4 hours on days -4 to -2.

        -  Allogeneic bone marrow stem cell transplantation (SCT): Patients undergo allogeneic bone
           marrow SCT on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine (CSA) IV
           over 2-4 hours every 12 hours starting on day -1 and continuing until day 180 (CSA can
           be given orally every 12 hours once oral medication can be tolerated) and methotrexate
           IV on days 1, 3 , 6 , and 11.

      Once blood counts recover, patients with acute leukemia or CML in blast crisis resume IT
      methotrexate once every 2 weeks for a total of 3 doses. Patients also receive leucovorin
      calcium IV or orally 4 hours after IT methotrexate and then every 6 hours for a total of 8
      doses.

      Patients are followed for at least 10 years after SCT.
    
  