
    
      Rationale:

      Anastomotic leakage is the most important surgical complication following esophagectomy for
      esophageal cancer, leading to increased morbidity and mortality. A major cause of leakage is
      impaired healing due to ischemia of the gastric tube that is used for reconstruction of the
      gastrointestinal tract. Calcifications of the aorta or stenosis of the celiac trunk on
      pre-operative CT scan have been shown to be associated with an increased risk of anastomotic
      leakage. So far, no individualized treatment has been initiated for this selected group of
      patients. Laparoscopic ischemic conditioning (ISCON) of the gastric tube aims to increase
      perfusion at the anastomotic site by redistribution of the gastric blood flow and/or
      induction of angiogenesis. This is achieved by occlusion of the supplying gastric arteries
      except for the right gastroepiploic artery during a separate intervention prior to
      esophagectomy. Of note, these arteries would also be occluded during conventional
      esophagectomy, but with laparoscopic ISCON they are occluded at an earlier moment in time
      during a separate intervention. Retrospective studies have demonstrated the safety of this
      technique. Prospective studies have not yet been performed.

      Primary objective:

      Assess the safety and feasibility of laparoscopic ISCON 12-18 days prior to esophagectomy for
      esophageal cancer in patients with arterial calcifications.

      Study design:

      Two center phase II prospective single-arm safety and feasibility trial.

      Study population:

      Patients with resectable esophageal carcinoma (cT1-4a, N0-3, M0) with "major calcifications"
      of the thoracic aorta (UCS) and any additional calcification or stenosis of the celiac axis
      (modified NASCET score) on preoperative CT scan, who are planned to undergo esophagectomy.

      Intervention:

      Laparoscopic ISCON followed by esophagectomy after an interval of 12-18 days.

      Primary outcome:

      all complications grade 2 and higher (Clavien-Dindo classification) occurring during or after
      operation 1 (laparoscopic ISCON) and before operation 2 (esophagectomy).

      Secondary outcomes:

      secondary outcomes with regard to operation 1 (laparoscopic ISCON) are the duration of the
      procedure, blood loss, day of discharge postoperatively and grade 1 complications. Secondary
      outcomes with regard to operation 2 (esophagectomy) are anastomotic leakage rate, all other
      grade 3b or higher complications and 30 day mortality. Further secondary endpoints are the
      induction of angiogenesis by biomarkers of microcirculation and redistribution of blood flow
      by measurement of indocyanine green (ICG) fluorescence angiography.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      the additional burden for the patient consists of an extra operation of approximately 40
      minutes during which laparoscopic ISCON will be performed, prior to the planned
      esophagectomy. We would classify the current study as medium risk. Potential benefits in
      comparison to current standard treatment are a reduced risk of anastomotic leakage and
      severity of anastomotic leakage. Potential risks are complications following operation 1
      (laparoscopic ISCON). Mainly, based upon prior experience, we expect gastroparesis to occur
      in 25% of patients. Patients with gastroparesis have an increased risk of aspiration and will
      require a stomach emptying by nasogastric tube and nasojejunal tube feeding till the
      performance of operating 2 (esophagectomy).
    
  