
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the effect of the CATCH-UP intervention on up-to-date status of cancer screening
      and preventive care received by patients.

      II. Evaluate the effect of the CATCH-UP intervention on patients? insurance coverage rates.

      III. Evaluate the intervention implementation process, patient and community health center
      (CHC) staff acceptance and use of the CATCH-UP tools, and the patient-, provider-, and
      system-level factors associated with successful implementation and sustainability of the
      tools, using mixed methods.

      OUTLINE: CHC clinics are randomized to 1 of 2 groups. We compare between groups and with a
      matched-comparison group.

      GROUP I (INTERVENTION ARM 1): Participants receive CATCH-UP tools which include a panel
      management/data aggregator system that identifies patients who may be eligible for public
      coverage but are not yet insured, or who are nearing coverage expiration, coupled with
      automated patient outreach and communication at baseline.

      GROUP II (INTERVENTION ARM 2): Participants receive CATCH-UP tools which include a panel
      management/data aggregator system that identifies patients who may be eligible for public
      coverage but are not yet insured, or who are nearing coverage expiration, coupled with
      automated patient outreach and communication. Participants also receive additional
      implementation support such as trainings, assistance with workflows, and practice
      facilitation.

      Matched-comparison group: A clinic-level matched comparison group will be derived from the
      OCHIN membership by using propensity score matching techniques. Comparison group clinics will
      not participate actively in any study activities but, as part of their member business
      associate agreement with OCHIN, have already agreed to provide data through OCHIN for pre-
      and post-implementation analysis in the study.
    
  