
    
      Vaccination has been one of the most important and cost-effective public health interventions
      to provide protection against infectious diseases. Since the introduction of the first
      vaccine in 1796, there have been countless advances in the field. However, numerous gaps
      remain to be addressed. An important gap is understanding the mechanisms that lead to
      suboptimal immune responses to vaccination. It has been shown that the magnitude of the
      immune response produced by vaccines is highly variable among individuals, with both genetic
      and environmental factors playing an important role. More recently, emphasis is being placed
      on the role of the microbiota in vaccine immunogenicity. The microbiome is the collection of
      all microbial cells in and on the human body, with the majority being in the gastrointestinal
      tract. Due to this link between microbiome and the immune system, it is important to further
      understand the impact of the microbiome on the immune response to vaccination. This can be
      done using systems vaccinology, which is the application of systems biology in vaccinology to
      predict vaccine efficacy. The aim is to find molecular signatures, or patterns of gene
      expression induced after vaccination, which can be used to correlate and predict the
      development of protective immunity. The goal of this study is to determine whether alteration
      of microbiota by antibiotic exposure can negatively impact the immunogenicity of rabies
      vaccine, and to assess the innate and adaptive immune mechanisms responsible for that
      phenomenon. The study also wants to evaluate the safety profile of the different antibiotics
      and the lymph node sampling methods.

      Half of the study participants will receive the rabies vaccine alone and half will receive
      the rabies vaccine along with a 5 day course of antibiotics. The primary objective of this
      study is to compare antibody titers after vaccination with the rabies vaccine in adults with
      or without use of antibiotics.

      Prior to the clinical trial portion of this study comparing the antibody titers between the
      study arms, the researchers will evaluate lymph node sampling methods. The study will
      determine whether Fine Needle Aspiration (FNA) or Core Needle Biopsy (CNB) is the best
      technique for sampling lymph nodes. Once the best technique is determined, the ideal timing
      of lymph node sampling will be examined by comparing follow up sampling at 1, 3 or 7 days
      after vaccination. The technique and timing found to be best will be used throughout the
      remainder of the trial.Subjects are followed on days 1, 3, 7, 14, 28, 180, and 365 post
      randomization. Any grade 2 solicited adverse event (AE) (until D28 or up to 7 days after
      lymph node sampling) or serious adverse event (SAE) (for the duration of the study) which may
      not have been reported by the subject by calling the site as directed at a prior visit.

      Blood samples for immunologic testing will be collected at screening (from D -35 to D -2), on
      D0 (at vaccination), D1, D3, D7 (+/- 1 day), D14 (+/- 2 day), D28 (+/- 5 days), D29, D35 (+/-
      1 day), D56 (+/- 5 days), D180 (+/- 14 days), D365 (+/- 14 days) post vaccination for both
      groups to study innate and/or adaptive immune responses.

      Stool samples will be collected in both groups at screening (from D -35 to D -2), on D0 (at
      vaccination), D1, D3, D7 (+/- 1 day), D14 (+/- 2 day), D28 (+/- 5 days), D29, D35 (+/- 1
      day), D56 (+/- 5 days), D180 (+/- 14 days), D365 (+/- 14 days) post vaccination to study the
      gut microbiome. For Group A, stools will be screened for Clostridium difficile carriage by
      PCR at screening (from D-35 to D-2).
    
  