
    
      BACKGROUND: There is a significant disparity in tobacco use in that smokers with mental
      illness smoke at twice the rate of the general population, use more tobacco per day and are
      disproportionately affected by smoking-related disease. Few models exist for treating tobacco
      use in individuals with mental illness. Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) is a
      treatment strategy that helps individuals accept discomfort while making value-guided change.
      It has been used successfully to treat psychiatric symptoms in people with serious mental
      illness (SMI) and is well-suited to treat smoking in people with SMI. Psychiatric partial
      hospitalization programs provide an opportunity to intervene on tobacco use in people with
      SMI. OBJECTIVE: This study tests the feasibility of offering an ACT-based smoking cessation
      treatment initiated in a psychiatric partial hospital program and continuing post-discharge.
      AIMS: The study has 3 aims: (1) To assess the feasibility, acceptability, and safety of an
      ACT-based, partial hospital initiated, counseling intervention for smoking cessation. (2) To
      collect preliminary evidence of the efficacy (i.e., effect size estimates) of ACT-based
      counseling initiated in the partial hospital compared to usual care. (3) To explore of the
      effect of treatment condition (ACT vs. Usual Care) on ACT treatment targets. DESIGN: This
      study is a randomized design (n=40), where patients in an ACT-based psychiatric partial
      hospital will be offered up to 8 weeks of the nicotine patch and randomly assigned to either
      ACT care (n=20; two in-person ACT-based counseling sessions + 5 ACT-based telephone
      counseling sessions) or to Enhanced Usual Care (n=20; two in person medication management
      counseling sessions + referral to the state quit line). Outcomes assessed at end of treatment
      include: feasibility (percent of eligible patients who enroll, percent of patients completing
      treatment), acceptability (patient satisfaction ratings), safety (hospital readmissions,
      symptom exacerbation), efficacy (CO confirmed 7 day point prevalence abstinence at end of
      treatment) and ACT treatment targets (tolerance of discomfort, mindfulness and acceptance).
      SIGNIFICANCE: This study tests a treatment model for smokers with SMI, a group with
      particularly refractory smoking behavior. If successful, this model could be implemented
      broadly in psychiatric day treatment programs.
    
  