
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the pathologic complete response (pCR) rate in patients with primary
      triple-receptor negative (estrogen receptor [ER]-negative, progesterone receptor
      [PgR]-negative, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 [HER2]-negative) inflammatory
      breast cancer (TN-IBC) by using a combination of panitumumab, carboplatin, and paclitaxel
      (PaCT) in comparison with carboplatin and paclitaxel (CT) followed by adriamycin and
      cyclophosphamide (AC) in a neoadjuvant setting.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the disease-free survival (DFS) rates produced by either arm of trial
      combination treatment.

      II. To determine the overall survival (OS) rates produced by either arm of trial combination
      treatment.

      III. To determine the safety and tolerability of both arms of trial combination treatment.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the pCR rate positively correlates with reduced nodal expression
      status.

      II. To determine whether the pCR rate inversely correlates with arginine methylation status
      of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR).

      III. To identify molecular biomarkers predictive of the pCR rate by analysis of multiplexed
      immunohistochemical (IHC) staining.

      IV. To identify molecular biomarkers predictive of the pCR rate by genomic and proteomic
      analysis.

      V. To determine whether the inhibition of the EGFR pathway downregulates the COX-2 pathway
      and mesenchymal marker.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP A: Patients receive panitumumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1 of cycle 0 and
      over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-4. Patients also receive paclitaxel IV over
      1-3 hours on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-4, and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of
      cycles 1-4. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unexpected toxicity.

      GROUP B: Patients receive paclitaxel, carboplatin, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide as in
      Group A. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unexpected toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month and then annually
      for at least 5 years.
    
  