
    
      Computational fluency and understanding of mathematical concepts are essential for students'
      math achievement. Attainment of math learning goals in childhood uniquely predicts
      life-course success and wellbeing.Thus, investing in childhood math proficiency is critically
      important to prepare students for solving problems and succeeding in life. In schools, math
      teachers are faced with increasingly complex demands but instruction time is limited.
      Students who are struggling may need extensive individualized practice to succeed. To that
      end, novel computerized training methods are used in today's schools to help students obtain
      crucial abilities. According to the National Association for the Education of Young Children
      (NAEYC), most schools have adopted digital tools in the classroom, and they are increasingly
      interested in providing students access to new educational resources. Such specialized
      programs may have the potential to enhance children's academic growth trajectories, but they
      are not sufficiently evaluated. Moreover, teachers may not be prepared to select and use
      adequate digital tools.

      There are numerous online learning programs that elicit different levels of motivation in
      students while adhering to Common Core State Standards. Some of them are expensive for
      schools whereas others are free, which makes them especially attractive for socioeconomically
      disadvantaged areas. One of the newer, but highly used programs is Prodigy, an adaptive
      open-access online math training game that continuously adapts to students' progress. Prodigy
      is different than most other programs because of its play-based, virtual reality environment
      that students explore with an avatar while solving math questions. As a result, students may
      be highly motivated and elect to spend more time on Prodigy than on other learning programs.
      Prodigy is currently being used by around 26 million students and teachers in the United
      States and Canada (https://www.prodigygame.com/), 150 school districts in the US have
      implemented Prodigy as part of their math curriculum, and many districts are expected to
      change from other programs to Prodigy, but the program has not been evaluated so far.

      The investigators' aim is to evaluate the use and effectiveness of the adaptive Prodigy math
      training program via a randomized controlled trial (RCT) in the Knox County Schools (KCS)
      district.
    
  