
    
      SAFE II Background Patients hospitalized with a depression are generally discharged within
      4-6 weeks, but remain vulnerable, and not fully recovered at discharge, hence a majority will
      be referred to outpatient care. Often, however, patients have to wait for about 2 weeks from
      discharge to first visit in the outpatient clinic. Our clinical experience is that this
      period from discharge to start of outpatient care is associated with psychological
      uncertainty and often cause unstable daily routines for sleep, meals, social life, and
      exercise. This may result in aggravation of the depression with the associated risk of
      suicidal thoughts and readmission. Our first study "E-monitoring by depression - Safe I,"
      illustrated these issues. Patients registered their state daily in an electronical
      application, for sleep, mood, and exercise. Among other things the study showed that the
      patients' sleep patterns were advanced to later in the evening and longer in the morning thus
      shifting the sleep-wake cycle to later. One possible explanation for this finding is that
      patients are not recovered from the depression when discharged and therefore are more
      vulnerable to changes. Another possible factor is that at home the patients do not have the
      same support to keep daily structure as during hospitalization. This project "Safe discharge
      - SafeII" is based on the experience from the first study and will investigate whether a
      focused intervention in the benefits of a stable sleep in the recovery of a depression can
      help prevent worsening of the depression in the waiting time for outpatient treatment. It is
      well documented that stable sleep and circadian rhythm is an important element in the
      recovery of a depression.

      Aim The purpose is to examine whether focused guidance to improve sleep habits and circadian
      rhythms can speed up recovery and also prevent worsening of depression and thus prevent
      readmission.

      Design and Methods All patients hospitalized at PCK (Psychiatric Center Copenhagen) with a
      unipolar depression, and referred to outpatient treatment at the Intensive outpatient unit
      for affective disorders) (IAA) at discharge, are eligible for inclusion. Patient agreeing to
      participate will be randomized to one of two groups. The standard care group consists of
      patients who will be asked to register their mental state on a daily basis (mood, sleep and
      exercise) in the electronical application Daybuilder (www.Daybuilder.com). This standard
      group will have weekly telephone contact with the investigators. The intervention group will
      also be asked to register their daily state in the Daybuilder app and have weekly telephone
      contact with the investigators. In addition to standard care this group will also receive
      individual guidance concerning the importance of stabilization of the sleep-wake cycle and
      sleep to recover from depression. The primary outcomes of the study are changes in self-rated
      mood and changes in Hamilton depression rating scores at baseline and endpoint in the two
      groups and number of readmissions. We expect that the intervention group will have a more
      rapid recovery of depression and have fewer readmissions. Furthermore, in a subset of
      patients, the levels of the sleep hormone melatonin, a biological marker of circadian
      rhythms, is measured, as a profile to establish the dim light melatonin onset (DLMO) at the
      start and end of the intervention. At total of 150 patients, 75 in each group will be
      included in the project over a three year period In this study we get the opportunity to see
      the isolated impact of focusing on sleep and circadian rhythm in the recovery from
      depression. We have coined this intervention Circadian Reinforcement Therapy (CRT).

      Implications If the findings are positive, we expect to implement the intervention more
      systematically in the psychiatric services thereby improving the conditions of patients with
      depression by making the transition from in- to outpatient status less risky and more stable.
      In the long term perspective the intervention can underpin recovery from depression, and
      prevent relapse into depression and readmission in mental hospital.
    
  