
    
      The RINEW intervention is a group-based integrated nutrition, responsive stimulation, and
      WASH intervention with a goal to improve child development outcomes. The intervention is
      delivered in group sessions to pregnant women and mothers or primary caregivers of children
      under 24 months of age. The RINEW intervention was tested in a pilot cluster-randomized
      control study in Bangladesh, where the investigators found the intervention group had better
      self-reported knowledge and behavior related to early child development. The investigators
      aim to implement this intervention through the government health system in one sub-district
      of Bangladesh, and assess the feasibility of delivering the intervention in this way, as well
      as the uptake of the intervention in the target population. The facilitators will be trained
      by the study team, and the intervention will be implemented in community-level health
      centers, facilitated by government health workers.

      The specific objectives of this work are to:

        1. Assess the feasibility (i.e. satisfaction of providers, perceived appropriateness of
           content and practicability of session delivery, population demand for sessions, quality
           and frequency of implementation, and preparedness of health system) of implementing the
           RINEW intervention through the government health system

        2. Identify barriers, facilitators/opportunities, and pathway for scale up of the RINEW
           intervention through government health system

        3. Assess the coverage of the intervention in the target population

        4. Assess the uptake of recommended behaviors in the target population

      To reach these objectives the investigators will

        1. Train government health workers to deliver the intervention at government health
           facilities

        2. Conduct a clinic-based process evaluation using both quantitative and qualitative
           methods at multiple time points during the 12-months intervention

        3. Conduct population-based quantitative baseline and endline assessments to assess
           intervention coverage and uptake
    
  