
    
      Temporomandibular dysfunction or disorder (TMD) is a functional disorder of the
      temporomandibular joint (TMJ), and is the cause of non-dental pain in the orofacial region.

      TMD presents diagnostic difficulties, the literature suggests objective assessment of
      neuromuscular activity. Electromyography (EMG) is a reliable tool to determine the degree of
      functional muscle alteration, the EMG signal can be estimated and characterized by
      multifractal analysis, for example, the Hurts Index. This method is used successfully in the
      study of physiological signals with high biological variability (signals: cardiac,
      cardiovascular, ophthalmological, neuronal, metabolic, etc.), it is considered suitable for
      the comprehensive analysis of neuromuscular behavior.

      The objective is to compare the neuromuscular electrical activity (RMS) and muscle fatigue
      (Hurst index) of the masseter muscles in three groups of patients with different treatments
      for TMD (GA = Transcutaneous electrostimulation and splint, GB = percutaneous
      electrostimulation and splint, and GC = Occlusal splint) by means of 6 electromyographic
      recordings scheduled weekly.

      The clinical examination will be performed in the order of the hands of the clock, beginning
      with the upper right quadrant. The first review will correspond to the presence of mixed
      dentition, use of prostheses, number of teeth, muscle pain (with a pressure algometer
      applying 1.5 kg / cm2 in masseter muscles, and 2.4 kg / cm2 in temporal muscles), joint pain
      (with algometer pressure applying 1.5 kg / cm2), presence of noises, limitation to mouth
      opening (with Terabite) and heart rate.

      To assess pain by means of muscle and joint palpation with an algometer, the patient will be
      seated in a relaxed position, the evaluator will place the fine circular surface of the
      algometer perpendicular to the skin and an increasing pressure of 0.5 kg / cm2 will be
      applied increasing gradually over one minute until reaching 1.5 kg / cm2.

      The patient will be instructed to verbalize the moment when pressure was exerted if a painful
      sensation was caused by muscle and in the joint area.

      Treatment for TMD will be carried out using conventional treatment with an occlusal splint
      and as an auxiliary method, transcutaneous and percutaneous electrostimulation therapies will
      be applied by the same operator. The clinical control appointments for signs and symptoms of
      TMD, splint fitting, electromyographic records and application of electrostimulation therapy
      as an adjunct to the use of splint, will be scheduled once a week in the Physiology
      Laboratory during the hours of 9:00 a.m. 1:00 pm and 2:00 pm to 6:00 pm for six consecutive
      weeks.

      The electromyographic recording technique was standardized (Cohen's Kappa 0.7). The recording
      system (hardware and software) that will be used for the electromyographic evaluation is the
      Electromyograph 1.2 UNAM-CINVESTAV, which consists of a two-channel system for the analysis
      of the electromyographic signal that offers greater precision and facilitates muscle
      assessment through the estimation made by the software of the RMS for its acronym in English
      (Root Mean Square) and Hurts Index.

      The RMS and Hurts Index will be recorded using three electrodes: one placed at the muscular
      origin, another at the insertion, and finally one in the behind-the-ear area as a ground or
      neutral electrode. The RMS recording is performed at maximum intercuspation for 30 seconds;
      the action potential that is expressed in electrical energy will be recorded in microvolts
      per second (μV / s).

      6 electromyographic recordings will be performed on each patient (one record each week)
      during the time of splint use. Electromyographic recordings will be scheduled as well as
      follow-up control appointments, to make adjustments to the physiological occlusal splint.

      The transcutaneous electrostimulation therapy will be carried out by the Principal
      Investigator, who will be trained in the ISSSTE Clínica de Especialidades Oriente Leonardo
      Bravo Complex in the acupuncture service under the guidance of Dr. Roberto Sánchez Ahedo.
      (Surgeon, Specialist in Family Medicine. Training in acupuncture in different institutions.
      Master in Medical Education, Doctorate in Education, Professor of various courses in
      acupuncture from a medical perspective. Academic of the Faculty of Medicine of UNAM.) It will
      be completed the training process for the application of electrostimulation therapies based
      on the WHO Guidelines established in the Official Mexican NOM-172-SSA1-1998, which specifies
      the operating criteria for the practice of human acupuncture and related methods
      (electrostimulation therapies). The Standard governs that the training of a Physician or
      Health Personnel to fully exercise these therapies requires training of at least 350 academic
      hours. For this reason, the principal investigator will complete during this stage the
      theoretical, practical and clinical preparation course taught by the UNAM Faculty of Medicine
      "Diploma in Complementary Medicine and Acupuncture" with a total of 450 academic hours
      lasting one year (August 2019-February 2021), to comply with the training guidelines and
      basic training for the application of electrostimulation therapies.

      For transcutaneous electrostimulation therapy, Kendall® MediTrace 100 conductive adhesive ECG
      electrodes (pediatric) with a diameter of 2.4 cm, and portable electro-stimulator equipment
      KWD-808 (professional equipment for electroacupuncture and rehabilitation) will be used.

      The patient will be positioned in the dental chair, the superficial area of the skin of the
      masseter muscle will be cleaned with alcohol and cotton. Two Kendall® MediTrace 100
      electrodes will be placed in each masseter muscle (right and left), considering the same
      references that were used for the electrodes placed for the electromyographic recording; the
      first electrode is placed at the origin of the masseter muscle or superficial area of the
      mandibular condyle and the second at the insertion of the masseter muscle at the angle of the
      mandible. After placing the electrodes, the KWD-808 electroacupuncture device will be
      connected to the patient by means of two double alligator cables; the alligators will be
      pressed to the metal head of each electrode: the positive pole (red color) will be connected
      at the origin of the masseter muscle and the negative pole (black color) at the insertion of
      the masseter muscle.

      Before nerve stimulation, all patients will be informed of the perceived sensation, which in
      some patients will range from imperceptible to barely noticeable or not very noticeable.

      The parameters to be used will be: pulse duration until sensory activation and high
      intensities, but with an established limit to prevent muscle contraction and that allows
      maximum comfort for 20 minutes. Current will be transmitted with square or rectangular
      waveform, the stimulation frequency: two frequency bands (low: 210Hz and high 10140Hz.); wave
      amplitude: 3050 volts, pulse duration: 40100 msec; and the output intensity: 0.70 (for
      100Hz). The treatment time will be 20 minutes; the equipment has the quality of timing itself
      and after time it will stop transmitting a signal to the patient. The treatment will consist
      of the application of six consecutive therapies programs weekly.

      The transcutaneous electrostimulation therapy will be carried out by the Principal
      Investigator, who will be trained in the ISSSTE Clínica de Especialidades Oriente Leonardo
      Bravo Complex in the acupuncture service under the guidance of Dr. Roberto Sánchez Ahedo.

      Sterile steel acupuncture needles of 0.25x13mm, disposable AcuBEST brand (FDA 510K), and
      portable electrostimulator equipment KWD-808 (professional equipment for electroacupuncture
      and rehabilitation) will be used for percutaneous electrostimulation therapies.

      Prior to the placement of therapy, the superficial area of the skin of the masseter muscle
      will be cleaned with alcohol and cotton. The puncture technique will be carried out by taking
      the needle through the body (not by the handle), the lower part is held between the thumb and
      index finger of the right hand, allowing the tip of the needle to pass. Directing the needle
      to the acupuncture point to insert it quickly (penetrating 5 mm).

      Two needles will be placed in the right masseter muscle and two in the left masseter muscle,
      each one at the reference trigger points (local TMD points), following the "Practical
      recommendations for the treatment of Temporomandibular Disorders"; the area to be punctured
      is the origin of the masseter muscle or superficial area of the mandibular condyle anterior
      to the atrial tragus approximately 1cm away (proximal acupuncture points: Gb3, Si 19, Gb 2,
      St 7), insertion of the masseter muscle at the angle of the mandible (Proximal acupuncture
      points: St6, St5). For this study, distal stitches will not be placed.

      After placing the needles, the KWD-808 electroacupuncture device will be connected to the
      patient; The two double alligator cables will be connected to each patient by means of the
      alligators that will directly press the head of the needles. The positive pole (red color)
      will be connected at the origin of the masseter muscle and the negative pole (black color)
      will be placed at the insertion of the masseter muscle.

      Before nerve stimulation, all patients will be informed of the perceived sensation, which in
      some patients will range from imperceptible to barely noticeable or not very noticeable.

      The treatment will be carried out every week with a total of six continuous therapies or if
      the patient deserves it until the remission of symptoms.

      The recruitment phase of the sample will be carried out by evaluating the patients, the TMD
      diagnostic process and the evaluation of inclusion criteria that attend the Physiology
      Laboratory of DEPeI UNAM during the period from August to December 2020. The randomization
      will be carried out of patients recruited during this period.

      The clinical methodology for the application of the therapies Transcutaneous electrical nerve
      stimulation and Percutaneous Neuromodulation Therapy will be carried out based on:

        -  OFFICIAL MEXICAN STANDARD NOM-017-SSA3-2012. Regulation of health services for the
           practice of human acupuncture and related methods.

        -  Official Mexican STANDARD NOM-197-SSA1-2000. That establishes the minimum infrastructure
           and equipment requirements for hospitals and specialized medical care offices.
    
  