
    
      In this pilot study we wish to investigate whether treatment with HFNC, delivered by MyAirvo2
      (Fisher&Paykel, Auckland, New Zealand) in patients with interstitial lung disease (ILD) in
      need of ambulatory oxygen therapy (AOT).

      Ten patients will be recruited from the outpatient clinic at Department of Respiratory
      Diseases, Aalborg University Hospital.

      The study is carried out as a cross over study, randomizing 5 patients to intitially 6 weeks'
      HFNC treatment as add on to the patients' personalized usual care followed by 6 weeks
      observation on usual care and 5 patients to 6 weeks' observation on the patients'
      personalized usual care, followed by 6 weeks with HFNC as add on to usual care.

      At inclusion patients' background information will be registered and patients will be
      examined with body plethysmography, registering TLC, FVC, RV and IC, as well as DLCO.
      Furthermore, a 6MWT will be performed, monitoring peripheral oxygen saturation (SO2)and BORG
      score at the beginning and the end of the procedure as well as analysis of arterial blood
      gasses (PaO2, PaCO2) at rest. In addition the modified Medical Research Council (mMRC)-
      score; the Richards-Campbell Sleep Questionaire (RCSQ) and the St. George Respiratory
      Questionaire (SGRQ) will be carried out at baseline. Following this, patients will be
      randomized to either usual care or usual care plus HFNC, recommended flow 30 liters/minute,
      recommended temperature 37o Celsius, recommended use 8 hours/day, preferably at night. After
      6 weeks body plethysmography, 6MWT, mMRC, SGRQ, RCSQ and arterial blood gas analysis will be
      repeated and following this, treatment will cross over; as such, patients initially in the
      usual care arm will be treated with HFNC as add on according to the recommendations stated
      above and the previous HFNC treated group will be referred to usual care for the following 6
      weeks. At the end of the study period (t=12 weeks), body plethysmography, 6MWT, mMRC, RCSQ,
      SGRQ and arterial puncture will be repeated in all patients as well as background information
      will be revisited to note any changes.

      Should the patient reach chronic respiratory failure (saturation at rest < 88%) during the
      study period, patients will remain in study and the airflow during HFNC be oxygenated with
      whatever amount of oxygen is required to reach saturation >88% during High Flow treatment.

      Equipment:

      Heated, humidified, air will be delivered to the patients by MyAirvo 2 (Fisher&Paykel,
      Auckland, New Zealand). Patients will be treated with an intended flow of 30 L/min, intended
      use 8 hours per day, preferably nocturnal use. Should patients not tolerate the recommended
      flow, changes in flow are allowed. The Airvo2 device will be delivered and serviced in the
      patients' homes by VitalAire. Vitalaire will do readings of actual use on the device. At the
      end of the study, all patients will be offered continuous treatment with the device if so
      desired.
    
  