
    
      A stroke occurs when blood cannot reach part of the brain, either because of a blocked blood
      vessel (ischemic stroke) or because of a burst blood vessel (hemorrhagic stroke). When a part
      of the brain is deprived of blood, brain cells in that part often die or are at risk of
      dying. In addition to physical difficulties, older adults who survive strokes can also suffer
      from depression and cognitive dysfunction. Effective psychotherapy treatments that provide
      rehabilitation for problems in emotions and thinking are still needed. Ecosystem focused
      therapy (EFT) is a specialized psychotherapy that helps patients learn problem-solving skills
      and make adjustments in their environment. This study will determine the effectiveness of EFT
      in reducing depression and improving functioning and quality of life in older adults who
      experienced an ischemic stroke and are now depressed.

      Participation in this study will last 1 year. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      receive one of two treatments: EFT or education in stroke and depression (ESD). Both
      treatments will be led by therapists and will involve 12 sessions over 25 weeks, with
      sessions occurring weekly for the first month, every other week for the second 2 months, and
      monthly for the last 3 months. EFT will involve the following: teaching the participant
      skills for solving problems related to adjusting to a stroke, altering the participant's
      physical environment to accommodate new needs, and helping the family or caregiver to assist
      in the participant's adaptation. ESD will involve providing the participant with education on
      living with a stroke and depression. Study assessments will include interviews and will occur
      at nine time points: at baseline and after 2, 3, 6, 10, 14, 20, 26, and 52 weeks. These
      assessments will measure participants' mood, thinking, and functioning. A family member or
      caregiver of the older adult participant must also be able to participate in the study, in
      order both to complete assessments and effectively implement EFT.
    
  