
    
      One in four women reports bothersome symptoms of a pelvic floor disorder with 16% reporting
      urinary incontinence (UI). Sacral neuromodulation (SNM) which is approved for men and women
      with urgency urinary incontinence (UUI), urgency frequency syndrome, urinary retention and
      anal incontinence, is a procedure designed to deliver electrical pulses to the sacral nerves,
      thereby influencing the bladder, sphincters, and pelvic floor. SNM provides symptomatic
      relief in 70-86% of patients undergoing the procedure for UUI according to several recent
      prospective studies. Although the success rates are quite high, the precise mechanism of
      action of SNM in subjects with UUI remains unclear. Moreover, there are little data regarding
      specific patient characteristics that may serve as "predictors" for SNM success.

      The microbiome refers to the genetic material of the micro-organisms present in a particular
      environment. The role of the microbiome has recently been implicated in several disease
      states (obesity, inflammatory bowel disease, and functional bowel disease. Initially, the
      urinary microbiome was not a part of the "human microbiome project" as it was widely accepted
      that urine is sterile. However, recent studies have noted the presence of a urinary
      microbiota in adult women without clinical urinary tract infections. Furthermore, recent
      studies have shown that the urinary microbiome differs among women with UUI versus those
      without UUI and also among women with interstitial cystitis / painful bladder syndrome versus
      those without it. These studies suggest that the urinary microbiome plays a role in the
      development and continuation of urinary symptoms.

      Because of the invasiveness of the SNM procedure, it would be helpful to have a way to
      predict treatment success. Investigators in this study propose that the urinary microbiome
      may change in women before and after SNM implantation and hope to describe these changes by
      conducting this study. Investigators also hope to determine if differences in the urinary
      microbiome exist in women with a positive response to SNM treatment (responders) compared to
      those without symptom improvement (non-responders). This hypothesis will be tested by
      collecting urine samples from subjects with UUI that are already planning on undergoing SNM
      as part of clinical care before and after their SNM treatment.
    
  