
    
      Purpose: To assess the efficacy and the safety of tooth bleaching procedure using Y10
      Whitening toothpaste and RF current (Y10 Device), versus placebo (no RF current and off- the
      -shelf non bleaching toothpaste) in healthy patients seeking tooth bleaching.

      No. of Subjects/Sites: A total of 60 patients at Hadassah Medical Center will be randomized,
      30 patients for the test arm, and 30 patients for the placebo arm.

      A 40% to 60% male (or female) ratio will be maintained.

      Target teeth: At least 4 teeth between teeth 13-23 (Upper front teeth) according to the
      international teeth numbering system.

      Upper and lower teeth will be treated with the same treatment arm as described.

      Endpoints:

      Primary endpoint:

      • At the end of the treatment (V3), compared to prior of treatment, the mean shade change
      will be at least two shades (Vita Bleachguide 3D Master, Vita P/N: B361) as measured at the
      middle one-third area of the labial surface of the selected target teeth.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Compared to prior of treatment, the mean shade change at 3 and 6 months will be at least
           one shade (Vita Bleachguide 3D Master, Vita P/N: B361) as measured at the middle
           one-third area of the labial surface of the selected target teeth.

        -  Compared to prior of treatment, color change evaluates with a spectrophotometer (VITA
           Easyshade Advance 4; VITA Zahnfabrik, Bad Sackingen, Germany), before and after
           treatment, at 3 and 6 months will be at least one shade. (Device with a high
           reliability, over 96%, Kim-Pusateri Et al. Reliability and accuracy of four dental
           shade-matching devices. Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry United States 2009;101(March
           (3)):193-9.)

        -  Compared to prior of treatment, the mean shade change for the lower teeth numbers 43-33
           after treatment, 3 and 6 months will be at least one shade.

        -  Lesion in the gingiva of the upper and lower teeth (+/- in each of the teeth numbers
           33-43, 13-23 after treatment and 3 months.

        -  Compared to prior of treatment - teeth sensitivity to cold and touch stimulation -
           target teeth - VAS scale after treatment, 3 and 6 months. For the VAS, the participants
           will place a line perpendicular to a 10-mm-long line with zero at one end indicating
           ''no TS'' and the other end indicating ''unbearable TS.''

        -  Patient oral questionnaire - post treatment, 7 days, 3 months, 6 months (See below).

        -  Patient Reported Outcomes: (Scale 0-4). OHIP14-aesthetics questions for patients that
           received dental bleaching - (see below) - before treatment and in 3 months.

        -  Periodontal parameters at baseline, 3 and 6 months: plaque index, sulcular bleeding
           index, pocket depth - all at the target teeth. (See below details).

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Signed and dated Informed Consent Form.

        2. Normal and controlled general health.

        3. Male or female patients aged between 18-60 years old.

        4. Availability for the 37 weeks duration of the study.

        5. The patient has at least 4 natural teeth with no buccal restoration in the upper front
           area of the jaw (teeth 13-23), at least 2 of them with VITA shade >15, in accordance
           with VITA Bleachedguide 3D-MASTER (P/N: B361, VITA Zahnfabrik H Rauter GmbH & Co. KG,
           D-79713 Bad Sackingen, Germany).

        6. Females of childbearing potential must be non-pregnant or non-lactating during the
           course of the study

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Underwent a teeth bleaching procedure in the last 3 years.

        2. Pockets of >5 mm with BOP in the target area.

        3. Heavy smokers - > 10 cigarettes per day.

        4. Tetracycline staining of target teeth.

        5. Presence of oral local mechanical factors that could (in the opinion of the
           Investigator) influence the outcome of the study.

        6. Presence of dental restorations in more than 2 teeth in the target area.

        7. Uncontrolled periodontitis or sever gingival inflammation

        8. Scheduled or simultaneous periodontal treatment.

        9. Presence of orthodontic appliances, or any removable appliances.

       10. Presence of soft or hard tissue tumours of the oral cavity.

       11. Presence of any of the following oral conditions: major recurrent aphthous ulcers,
           stomatitis, abscesses and related oral pathologies.

       12. The presence of any medical or psychiatric condition or any other condition that, in the
           opinion of the Investigator, could affect the successful participation of the patient in
           the study.

       13. Subject participates in any other clinical study 30 days prior to the start of the study
           and throughout the study duration.

       14. Implanted pacemaker or internal defibrillator, or any other active electrical implant
           anywhere in the body

       15. Medical conditions of bleeding disorders, leukaemia, cirrhosis, vascular disease,
           sarcoidosis, active hepatitis, HIV.
    
  