
    
      This study aims at testing the efficacy of a 3-session psycho-educative training on emotion
      regulation and wellbeing in children and adolescents with or without developmental disorders
      with a waitlist control group design. Specifically, we are interested to improve different
      aspects of emotions, such as emotion experience, regulation strategy use, and beliefs on the
      malleability of emotions. Given that most of the past and actual interventions focus on
      negative emotions, our training will allow participants to learn more about positive
      emotions, how they can increase them, and how they can benefit from them.

      Individuals with a developmental disorder including Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) will be
      recruited via flyers in specialized institutions and schools. Individuals with typical
      development (TD) will be recruited via flyers in schools, universities, libraries, and in
      other public places. Participants will be randomly assigned to the training or waiting list
      group (control). Randomization will be stratified for the two populations (i.e. with and
      without a developmental disorder) and for age. Participants and one of their parents (if <18
      years) will be asked to fill in questionnaires on emotion experience, emotion regulation,
      beliefs about the malleability of emotions, well-being, problematic behaviors, alexithymia,
      and ASD symptom severity at four time points. Some questionnaires will only be completed by
      parents. Participants will be asked to answer additional questions on their emotional
      experience and emotion regulation and to provide examples of their own emotional experience
      and emotion regulation during and after each of the training sessions.

      Participants are expected to benefit from the intervention, which should become evident in
      the changes of the primary outcome measures (emotion experience, emotion regulation, beliefs
      about the malleability of emotions, well-being) and the secondary outcome measures
      (problematic behaviors, alexithymia, and ASD symptom severity) post-intervention and at
      8-weeks follow up.
    
  