
    
      Impacts. This study aims to improve Veterans' adherence to evidence-based treatment for PTSD,
      through increasing family support for treatment. Improving retention rates in evidence-based
      PTSD treatment will positively impact Veterans' health and well-being, lower the cost of
      treating PTSD, and decrease long-term demand for PTSD services. If effective, this approach
      could help resolve national calls for routine inclusion of family involvement in PTSD
      treatment. Once demonstrated for PTSD, these strategies could be utilized for other
      conditions and problems relevant to Veteran populations (e.g., suicide prevention, traumatic
      brain injury (TBI) rehabilitation) and stimulate shifts across practice and policy to better
      routine and evidence-based involvement of families in care.

      Background. PTSD occurs in as many as 1 in 5 combat Veterans and is associated with a host of
      negative, long-term consequences to the individual, their families, and society at large.
      Evidence-based psychotherapies, such as Prolonged Exposure (PE), result in clinically
      significant symptom relief for many. Yet, adherence to these treatments (i.e., session
      attendance and homework compliance), which is vital to ensuring recovery, can be poor.
      Engaging families in Veterans' treatment may provide a powerful method for promoting EBP
      adherence. The investigators data indicate that 70% of Veterans express some interest in
      involving their family in their care for PTSD; yet, only 17% of providers have had any
      contact with Veterans' families. The objective of the proposed study is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of improving family support as a tool to improve Veterans' EBP adherence. This
      research agenda directly addresses two VA HSR&D priorities:

        -  innovative mental health care;

        -  improving the quality of life for Veterans and their caregivers. The work aligns with
           the VHA Blueprint for Excellence and Strategic Plan through meeting the unique needs of
           military-service disabled Veterans, providing a novel treatment approach, and
           emphasizing patient- and family-centered care.

      Objectives/Aims. Aim 1: To improve Veterans' adherence to PE through engaging families in
      care.

      H1: Veterans randomized to family supported PE will attend more sessions (H1a) and report
      greater homework compliance (H1b) than Veterans randomized to standard PE delivered in
      routine care.

      Aim 2: To improve the clinical outcomes of Veterans receiving PE through engaging families in
      care.

      H2: Family supported PE will be more effective than standard PE in reducing PTSD severity and
      comorbid problems (depression, quality of life, relationship functioning) from baseline to
      posttreatment.

      Aim 3: To examine barriers/facilitators of implementing family support for PE. Exploratory
      Aim: To identify mechanisms underlying adherence differences between treatment conditions.

      The investigators will explore if adherence differences are mediated by changes on key social
      influence variables (family perceptions of treatment credibility, family support for PE, and
      family symptom accommodation).

      Methods. The investigators are proposing a practical randomized controlled trial to compare
      Veteran adherence, and to PE with and without family attendance at PE's educational sessions,
      with the ultimate goal to improve Veterans' clinical outcomes. For Aim 3, the investigators
      will use a concurrent process evaluation to identify potential implementation facilitators
      and barriers to family involvement in PE within VA. Participants will include Veterans with
      clinically significant symptoms of PTSD across three sites, plus a family member or friend of
      the Veteran. Aim 1 outcome variables include session attendance and homework compliance. Aim
      2 outcomes include PTSD symptom severity, depression, quality of life, and relationship
      functioning, measured monthly over the course of treatment. Key social influences
      (Exploratory Aim) will be assessed through brief weekly self-reports.
    
  