
    
      In male football players, studies have reported a favorable effect on both 1RM, sprint and
      jumping performance following MST. Although females and males possess diverse levels of
      anabolic hormones, they do in general respond similarly after training interventions in most
      strength outcomes. However, there are reports of a larger relative increase in females
      compared to males when the same ST is applied.

      In this cluster-randomized controlled trial, two football teams (playing at level 2 and 3 in
      Norway) was invited to participate. The study were conducted during the last part of the
      pre-season preparations, ending one week before first seasonal competition. The training
      group (TG) performed MST training carried out as free-barbell squats twice a week over five
      weeks in addition to the planned pre-season training, while the control group (CG) was
      instructed to perform their originally planned pre-season training.

      The total sample comprised 46 players aged 15-26 years, where two separate football teams
      were cluster-randomized to either TG or CG. The two teams played at level two and three in
      Norway, where level two is a national league and level three a regional league in Northern
      Norway. Inclusion criteria was that the players perceived themselves as injury free and able
      to complete the strength training. Players were only excluded if having injuries that made
      strength training, running and jumping unachievable. The players carried out ̴ 6.5 h training
      per week with their team. Four players were injured, two did not complete the required amount
      of training, one withdrew due to time limitations and five withdrew without providing any
      reason resulting in 19 participants in TG and 15 in CG that completed both pre- and
      posttests, and were included in the analyses for training effect.

      According to the declaration of Helsinki, all participants were fully informed of the
      potential benefits and risks of the study, both orally and written, before signing an
      informed consent. For participants under 16 years, both the players and their parents gave
      their written informed consent. The participants were fully informed of their rights to
      withdraw from the study at any time without providing any reason.

      All testing and training sessions were conducted in an exercise training laboratory at
      Alfheim Stadium, Tromsø. Prior to the intervention, the players underwent baseline tests over
      two test days, with a 72 hour washout period to avoid any detrimental effects from the
      preceding test day: day 1) measurement of body mass and body height, 5-, 10- and 15m sprint
      time and a counter-movement jump (CMJ), day 2) 1RM in a free-barbell squat exercise with
      partial 90° knee angle range of motion (ROM).

      Prior to the tests, the participants were asked to refrain from heavy training the preceding
      day, and to arrive in the laboratory well-hydrated. All tests and training sessions started
      in the afternoon, with the same general warm-up routine: 7 min of self-selected low intensity
      cycling on an ergometer bike (Pro/Trainer, Wattbike Ltd, Nottingham, UK) followed by 7 min
      low intensity running of self-selected speed on artificial grass.

      On day 1, following the general warm-up and three 15 m strides on a sprinting field, a 15-m
      sprint test was carried out. Data were assessed in 5 m splits by photocells mounted to the
      floor and walls (ATU-X, IC control AB, Stockholm, Sweden) using single-beam electronic
      barriers. The within-subject coefficient of variation is 2% for this measurement. The surface
      consisted of artificial grass, and the players wore their own running shoes. The sprints
      started with the players in a static position placing their front foot 30 cm behind the
      starting line. A timer was triggered by the participant breaking the initial sensor. The rest
      interval between the single sprint trials was 180 seconds. The fastest sprint time of three
      trials was carried forward for further analyses.

      Thereafter, the players rested for 5 minutes prior to performing the CMJ test. CMJ was
      assessed by a portable force platform, with a validity within 1 centimeter (2%) when compared
      with the gold standard mounted floor force platform, and a within-subject coefﬁcient of
      variation of 2.8%. Force data were recorded by a software. This device records only the
      vertical ground reaction force at a sampling frequency of 1200 Hz and jump height is
      automatically calculated by software applying double integration of the force signal through
      Simpson's rule of integration. The players were instructed to keep their hands placed on the
      hips and the feet shoulder-width apart. Each player performed two trials with a ≥180 second
      rest between sets. The highest jump was carried forward for further analysis. Day 1 was ended
      with a familiarization trial for the squat exercise with low loads.

      On day 2, the players returned to the laboratory for the assessment of maximal strength as
      1RM. The session was initiated with the same general warm up routine as mentioned above. An
      Olympic barbell and a suitable rack was applied for testing of 1RM. The ~ 90° knee angle of
      each participant was measured during every repetition using a goniometer, and the players
      were given an orally "go" when being allowed to start the concentric phase of the lift. Prior
      to starting their 1RM attempts, the participants warmed up with 10 repetitions with a low
      load of - 50% 1RM (subjectively assessed by the instructor). The starting 1RM attempt was an
      initial acceptable load decided by the instructor. Each 1RM attempt was carried out by a
      single repetition, with increasing load of 5-10 kg until they failed to execute the 1RM
      attempt, which on average was five trials. Each attempt was interspaced by ≥180 s of rest.
      The within-subject coefficient of variation for squat 1RM is 2.9%.

      The players attended supervised training in the laboratory twice a week for five weeks. The
      training session started with the general warm-up routine described above, before starting
      the strength training. The program consisted of 90° squats, carried out in the same way as in
      the 1RM test. The squat training was initiated with three sessions of three sets of six
      repetitions, followed by seven sessions of four sets of four repetitions. The repetitions
      were carried out with a slow eccentric movement followed by maximal mobilization in the
      concentric phase. 180 s of recovery was given between each set. The load was initially set at
      85% of pre-test 1RM, which the participants increased with 2.5-10 kg if they could manage
      more than six or four repetitions, depending on their scheduled program, resulting in a
      consistent overload during the whole intervention. Weight lifted for each repetition was
      logged continuously during the study. Additionally, for ethical reasons, in order to avoid
      hamstring strains due to an anticipated large agonist-antagonist strength ratio following the
      intervention, three sets of six repetitions of the Nordic hamstring exercise were performed
      after the squat exercise for each session with a ≥180 s rest period between sets.
    
  