
    
      Treatment Description: This is a phase I, multi-site, study of the safety, immunologic and
      virologic responses of ex vivo expanded HIV-1 multi-antigen specific T-cell therapy
      (HST-NEET) as a therapeutic strategy in HIV-infected individuals suppressed on ART. Patients
      will be screened for eligibility in Step 1 and undergo a blood draw of 100-120mL to allow
      production of autologous HST-NEETS. Those meeting study eligibility and with successful
      production of HST-NEETs will then enter Step 2 where patients have the OPTION of being
      enrolled on a separate GWU Protocol 04216 to obtain a pre- and post- HST-NEET treatment
      leukapheresis procedure to measure the frequency of HIV-1 infection of resting CD4+ T cells
      using the viral outgrowth assay. All participants will then receive (within 30 days of the
      leukapheresis procedure if applicable) the same treatment and dose (2x107/m2) of HST-NEETs in
      Step 2. For the first 3 recipients, the infusions will occur 4 weeks apart. If no adverse
      reactions occur that are attributable to the HST-NEETs, the recipients thereafter will
      receive the two infusions separated by 2 weeks.

      Sample Size and Study Duration: Up to 12 HIV-infected individuals followed for 48 weeks.

      Accrual Objective: The total sample size is 12 participants. Participants will be followed
      for 48 weeks. Because the focus of the study is on safety and potential adverse events are
      most likely to occur within 28 days of administration, accrual will be staggered such that
      enrollment and treatment administration will include a maximum of 1 participant per week.
      Participants who do not receive study treatment will be replaced. In addition, any
      participant who is not administered the full study treatment infusion, or discontinues the
      study prior to day 28 without having met the primary safety endpoint will be replaced until
      the target enrollment of participants is met.
    
  