
    
      Rationale: Iliac vein compression is a common cause of leg or abdominal complaints and is
      difficult to diagnose. Although a combination of duplex ultrasonography, magnetic resonance
      venography and two-plane phlebography are able to show compression, not all suspected iliac
      vein compressions can be identified. Intravascular ultrasound appears to have a higher
      diagnostic value, but is far more expensive. In the investigators' experience a balloon
      occlusion test in the common iliac vein during phlebography can diagnose iliac vein
      compression due to the collateral network that is visualised. The general consensus is that
      pelvic collaterals are a sign of pathology, though the investigators would like to validate
      this test by showing that a balloon occlusion test in healthy subjects does not identify a
      collateral network.

      Objective: The objective of this study is to identify whether venography with balloon
      occlusion of the common iliac vein has value in the diagnosis of iliac vein compression
      syndrome.

      Study design: This is an observational study in healthy subjects compared to a patient
      population with suspected iliac vein compression.

      Study population: Healthy subjects between the ages of 18 and 45 and patients with suspected
      iliac vein compression who show no signs of compression on venography.

      Diagnostic test: Subjects will undergo a diagnostic phlebography, during which the common
      iliac vein is occluded by balloon inflation and contrast is injected to identify whether a
      network of pelvic collaterals will appear.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main endpoint of this study is the presence of
      collaterals that cross the midline after balloon occlusion of the left common iliac vein,
      which is scored as present or not Additionally, a quantitive analysis of collaterals will be
      performed.
    
  