
    
      INTRODUCTION Stereotactic brain biopsy (STx biopsy) offers a relatively straightforward,
      accurate and safe method of obtaining diagnostic tissue. Frameless computer-based
      neuronavigation is now widely used in brain tumor surgery. It has many advantages over
      frame-based techniques and provides similar accuracy to the rigid frame. One of the methods
      applied to improve diagnostic yield and safety is the usage of intraoperative magnetic
      resonance imaging (iMRI), proposed by Bernays et al. in 2002.

      Besides the obvious indications given in previous papers, including STx biopsy of very small,
      deeply localized or cystic lesions, iMRI guidance is particularly useful in two cases. The
      first one is when a satisfactory 3D volume modality cannot be obtained during preoperative
      high-field diagnostic MR imaging. When using iMRI there is no need to perform preoperative 3D
      imaging of any kind and manually register the patient's head in a neuronavigation system
      before the operation, which helps to significantly improve the workflow. In our study the
      total amount of patients with insufficient neuroimaging - admitted from outside medical
      centers - is over 30%. The second case is for teaching purposes - frameless iMRI guided STx
      biopsy, is relatively uncomplicated and technically straightforward and can be introduced as
      the first procedure during training in neurosurgical intraoperative imaging.

      Although the usefulness of ultra-low-field iMRI in STx biopsy was subsequently confirmed by
      other authors, according to our knowledge no previous published studies have compared iMRI to
      preoperative MRI for brain tumor biopsy according to evidence-based medicine guidelines
      (EBM). Though this method has been subject to slight criticism, it has been consequently
      applied in neurosurgical daily practice in recent years.

      The aim of our study was to verify the safety and effectiveness of the STx biopsy guided by
      low-field iMRI in comparison with its frameless classic analogue basing on a prospective
      randomized parallel-group, controlled trial. In the current paper we present the study design
      and results of the interim analysis.

      MATERIAL AND METHODS

      Patients Patients who are - following contemporary recommendations - scheduled to undergo STx
      biopsy, are prospectively recruited for the study. Each patient sign a written consent to
      participate in the study.

      Inclusion criteria The inclusion criteria were as follows: male and female patients ≥ 18
      years with supratentorial brain tumor scheduled to undergo STx biopsy. The estimated number
      of patients needed to reveal the difference of over 5% between primary endpoints' -
      diagnostic yield and complications ratio - at the level of significance 0.05 and power 80%
      was 465 per each arm.

      Exclusion criteria Patients unable to provide informed consent and those with metal implants
      which could prevent or influence the head MR study were excluded from the study.

      Allocation Patients were prospectively allocated by minimization according to demographic
      (gender, age) and epidemiologic data (preoperative Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group
      Performance Status-ECOG- a scale providing information about neurological and social status
      of a patient with oncological disease, maximum tumor diameter, presence of contrast
      enhancement, independent risk factors of hemorrhage - basal and thalamic localization and
      preoperative diabetes) into the iMRI and the control group.

      Intervention After being transferred to the operating room each patient was sedated with an
      intravenous infusion of Remifentanil with passive oxygen therapy and monitoring of vital
      functions. Additionally, the sites of head holder pins and skin incision were anaesthetized
      with 1% Lignocaine. All biopsies in both groups were performed via a 6 mm burr-hole with the
      use of the Vertec system (Medtronic Navigation, Louisville, CO, USA). A passively navigated
      side cut 2.2 mm biopsy needle was used. All operations were performed by one of the three
      first authors.

      In the iMRI-guided group the head of each patient was immobilized with a 3-pin
      iMRI-compatible head holder. The PoleStar N20 iMRI system (Medtronic Navigation, Louisville,
      CO, USA) with a 0.15-T constant magnet was used in all procedures. Subsequently, after the
      patient's positioning, the preoperative reference examination was routinely carried out
      (T1+gadolinum, T2 or FLAIR weighted - depending on the pathology, axial 4 mm scans). Images
      were automatically transferred into the neuronavigation system (StealthStation, Medtronic
      Navigation, Louisville, CO, USA). The entry point, target and optimal biopsy trajectory were
      then defined by the operator on the basis of the obtained iMRI images. Serial tissue samples
      (4 from the central and another 4 from the marginal part of the tumor) were collected
      according to the modified protocol described by Shooman et al., which made use of
      intraoperative histopathological examination obsolete. Following each operation, a control
      iMRI (T1-weighted, axial, 4 mm scan examination) was routinely performed to confirm and
      document the proper targeting and - as proposed by Bernays et al. - to exclude postoperative
      hyperacute intraparenchymal bleeding.

      A frameless STx biopsy was performed for each patient from the control group with the use of
      a neuronavigation system. The entry point, target and optimal biopsy trajectory were defined
      by the operator before the operation on the basis of the preoperatively obtained high-field
      MR images with the use of a neuronavigation workstation (Cranial 5, StealthStation
      Application Software, Medtronic Navigation, Louisville, CO, USA). Following surgery the
      specimens were sent for independent histopathological analysis.

      Postoperative care Postoperative care was conducted according to standard protocols and
      clinical guidelines. A postoperative follow-up head CT was subsequently performed 4 to 6
      hours after each procedure. All patients were followed up with a clinical examination 2 weeks
      postoperatively performed by an independent and blinded for the allocation investigator.

      Data collection Demographic and epidemiological data were collected prospectively. The
      primary endpoints were: the ratio of acute postoperative complications and the diagnostic
      yield. The presence of acute postoperative complication was noted if any of following
      findings was noted: (wound site infection up to two weeks after the operation, a new
      neurological deficit developed up to 24 hours following the operation and present in a follow
      up clinical examination 2 weeks postoperatively), intraparenchymal hematoma with radiological
      or clinical signs of the intracranial expansion.) and the diagnostic yield. The diagnostic
      yield was expressed according to the literature as a percentage of patients in whom the
      histopathological diagnosis was possible on the basis of the biological material obtained
      during the operation. Secondary endpoints included: the preoperative (LOSpre), postoperative
      (LOSpost) and total length of hospital stay (LOS) as well as the preparation (Tprep),
      operation (Top) and total operating room (TOR) time. The LOS and T were routinely measured
      and recorded in the central hospital files by the independent staff.
    
  