
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the objective response rate when panitumumab is administered in combination
           with irinotecan hydrochloride as third-line therapy in patients with advanced metastatic
           colorectal cancer without KRAS mutation (wild type) previously treated with FOLFOX or
           XELOX chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab and irinotecan hydrochloride alone or
           FOLFIRI or CAPIRI chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the efficacy in terms of disease control rate, duration of response, time to
           response, progression-free survival, time to progression, time to treatment failure, and
           duration of stable disease.

        -  To assess the efficacy and safety of this regimen, followed by panitumumab alone in
           patients who discontinue third-line irinotecan hydrochloride due to toxicity.

      Tertiary

        -  To correlate this regimen with EGFR expression, detection of the functional genetic
           polymorphisms of the EGFR gene, EGFR gene amplification (FISH), EGFR activation
           detection, EGFR downstream protein and gene expression parameters, proteomics, and
           epigenetics.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive panitumumab IV over 30-90 minutes and irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90
      minutes on day 1. Patients who discontinue irinotecan hydrochloride may receive panitumumab
      monotherapy. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression and
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Archived tumor tissue specimens are obtained at baseline for correlative laboratory studies.
      Tissue samples are analyzed for EGFR amplification status by chromogenic in situ
      hybridization and fluorescence in situ hybridization, KRAS and KRAF mutations, and STAT3
      expression.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at approximately 56 days.
    
  