
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the event-free survival (EFS) of daunorubicin, cytarabine plus uproleselan versus
      daunorubicin and cytarabine in subjects >= age 60 with previously untreated acute myeloid
      leukemia. (Phase II) II. Compare the overall survival (OS) of the daunorubicin, cytarabine
      plus uproleselan to daunorubicin and cytarabine in this patient population. (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the rates of complete remission (CR), complete remission with incomplete count
      recovery (CRi), complete remission with incomplete hematopoietic recovery (CRh) and
      cytogenetic complete remission (CCyR) for each chemotherapy regimen.

      II. Determine the overall survival (OS), and remission duration of patients for each
      chemotherapy regimen.

      III. Describe the frequency and severity of adverse events for patients for each chemotherapy
      regimen.

      IV. Describe the interaction of pretreatment disease and patient characteristics including
      morphology, cytogenetics, molecular genetic features, white blood cell (WBC) count and
      hemogram, and performance status on clinical outcomes.

      CORRELATIVE SCIENCE OBJECTIVES:

      I. Correlate specific karyotype groups (normal or various primary and secondary chromosomal
      abnormalities) with clinical and laboratory parameters and with response rates, response
      duration, survival and cure in patients treated with various induction and post-induction
      regimens.

      II. Correlate specific karyotype groups with selected molecular abnormalities and with
      measurable residual disease.

      III. To determine karyotype changes at end of consolidation and the influence of the type of
      change (or no change) in karyotype at the end of consolidation on subsequent clinical course.

      IV. To determine karyotype changes at relapse and the influence of the type of change (or no
      change) in karyotype at relapse on subsequent clinical course.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM 1: INDUCTION: Patients receive daunorubicin intravenously (IV) on days 1-3 and cytarabine
      via continuous intravenous infusion (CIVI) over 168 hours on days 1-7. Patients with residual
      disease indicated by bone marrow examination receive a second induction including
      daunorubicin IV on days 1-3 and cytarabine CIVI over 12 hours on days 1-5.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1-5. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM 2: INDUCTION: Patients receive uproleselan IV QD on day 1 and then every 12 hours on days
      2-10. Patients also receive daunorubicin IV on days 2-4 and cytrarabine CIVI over 168 hours
      on days 2-8 over 168 hours. Patients with residual disease indicated by bone marrow
      examination receive a second induction including uprleselan IV QD on day 1 and then every 12
      hours on days 2-8, daunorubicin IV on days 2-3, and cytarabine CIVI over 120 hours on days
      2-6.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients who achieve a CR or CRi receive uproleselan IV QD on day 1 and every
      12 hours on days 2-8 and cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 2-6. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months for 1 year,
      every 3 months in year 2, and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.
    
  