
    
      The best practice recommendations are to evaluate the preload dependence before performing a
      vascular filling test. This evaluation is based on the analysis of dynamic hemodynamic
      indices such as the variation of pulsed pressure (VPP), the variation of the volume of
      ejection (VVE) or the variation of the cardiac output during the realization of a test of
      rising of passive leg (ELJP). However, these indices require strict validation conditions.

      New hemodynamic indices have appeared recently and appear promising in the evaluation of
      preload dependence. Among them, the analysis of longitudinal myocardial deformity by speckle
      tracking (GLS) and its variation during an ELJP (ΔGLS). The analysis of changes in the amount
      of CO2 exhaled (ΔEtCO2) reflects cardiac output in ventilated patients or the analysis of
      dynamic arterial elastance (Eadyn) calculated by comparing the VPP and the EVV which is a
      reflection of the coupling between the left ventricle and the arterial network.

      In this work the assumption that the analysis of Δ GLS, ΔEtCO2 and Eadyn can predict the
      response to volume expansion in the ventilated patient, in septic shock under vasopressor.

      The investigators include at least 51 patients, ventilated, under vasopressors with septic
      shock. GLS, cardiac output, VVP, VVE, blood pressure, Eadyn, EtCO2 will be measured before
      and after ELJP. In the event of an increase of more than 10% in cardiac output during the
      ELJP, patients will receive a volume expansion of 500ml of balanced crystalloids. The same
      measurements will be repeated immediately at the end of the volume expansion and 20 minutes
      after the end of the infusion. Patients with a 15% increase in cardiac output at the end of
      volume expansion will be classified as responders. Patients with a 15% increase in cardiac
      output 20minutes after the end of volume expansion will be classified as persistent
      responders.
    
  