
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the potential of cochlear-sparing intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT)
           versus conventional radiotherapy comprising 3-dimensional conformal radiotherapy in
           reducing the incidence of sensory-neural hearing loss in patients with parotid tumors
           undergoing radiotherapy to the parotid region.

      Secondary

        -  To describe and compare the impact of both IMRT and conventional radiotherapy on
           physical, social and emotional well-being including generic functional and symptom
           aspects as well as disease-specific issues relevant to audiometry.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to center and
      radiotherapy dose. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms after surgical resection.

        -  Arm I (cochlear-sparing intensity-modulated radiotherapy [IMRT]): Patients undergo
           cochlear-sparing IMRT using the local planning system once daily, 5 days per week, for 6
           weeks (total of 30 fractions) at a total dose of 60 Gy (65 Gy if macroscopic residual
           disease). Patients may undergo elective neck irradiation of the uninvolved lymph node
           areas once daily, 5 days per week, for 6 weeks.

        -  Arm II (conventional radiotherapy): Patients undergo conventional radiotherapy
           comprising 3-dimensional conformal radiotherapy once daily, 5 days per week, for 6 weeks
           (total of 30 fractions) at a total dose of 60 Gy (65 Gy if macroscopic residual
           disease). Patients may undergo elective neck irradiation of the uninvolved lymph node
           areas once daily, 5 days a week, for 5 weeks.

      Patients complete quality-of-life questionnaires (EORTC QLQC30 v.3.0, the head and neck
      module H&N35, and a modified version of the Glasgow Hearing Aid Benefit profile) at baseline
      and at 6,12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months after completion of study therapy. Patients also
      undergo audiological and vestibular assessment at 6 and 12 months following radiotherapy and
      then annually thereafter for up to 5 years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months
      and then annually thereafter for up to 5 years (annually for recurrence for at least 10
      years).

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.
    
  