
    
      Most adolescents recover within the first month following a sport-related concussion.
      However, some do not. Little is known about how to best facilitate recovery when symptoms do
      not resolve spontaneously and swiftly. Although active rehabilitation has been recently
      suggested as a promising means of promoting recovery, current literature does not provide
      adequate evidence for safe adaptation into clinical practice.

      Objective: The purpose of this project is to evaluate an active rehabilitation protocol for
      adolescents who are slow to recover following sport-related concussion. Primary aims: to
      confirm the tolerability and safety of the active rehabilitation protocol as compared to
      treatment as usual controls. Secondary aims: 1) to document the impact of active
      rehabilitation on post-concussion symptoms and return to activity; 2) to explore the
      intervention effects on quality of life, mood, energy level, balance, cognitive functioning,
      and return to pre-injury activities.

      Study design: A parallel group open label randomized comparison trial of 30 adolescents who
      are slow to recover following sport-related concussion. After initial screening and
      assessment, both groups will receive treatment as usual. Participants in the experimental
      group will also participate in sub-symptom threshold exercise, sport-specific coordination
      practice, and positive visualisation daily.

      Outcome measures: The investigators will monitor for adverse events and assess
      post-concussion symptoms throughout the study as a primary marker of recovery. The
      investigators will also report secondary outcomes such as quality of life, mood, energy
      level, balance and cognitive functioning. Finally the investigators will record rates of
      return to school (full time, part time) and rates of return to sport (regular pre-injury vs.
      modified level). As a result, clinicians will be able to follow a new rehabilitation protocol
      in a safe and meaningful way. Lastly, research findings will be disseminated in the form of a
      publication, at conferences, and via in-services.

      Hypotheses:

      1a. The drop-out rate will be comparable in the groups receiving treatment-as-usual (TAU)
      only versus TAU plus active rehabilitation.

      1b. Adverse events occurring outside of the clinic will be comparable in the groups receiving
      TAU only versus TAU plus active rehabilitation.

      1c. For the group receiving active rehabilitation, symptom exacerbations in the in-clinic
      exercise sessions will resolve within 30 minutes.

      2. Participants receiving active rehabilitation will report greater improvement of
      post-concussion symptoms (primary outcome) at follow-up.

      3. Participants receiving active rehabilitation will report higher quality of life, fewer
      depressive symptoms, and higher energy levels; demonstrate better balance and
      neuropsychological performance at follow-up; and return to their pre-injury activities at
      higher rates.
    
  