
    
      The ADS were established in changhai digestive endoscopy center to assess its efficacy in
      clinical practice. The ADS automatically initiated once the ileocecal valve was pictured by
      the colonoscopist or the colonoscopist recorded any image of colon during the insertion. When
      colonoscopists withdrew the colonoscopies and inspect the colons, the video streaming of
      colonoscopies was real-time switched to the ADS, which made it feasible to identify and
      classify lesions in real time. Colonoscopists were invited to respond if they doubted
      potential polyps in the screen, and the ADS also made a voice when identifying potential
      polyps, followed by repeatedly inspecting to confirm the existence of lesions. The voice of
      ADS could be real-time heard by colonoscopists, while the screen of ADS was placed right
      behind colonoscopists, where polyps identified by ADS could be seen after the colonoscopists'
      turning but not simultaneously. The lesion detection by ADS or colonoscopists were determined
      as follow: A. polyps only identified by ADS, which was considered to be missed by
      colonoscopists: polyps were reported by the ADS and the colonoscopists did not know the
      location of polyps without reminder of the ADS until the polyps disappeared from the view; B.
      polyps first identified by ADS: polyps were first reported by the ADS and the colonoscopists
      also later knew the location of polyps by themselves; C. polyps simultaneously identified by
      the ADS and colonoscopists: the time of reporting polyps was closely synchronal (within 1
      second); D. polyps first reported by colonoscopists: polyps were first reported by the
      colonoscopists and the ADS also later identified the location of polyps before the
      colonoscopists unfolded and pictured the polyps; E. polyps only reported by colonoscopists,
      which was considered to be missed by the ADS: polyps were reported by the colonoscopists and
      the ADS did not identify the location of polyps until colonoscopists unfolded and pictured
      the polyps. Besides, the false-positives of real-world ADS were also reported with potential
      causes analyzed by colonoscopists.
    
  