
    
      Shunt quantification and their hemodynamic consequences have a major importance in the
      evaluation of heart diseases. Atrial septal defect (ASD) has an intracardiac left-to right
      shunt, leading to an over pulmonary output with ventricular and pulmonary effects.
      Measurements of the LTR in ASD requires the determination of the pulmonary blood flow (Qp)
      and the systemic blood flow (Qs).

      Two gold standard techniques are usually used to measure the pulmonary to systemic blood flow
      ratio (Qp/Qs): either invasive by performing a right heart catheterization, with the direct
      Fick method, or non-invasive by using the Echocardiography-Doppler (ED) First determine by ED
      by the successively measure of the Qp at the pulmonary annular and the Qs at the aortic
      annular, this technique is largely available, reproducible and accurate.

      However, some limits are pointed with this non-invasive gold standard method: underestimation
      of shunt quantification in case of large septal defect, the accuracy depends on the operator
      experience, the lack of precision to measure pulmonary annular area especially on adults
      leading to a wrong measure of the pulmonary blood flow.

      In case of doubt about pulmonary hypertension or difficulties in hemodynamic evaluation, the
      cardiologists perform a right heart catheterization to measure the CO by the Fick method .

      Concerning the other non-invasive approach, thoracic bioimpedance (TB) have been developed in
      the middle of the twenty-one centuries by Kubiceck to measure cardiovascular parameters in
      astronauts has been largely study. Moreover, hemodynamic parameters are not stable but varies
      continuously according to the "hemodynamic state".

      High of interest in the field of the non-invasive hemodynamic device, Inert gas rebreathing
      (IGR) measures the pulmonary blood flow, at rest and on exercise in healthy patient and
      different cardiorespiratory diseases. The Innocor® (Innovision, Odense, Denmark) uses a
      rebreathing bag containing a mixing of N2O (0,5%) SF6 (0,1%) and O2 (28%) diluted with
      atmospheric air. At the steady state of the insoluble inert gas, sulphur hexafluoride SF6,
      the wash out rate of N2O during rebreathing is calculated, which is proportional to the Qp.
      Many studies on healthy people confirms its accuracy, safety, reproducibility to measure CO .
      Agostoni et al. assess the Innocor® on patients with stable heart failure at rest and
      exercise comparatively to Thermodilution (ThD) and Fick method . They found a good
      correlation between the three methods at exercise. They found a tendency on underestimation
      of the IGR technique for CO measurement in comparison to Fick method . Few studies are
      available on the IGR technique use in CHD population. Tested on a paediatric population,
      investigators have proved its feasibility on exercise.Secondary they focused on ASD
      paediatric population. The CO were measured at exercise before and after percutaneous or
      surgical closured. They confirm the reproducibility, and feasibility of the IGR .
      Investigators found a similar agreement with the Fick method for patients with CHD without
      shunting or with right-to-left shunt .

      To our knowledge, no study has focused on the concomitant used of two non-invasive technique
      to measure the shunt fraction in diseases with shunt. Some have suggested the interest of
      such a method in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) .In fact, CO measured at rest
      and exercise shows a statistical difference between the IGR and TB due to the shunt effect
      and right-to-left shunt in COPD. Thus, the IGR and TB determine a pulmonary cardiac output
      (Qp) and a systemic cardiac output (Qs) respectively.

      Based on these results, Investigator hypothesis that the combined used of the IGR and TB will
      enhance the precision and accuracy of the shunt fraction measurement.

      The aim of this study is to validate the double non-invasive pulmonary-to-systemic ratio
      measurements on ostium secundum ASD in comparison to the two-gold standard method: the direct
      Fick method and the Echocardiography-Doppler.
    
  