
    
      Hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) is a brain injury caused by inadequate supply of oxygen
      and blood to the brain of a newborn baby. Therapeutic hypothermia is the only proven therapy
      for these infants. Even after receiving therapeutic hypothermia, 50% of all infants with
      moderate and severe HIE die or develop neurological and functional impairment. There is a
      need for a new intervention for neonatal HIE, which is readily available in developing
      countries and can complement hypothermia.

      The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and American Academy of Pediatrics
      recommend a delay in umbilical cord clamping in vigorous term and preterm infants for at
      least 30-60 seconds after birth. Immediate umbilical cord clamping is contraindicated in
      maternal hemodynamic instability, need for immediate resuscitation of the newborn and in
      conditions where placental circulation is not intact. Umbilical cord milking (UCM) is a
      simple method of delivering volume and possibly stem cells to those neonates, where
      resuscitation cannot be postponed for obtaining the benefits of delayed cord clamping.

      We hypothesize that depressed neonates who receive umbilical cord milking will have lower
      incidence and severity of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy compared to depressed neonates who
      receive immediate cord clamping.We propose to investigate the safety and effectiveness of UCM
      in term and late preterm (≥35 week's gestation) infants who are depressed at birth, in
      preventing the development and/or progression of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy. The need
      for immediate resuscitation measures, abnormal parameters (clinical, hematological and
      biochemical) and neuroimaging will be compared in depressed neonates with and without UCM. If
      UCM is found to be safe and beneficial, it can be a useful substitute for delayed cord
      clamping in depressed neonates worldwide.

      Conditions: Depressed neonate, Hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy Intervention: Umbilical cord
      milking

      Study Design Study Type: Interventional Study Design: Allocation: Randomized Endpoint
      Classification: Efficacy/Safety Study Intervention Model: Parallel Assignment Number of Arms:
      2 Masking: Single Blind (Subject) Primary Purpose: Prevention Enrollment: 400 [Anticipated]

      Arms and Interventions:

      Arms:2, Assigned Interventions: 1. Experimental: Umbilical Cord Milking and 2. No
      Intervention: Immediate Umbilical Cord Clamping

        1. Experimental: Umbilical Cord Milking,Other Name: Umbilical cord stripping Umbilical Cord
           Milking involves milking a 30 cm long segment of umbilical cord at birth, after
           initiation of ventilation Procedure: Umbilical Cord Milking (UCM) At birth the umbilical
           cord of a depressed newborn is clamped immediately and cut 30 cm from the umbilicus and
           the neonate placed on the resuscitation table. After completion of initial steps, if the
           baby does not have adequate spontaneous respirations and a heart rate of 100 bpm or
           higher, positive pressure ventilation (PPV) is given for 30 seconds, along with UCM. The
           cord is untwisted and held in a vertical position. It is milked 3 times towards the baby
           at a speed of 10 cm/s and then clamped 3 cm from the umbilicus. The time of cord
           clamping will be recorded using a timer. After completion of PPV along with UCM, if the
           baby requires further resuscitation, the NRP 2015 guidelines will be followed. Depressed
           newborns who respond to initial steps of resuscitation with normal breathing and heart
           rate of 100 bpm or higher, will receive UCM after this.

        2. No Intervention: Immediate Umbilical Cord Clamping, Other Name: routine clamping of the
           umbilical cord Procedure: Immediate Cord Clamping, At birth the umbilical cord of a
           depressed newborn is clamped immediately (current recommendation) and cut 3 cm from the
           umbilicus and the neonate placed on the resuscitation table. The time of cord clamping
           will be recorded using a timer. After completion of initial steps, if the baby requires
           further resuscitation, the NRP 2015 guidelines will be followed.
    
  