
    
      I. PURPOSE OF STUDY The purpose of this study is to go beyond the conventional analyses of
      brain signals in a narrow frequency band (typically 1-30 Hz) by measuring brain signals from
      infraslow to very fast (0.01 - 2800 Hz). Specifically, we propose to study physiological HFOs
      in sensorimotor, auditory, visual and language evoked magnetic fields and to investigate
      pathological HFOs in epilepsy, migraine and other disorders. This is clinical very important
      for many reasons.

      For example, There are 400,000 to 600,000 patients with refractory epilepsy in the United
      States. Since those patients' seizures cannot be controlled by any drugs, epilepsy surgery is
      one potential cure. Accurate identification of ictogenic zones, the brain areas cause
      seizures, is essential to ensure a favorable surgical outcome. Unfortunately, the existing
      method, electrocorticography (ECoG), needs to place electrodes upon the brain surface to
      capture spikes (typically, 14-70 Hz), which is very risky and costly. The present study is to
      use magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG) to identification of
      ictogenic zones noninvasively. To reach the goal, we proposed to detect high frequency
      (70-2,500 Hz) and low frequency (< 14 Hz) brain signals with advanced signal processing
      methods. Our central hypothesis is that high frequency brain signals will lead to
      significantly improved rates of seizure freedom as compared with spikes. This hypothesis is
      based on recent reports that high frequency brain signals are localized to ictogenic zones.

      Building on our unique resources and skills, we plan to address four aims. First, we will
      quantify the spatial concordance between MEG and ECoG signals in both low and high frequency
      ranges. We hypothesize that Ictogenic zones determined by invasive ECoG can be non-invasively
      detected and localized by high frequency MEG signals. Second, we will quantify the occurrence
      concordance between EEG and ECoG signals in both low and high frequency ranges. We
      hypothesize that epileptic high frequency signals from the ictogenic zones determined by
      invasive ECoG can also been non-invasively detected by EEG, although the localization of EEG
      may be significantly inferior to that of MEG. Third, we will determine whether epilepsy
      surgery based on multi-frequency signals (low frequency brain signals, spikes, and high
      frequency brain signals), instead of spikes alone, leads to a better seizure outcome. We
      hypothesize that epilepsy surgery guided by high frequency brain signals detected with
      MEG/EEG will significantly improve surgical outcomes. Fourth, we will determine whether
      multi-frequency analyses provide more information than single frequency analysis for
      estimating epileptogenic zones for pre-surgical ECoG electrode implantation. We hypothesize
      that covering all brain areas generating low to high frequency epileptic activity is the
      prerequisite to localize multiple ictogenic zones for favorable post-surgical outcomes. To
      yield definitive results, we propose a multi-center study to determine if high frequency
      brain signals are new biomarkers for significantly improve epilepsy surgery outcomes.
      According to our pilot data that localization of epileptogenic zones with MEG high frequency
      signals can increase about 30-40% post-operative seizure freedom, the proposed study should
      result in millions of intractable epilepsy patients being seizure free. This study also lays
      a foundation for using low and high frequency brain signals as new biomarkers for diagnosis
      and treatment of many other disorders (e.g. migraine, autism).
    
  