
    
      Introduction: Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most common solid organ cancer in North American
      men. Patients becoming refractory to loco-regional therapy receive androgen deprivation
      therapy, but their disease will inevitably progress to metastatic castration-resistant
      prostate cancer (mCRPC). Of the five treatments approved for mCRPC patients, none has been
      shown to increase median overall survival beyond 4.8 months. Treatment failure and poor
      progression-free survival could be explained by the fact that PCa metastases in the same
      patient may be polyclonal, showing opposite responses to systemic therapies. Indeed,
      neuroendocrine differentiation from adenocarcinoma is often reported in metastatic PCa, which
      is associated with increased disease aggressiveness. Currently, no molecular tools are
      available to follow non-invasively mCRPC transdifferentiation and diagnose patients with
      neuroendocrine and/or polyclonal PCa. Positron emission tomography (PET) is a promising type
      of imaging using radio-labeled tracers to specifically identify tumour cells.

      Hypothesis: The hypothesis of the 3TMPO clinical study is that the prevalence of intrapatient
      intermetastasis polyclonality can be diagnosed by combining 18F-FDG to other specific PET
      tracers that have the ability to non-invasively differentiate CRPC adenocarcinoma
      (CRPC-Adeno) (68Ga-PSMA) from neuroendocrine CRPC (CRPC-NE) tumours (68Ga-OCTREOTATE).

      Objectives: The study objectives are to determine, in mCRPC patients, the prevalence of
      intrapatient intermetastasis polyclonality and NED using PET/CT triple tracer
      PSMA/FDG/OCTREOTATE imaging and their eligibility for radioligand therapy (RLT).

      Method: This multicentre observational clinical study, for which prevalence of intrapatient
      intermetastasis polyclonality was set as the primary outcome, will recruit 100 mCRPC patients
      at 5 different sites across the province of Québec. 68Ga-PSMA and 18F-FDG PET scans will be
      performed on all enrolled patients, while 68Ga-OCTREOTATE will be performed on those
      presenting at least one PSMA-negative/FDG-positive lesion. The uptake of each individual
      lesion will be assessed for each PET tracer and patients with lesions presenting discordant
      uptake profiles will be considered as having polyclonal disease. OCTREOTATE-positivity will
      confirm the presence of CRPC-NE. PSMA or OCTREOTATE positivity of all lesions (or at least
      those with FDG uptake) will determine the eligibility for PSMA and OCTREOTATE RLT,
      respectively.

      Relevance: Paradigm-shifting diagnostic and therapeutic strategies are urgently needed to
      improve the survival of patients with PCa and to deepen our understanding of mCRPC
      progression.
    
  