
    
      This study is a multi-center joint study, which mainly consists of two parts. First, a
      cross-sectional observational study was adopted to recruit patients with stable COPD in
      multiple centers. The COPD's diagnostic criteria follow diagnostic guidelines in China, and
      the patients were selected among 40-80 years old. Note that we excluded patients who cannot
      use IoT's mobile applications and cannot complete sleep monitoring and follow-up visits. All
      patients collect sleep monitoring information through wearable devices, together with
      demographic characteristics, pulmonary function tests, blood routines, biochemistry,
      electrocardiogram, chest radiograph, COPD assessment scale, modified British Medical Research
      Association dyspnea index, St. George's Quality of Life Questionnaire, Sleep Apnea Clinical
      Score, Berlin Questionnaire, Epworth Sleepiness Scale, Etc. This study estimates patient
      health status from the collected information, then diagnoses sleep apnea and calculates sleep
      apnea prevalence. Specifically, we build standards from the analysis of sleep monitoring
      information, and we form an OSA screening model by applying machine learning algorithms.
      Second, we establish a COPD cohort joined with sleep breathing disease, where we select COPD
      patients meeting the diagnostic criteria for sleep breathing disease. All patients use
      wearable devices and IoT technology for information collection and data management. We also
      build the early warning platform, and it allows flexible adjustment on the COPD plan
      according to individual differences and community differences. This tudy requires followed up
      visit once a month. By observing the number of hospitalizations, the incidence of acute
      exacerbations, and other secondary observation indicators of COPD patients, the early warning
      platform can analyze COPD's acute exacerbations combined with sleep respiratory disease. We
      develop the disease and prognosis model for COPD patients with SAO by applying machine
      learning algorithms on the previous platform.
    
  