
    
      This study is a longitudinal cohort follow-up study. The main contents include:

      (1) Questionnaire design: the questionnaire is designed according to the research contents
      and purposes. The standard questionnaires will be used to collect the general information,
      dietary habits, lifestyle, medical history, and family history etc. (2) Anthropometric
      measurements: blood pressure, pulse, height, body weight, waist and hip circumference will be
      acquired by medical practitioners who received professional training based on World Health
      Organization (WHO) standards, and passed relevant examinations. (3) Blood and urine samples
      collection: morning fasting blood, nocturia, and 24-hour urine specimen will be collected by
      medical staffs, and blind tubes will be set up according to 5% of the total samples. Blood
      biochemistries including serum total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol,
      triglycerides, fasting glucose, creatinine and hsCRP can be measured using automatic
      biochemical analyzer. The sodium and potassium concentrations in the urine will be measured
      by flame photometry. The total sodium and potassium excretions in urine in 24h were
      calculated by multiplying the concentration and 24-h volume of urine. (4) Auxiliary
      examinations: Auxiliary examinations including carotid intima-media thickness,
      endothelium-dependent vasodilation (FMD), measurements of brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity
      (baPWV) and electrocardiographic parameters. The measurement will be done in hospitals by
      medical practitioners who received professional trainings and passed relevant examinations.
      (5) Whole-exome sequencing: Genomic DNA will be isolated from blood samples and subjected to
      exome capture, followed by next-generation sequencing on the Roche NimbleGen system. (6)
      Whole-genome DNA methylation analysis: levels of DNA methylation will be quantified using the
      Illumina Infinium HumanMethylation450K Beadchip array (HM450K). (7) Transcriptome sequencing:
      cDNA libraries will be sequenced via the Illumina HiSeqTM 2500 platform. (8) Data processing
      and statistics: investigators should input the data to the database, and utilize software
      such as Access, SPSS, STATA, CASAVA, MutSigCV, and Genome MuSic to analyze. (9) Quality
      control: ① Questionnaire is strictly designed and amended by epidemiologists and clinical
      experts. ② A standardized "Investigator Handbook" will be stipulated according to the
      guidelines. ③ Staff members are required to do a rigorous training and pass the exam. ④ The
      investigation process will be strictly supervised by the principal investigator. ⑤ Data entry
      uses the parallel double-entry method. ⑥ During laboratory testing, blank control and blind
      detection are applied to ensure the quality. ⑦ Data analysis is performed by 2-3
      postgraduates, inconsistent data need to be double-checked.
    
  