
    
      Study Purpose and Rationale

      The purpose of this study is to assess the utility of noninvasive assessment of lung Doppler
      signals performed via transthoracic parametric Doppler. The study has two major objectives
      and is thus, divided into two phases, which are on a continuum.

      Phase 1: The objective is to further evaluate LDS among patients presenting to the emergency
      department with acute dyspnea, in order to determine the diagnostic value of this
      non-invasive method to distinguish cardiac from pulmonary causes of dyspnea.

      Phase 2: In addition, for those patients admitted to the hospital with a clinical diagnosis
      of ADHF, we would like to further characterize changes in daily lung Doppler signal as a
      surrogate biomarker of intravascular volume status, as assessed by clinical assessment.

      Study Design and Methods:

      1. Overall study design

      Phase 1:

      Prospective cohort study of patients presenting to the Massachusetts General Hospital
      emergency department with acute dyspnea. . In addition, at MGH, pts admitted to the cardiac
      floors (Ellison 9, 10, 11) and general medicine floors (White 9, 10, 11) with an admitting
      diagnosis of heart failure, who presented with acute dyspnea, will be approached for
      enrollment within 24 hours of hospital admission. All patients with acute dyspnea will
      undergo routine clinical assessment, laboratory testing, and diagnostic imaging. In addition,
      all patients will also undergo transthoracic parametric Doppler ultrasound based assessment
      of LDS. Patients will be treated as usual, under the direction of the attending physician.
      Two independent cardiologists will perform detailed chart review on all patients to determine
      the etiology of acute dyspnea. They will be blinded to the results of the LDS. In the event
      of discrepant findings, a third cardiologist will perform a final detailed chart review to
      adjudicate the diagnosis.

      Additionally, radiologist employed at MGH and who are independent to the study may perform
      blinded adjudication of the study participants' chest x-rays (CXR) obtained in the Emergency
      Department on the day of enrollment into the study

      Phase 2:

      In addition, patients diagnosed with ADHF (diagnosed based on the criteria described below),
      will undergo daily TPD and assessment of LDS to further characterize changes in LDS over
      time, until the day of discharge or up to day 7 of hospitalization, whichever comes first. In
      addition to the initial inpatient scans, study staff will try to acquire a final scan within
      72 hours of discharge for patients diagnosed with ADHF, regardless of the day of
      hospitalization. This cohort of patients will also undergo daily clinical assessment of
      volume status, weight measurement, and BNP assessment. In the event that repeat BNP or
      NT-proBNP labs have not been drawn within 72 hours of discharge, study staff will coordinate
      with the pathology laboratory (Dr. Kent Lewandrowski) to perform the assay as a research test
      using excess clinical specimen from the subject's routine clinical blood draw if available.
      Research subjects will not be charged for the cost of the BNP or NT-Pro-BNP assay.
    
  