
    
      Various clinical studies have indicated that preemptive analgesia can effectively reduce pain
      as well as analgesic requirements in the post-operative period. Pudendal nerve blockade has
      been used successfully for multiple urological procedures to prevent post-operative pain. It
      has also been used in obstetrical practice as a low-risk and low-cost anesthetic technique
      during repair of obstetrical lacerations.

      Postoperative pain after vaginal reconstructive surgery is commonly localized to the vulva,
      lower vagina, and perineum, originating from the region of the sacrospinous ligament and
      pelvic floor. Therefore, pudendal nerve blockage has been employed safely during pelvic
      reconstructive surgery. A study comparing pudendal block with placebo after transvaginal
      reconstructive surgery did not produce any differences in post-operative pain intensity or
      the consumption of narcotic analgesia. However, the anesthetic used for the pudendal nerve
      blockage was short-acting non-liposomal bupivacaine with a half-life of 2.7 hours.

      In 2011, a liposomal formulation of bupivacaine, EXPAREL, was approved by the FDA for
      single-dose infiltration in surgical site to produce postsurgical analgesia. The advantage of
      using this formulation of bupivacaine is that its analgesic effects can last up to 72 hours.
      Since the release of EXPAREL, there have been no published studies establishing its use for
      pudendal block or the management of postoperative pain in Urogynecologic surgery.

      The objective of our study is to compare the use of EXPAREL in minimizing post-operative pain
      after sacrospinous ligament fixation with or without concomitant procedures for pelvic organ
      prolapse, with or without suburethral sling. We hypothesize that pudendal nerve blockage
      using long-acting EXPAREL will reduce post-operative pain and potentially reduce oral
      narcotic consumption. It may also reduce the incidence of postoperative constipation and
      patient satisfaction.
    
  