
    
      This study will be a triple masking randomized controlled trial, being conducted according to
      the principles outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki regarding experiments on human
      subjects. This work was submitted to the Ethics Committee of Antonio Pedro University
      Hospital, with the approval number: 71087917.4.0000.5243. Consort checklist will be followed
      as a guideline to ensure the quality and transparency of this research.

      The volunteers are being recruited at the Dental Clinical Research Center of the Fluminense
      Federal University and they have to agree to participate in the study, signing the consent
      form and being willing to follow the guidelines and timelines. The sample will consist of 30
      human alveolar sockets, where the teeth involved should provide indication of tooth
      extraction without treatment possibilities after clinical and radiographic examination.

      Dental and medical records of all volunteers will be checked. Furthermore, they will have a
      clinical examination and tomography. Before surgery, all volunteers will undergo basic
      periodontal therapy and oral hygiene instructions. The primary outcome variables included
      soft and hard tissue (measured in millimetres), assessed using customized acrylic templates
      and tomography, performed before surgery standardize the initial (T1) and final measurements
      (T2) 90 days after tooth extraction. Secondary outcomes included the level of soft tissue
      healing, pain/discomfort reported by the participants, and representative histological
      patterns.

      All surgical procedures will be performed by the same surgeon, who was calibrated before the
      study and will be using the same surgical protocol for all participants. Before tooth
      extraction, participants from both groups will undergo local anaesthesia with mepivacaine 2%.
      A 15 mm periodontal probe will be used to measure from the inferior margin of an acrylic
      template to the bone crest at six different points: mesial, buccal, and distal (DB) (buccal
      region); and mesial, lingual, and distal (lingual region).All teeth will be extracted using a
      minimally traumatic procedure with no vertical releasing incisions. To avoid root and bony
      fractures, the molar teeth will be sectioned using a multilaminated drill. After exodontia, a
      rigorous inspection and curettage of the socket will be performed, followed by irrigation
      with sterile saline solution. The sockets of the test group will be filled with 1.2% SIM
      covered with polypropylene (PPP) membrane followed by cross suture to stabilize the membranes
      (n=15), while the sockets of the control group received the coverage with the PPP membrane
      (n=15). In both groups, the membrane will be intentionally exposed.

      One week after extraction, an assessment of soft tissue healing around the sockets will be
      performed using the healing index system described by Landry et al. Furthermore, to assess
      postoperative pain the number of consumed analgesic tablets will be recorded, and a graphic
      rating scale will be filled and evaluated. In addition, after 90 days (T2), the patient will
      undergo a tomographic exam and the distances from the template to the crestal bone at six
      points will be measured before dental implant placement. Bone biopsy specimens obtained from
      representative cases will be process for qualitative and morphological analysis.

      Data will be expressed as mean and 95% confidence interval. The Shapiro-Wilk or
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov normality test (alpha = 0.05) will be performed. The paired t test,
      analysis of variance (ANOVA), or Kruskal-Wallis test will be applied according to the number
      of groups. Tukey's or Dunn's multiple comparisons tests will be used to identify significant
      differences among the groups (p < 0.05). The Mann-Whitney unpaired test will be performed to
      analyse the effect of treatment on the healing index (p < 0.05). Nominal data will be
      evaluated by chi-square test.
    
  