
    
      1. Abstract

           The research's overall objective is to improve care for individuals with Parkinsonism.
           Parkinsonism is clinically determined as the presence of at least 2 of the following: 1)
           rest tremor, 2) bradykinesia, 3) cogwheel rigidity, or 4) difficulty with gait or
           balance. The most common cause of Parkinsonism is Parkinson disease. Parkinson disease
           is a chronic condition whose burden is growing both in the United States and globally.
           However, access to specialty care is limited chiefly to urban areas and is frequently
           inefficient. One way to remove geographic barriers to care is through the use of
           web-based video conferencing (telemedicine).

           To evaluate the study's aims, the investigators will conduct a seven-month randomized
           controlled study of twenty patients with Parkinsonism across two sites to contrast the
           comparative effectiveness of standard in-person specialty visits versus those conducted
           via web-based video conferencing (telemedicine). It is hypothesized that these "virtual
           house calls" will be feasible, clinically non-inferior to usual care, and economically
           valuable. This research will expand the geographic scope of specialty care and provide a
           national model for providing home-based, patient-centered, cost-effective care to those
           with Parkinsonism anywhere they live.

        2. Objectives (include all primary and secondary objectives)

      The specific objectives of the study are as follows:

      Aim 1: To evaluate the feasibility of providing specialty care to individuals with
      Parkinsonism via web-based video conferencing (telemedicine) in their homes by calculating
      the proportion of specialty visits completed as scheduled.

      Hypothesis 1: Individuals receiving care via telemedicine in their homes will complete at
      least 80% of their visits as scheduled.

      Aim 2: To explore the clinical benefits, as measured by the change from baseline in quality
      of life as measured by the Parkinson Disease Questionnaire 39 (PDQ-39).

      Hypothesis 2: In this pilot study, the change in quality of life will be comparable between
      the two groups.

      Aim 3: To explore the economic benefit of providing specialty care via telemedicine in the
      home.

      Hypothesis 3: For patients and caregivers, travel and labor savings from receiving care in
      the home will outweigh technology costs for telemedicine visits.
    
  