
    
      STUDY DESIGN:

      This is an experimental methodological study with a single-arm, unmasked, unicentric,
      international diagnostic device.

      OUTLINES:

      1,780 women with abnormal Pap Smears (ASCUS+) or positive high-risk HPV test in the cervix
      performed in the Barretos Cancer Hospital (HCB, Barretos, Brazil) screening program will be
      recruited, either at Mobile Prevention Units or Fixed Units, who have been referred for
      diagnostic investigation with colposcopy. During the colposcopy examination, the HRME device
      will be used to check the presence of precursor lesions in the cervix.

      PRE-TESTING VERIFICATION:

      As this research may include cervical biopsy in women with fertility, for safety reasons, the
      possibility of pregnancy in this group of women will be verified, since biopsy performed in
      the cervix of pregnant woman increases the risk of abortion. This verification will be
      performed by means of clinical history (menstrual delay, signs suggesting pregnancy,
      contraceptive methods, etc.) and also by means of qualitative research on human chorionic
      gonadotropin in urine. This test is also known as "rapid pregnancy test" or "pharmacy test",
      with an extensive list of products sold in Brazil and authorized by "Agencia Nacional de
      Vigilancia Sanitária" (ANVISA, Brazilian Agency of Health Surveillance). The principle of the
      test involves a single step immunochromatographic method to detect the hormone. Reaction
      occurs on a reagent strip, where a small amount of urine is deposited. Test result is
      provided in approximately 2 minutes. Women who are pregnant (or suspected to be pregnant)
      will not be included in the study, but will be submitted to diagnostic investigation
      according to the institutional protocol for pregnant women with changes in the cervix at HCB.
      These women will receive medical orientation and will be referred to a specialized
      obstetrical service.

      COLLECTION OF CERVICAL CYTOLOGY:

      Before the diagnostic examinations are performed, the doctor will collect a new cervical
      cytology (Papanicolaou), which is part of the routine of the Department of Colposcopy for
      every woman who has an altered Pap Smear or positive HPV test. These samples will be
      preserved in an ethanol-based preservative medium (SurePath™ Preservative Fluid, Becton &
      Dickinson, USA) and will be sent to the Department of Pathology of HCB where they will
      undergo an automated processing for the preparation of cytology slides.

      DIAGNOSTIC EXAMINATIONS:

      VIA will be performed using 3-5% acetic acid, applied on the cervix and to any abnormal
      lesions observed. Then, iodine solution will be applied, and the colposcopy will be
      performed. It is necessary to clarify that the application of acetic acid and iodine is
      routinely performed during a standard colposcopy examination.

      Then, Proflavine (0.01%) will be applied to the surface of the cervix. HRME will capture
      images from all areas considered abnormal by VIA and/or colposcopy. In addition, all four
      quadrants will be probed with HRME to ensure that any non-acetowhite lesions are also
      observed. The person responsible for the colposcopy will take note of your opinion about the
      lesion and HRME image at each area (normal, benign, low-grade precancerous, high-grade
      precancerous or cancer). The complete HRME imaging procedure will add 5-10 minutes to the
      standard colposcopy examination. Observations related to VIA, colposcopy and HRME will be
      registered by quadrant. Any abnormal areas detected by VIA and/or colposcopy will undergo a
      biopsy. If no abnormal area is observed, but the woman has an altered cytology test or a
      positive HPV test, a cervical microbiopsy will be obtained from an apparently normal area
      captured by HRME imaging of that area. For all cervical biopsies, special tweezers will be
      used, causing minimal tissue trauma (microbiopsy) and reducing participant discomfort. These
      tweezers are different from those commonly used in colposcopy tests, which usually perform
      biopsies on large areas and bring more discomfort to women.

      Two experienced HCB pathologists, ignoring all study results, will review histology and
      classify areas as normal, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 1 (CIN 1), CIN 2, CIN 3,
      adenocarcinoma in situ (AIS) or cancer according to standardized criteria. Conflicting
      results will be resolved by means of consensus review among pathologists.

      HIGH-RISK HPV SCREENING AND GENOTYPING:

      High-risk HPV screening will be performed on aliquots of cervical cytology samples
      (SurePath™) collected just prior to colposcopy in women who have not been submitted to this
      test yet. HPV test will be performed on a Cobas X480 ™ device (Roche Molecular Systems, USA),
      which is available at the technology park of the Molecular Oncology Research Center of
      Barretos Cancer Hospital - Pio XII Institution. The test protocol will be performed as
      described by the manufacturer.

      COBAS system is an automated amplification device (by means of real time polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR)) for the detection of 14 high-risk HPV types (16, 18 31, 33, 35, 39, 45, 51,
      52, 56, 58, 59, 66 and 68), and can process up to 94 simultaneous samples. Tests which
      detected high-risk non-16 and non-18 HPV will be submitted to complementary analysis to
      identify genotype(s) using the linear array technique, since COBAS system does not provide
      genotyping of these high-risk HPVs. For this purpose, linear array HPV genotyping (CE-IVD)
      Test for HPV Genotyping kit (Roche Molecular Systems, USA) will be used.

      DATA ANALYSIS:

      The primary endpoint is the diagnosis rate of CIN2+ and CIN3+. Sensitivity and diagnostic
      specificity of VIA, colposcopy and HRME based on each lesion and each patient using
      histological diagnosis as gold standard will be calculated assuming lesions diagnosed as CIN2
      + or CIN3 + are positive. Sensitivity and specificity of VIA and colposcopy will also be
      calculated as a comparison method.

      A case-by-case description will be made using descriptive statistics. Categorical variables
      will be compared by means of the chi-square test or Fisher's exact test, depending on the
      expected values in the contingency tables. To compare numerical variables, the t-tests or the
      Mann-Whitney test will be used depending on the adherence to normality (to be verified by the
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov test).

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION:

      Sample calculation was based on information from other studies of the same group (including
      data not yet published). The following premises were taken: HRME sensitivity and specificity
      for CIN2+ diagnosis (93% and 48%, respectively, per biopsy area) and prevalence of CIN2+ in
      the colposcopy clinic of HCB (ranging from 20 to 30%). Considering a prevalence of disease of
      25% , it is estimated that it will be necessary to include 1,424 women (625 cases for
      sensitivity calculation and 799 cases for specificity calculation) to reach the expected
      sensitivity and specificity rates with a maximum margin of error of 4% for a 95% confidence
      interval. Considering an estimated loss of 10-15% (non-attendance for colposcopy examination
      and HRME), the corrected sample estimate will range from 1,566 to 1,637 women. Therefore, the
      study intends to include 1,600 women with abnormal cervical cytology or positive HPV test.
      Additionally, a group of women with no change in cervical cytology and HPV test will be
      invited to participate in the research in order to check verification bias. This bias occurs
      when only the positive cases in the screening are selected to perform complementary
      diagnostic examinations, overestimating the sensitivity and underestimating the specificity.
      It is recommended that a percentage of negative cases be verified according to the standard
      gold examination. Therefore, 10% of the study population will consist of negative cases in
      both cervical cytology and the HPV test, which corresponds to nearly 180 cases. Thus, the
      final sample estimate will be of 1,780 women, of whom 1,600 women will have screening
      (altered cytology or positive HPV test) results reported as positive and 180 will have
      screening results reported as negative (negative cytology and HPV test).

      STUDY SCHEDULE:

      The study will last 3 years.
    
  