
    
      WalkingTall-PD is designed to rehabilitate gait and balance in a minimum of 6-weeks (program
      progression and total duration is based on sessions completed). It uses affordable eHealth
      technologies (tablet, phone, smart socks or leg bands, depending on participant preference,
      with vibration motors, step mat and earbuds). Specific to Parkinson's disease (PD), it uses
      rhythmic cues to address excessive step-time variability, balance impairments and freezing of
      gait (FOG) (Henderson et al., 2017; Allen et al., 2013). The key aspect of this intervention
      is the stimulation provided by the smart socks/leg bands that vibrate. The stimulus duty
      cycle is synchronised with the participants walking gait to entrain neuromuscular signals and
      enhance sensorimotor integration. This results in an immediate improvement in motor control
      during gait, reduced movement variability and increased walking ability. The integration of
      our eHealth tools with home visits and telehealth appointments into a continuous user
      experience is another major strength of our program. Each component is introduced during 1:1
      home visits and/or telehealth appointments to ensure standardization of the clinical trial
      and maximize the safety of participants. The home visits and/or telehealth appointments will
      be conducted by a trainer (physiotherapist or exercise physiologist with experience in
      working with people with PD).

      WalkingTall-PD meets the urgent need for an effective, affordable and scalable self-managed
      eHealth solution for people with PD. It includes an evidence-based program to enhance
      independence and prevent falls. The scientific rationale and eHealth technology underpinning
      WalkingTall-PD are well tested. Our team has demonstrated that home-based approaches have
      high acceptability and adherence rates, shown that balance training can reduce fall-risk and
      that external cues can reduce step-time variability in people with PD. Participants may use
      their preferred devices (or devices we supply) to access WalkingTall-PD, which will be
      available across platforms. Components are introduced during 1:1 home visits and telehealth
      appointments by a trainer. Delivery is then unsupervised using self-management principles,
      with ongoing remote monitoring a web-based central monitoring platform and database
      back-end.Participants will be informed that WalkingTall-PD is a supplementary program and
      does not replace usual care. The WalkingTall-PD program comprises the following components:

      (i) Balance training is introduced in the week-one home visit or telehealth appointment by
      the trainer using the WalkingTall smart phone app. Baseline balance ability is determined by
      completing a series of balance exercises using the app with supervision from the trainer. For
      participants who choose the telehealth option, the primary device (smart phone) will provide
      the training program while a secondary device (iPad) will be used for patient safety
      monitoring and telehealth consultation. Exercises include heel raises, postural transitions,
      reaching and stepping in different directions and holding poses that challenge balance. Props
      used include a mobile stand (primary device), a tablet stand for the secondary device,
      non-slip balance mat and chairs for support. Balance training starts with simple movement
      sequences and progresses to more challenging balance poses based on participant feedback.
      Movements during balance training are guided by the combination of haptic cues provided by
      the smart socks, insoles or ankle bands(with the choice of smart garment based on participant
      preference), auditory cues by the phone app and visual cues by the balance/stepping mat.
      Participants will be encouraged to complete 5 by 10-minutes balance training sessions/week.
      Participants who choose the telehealth option will be provided with a home visit if they have
      difficulty with the balance training.

      (ii) Walk training (in a safe environment) is introduced in the second home visit or
      telehealth appointment (no sooner than week-3) by the trainer using our WalkingTall phone
      app. Participant-adjustable rhythmic cues (Brodie et al., 2015) auditory, visual and haptic
      cues are used to reduce gait variability during gait training. Participants are instructed
      how to select an appropriate walking course (clear of trip hazards and with appropriate rest
      areas), target cadence and training/rest duration by the trainer. The walking course will be
      approved by the trainers, either in person or remotely via video recording if the participant
      chooses the telehealth option. For participants included in the telehealth option, if the
      trainer has concerns about the selected walking track, a home visit will be provided to fix
      any safety issues. Each session, consists of 5 by 2-minutes walks with 30-seconds rest
      between each walk. Rhythmic auditory cues (self-selected metronome) are provided by the phone
      app and earbuds can be used for discretion. Rhythmic haptic cues are provided by the smart
      socks, insoles or smart ankle bands, with the choice of smart garment based on participant
      preference. Participant-specific visual cues may also be used, if required, such as parallel
      lines fixed perpendicular to the walking track to step over. Participants will be instructed
      to use their normal walking aids as appropriate. Participants will be encouraged to complete
      5 by 10-minute walk training in addition to the 5 by 10-minute balance training sessions each
      week. Participants who choose the telehealth option will be provided with a home visit if
      they have difficulty with the walk training.

      (iii) Step training is introduced in the third home visit or telehealth appointment (no
      sooner than week-5) by the trainer using the WalkingTall phone app. Visual, auditory and
      haptic cues are synchronized with the movement to retrain impaired stepping (Caetano et al.,
      2018), turning, balance (Allen et al., 2013) and strength in people with PD. Auditory
      stepping cues are provided by the phone app using a metronome beat. Visual cues are provided
      by the non-slip stepping mat. Haptic stepping cues are provided by small vibrators.
      Participants will be encouraged to complete 5 by 10-minute step/strength training, 5 by
      10-minute walk training and 5 by 10-minute balance training sessions each week. In week-5 the
      trainer will also introduce walk training in more complex environments or walking as part of
      normal daily-life activities as appropriate. Participants who choose the telehealth option
      will be provided with a home visit if they have difficulty with the step and training.

      (iv) Post intervention. Reassessment will occur in week-7. Participants will be given extra
      time prior reassessment to reach the target dose in the case of illness, injury or poor
      compliance (<60% of sessions).

      v) Continuity of care is is provided by WalkingTall-PD using the WalkingTall phone app to
      self-manage any ongoing gait and balance impairments. Following the reassessment,
      participants will receive another home visit or telehealth consultation where an
      individualised program will be prescribed based on participant preference. For the remainder
      of the 6-months, participants will then be encouraged to complete at least 3 sessions per
      week of their individually prescribed WalkingTall-PD program. Training targets will be set
      and reviewed via monthly teleconferences and using the WalkingTall Study "Monthly Progress
      Chart". A study hotline is provided.

      Mobility-plus is a "pseudo placebo" comparator program. It is not a true placebo because
      participants will be aware of which program they are in. However, both programs comprise of
      components that have potential to improve mobility and reduce falls risk and participants
      will not be informed of our hypothesis that WalkingTall-PD will be more effective than
      Mobility-plus. Participants in the Mobility-plus group will also be provided with
      gait-specific exercise equipment (two pairs of non-slips socks, which provide increased foot
      sensation through a pattern of raise non-slip nodules), a low intensity exercise program
      (3sessions per week) and health information specific to PD (included in the training manual).
      Participants will be informed that Mobility-plus is a supplementary program and does not
      replace usual care. The Mobility-plus program comprises the following components:

      (i) Mobility exercises are introduced in week-1 by the trainer using the Mobility-plus
      exercise manual.Mobility-plus participants are provided with two pairs of non-slips socks and
      instructed to wear them while completing the Mobility-plus exercises. Participants use a
      chair as a prop and for balance support. Exercises include: (1) Standing hip abduction; (2)
      Standing knee flexion; (3) Seated knee extension; (4) Standing hip extension; and, (5)
      Standing hip flexion. Participants are instructed to complete 3-sets of 10-reps, for each
      exercise, for each leg, 3 times per week. Each session lasts approximately 10-minutes. For
      participants who choose the telehealth option this will be done via video conferencing and
      participants will be provided with a home visit if they have difficulty with the exercises.

      (ii) Post intervention. Participants will receive a telephone call in week-4 to encourage
      program compliance and schedule a reassessment. Participants with poor compliance at week-4
      will be given additional follow-up calls to encourage compliance. Reassessment will occur in
      week-7. Participants will be given extra time prior to reassessment to reach the target dose
      in the case of illness, injury or poor compliance (<60%sessions).

      (iii) Continuity of care is provided through the Mobility-plus manual. Participants will be
      encouraged to keep doing their Mobility-plus exercises 3 times per week for the remainder of
      the 6-month program. A study hotline is also provided for the Mobility-plus group.
    
  