
    
      The multiple properties of the corticosteroids on the inflammatory response, make them a
      first line election in the treatment of several ocular inflammatory disorders of different
      etiologies. Within its properties we can mention: the reestablishment of the vascular
      permeability, decrease of the cellular infiltrated and the exudation of fibrin, alteration of
      the activity of monocytes and neutrophils, decrease the proliferation of fibroblasts and
      endothelial cells and diminish the neovascularization post inflammation (1). For that reason,
      not only they diminish the inflammatory reaction, but they also diminish the formation of
      permanent scar, that often is responsible for the visual loss (2,3).

      The most severe systemic adverse effects of the corticosteroids are: systemic hyperglicemy,
      the formation of gastric ulcers, avascular necrosis to of the head of the femur, suppression
      of the hypothalamus-pituitary adrenal axis, arterial hypertension among others (21,22). In
      order to diminish the severe systemic adverse effects of the corticosteroids, the local
      administration is preferred (4). The subconjunctival injection or topical instillation,
      reaches effective concentrations in the anterior chamber (5-7) whereas to reach these
      concentrations in the posterior segment it requires a systemic, intravitreous or periocular
      administration (8-11). Generally it require multiple injections, which produces patient
      discomfort. In addition, after periocular administration, just a small fraction of the drug
      penetrates the eye, whereas the rest is systemically absorbed, reason why the systemic
      adverse effects are not avoided.

      Iontophoresis already has been successful used for the administration of corticosteroids,
      reaching high and lasting concentrations in both segments of the eye. (12-13). Remaining with
      effective concentrations up to 40 to 60 hours after the administration (23). But, Because
      focal chorioretinal injuries have been described, with the use of transcleral Iontophoresis,
      using current of high densities (14-18), this method has not gain a space in the current
      clinical practice. It has been previously demonstrated that the Controlled Column
      Iontophoresis (CCI Eyegate, Optis France SA) was as effective as the intraperitoneal
      administration of Dexamethasone for the treatment of the anterior and posterior uveitis
      induced by endotoxins (19). Through control of the electrical parameters and using safer
      settings, clinical or histopathological injuries due to the use of transcleral CCI have not
      been observed (20). The results of a pre-clinical study, in which methylprednisolone
      succinate by means of CCI was administered, demonstrated to be a safe method, reporting high
      and lasting intraocular concentrations.

      In addition, a study in France was elaborated, that included 89 patients with different
      intraocular inflammatory diseases. Such as corneal graft rejections, previous uveitis,
      postoperative endophthalmitis, macular edema and inflammations of the posterior segment. For
      the evaluation of the security and effectiveness of the administration of methylprednisolone
      by means of CCI. The patients were enlisted if they required periocular or systemic treatment
      due to the failure of maximal topical therapy. The average of treatment with Iontophoresis
      was of 2,7 +/- 0,9 (1-5), with an current intensity of 1,2 to 2mA and duration of 2 to 5
      minutes of each treatment.

      A significant increase of conjunctival hyperemia was observed, subsequent to each CCI, which
      spontaneous resolved. There were no related adverse Effects. Still more, it was observed an
      increase of the visual acuity and decrease of the clinical inflammation in this group of
      patients. No of the patients loss vision and the inflammation biomarkers, taken like a whole,
      continued improving up to 30 days after the treatment.
    
  