
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn to test for markers of inflammation and to test
           for genes related to brain signaling. Markers of inflammation are found in the blood and
           may be related to your fatigue and other symptoms.

        -  You will complete three tasks on a computer. Some of the tasks are easy and you are
           already used to them, but other ones will require some learning. You will be given
           written instructions on how to complete them. The tasks will be completed in or near the
           Head and Neck Cancer outpatient clinics. It should take about 60 minutes to complete all
           three tasks.

        -  You will complete 9 questionnaires about your mood, fatigue, sleep quality, and other
           symptoms. It should take about 30 minutes to complete these questionnaires.

      The questionnaires will be given a code number and stored in a locked file cabinet at MD
      Anderson. No identifying information will be directly linked to your questionnaires. Only the
      researcher in charge of the study will have access to the code numbers and be able to link
      the questionnaires to you.

      Length of Study:

      After you have completed the blood draw, the computerized tasks, and the questionnaires, your
      participation on this study will be over.

      Additional Information:

      Any information about your symptoms that is collected as part of this study is for research
      purposes only. The questionnaires will only be used for the purposes of this study and will
      be destroyed after the study results have been reported.

      If you describe a symptom as being severe on the symptom questionnaire, a study staff member
      will ask you if you have already told or plan to tell your doctor or nurse about the symptom.
      If you have not already told your doctor or nurse, a study staff member will tell your doctor
      or nurse about the symptom for you.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 60 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  