
    
      We will conduct a randomized, comparative effectiveness trial to test a systemic,
      lay-delivered FN protocol against conventional care management services. The study will take
      place in three integrated primary care networks and their affiliated Developmental and
      Behavioral Pediatrics (DBP) clinics at Boston Medical Center, Children's Hospital of
      Philadelphia, and Yale University Medical School. We will enroll children with confirmed risk
      for ASD in the randomized trial and will employ 1:1 randomization by child. The FN protocol
      will include individualized navigation to support completion of the diagnostic evaluation,
      referral to appropriate services, and linkage to and engagement in services. We will
      determine FN's effect on identifying children at risk for ASD, timing of diagnosis, and
      receipt of evidence-based ASD services.

      The study seeks to accomplish the following aims:

        1. Implement a decision rule for referral for formal ASD evaluation;

        2. Ensure timely diagnosis and deployment of services.

      If successful, our study will provide real world primary care practices with a replicable
      model of care that increases early identification and access to timely diagnostic and early
      intervention services for a vulnerable population of urban families.

      Children will be followed for 12 months. Data regarding screening outcomes, diagnosis and
      service utilization will be abstracted from children's medical records. Measures of parental
      stress, self-management skills, caregiver burden, and satisfaction with services will be
      administered over 4 collection time points, linked to key intervention outcomes. We will
      assess the superiority of FN as compared to CCM as a means to: implement a decision rule for
      referral to ASD evaluation; shorten the time to diagnosis among children suspected to have
      ASD; shorten the time to deployment of ASD services among those diagnosed; and improve
      engagement with ASD services.
    
  