
    
      Multifidus Stimulation via the dorsal ramus is an effective therapy for patients with
      intractable low back pain. Barts Health has had a positive experience following the
      implantation of Reactiv8 stimulator in patients with very good success rate in both in
      Reactiv8 A & B studies. Multifidus stimulation (MS) serves an advantage of functional
      restoration and neuro-rehabilitation in this difficult group of patients of intractable low
      back pain, however objective measurement of the multifidus stimulation on supraspinal
      pathways particularly the changes in higher centres in the brain and in the multifidus muscle
      itself remains to be characterised.

      Dynamic brain imaging in pain (PET/CT scans) Dynamic brain imaging is increasingly used as a
      research tool to understand the mechanisms of pain and also pain interventions. This is done
      by using either a functional MRI (fMRI) or Positron Emission Tomography (PET-CT). The implant
      used for stimulation of the multifidus muscle is not MRI compatible which precludes the use
      of fMRI. Hence PET-CT is the best available option to investigate the changes in the brain in
      patients having MS. Functional changes in the brain are identified by the changes in the
      regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as determined by the changes in the distribution of the
      radioactiove contrast F18- fluorodeoxyglucose (18-FDG) in different areas of the brain.

      PET/CT in chronic pain: Chronic pain has been associated with changes in brain structure as
      well as metabolism especially in the second somatic (SII) regions, insula and anterior
      cingulate cortex (ACC). Less consistently, changes have also been seen in thalamus and
      primary somatic area (SI). Sensory discrimination, summation, affect, cognition and attention
      all seem to influence different areas of the brain there by modulate the patient's pain
      perception. There is some evidence to suggest that some of these changes may be altered with
      treatment using either medications or other interventions.

      PET in spinal cord stimulation (SCS): There is limited data available on functional
      neuroimaging following SCS. Nishai et al. conducted FDG PET Scanning in 20 patients (7 CRPS
      and 13 control) and reported increase in FDG (Flurodeoxyglucose) uptake in left thalamus,
      anterior cingulate cortex, bilateral insula, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and bilateral
      temporal gyrus in six patients where SCS is effective. Similarly Kishima et al reported an
      increase in blood fIow following SCS in thalamus, orbitofrontal, parietal and prefrontal
      cortex proportional to the pain relief (larger PET assessed increase in rCBF correlates with
      decrease in pain intensity) It has been postulated that thalamus activity may relate to
      whether SCS is effective or not. Recent study comparing Tonic Vs Burst frequencies
      established differential brain pain matrix areas stimulation with PET-FDG demonstrating the
      fact of Burst being more associated with medial pathway stimulation, hence perception.

      PET in Dorsal Root Ganglion (DRG) stimulation: Barts Health presented the first data on
      L2-DRG stimulation for low back pain in virgin back patients, with identifiable changes in
      cereberal metabolic activity in insula, PAG, cerebral cortex following L2-DRG stimulation.
      Metabolic activity at the target area was measured as standardized uptake value and response
      to individual pain matrix were demonstrated following L2 stimulation. SUVmax (maximum
      standardised uptake value) is one of the most common way to measure glucose metabolism. There
      is evidence that in patients with brain tumours there is increase in cerebral glucose
      metabolism (measured with SUVmax before and after cervical spinal cord stimulation).

      Textural Analysis: Tissue heterogeneity is an important feature associated with adverse
      tissue biology. Textural analysis has been validated an emerging technique for assessing
      tissue heterogeneity and quantitative assessments of tissue heterogeneity has the potential
      to provide non-invasive imaging biomarkers of prognosis and treatment response. Clinical
      studies have indicated the ability of CT texture analysis (CTTA) to provide independent
      predictors of survival for patients with malignancies and marker of treatment response. We
      are utilising the same principal using low dose CT which will be acquired as part of 18F FDG
      PET-CT image examination. There is no additional radiation exposure for textural analysis.
      The filtration-histogram method comprises an initial filtration step that highlights image
      features of a specific size, followed by histogram analysis of the filtered image. The
      standard descriptors include mean, standard deviation, skewness and kurtosis.

      There is still limited data on brain imaging within neuromodulation and there is currently no
      looking at the PET-CT scan changes following multifidus stimulation. Hence this would be the
      first study looking into the dynamic brain imaging changes following multifidus stimulation.

      This study aims to investigate the dynamic brain imaging in pain using PET scan in patients
      who have undergone successful Reactiv8 implantation. This may provide us with information on
      the nature of changes occurring in the brain following multifidus stimulation in the brain
      pain matrix. Additionally, we aim to measure the changes in the multifidus consistency and
      metabolic activity following stimulation. This will also hopefully enable us to correlate it
      with the changes in clinical and health related outcome questionnaires.
    
  