
    
      Although HIV-1 infection is characterized by progressive depletion of CD4+ T cells that
      eventually leads to clinically significant immunodeficiency, a chronic generalized immune
      activation is now being recognized to be the main driving force for T cell depletion, loss of
      anti-HIV-1 immunity and disease progression during chronic HIV-1 infection. In particular,
      this immune activation has been identified as a disease determinant independent of viral load
      or cell death in HIV-1 infection. A series of clinical evidences have indicated that
      activated CD8 T cells may attack body cells infected with viruses. Because of this, CD4 cells
      infected with HIV are frequently destroyed by CD8 cells.

      In traditional Chinese medicine, extracts of the roots of the medicinal vine Tripterygium
      wilfordii Hook F (TwHF) (known in China as "lei gong teng" or "thunder god vine") have shown
      therapeutic promise in treating autoimmune and inflammatory conditions as well as cancer. In
      this extracts, three diterpenoids-triptolide, tripdiolide, and triptonide-are the most
      abundant and account for the immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory effects observed in both
      in vitro and in vivo studies. Recently, different extracts of TwHF have been used in Chinese
      allopathic medicine for the treatment of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, and small
      controlled trials reported good responses with TwHF extracts in patients with cadaveric
      kidney transplants and Crohn disease. In particular, a multicenter, double-blind, active
      comparator trial of a standardized TwHF extract in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis
      has shown a 20% improvement in American College of Rheumatology criteria in patients with
      TwHF than with sulfasalazine. Thus, TwHF may reduce inflammatory responses and promote tissue
      recovery in human diseases.

      The purpose of this study is to learn whether and how well TwHF reduces the level of
      activation of CD8 cells in people infected with HIV. The decreased activation of CD8 cells
      may lead to a more CD4 T cell restoration and immune reconstitution in HIV infection. This
      study will also look at how well TwHF is tolerated and its safety in HIV- infected patients.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment arms:

      Arm A: Participants will receive 48 weeks of TwHF treatment. Arm B: Participants will receive
      48 weeks of placebo Study treatment will be given 20 mg, three times per day for a full 48
      weeks. After treatment has started, participants will be asked to come to the clinic on Weeks
      4, 8, 12, 16, 24, 36, and 48. At each visit participants will receive enough study treatment
      to last until the next visit. Each visit will last between 2 and 3 hours. At most visits
      participants will have a physical exam, answer questions about any medications they are
      taking and how they are feeling, and have blood drawn for safety to assess CD4/CD8 cell
      counts and viral load. Some additional blood will also be stored for immunology testing. At
      some visits participants will be asked questions about their medication and medical history,
      have pupils dilated, have a hearing test, and have an electrocardiogram (EKG). Some visits
      will require participants to arrive fasting. Pregnancy tests may also be conducted if the
      participant is able to become pregnant or if pregnancy is suspected.
    
  