
    
      Background For almost 4 decades, stress ulcer prophylaxis to prevent upper gastrointestinal
      (GI) bleeding has been standard of care in the ICU. The 1999 American Society of
      Health-System Pharmacists guidelines recommend stress ulcer prophylaxis for the critically
      ill. The 2013 Surviving Sepsis Campaign guidelines recommend stress ulcer prophylaxis for
      patients mechanically ventilated for > 48 hours or with coagulopathy. However, GI bleeding
      rates are significantly lower today than in the past, potentially reduced by optimal
      resuscitation and early enteral nutrition. Additional concerns include whether acid
      suppression has any impact on bleeding at all, and whether acid suppression does more harm
      than good, given the apparent increased risk of more common, serious problems of pneumonia
      and Clostridium difficile infection. Further, prophylaxis has become almost universal rather
      than targetted at patients at risk of GI bleeding. Thus, clinicians and investigators
      globally are calling for a re-evaluation of acid suppression with a large Randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) comparing proton pump inhibitor against placebo.

      Objectives To determine the feasibility of performing a large RCT to investigate whether
      intravenously administered pantoprazole, compared to placebo prevents clinically important
      gastrointestinal bleeding in mechanically ventilated patients in the intensive care unit
      (ICU), based on 3 outcomes: the informed consent rate; recruitment rate, and protocol
      adherence

      Design Prospective, concealed, stratified, randomized, blinded, multicentre trial.

      Setting Canadian and Saudi medical-surgical university-affiliated ICUs.

      Methods Patients will be stratified by center, and medical/surgical/trauma status, then will
      be randomized to intervention or placebo using an allocation ratio of 1:1 and undisclosed
      variable block sizes. Research pharmacists will prepare identical 100ml mini-bags of the
      pantoprazole 40mg or placebo with blinded research labels for once daily dosing.

      Followup Research Coordinators in the ICU will review all patients daily, where most of the
      trial data will be collected. This will involve baseline data (e.g., demographics, illness
      severity, advanced life support), and daily data (e.g., study medication administered and
      reasons why not administered), other relevant medications and co-interventions that might
      influence bleeding, ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) or Clostridium difficile outcomes
      (e.g., enteral nutrition, antibiotics, anticoagulants, possible VAP prevention strategies
      including probiotics), laboratory, microbiology, transfusion or radiology documentation to
      help adjudicate the outcomes of clinically important and overt bleeding, VAP, and Clostridium
      difficile infection, and mortality. We do not anticipate any loss to follow up; we expect to
      have complete follow up of patients in the ICU.

      Patients will be followed for primary and secondary outcomes during their ICU stay on daily
      basis. Once patients are discharged from the ICU, they will no longer be followed daily; only
      duration of hospital stay and vital status at hospital discharge will be obtained.

      A secure web-based central randomization method will ensure site-specific stratified
      allocation tables. When the patient is identified as eligible and consent is obtained by
      Research Coordinator, the Research Pharmacist will take the assignment and dispense study
      drug accordingly.

      Relevance Results of the REVISE Pilot Trial will provide key feasibility and safety data
      which will serve to plan a larger multicentre trial of pantoprazole versus placebo for stress
      ulcer prophylaxis in mechanically ventilated critically ill patients.
    
  