
    
      The proposed exercise program utilizes a novel reference chart system to monitor
      cancer-related fatigue (CRF) and trigger necessary interventions. This reference chart has
      been developed from CRF data collected in 173 cancer survivors participating in the BfitBwell
      Program, a highly effective supervised exercise program pioneered at the University of
      Colorado. The reference chart estimates the continuous trajectory of fatigue improvement
      during the three-month program. The focus of this study is to extend the benefits of an
      effective, supervised exercise program to rural Coloradoans via a home exercise program
      supported by CRF monitoring and symptom-triggered telehealth sessions. Deviations from
      estimated improvements in CRF will trigger telehealth sessions with a cancer exercise
      specialist (CES) to adapt the exercise prescription, in real time, as in a supervised
      program. The intent is to replicate the effects of a supervised exercise program in cancer
      survivors in rural areas without access to such programs. The feasibility, effectiveness, and
      design of the program will be assessed with two specific aims.

      Aim 1: Determine the feasibility and preliminary effectiveness of the proposed exercise
      program.

      Objective 1a: Assess the enrollment rate of patients able and willing to participate in the
      program and the adherence of patients enrolled in the program to their prescribed exercise,
      CRF monitoring, and telehealth session participation.

      Objective 1b: Assess the effect of the proposed program on CRF improvements in enrolled
      participants and compare this effect to that of the supervised BfitBwell exercise program.

      Exploratory Objective 1: Assess the feasibility of the semi-continuous remote monitoring of
      fatigue (ecological momentary assessment) to better tailor the program to more acute changes
      in CRF.

      Aim 2: Assess participant perspectives of barriers and facilitators to participation in the
      prescribed exercise and CRF monitoring.

      Objective 2: Gather qualitative data on barriers and facilitators to participation from all
      participants enrolling in the program using semi-structured interviews.

      This is an innovative program, being the first exercise intervention to implement real time
      adaptations for rural patients, with decisions anchored against a novel symptom monitoring
      system. Qualitative data will be collected to improve the next iteration of the program and
      to inform a future, large-scale clinical trial of program implementation in rural
      populations. The long-term goal is to develop a feasible and effective exercise program for
      rural cancer survivors which replicates the benefits of supervised exercise programs to which
      access may be restricted in rural settings.

      This is a prospective, single-arm pilot intervention trial. It will collect objective data on
      the feasibility and effectiveness of the intervention, as well as qualitative data to inform
      how the intervention could be improved in future iterations. The exploratory aim will collect
      data on "in-the-moment" fatigue that could also inform novel future versions of the
      intervention.

      This investigation will recruit adult cancer survivors treated at the University of Colorado
      Cancer Center (aged 18 years and over) who live in rural Colorado, have completed cancer
      treatment, and report moderate-to-severe CRF (> 3 on a 0-10 scale, per NCCN definition).
      Cancer type will be limited to the three types with the highest anticipated new cases in
      Colorado in 2020: breast, prostate, and lung. Only survivors who have completed medical
      treatment (chemotherapy and/or radiation), with curative intent, within the past 12 months,
      and have no additional treatment planned for the next four months, will be recruited. Rural
      participants will be defined as those who have greater than a 1-hour commute to the major
      front range cities (Denver, Fort Collins, and Colorado Springs). Participants must have home
      internet access and smartphones to allow participation in telehealth sessions and remote
      monitoring of exercise participation and fatigue. Participants with medical conditions that
      would impact the safety of, or participation in, an exercise program will be excluded. Twenty
      participants will be recruited in one year, with the goal of retaining at least 15 through
      the final assessment.

      Participants will complete assessments (baseline and final) and exercise sessions virtually.
      The primary outcome measure will be the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy -
      Fatigue (FACIT-Fatigue) scale. Other assessment items will include measures of physical
      fitness and function. CRF will be assessed by questionnaires every two weeks, and
      semi-continuously with a smartphone application. The exercise program is 12 weeks long, and
      includes 2 mandatory virtual exercise sessions, and up to 5 triggered virtual exercise
      sessions. Participants will be mailed equipment to complete the study upon enrollment.
    
  