
    
      Adults who have suffered traumatic brain injury are people who have a wide variety of signs
      and symptoms. These often include problems with motor planning and learning, memory,
      cognitive performance and behavior. The physical findings and self reports of symptoms are
      heterogeneous, and do not always correlate with anatomic findings. Evaluation and measurement
      of function in this population, and treatment of functional deficits are being developed so
      that treatments can be specifically targeted toward functional recovery. Additionally,
      evaluation and treatment usually relies heavily on labor intensive interventions. This study
      will assess the feasibility of using haptic devices that interface the user via touch using
      force as feedback in subjects with a TBI. Haptic devices are similar to joysticks. The
      specific haptic device we are using in this project is a stylus, shaped like a pen with which
      the subject navigates virtual space moving a cursor on a computer screen. The project aims to
      obtain pilot data in relation to how an individual with TBI performs measuring their
      engagement and interaction with the haptic, which is programmed to simulate functional
      activity and cognitive tasks, and whether the haptic devices can reliably be used for data
      capture.

      Study Population

      Seventy adult subjects with a clinical diagnosis of a non-penetrating TBI will be enrolled.
      Subjects will need to be at least 1 year from date of initial brain injury. Subjects will be
      recruited from NIH, affiliated hospitals/clinics, and in the community.

      Design

      This is a prospective cohort study of subjects with a clinical diagnosis of a non-penetrating
      traumatic brain injury. Subjects will be recruited and assessed at the National Institutes of
      Health. Data will be shared and stored at NIH. Subjects will be stratified according to
      findings into cohorts for comparison. Subjects will not be treated with experimental
      therapies as part of the research study.

      The role of multimodal visuo-sensory motor input learning using haptic devices will be
      explored in this project. Virtual reality has been applied to both the evaluation and
      treatment of persons with TBI. The application of simulated environments has helped engage
      patients in therapeutic activities and also has provided real life situations that call for
      integration of sensory, cognitive and motor activities Haptic and robotic devices, which
      provide sensory and force input to assist in human movement, have been used to help in
      neurorecovery.

      Each subject will have only one test session and there will be no further follow-up
      appointments. The haptic session is designed to take no more than 1 hour. However, it may
      take longer for some to complete the battery of tests. It may take up to four hours to
      complete the NIH processes such as admissions, the history and physical, and the haptic
      session.

      Outcome Measures

      Performance on haptic tasks will be assessed for time to completion, distance of trajectories
      and frequency of repeated trajectories.
    
  