
    
      Diabetic retinopathy is a disorder of major public health importance, accounting for the
      majority of visual loss among working age Americans. Diabetic macular edema (DME) is a
      manifestation of diabetic retinopathy that produces loss of central vision. Data from the
      Wisconsin Epidemiologic Study of Diabetic Retinopathy (WESDR) estimate that after 15 years of
      known diabetes, the prevalence of diabetic macular edema is approximately 20 percent in
      patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM), 25 in patients with type 2 DM who are taking
      insulin, and 14 percent in patients with type 2 DM who do not take insulin. The Early
      Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) showed that moderate vision loss, defined as a
      doubling of the visual angle (e.g., 20/20 reduced to 20/40), can be reduced by 50 percent or
      more by focal/grid laser photocoagulation according to ETDRS protocol. Although several
      treatment modalities are currently under investigation, the only demonstrated means to reduce
      the risk of vision loss from diabetic macular edema are ETDRS laser photocoagulation, as
      demonstrated by the ETDRS, and intensive glycemic control, as demonstrated by the Diabetes
      Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) and the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study
      (UKPDS). In the DCCT, intensive glucose control reduced the risk of onset of diabetic macular
      edema by 23 percent compared with conventional treatment. Long-term follow-up of patients in
      the DCCT show a sustained effect of intensive glucose control, with a 58 percent risk
      reduction in the development of diabetic macular edema for the DCCT patients followed in the
      Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications Study.

      In brief, the study protocol involves the enrollment of patients >18 years of age who have
      DME involving or threatening the center of the macula and who have not had prior focal/grid
      laser photocoagulation for DME. These are patients for whom the standard of care would be to
      treat with laser photocoagulation. Eligible eyes will be randomly assigned to receive either
      the modified-ETDRS technique or the mild macular grid (MMG) technique. Outcome assessments
      will include Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), fundus photography, fluorescein angiography
      and standardized best-corrected visual acuity.

      The study consists of two phases: Phase 1 (the primary study), which consists of the first 12
      months of follow up, during which a structured protocol is followed; and Phase 2, which
      consists of the second and third years of follow up, during which the management of DME can
      include techniques other than laser photocoagulation, at discretion of the investigator.

      During Phase 1, follow-up visits will occur at 15 weeks (3.5 months) +14 days, 34 weeks (8
      months) + 28 days, and 52 weeks (12 months) + 28 days. The primary outcome for phase 1 is at
      12 months.

      The primary study objectives of Phase 1 include:

        -  Develop standardized study procedures for future DME studies

        -  Obtain outcome data (e.g. changes in retinal thickness, area of retinal thickening, area
           of hard exudate, need for retreatment, onset of new areas of DME and changes in visual
           acuity) following use of the modified-ETDRS photocoagulation technique for patients with
           DME and various levels of retinopathy severity.

        -  Collect pilot data using the MMG technique to determine whether a subsequent large scale
           definitive trial should be conducted

      Phase 2 (2nd and 3rd years of follow up) is being conducted to collect data on, and generate
      hypotheses from, the long-term outcome of DME, irrespective of treatment received. Protocol
      visits will occur at 2 years + 8 weeks and 3 years + 8 weeks. During this phase of the study,
      therapies other than laser photocoagulation may be used to treat DME at the investigator's
      discretion. Because treatment other than photocoagulation will be allowed after one year,
      'pure' results regarding outcomes with each laser technique cannot be obtained in all groups,
      but will be available in a subset of patients. The data are being collected at relatively low
      cost and no risk over and above usual care. Therefore, the collection of potentially
      hypothesis-generating data from exploratory analysis is justified and could be important in
      designing future studies. Interpretation of the results of the above analyses will be
      complicated by the lack of a standardized protocol with regard to which patients receive
      treatment and what treatment is provided. Therefore, the results will be interpreted with
      caution.

      The phase 2 data collection may be useful for the following:

        -  Evaluation of retreatment rates in patients who responded to laser such that no
           additional treatment was required at 12 months. This is a long term analysis on a "pure"
           group of patients and will provide important information on the DME recurrence rate and
           need for retreatment in study eyes of those patients whose DME improved with either of
           the two protocol-specified treatments received in Phase 1 such that further treatment
           was not necessary at the 12-month visit.

        -  Provide long-term safety data for MMG. This is important due to the less well studied
           nature of MMG, especially over the long term.

        -  Provide long-term outcome data on current standard treatment (modified ETDRS laser) in
           today's patient populations to assist in powering future studies that will require at
           least 3 years of follow up.

        -  Provide data on outcome of intravitreal steroids in patients in whom laser treatment is
           not successful. For many patients who still have DME at 12 months, it is anticipated
           that intravitreal steroids will be administered. The continued follow up of these
           patients will provide an opportunity to explore the effect of the steroids on retinal
           thickness and visual acuity.
    
  