
    
      Large-artery atherosclerotic stenosis is the main cause of ischemic stroke, especially in
      Asian population. However, targeted treatment evidence for large-artery atherosclerotic
      stenosis is limited according to the current guidelines. And also, randomized trial for
      statin therapy in patients with acute large arterial stenosis at early stage is still
      limited. The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of
      intensive antiplatelet therapy versus standard antiplatelet therapy in reducing the risk of
      stroke at 90 days in patients with acute and high-risk symptomatic extracranial or
      intracranial arterial stenosis; the efficacy and safety of immediate high-intensity statin
      therapy (80mg atorvastatin) versus delayed high-intensity statin therapy (40mg atorvastatin)
      in reducing the risk of stroke at 90 days in patients with acute and high-risk symptomatic
      extracranial or intracranial arterial stenosis; and the efficacy and safety of intensive
      antiplatelet combined with immediate high-intensity statin therapy (80mg atorvastatin) versus
      standard antiplatelet combined with delayed high-intensity statin therapy (40mg atorvastatin)
      in reducing the risk of stroke at 90 days in patients with acute and high-risk symptomatic
      extracranial or intracranial arterial stenosis.

      This trial is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, 2×2 factorial
      designed clinical trial. 6100 patients in 250 centers in China will be enrolled with one of
      the following situations (1) Mild ischemic stroke (NIHSS 4~5) within 24 hours of onset meets
      any of the following imaging conditions: a) Acute single cerebral infarction with criminal
      intracranial and extracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (stenosis rate ≥50%),b) Acute multiple
      cerebral infarction (considered to be caused by large artery atherosclerosis, including
      non-stenotic vulnerable plaque);Or (2) Moderate-to-high-risk TIA (ABCD2≥4) or mild ischemic
      stroke (NIHSS≤5) within 24 to 72 hours of onset meets any of the following imaging
      conditions: a) Medium and high risk TIA with criminal intracranial and extracranial
      atherosclerotic stenosis (stenosis rate ≥50%),b) Acute single cerebral infarction with
      criminal intracranial and extracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (stenosis rate ≥50%),c) Acute
      multiple cerebral infarction (considered to be caused by large artery atherosclerosis,
      including non-stenotic vulnerable plaque) . Patients will be randomly assigned into 4 groups
      according to the ratio of 1:1:1:1:

        1. Intensive antiplatelet therapy + immediate high-intensity statin therapy (80mg
           atorvastatin)

        2. Intensive antiplatelet therapy + delayed high-intensity statin therapy (40mg
           atorvastatin)

        3. Standard antiplatelet therapy + immediate high-intensity statin therapy (80mg
           atorvastatin)

        4. Standard antiplatelet therapy + delayed high-intensity statin therapy (40mg
           atorvastatin)

      Face to face interviews will be made at baseline, 7, 14 (or hospital discharge), 90 ± 7 days
      and 12th month ± 14 days after randomization.

      Survival curves will be estimated for the primary outcome using the Kaplan-Meier procedure
      and compared using a Cox regression model Wald test, stratified by the opposite arm of the
      factorial design. Safety outcomes will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier curve to simulate
      the 3-month cumulative risk, and the Cox proportional hazards model to calculate the HR and
      95% confidence interval.

      Primary outcome is defined as stroke (including hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke). Secondary
      outcomes include composite vascular events (stroke, myocardial infarction, and cardiovascular
      death); ischemic stroke; transient ischemic attack; myocardial infarction; vascular death;
      all-cause death; poor functional outcome (mRS 2-6); and quality of life (EQ-5D scale). Safety
      outcomes, relating to antiplatelet therapy (i.e. bleeding, intracranial hemorrhage, and
      adverse events) and statin therapy (i.e. hepatotoxicity, muscle toxicity and adverse events)
      will be investigated.
    
  