
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a debilitating psychiatric disorder that can develop
      after a person experiences a traumatic event, such as sexual assault, war, or any other
      life-threatening event. PTSD is a worldwide health problem that severely reduces a person's
      quality of life and is associated with high rates of psychiatric and medical comorbidity,
      disability, suffering, and suicide. At least a third of PTSD patients fail to respond to
      established PTSD psychotherapies. A wider array of effective treatments for PTSD are needed.

      3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)-assisted psychotherapy may be a potential treatment
      option for PTSD. MDMA is a monoamine releaser that affects serotonin, norepinephrine, and
      dopamine. MDMA is capable of inducing unique psychopharmacological effects such as decreased
      feelings of fear, increased feelings of wellbeing, increased sociability and extroversion,
      increased interpersonal trust, and an alert state of consciousness. In the U.S., MDMA was
      used as an adjunct to psychotherapy by a considerable number of psychiatrists and therapists
      before it was placed in Schedule I in 1985 as a result of non-medical use.

      This randomized, double-blind, active placebo-controlled Phase 2 pilot study investigated the
      safety and efficacy of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy in 10 people with chronic,
      treatment-resistant posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), comparing the effects of low and
      full dose MDMA as an adjunct to psychotherapy. The first two subjects were enrolled in the
      open label full dose lead-in with 125 mg of MDMA, followed by a supplemental half-dose of
      62.5 mg of MDMA after 1.5 to 2.5 hours. The remaining eight subjects enrolled in Stage 1 of
      the study and received either an active placebo dose (low dose of 25 mg MDMA with a
      supplemental half-dose of 12.5 mg MDMA) or a fully active dose (125 mg MDMA with a
      supplemental half-dose of 62.5 mg MDMA) during two experimental psychotherapy session, each
      lasting six to eight hours and scheduled three to five weeks apart.

      Subjects remained with their male/female co-therapist team for the entirety of the study.
      Upon enrollment, subjects met with their therapist team for three preparatory sessions. After
      each MDMA-assisted psychotherapy session, subjects met with their therapist team for
      integrative psychotherapy sessions where subjects processed and connected their thoughts and
      feelings about the experience.

      The extent of PTSD symptoms was assessed at baseline and two months after the second
      experimental session using the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS) (Blake et al., 1995).
      Safety measures, vital signs, and a measurement of psychological distress was assessed during
      all experimental sessions. Blood pressure and heart rate were assessed periodically during
      each experimental session.

      Subjects who enrolled in Stage 1 and received the active placebo had the opportunity to
      enroll in Stage 2 of the study and complete open-label experimental sessions with the fully
      active dose of MDMA (125 mg and 62.5 mg supplemental) on the same schedule as Stage 1.
    
  