
    
      Due to sustained military conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq over the past decade, there are
      an increasing number of U.S. military personnel and Veterans returning home with
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and comorbid alcohol use disorders (AUD) and substance
      use disorders (SUD). If left untreated, Veterans with co-occurring PTSD and substance use
      disorders are at increased risk for developing other mental health problems (e.g.,
      depression, anxiety), suicidal ideation and attempts, physical health problems, reduced
      resiliency and military readiness, employment problems, violence, and family/relationship
      impairment. While mental health services are in place for U.S. service members, substantial
      gaps in the treatment of co-occurring PTSD and SUD exist and there is little scientific
      evidence available to guide the provision of care. As part of the Consortium to Alleviate
      PTSD (CAP), the proposed study directly addresses this critical knowledge gap by testing the
      efficacy of doxazosin, a long-acting and selective alpha-1 adrenergic antagonist, as compared
      to placebo in reducing PTSD and AUD/SUD severity among U.S. military personnel. The
      medication to be investigated (doxazosin) represents a novel treatment approach for PTSD and
      AUD/SUD. While prazosin, also an alpha-1 adrenergic antagonist, has been shown to improve
      sleep and nightmares in military personnel with PTSD and may help reduce substance use
      severity, it has a short half-life of 2-3 hours and requires multiple doses each day, which
      is a significant limitation. In several pilot studies, doxazosin has shown promise in
      significantly reducing symptoms of PTSD and AUD/SUD and, in contrast to prazosin, it requires
      once per day dosing which confers a significant advantage in terms of translating positive
      findings into routine clinical practice. In this Stage II study, the investigators will (1)
      employ a two-arm randomized, double-blind, between-groups experimental design that will
      consist of 12 weeks of treatment with doxazosin or placebo medication; (2) use standardized,
      repeated dependent measures to rigorously assess PTSD symptomatology and AUD/SUD severity;
      (3) measure impairment in associated mental and behavioral health problems (e.g., depression,
      anxiety, sleep, risky behaviors, family/social functioning); and (4) use functional magnetic
      resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the underlying pathophysiology of comorbid PTSD/AUD
      and identify prognostic indicators of treatment outcome. To achieve these aims, the
      investigators have assembled a multidisciplinary team of investigators with
      nationally-recognized expertise in combat-related PTSD, substance use disorders and
      neuroimaging who have successfully collaborated in the past and are uniquely qualified to
      implement this type of investigation. The investigators represent a collaboration of faculty
      at the Ralph H. Johnson Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical Center and the Medical University of
      South Carolina (MUSC) in Charleston, SC.
    
  