
    
      Research Objectives/Question:

      The main objective of this study is to determine the impact of probiotics administration on
      the intestinal microbiome in neonates undergoing gastrointestinal surgery.

      Primary question:

      Diversity and abundance of stool microbiome at after 1 and 3 weeks of initiation of
      probiotics

      Secondary outcomes:

      1. Length of hospital stay

      Methodology:

      Study design This study will be a randomized controlled double-blinded trial in the NICU at
      Alberta Children's Hospital. Probiotics or placebo will be administered orally or via naso-
      or orogastric feeding tube. Intestinal microbiome data will be compared between the two
      groups. The study duration will be 24 months.

      Study Population Infants born between 23 - 41 weeks of gestation, admitted to NICU at Alberta
      Children's Hospital for gastrointestinal surgery.

        1. Inclusion Criteria:

             1. Infants born between 23 - 41 weeks of gestation

             2. Required gastrointestinal surgery in the first week of life (including spontaneous
                intestinal perforation, bowel atresia, mechanical bowel obstruction, volvulus,
                gastroschisis)

             3. Ready to start enteral feeding

        2. Exclusion Criteria:

           1. Infants with major congenital anomalies excluding gastrointestinal tract 3.
           Palliative care patients 4. Septic babies with positive blood, CSF or urine culture

           Sample Size and feasibility:

           Connivant sample of 20 patients (10 in each group)

           Study protocol. Infants will be identified within 48 hours of surgery and parents will
           be approached for informed consent. Once consent is obtained, subjects will be randomly
           assigned to receive either probiotics or placebo. Investigators will conduct the
           randomization using a computer-generated table of random numbers generated at the
           University of Calgary.

           Preparation and Administration of Study Drug The study supplementation will be started
           at the when oral feeds will reach 24 mL/kg/day after surgery after collecting a
           stool/ostomy sample. The decision to start feeding will be made by the neonatal and
           surgical team. After the first stool/ostomy sample is obtained, one study sachet to a
           minimum of 1 mL of Expressed Breast Milk (EBM) (mothers own milk or donor human milk)
           once a day.

           Placebo sachet will be made of 0.3 g maltodextrin and be administered to the control
           group in the same manner. If the infant is placed NPO, the study drug will be stopped
           and restarted together with refeeding. Both probiotics and placebo will be packaged as a
           single-dose sachet. The study probiotic/placebo will be given till discharge. If the
           infant is transferred outside NICU, the study drug will be dispensed with the infant and
           clinical outcomes will be ascertained in collaboration with the local Pediatrician at
           the time of infants' discharge home.

           Sample collection Nurses will collect the stool samples at 3-time points: prior to
           initiation, 1 week after and 3 weeks after probiotic or placebo administration is
           commenced. "Stool" will be collected directly from the infant's ostomy bag and diaper
           with a sterile spatula. As soon as a sample is collected, the nurse will contact the
           investigators. The samples will then be placed in a laboratory freezer (-80°C) within 24
           hours of collection. Batched samples will be transported to the University of Calgary
           Genomics laboratory for subsequent microbiome processing.
    
  