
    
      Cardiovascular disease is the most cause of mortality of chronic kidney disease (CKD)
      patients. As CKD progresses, the prevalence of cardiovascular disease also increased. Beside
      traditional cardiovascular risk factor that the investigators have known, some
      non-traditional cardiovascular risk factors were reported to be associated with
      cardiovascular disease in CKD patients, which one of them was increased level of fibroblast
      growth factor-23 (FGF23).[1,2]

      FGF23 reduces production of 1,25-vitamin D3 and expression of sodium-phosphate cotransport,
      and also excretes phosphate through urine. In healthy and CKD population, increased phosphate
      level resulted in increased production of FGF23. Normophosphatemia state in early to moderate
      stage of CKD was reported due to body compensation by increasing the level of FGF23. On the
      other hand, increased serum FGF23 level was related to CKD progression, cardiomegaly,
      vascular calcification, and mortality.[1] There are several ways to prevent
      hyperphosphatemia, such as low phosphor intake, phosphate binder administration, and adequate
      dialysis.[3]

      Phosphate binder was reported to give positive effects in CKD patients with
      hyperphosphatemia. Studies which investigated the use of phosphate binder in CKD patients
      with normophosphatemia to decrease FGF23 were still limited and the result was
      controversial.[1]

      Therefore, this double blind, randomized controlled trial study investigated the
      effectiveness and safety of calcium carbonate in early to moderate CKD patients with
      normophosphatemia in lowering FGF23 levels. Study participant were randomized to receive
      calcium carbonate or placebo for 12 weeks. Before and after intervention, blood and urine
      sample were taken to examine serum FGF23, serum phosphate, urine phosphate, ionized calcium,
      serum calcium, urea, creatinine, estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), and albumin.
      Effectiveness of calcium carbonate administration was indicated by serum FGF23, while safety
      was indicated by serum calcium.
    
  