
    
      INTRODUCTION Inappropriate antibiotic use can cause harm and promote antimicrobial
      resistance, which has been declared a major health challenge by the World Health
      Organisation. In Australian Residential Aged Care Facilities (RACFs), the most common
      indications for antibiotic prescribing are for suspected infections of the urinary tract,
      respiratory tract, and skin and soft tissue. Studies indicate that a high proportion of these
      prescriptions are noncompliant with best prescribing guidelines. To date a variety of
      interventions have been reported to address inappropriate prescribing and overuse of
      antibiotics but with mixed outcomes. The present study aims to identify the impact of a set
      of sustainable, multi-modal interventions in residential aged care targeting three common
      infection types, using a robust methodology.

      METHODS AND ANALYSIS This study will be conducted using a stepped-wedge cluster randomised
      trial that will recruit 18 RACFs (each RACF will be considered as one cluster), over a 20
      month observation period. Initially an antimicrobial stewardship needs assessment toolkit
      will be piloted in seven RACFs from different service providers. This will enable the
      refinement and targeted implementation of the intervention bundle, based on existing
      requirement of facilities. A multimodal multi-disciplinary set of interventions, the
      'ENGAGEMENT bundle', will be tailored to the needs of facilities. This bundle will be
      implemented as part of the stepped wedge randomised control trial. The key elements of the
      intervention bundle include education for nurses and general practitioners, telehealth
      support and formation of an antimicrobial stewardship team. Prior to the sequential
      introduction of the intervention, each site will act as its own control, in relation to usual
      care processes for antibiotic use and stewardship.

      The primary outcome for this study will be antibiotic consumption measured using defined
      daily doses (DDDs). Cluster-level rates will be calculated using total occupied bed numbers
      within each RACF during the post-randomisation observation period as the denominator. Results
      will be expressed as rates per 1000 occupied bed days. An economic analysis will be conducted
      to compare the costs associated with the intervention to that of usual care.
    
  