
    
      It has been reported that PET (Positron Emission Tomography) scan is also useful in
      diagnosing breast cancer. 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG), which based on glucose metabolism
      for the determination of malignancy, is the most popular PET tracer at present. However,
      18F-FDG is not tumor specific. Benign inflammatory lesions may also demonstrate increase in
      18F-FDG uptake. On the other hand, low grade malignancy may have low 18F-FDG concentration.
      Recently, 18F-3'-fluoro-3'-deoxy-L-thymidine (18F-FLT), a radiolabelled analog of thymidine,
      has been used in imaging cell proliferation and monitoring of treatment effects for breast
      cancer patients. 18F-FLT is believed to be more specific than 18F-FDG for breast cancer
      diagnosis and may provide the underlined physiological and molecular manifestations of breast
      lesions in addition to anatomical manifestations from mammography, ultrasound or MRI. Yet,
      its potential role in differentiation of ambiguous or suspicious lesions found on
      conventional imaging, such like mammography or ultrasound, has not been reported. We have had
      an ongoing preliminary study regarding breast lesion diagnosis using 18F-FLT PET, with an
      overall sensitivity 100% and specificity 92.7% in this dataset (from 2010 August to 2010
      December, 19 lesions from 8 women with correlation with biopsy and clinical outcome).

      On the other hand, the molecular subtypes of breast cancer, including ER (Estrogen receptor),
      PR (Progesterone receptor), HER2 (Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2) are associated
      with treatment planning and prediction of clinical outcome of breast cancer. There have been
      documented reports regarding the relation of mammography, DCE MRI, 18F-FDG PET to ER, PR,
      HER2 status of breast cancers. But the association of proton MRS, DWI and 18F-FLT PET with
      ER, PR, HER2 status was seldom reported.
    
  