
    
      Gingival recession is defined as denudation of the tooth root surface due to the apical
      movement of the gingiva. The occurrence of gingival recession as a periodontal finding has
      been estimated to be 78.6%. It is multi-factorial and poses problems from different aspects
      to the patient.Various etiological factors documented over the years include, (in the
      decreasing order of frequency) toothbrush trauma, malalignment, local factors, occlusal
      trauma, high frenum attachment, cervical fillings and crown impingement. Recession levels are
      also influenced by various other factors such as age, sex, teeth and surfaces of teeth, etc.

      Over the years, several authors have presented their views on the etiology, types, treatment
      modalities and prognosis of gingival recession ranging from the direct lateral sliding flap
      to the most recent minimally invasive techniques. The1970s saw Harvey and Bernimoulin
      individually demonstrated the use of coronal advancement of the flap along with the use of
      grafts with the coronal advancement performed 2 months after the grafting was done on the
      denuded root surface. Subsequently, over the next 3 decades connective tissue grafts along
      with coronally advanced flap was established as the gold standard for recession coverage.

      Lien-Hui Huang (2005) pioneered the use of blood derivatives in the form of Platelet rich
      Plasma (PRP) for root coverage but with limited or no substantial improvement over existing
      techniques. More studies were done on blood derivatives and their efficacy which led to the
      introduction of the second generation of platelet concentrates, Platelet rich Fibrin, as an
      alternative. Platelet rich Fibrin was first developed by Choukroun in the year 2001 and has
      been followed by several studies which have revealed that the slow and sustained release of
      key growth factors makes it a useful bio-healing material. Comparisons with platelet rich
      plasma have also proved that, platelet rich fibrin has a better release of growth factors and
      the presence of leukocytes, which offers quicker and more efficient healing with better
      regenerative potential.

      The recent years have seen newer techniques which are aimed at making it a minimally invasive
      procedure. One such technique was the pinhole surgical technique given by Chao in the year
      2012 which involved a tunnelling procedure along with the usage of a bioresorbable membrane
      which satisfied the expectations of the trial.6Better outcomes can be achieved with the use
      patient's own products instead of a foreign graft material. Therefore, the present study
      compares the effectiveness of Platelet Rich Fibrin as an adjunct to the surgical technique
      for root coverage
    
  