
    
      Study Timeline, Outline, and Methods

        1. Initial evaluation with physician and study eligibility determination

        2. Presentation of study to patient and informed consent obtained

        3. Baseline paraspinous muscle EMG performed

        4. MB (medial branch)/DR (dorsal ramus) radiofrequency neurotomy with Nimbus MEE probe
           (start date)

        5. Post-operative soreness managed with oral and topical medications and possibly 1-4
           physical therapy sessions, as needed

        6. MD visit at intake evaluation and at 3 and 6 weeks following the procedure.

        7. Paraspinal needle electromyography, using the mini-paraspinal mapping ("miniPM")
           technique of Haig will be carried out at baseline (pre-procedure) and between 3 and 6
           weeks post-procedure.

        8. MRI, with sequencing which allows for volumetric calculations (see Appendix III), will
           be obtained on all of the ten chosen subjects at 7 days post-procedure. If there is any
           evidence of edema or coagulation changes with volume of greater than 600 cubic mm, or
           evidence of bony edema or other changes believed to be due to the procedure, then a
           follow up MRI will be obtained at 14 days post-procedure. If bony edema changes are
           present at 14 days, repeat MRI will be obtained at 6 weeks post-procedure.

        9. Procedural details, including procedural and fluoroscopy times, will be collected for
           each subject. A matched cohort of patients who have undergone MB RFN (radiofrequency
           neurotomy) using the previous/current method have had the same data obtained for group
           comparisons.

      Lumbar Paraspinal Mapping:

      The adequate cauterization of the targeted medial branches will be confirmed using the
      paraspinal mapping (PM) technique of Haig. This testing will be carried out on all subjects
      at 3-6 weeks post radiofrequency neurotomies, by electromyographers blinded to the side and
      levels of the procedure. Subjects found to have reliable evidence of spontaneous electrical
      activity, as detailed in, will be deemed to have had a successful denervation of the medial
      branch in question.

      Baseline PM will also be carried out at enrollment to document a normal baseline and to rule
      out the presence of spontaneous activity from other underlying pathology. Those found to have
      findings of spontaneous activity, upon baseline needle EMG of the lumbar paraspinals, will be
      excluded from the study.

      Lumbar MRI - Post-Procedure

      The ten study participants in this study will undergo lumbar MRI, using sequencing that will
      allow volume calculations of any soft tissue or bony findings of edema or coagulation.
      Experience thus far would indicate that the zone of edema can be identified, but that the
      zone of tissue coagulation (smaller than the zone of edema) cannot be reliably demarcated.
      Bench research using the Nimbus MEE probe indicates a zone of coagulation of 550 cubic mm or
      less, and the expected findings on MRI would consist of a zone of edema in this range,
      although MRI evidence of edema may be found in a larger volume of soft tissue, given that
      edema changes would be expected to be present in an area larger than the area of coagulation.
      The intention is to provide evidence that the area treated includes the known location of the
      targeted medial branch, but that bone edema or other unintended findings are not encountered.
      These MRIs will be obtained at 7 days post-procedure. If there is evidence for unintended
      bony edema, then these subjects will return for repeat MRI at 14 days post-procedure. If any
      of these unexpected findings are still present at 14 days post-procedure, then these subjects
      will be asked to undergo a third MRI at 6 weeks post-procedure. Images will be interpreted by
      a radiologist who is board certified in diagnostic radiology. Post-procedure MRI scoring will
      include documentation of the presence or absence of lesions, calculated volume of lesions,
      whether the lesion covers the anatomical location of the medial branch, and whether there is
      any evidence of bone edema at the lesion site(s).
    
  