
    
      The early years between ages 3-7 are critical in the development of obesity. The importance
      of the family in the development of children's eating and activity behaviors has been
      emphasized by experts, yet to date no obesity prevention interventions incorporating a strong
      family focus with emphasis on improved parenting practices have been developed. The work
      proposed here will address this gap by testing the efficacy of an 8-mo parenting intervention
      designed to change both social and physical aspects of the home environment, which in turn
      will reduced % body fat in children. Subjects will be 280 families (one parent and one child
      from each) with at least one preschool-age child (2-5 years old). Following baseline
      measures, pairs will be randomized into intervention or control. The intervention will teach
      more effective parenting skills (child management, communication, routines, etc.), then apply
      these skills to specific practices that encourage healthier behaviors. The intervention will
      include group sessions and tailored phone calls facilitated by a registered dietitian who has
      also received training in parent education. Group sessions will use multiple teaching
      strategies and include separate child activities. Tailored calls will use motivational
      interviewing techniques to help parents overcome barriers to behavior change. The
      intervention is guided by Darling and Steinberg's Integrative Model of parenting, which
      highlights the importance of parenting values, style and practices in child socialization,
      and Deci and Ryan's Self-Determination Theory, which suggests ways to foster autonomous
      motivation to adopt new behaviors. The resulting intervention will help parents learn skills
      to reduce their parenting-related stress and create home environments that support
      healthy-weight behaviors. The primary outcome, % body fat in children, will be assessed using
      anthropometry and a validated prediction equation (Dezenberg, 1999). Analyses will include
      baseline measurements of the outcome as a covariate. Secondary measures include child and
      parent diet and physical activity, parenting style and practices, and home environment.
      Maintenance effect will be assessed following a 6-mo no-intervention period. A comprehensive
      analysis is included to test for mediation effects. This intensive intervention will create
      the exposure necessary to make life-altering changes in weight-related behaviors. Plans build
      on extensive formative work conducted by our experienced researchers.
    
  