
    
      For the left-sided colorectal cancer, the investigators performed colectomy with primary
      anatomosis. Currently the investigators have two methods of minimal access approach to the
      abdominal cavity in order to complete this operation:

        1. Conventional Laparoscopic colectomy The operation is completed by laparoscopic
           instruments using video laparoscopy. At the end of the procedure, pneumoperitoneum is
           abolished and a small wound was created for the delivery of bowel and insertion of anvil
           of the circular stapler. Finally, pneumoperitoneum is re-created for intra-corporeal
           anastomosis

        2. Incisionless Laparoscopic Colectomy Laparoscopic colectomy is being performed in the
           same manner as conventional laparoscopic colectomy, except that at the end of procedure,
           the Transanal Endoscopic Operation (TEO) device with the outer diameter of 4cm is
           inserted into the anus for the delivery of specimen and insertion of anvil instead of
           creating a small wound as in the conventional laparoscopic colectomy. Finally,
           intra-corporeal anastomosis is performed in the same manner with the TEO device removed.

      These two operations are essentially identical except for the surgical access for the
      delivery of specimen and insertion of anvil. Laparoscopic colectomy and the use of Transanal
      Endoscopic Operation(TEO)device have been practiced in the United States and Europe for over
      10 years. Large scale studies in the literature have demonstrated the safety and benefits of
      laparoscopic colectomy for colonic tumors and the oncological outcomes have not shown to be
      inferior to open approach. With the use of TEO device, the investigators can perform
      laparoscopic colectomy without abdominal incision for those early left-sided colonic tumors
      and thus it can eliminate the wound-related complications theoretically. In order to find out
      which one is a better procedure, the investigators are carrying out a clinical trial to
      compare the two surgical options in their short-term and long term outcomes.The results of
      this study may have an impact on the care of similar patients in the future.
    
  