
    
      Pancreatic cancer is predicted to become the second leading cause of cancer-related death in
      the western world by 2030. Patients still have a poor prognosis, and a complete surgical
      resection provides the only potential for long-term cure of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma
      (PDAC) with a 5-year survival of only around 20%.

      In addition, despite all the advances and technical modifications developed during this past
      decade, pancreatic surgery is still hampered by considerable postoperative morbidity.
      Postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF), with a range of incidence between 3-45%, and the
      infectious complications (IC) that occur in nearly one-third of the patients are still the
      more frequent and dreadful complications after pancreatic resection. Moreover, in patients
      submitted to pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD), the constantly growing presence of
      multidrug-resistant (MDR) bacteria increases the morbidity and mortality rate. Those
      complications may also limit access to adjuvant chemotherapy and result in higher costs and
      longer hospitalization.

      The high clinical burden of pancreatic surgery, associated with the overall poor outcome of
      PDAC and worldwide diffusion of antibiotic resistance, suggest the urgent need to enhance our
      knowledge on new and modifiable risk factors able to affect the surgical, the infectious and
      the oncological outcomes.

      The alteration of the microbiome recently emerged as a contributor to oncogenesis, as a risk
      factor for postoperative morbidity in many intestinal tract malignancies and as one of the
      leading causes of colonization by resistant pathogenic bacteria. Recent evidence suggests
      that the pancreas also harbors its microbiome and in PDAC this is markedly more abundant and
      with different patterns compared to a normal pancreas in both mice and humans. However, the
      intestinal and PDAC microbiome have never been compared in humans. Alteration of the
      microbiome induces an adaptive immune suppression and promotes an inflammatory status.
      Growing literature evidence shows that the microbiome accounts for local and systemic
      microenvironment changes. These alterations, characterized by immune suppression and
      selection of potentially pathogenic bacteria, may lead both to adverse outcomes after
      surgical treatment and to the overgrowth of multidrug-resistant flora.

      Nevertheless, the etiologic relationship between intrapancreatic microbiota and postoperative
      complications in PDAC patients subjected to surgery has not yet been described.
    
  