
    
      Many recent studies described the comprehension, the satisfaction, and the psychological
      consequences due to the experience of an ICU admission of a loved one. Even if satisfaction
      about meetings and clinical information is about 90%, from 50 to 70% of family members
      reported an incomplete medical comprehension, and 70% showed symptoms of anxiety and
      depression. Many interventions may considerably improve their ICU experience, regarding both
      the comprehension and the emotions. For example, the family members of ICU patients that
      receive clear and reassuring information can deal better with the stress associated with
      their loved one illness, or may participate in the clinical decisional processes with
      awareness and lighter emotional distress.

      Literature shows that relationship with families of ICU patients presents these problems:

        1. comprehension of care essentials (diagnosis, prognosis about illness severity,
           interventions undertaken);

        2. trust on ICU staff members;

        3. management of their emotions (anxiety, fear, depression);

        4. post-traumatic stress symptoms due to the concerns about life-threatening diseases of
           their loved one.

      To ameliorate the relationship and the communication in the harsh ICU environment, and to
      meet the problems aforementioned, in 2012 some instruments for families were created
      (website, brochure, posters). They present in non-technical language the activities and the
      environment of ICU, with the aim to increase their comprehension and - at the same time - to
      make them feel not alone and powerless.

      To evaluate the effectiveness of these information instruments, a before-and-after study was
      done in 2012 in 12 Italian ICUs. These instruments were demonstrated able to improve the
      correctness of communication about outcome and treatment (not about the illness and the organ
      dysfunctions, that is responsibility of local staff), and to decrease the post-traumatic
      symptoms. Anxiety and depression symptoms were showed non-significantly decreased. The
      physicians also reported an improvement in the quality of communication with families.
      (Intensive Care Med. 2017 Jan;43(1):69-79). The main study limitations were: low prevalence
      of internet browsing among families; few participating centers; lacking of complete diagnosis
      of PTSD, made after 6 months from traumatic event; lacking of characteristics of staff
      members who participated on the family meetings. The present larger, randomized and
      controlled trial was then designed, to replicate and verify the preliminary results,
      overcoming the limits and finding new strategies of communication.
    
  