
    
      This is a prospective multicenter observational cohort study with retrospective
      component/chart review of ASCVD subjects that is designed to describe practice patterns of
      cholesterol management in such subjects in the US. Up to 1 year of retrospective lipid
      treatment, lipid measurement patterns, and CV data in subjects with ASCVD meeting
      inclusion/exclusion criteria at enrolled clinical sites will be captured. The retrospective
      data collection is being performed for the following reasons:

        -  Capture relevant factors related to subject's CV risk and pertinent medical history.

        -  Capture changes in LLT over time as related to the subject's clinical condition and
           medical history and adverse events to LLT Eligible subjects will be invited to enroll in
           chronological order of attending the clinic. The study will enroll 3 subject cohorts
           with the following rationale:

             1. the first cohort will consist of approximately 500 subjects on PCSK9i at the time
                of enrollment. The goal is to include a large enough cohort of patients receiving
                PCSK9i in real world clinical practice; this will allow (for the first time) to
                better understand the characteristics of those patients whose treatment is
                escalated to include PCSK9i, the therapeutic effects of PCSK9i outside of the
                randomized clinical trial settings, and over a prolonged duration of follow up;

             2. the second cohort will enroll approximately 2000 subjects with LDL-C levels greater
                than or equal to 100 mg/dL. The purpose is to include a large group of patients
                with established ASCVD and suboptimal LDL control in order to better understand the
                treatment patterns and rates of CV events in this group;

             3. the third group will enroll approximately 2500 subjects with LDL-C levels between
                70 and 99 mg/dL. The purpose is to include a large group of patients with
                established ASCVD and more optimal control of LDL.

        -  To better understand patient characteristics, lipid-lowering treatment management, rates
           of CV events, and potential opportunities for further LLT optimization in this group.
           Interactive voice response system will be used to track the number of subjects in each
           cohort. Once a cohort is filled, no more subjects may be enrolled into it. After the
           first subject is enrolled and annually thereafter, physicians will fill out a
           questionnaire on their general use of LLT type and dose and their overall goals of lipid
           management. The study specific data collection points are aligned with the standard of
           care physician scheduled visits. Each subject will be followed through a systematic
           series of medical chart reviews conducted at participating clinical sites. Initial chart
           reviews will occur at subject enrollment with subsequent scanning of charts occurring at
           the site every 6 months thereafter. In addition, questionnaires will be administered to
           subjects every 6 months via a CATI system (wherein an interviewer will ask the subject a
           series of standard questions) to determine general perceptions and attitudes towards
           LLT. The order of questions in the questionnaire will be based on subject response. This
           will facilitate reports of the number of inpatient visits, outpatient visits, outpatient
           procedures, diagnostic tests, prescription and nonprescription medication use in the
           prior 6 months. Subjects will be asked to complete questionnaires even if they do not
           routinely see the enrolling physician or if they have switched providers.
    
  