
    
      The project aims/objectives comprise the following:

        1. Building of histologically validated spectral databases for normal, benign and malignant
           tissue using ex vivo tissue analysis by Rapid Evaporative Ionisation Mass Spectrometry
           (REIMS).

        2. Optimisation of a technique to provide accurate, real-time information on the nature of
           tissue intra-operatively using Rapid Evaporative Ionisation Mass Spectrometry.

        3. Optimisation of a technique to provide accurate, real-time information on the nature of
           tissue during endoscopic procedures using Rapid Evaporative Ionisation Mass
           Spectrometry.

        4. In vivo testing of the accuracy of the technique using pre-built spectral databases both
           intraoperatively and during endoscopic procedures including, but not limited to, the use
           of sub-study trials.

        5. Validation of spectral data obtained using a second mass spectral analysis technique,
           Desorption Electrospray Ionisation Mass Spectrometry (DESI).

        6. Bacterial identification from tissue using mass spectrometry, standard microbiology
           culture and metagenomic sequencing by '454 pyrosequencing.

      The following will be collected from each enrolled participant:

        1. Fresh ex vivo tissue samples for mass spectral (MS) analysis and histological
           examination where applicable

        2. In vivo MS data from surgical diathermy smoke collected intra-operatively.

      Custom built Mass spectrometers will be installed at participating sites. Optimal
      electrosurgical settings, in terms of obtaining maximal amount of good quality spectral data
      whilst providing adequate surgical dissection, will be determined between operating surgeons
      and researchers.

      All spectral data collected will be uploaded anonymised into a research database with the
      full histology provided. The spectra will be pre-processed according to the mass spectrometer
      used for collection.

      In addition to diagnostic accuracy REIMS offers additional advantages to existing and
      emerging IMA techniques. Specifically, the REIMS iKnife allows use of a standard operating
      procedure without altering operative workflow in that the technique samples the surgical
      aerosol already being generated during excision. The rapid time frame of analysis to results
      (1-2 seconds) means that eventually surgeons' decision-making may be altered in real-time to
      achieve negative margins or improve patient prognosis.
    
  