
    
      1. Experimental Design: Approximately 50 male and female participants between the ages of
           18 and 65 years, who were at high risk for cardiovascular disease but have not had a
           hospitalization due to cardiovascular disease, were recruited to participate for 12
           weeks in this study. All familiarization and testing were conducted at the Exercise &
           Sport Nutrition Laboratory (ESNL) in the Department of Health and Kinesiology at Texas
           A&M University. Assays were conducted at the Institute of Obesity and Cancer research
           Laboratory at Texas A&M University.

        2. Screening and familiarization Session:

           Participants expressing interest in the study were interviewed by phone to determine
           whether they were qualified to participate. The participants who were believed to meet
           the eligibility criteria were invited to attend an entry/familiarization session. During
           this session, participants completed medical and personal histories, and signed consent
           statements in compliance with the Human Participants Guidelines of Texas A&M University
           and the American College of Sports Medicine. Participants then underwent a general
           physical examination to verify that they met the eligibility criteria. Participants who
           satisfied the criteria were familiarized to the study protocol and received a verbal and
           written explanation of the study protocol and design. Following baseline measurements,
           participants were matched based on gender, age, and BMI and were randomly assigned in a
           double-blind manner into control (n=25) or acai supplementation groups (n=25).
           Participants were given an appointment time to perform baseline assessments and three
           other sessions.

        3. Baseline assessments and dietary intervention:

           Prior to baseline testing, participants were recommended not to take any herbal
           supplements or anti-oxidant juices such as orange, pomegranate, or acai juice. Vitamin
           pills, supplemented sports/energy drinks and large amounts of berries were also to be
           avoided. In addition, spinach, tomatoes, bell peppers, onions, garlic, carrots,
           chocolate, yellow/orange fruits/vegetables and dark green fruits/vegetables were to be
           reduced to no more than one serving for 48 hours. Participants were instructed to
           refrain from exercise for 48 hours prior to baseline testing. During the baseline
           testing, participants recorded all food intake on dietary record forms for four days.
           Participants donated 20ml of fasting blood using venipuncture techniques of an
           antecubital vein in the forearm. Participants were then asked to drink one 10 oz serving
           of the test beverage. A second blood draw was taken two hours after ingestion. All urine
           output for the 24 hours leading up to the baseline testing was collected.

        4. Supplementation:

           Participants were recommended to consume two servings of the test beverage as part of
           their current, non-modified diet. Each serving was supplied in a 10 oz bottle, and was
           to be consumed both in the morning and in the evening of each day throughout the
           duration of the study (12 weeks). Participants in the control group consumed an equal
           amount of placebo juice comprised of artificially colored water containing sugar, citric
           acid, and a flavor that was identical to the acai beverage, but had no
           phytochemical-based constituents throughout the same time period. Participants were
           individually instructed on how to adjust their daily caloric intake to account for the
           calories of the beverage. All participants picked up weekly supplies of either the acai
           beverage or placebo at the Exercise & Sport Nutrition Laboratory.

        5. Follow-up testing:

           Participants reported back to the lab for follow-up testing at 4, 8, and 12 weeks after
           the baseline testing. During each of those testing sessions, the participants completed
           the same full battery of tests that were completed during the initial baseline testing.
           Participants were asked to maintain a similar diet three days prior to each testing
           session in order to monitor the influence of the test beverage. Participants were given
           a list of preferred food groups for these three days and asked to stick to them as
           closely as possible.

        6. Body composition:

           During each baseline measurement and follow-up testing session, height was measured
           using standard anthropometry. Total body weight was measured using a Healthometer
           (Bridgeview, IL) self-calibrating digital scale with a precision of +/-0.02 kg. Body
           composition (excluding the cranium) was determined using a Dual-energy X-ray
           absorptiometry (DEXA, Hologic Inc, Waltham, MA, USA).

        7. Blood and urine collection: During each of the testing sessions, participants donated
           approximately 2 teaspoons of fasting venous blood (10 milliliters). Blood samples were
           obtained using standard phlebotomy procedures using standard sterile venipuncture of an
           antecubital vein by ESNL laboratory technicians or graduate research assistance trained
           in phlebotomy in compliance with guidelines established by the Texas Department of
           Health and Human Services.
    
  