
    
      Design and Setting: The study is a randomized controlled trial. It will be conducted at the
      University of Alberta and Cross Cancer Institute in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

      Participants: Participants will be 120 lymphoma survivors diagnosed with either non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma (NHL) or Hodgkin's disease (HD) and receiving or not receiving at least 8 weeks of
      chemotherapy at the Cross Cancer Institute in Edmonton, Alberta. Participants will be
      stratified by disease type (indolent NHL versus aggressive NHL versus HD) and planned
      chemotherapy protocol (no chemotherapy versus < 16 weeks versus > 16 weeks), and randomly
      assigned to either a 12 week exercise program or usual care.

      Eligibility: Participants will be recruited from the Cross Cancer Institute. The eligibility
      criteria include medical, demographic, and logistic criterion, and are focused on internal
      validity as well as external validity. Eligibility criteria for the study are: (1)
      histologically confirmed lymphoma cancer, (2) 18 years of age or older, (3) not receiving
      chemotherapy or scheduled to receive at least 2 cycles (8 weeks) of chemotherapy, excluding
      high dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant, (4) approval of the treating oncologist,
      (5) able to understand and provide written informed consent in English, (6) no uncontrolled
      hypertension, (7) no uncontrolled cardiac illness, (8) no active psychiatric condition, and
      (9) no contraindications to exercise as determined by a maximal fitness test conducted by a
      certified fitness consultant (CFC).

      Recruitment: We have recruited 122 participants to the trial. The study is now closed to
      accrual.

      Recruitment will take place at the treatment or follow-up consultation with the medical or
      radiation oncologist. Interested survivors will receive an information package from the
      oncologist and a follow-up telephone call from the project director who will explain the
      study further and answer any questions. All individuals who are interested in participating
      in the study will: (a) be asked to provide informed consent, (b) complete a self administered
      questionnaire, and (c) be scheduled for a maximal physical fitness test, a dual-x-ray
      absorptiometry (DEXA) scan, and a blood draw. The physical fitness test will determine final
      eligibility for the study.

      Interventions: The exercise group will perform supervised stationary cycle ergometer exercise
      3 days/week for 12 weeks and be progressed from 15 to 45 minutes and 60% to 80% of their VO2
      reserve over the course of the intervention. The usual care group will be asked not to begin
      a structured exercise training program during the next 12 weeks and will receive the exercise
      for 4 weeks following the postintervention assessment.

      End Points: The primary end point is change in the Trial Outcome Index of QoL between
      baseline and postintervention. QoL will be assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy-Anemia (FACT-An) scale (Trial Outcome Index: Physical Well-being, Functional
      Well-being and Anemia Subscales). Secondary end points are changes in psychosocial outcomes,
      cardiopulmonary fitness, body composition, and treatment completion rates. Cardiopulmonary
      fitness will be assessed by a graded exercise test using gas exchange analysis. Body
      composition will be assessed by body mass index and a DEXA scan. Treatment completion rates
      will be assessed as the number of chemotherapy cycles received divided by the number planned.

      Sample Size: Sample size calculation is based on the primary end point. A clinically
      important difference (CID) in the TOI of the FACT-An is 6.0 points. Sixty participants in
      each group will allow us to detect a 10.0 point difference in between group changes with a
      power of .80 and a two-tailed a of .05 (standard deviation = 18.0 points).
    
  