
    
      Warfarin is the mainstay of therapy in preventing venous thromboembolism (VTE), pulmonary
      embolism (PE), and subsequent morbidity and mortality. Despite its proven efficacy in
      reducing the advent of clot formation, patient-specific warfarin dosing is difficult to
      predict, with the initial dose regimen often resulting in supra- and subtherapeutic
      anticoagulation, and subsequently increasing patients' risk of bleeding or embolism. It has
      been shown that interpatient warfarin dosing variability is due in part to genetic variations
      found in the cytochrome P450 2C9 metabolism pathway (CYP2C9), as well as proteins involved in
      the coagulation cascade, most importantly vitamin K epoxide reductase complex subunit 1
      (VKORC1). A recent retrospective study has shown that these two genes in addition to several
      clinical/demographic factors account for greater than 58% of the variation in
      patient-specific warfarin doses. However, there have been no studies documenting prospective
      use of this information in selecting an initial warfarin dose. Hypothesis: Stable therapeutic
      management of warfarin therapy can be more precisely achieved when patients are prospectively
      dosed based on a pharmacogenetic-guided dosing equation compared to usual care. Aim a: To
      determine if pharmacogenetic-guided dosing of warfarin is superior to usual care, when
      defined as the accuracy of the initial versus the stable warfarin dose. This will be assessed
      as the mean absolute difference in initial versus stable dose. Aim b: To determine if a
      stable warfarin dose is more quickly achieved using the pharmacogenetic-guided dosing
      equation compared to usual care. This will be assessed as time to stable dose. Aim c: To
      determine if pharmacogenetic-guided dosing is superior to usual care in terms of overdosing
      and underdosing patients. This will be assessed as the fraction of the population overdosed
      and the fraction of population underdosed by the two methods. We propose to evaluate a
      pharmacogenetic-guided dosing approach compared to usual care in the initiation of warfarin
      management. The selected pharmacogenetic-guided equation is a validated equation that
      includes both genetic and clinical factors and is relatively easy to incorporate into current
      clinical practice. Patients newly initiating warfarin therapy in a hospital setting will be
      randomized to receive either pharmacogenetic-guided or usual care, with follow-up
      anticoagulation management services provided by the University of Florida Health System
      Anticoagulation Clinic. Prospectively determining patients' stable dose has important
      clinical implications in today's management of warfarin therapy. Being able to predetermine a
      patient's stable dose upon initiation of therapy has the potential to decrease the time spent
      in supra- and subtherapeutic anticoagulation and reduce the number of clinic visits required
      to achieve a stable dose. Therefore we propose this study to test if using genotype data in
      determining the initial warfarin dose is more effective than usual care in predicting stable
      dose. If we can document the value of such an approach, this will provide the level of
      evidence needed to translate pharmacogenetic-guided dosing of warfarin into clinical
      practice.
    
  