
    
      The study is comprised of 8 phases:

        1. Screening (Visits 1 and 2)

        2. F598 administration (Visit 3)

        3. Inoculation (Visit 4)

        4. Observation (Visits 5 - 8, as needed)

        5. Definitive antibiotic treatment (Visit 9)

        6. Test of cure (Visit 10)

        7. Confirmatory interaction (Visit 11)

        8. Final pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamic (PD)/anti-drug antibody determination (Visit
           12)

      For the purposes of standardization, Day 1 of the study will be considered the day of
      inoculation.

      During the Screening phase, prospective subjects will undergo informed consent and will be
      reviewed for their compatibility with the eligibility criteria. Those subjects who meet all
      of the Inclusion criteria and none of the Exclusion criteria will be enrolled. Following
      enrollment, subjects must undergo a repeat urine screen for C. trachomatis, N. gonorrhoeae
      and T. vaginalis (Days -17 to -4).

      If the second urine screening test is negative, subjects will enter the F598 administration
      phase. Subjects will return to the study site and will be randomized to one of four
      open-label groups: Control (no treatment) or treatment with F598 at one of three doses.
      Following F598 administration or assignment to the Control group, subjects must return to the
      study site for inoculation with N. gonorrhoeae within 2 weeks. Thus, F598 will be
      administered on any one of Days -12 to -2.

      During the inoculation phase, subjects will return to the study site and receive an inoculum
      of N. gonorrhoeae in the anterior urethra. A third and final urine screen for C. trachomatis,
      N. gonorrhoeae and T. vaginalis will be obtained immediately before inoculation.

      Once subjects have been inoculated with N. gonorrhoeae, they will enter the observation phase
      and will return to the study site daily for up to 5 days for a physical examination (in
      particular, for evidence of urethral discharge) and a urine sample for evidence of infection
      (NAAT and culture) as well as blood for F598 PK/PD and safety labs.

      The observation phase will end and definitive antibiotic therapy will be administered when
      any one of four criteria is met:

        1. The subject requests antibiotic treatment

        2. The subject is found to by symptomatic (discharge, urethral discomfort)

        3. The subject has reached Day 6 of the study

      Thus, depending on the circumstances, definitive antibiotic therapy can be administered
      between Days 2 - 6, inclusive.

      A follow-up visit at the study site will be conducted 3 - 5 days after definitive antibiotic
      therapy has been administered to ensure treatment response. Thus, depending on when the
      subject received antibiotics, this visit could occur between Days 5 - 11, inclusive. A
      physical examination will be performed and urine for evidence of infection (NAAT) as well as
      blood for F598 PK/PD will be obtained.

      A confirmatory interaction with the subject will occur at the study site 7 - 10 days after
      the follow-up visit to confirm the subject's response and answer any questions the subject
      may have. Thus, depending on when the subject had his follow-up visit, the confirmatory visit
      could occur between Days 12 - 21, inclusive. Blood for F598 PK/PD, anti-F598 antibodies and
      safety labs will be obtained.

      A final visit will occur approximately 8 weeks after inoculation (days 52 - 60) to obtain
      serum for PK/PD and anti-F598 antibodies.
    
  