
    
      This open-label pilot study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of intra-detrusor
      injections of botulinum-A toxin (BTX-A) in 20 male or female patients with Parkinson's
      disease and neurogenic overactive bladder with or without urinary incontinence, but without
      evidence of significant urinary retention (>25% of bladder capacity at void).

      Patients will be invited to participate based upon subjective symptoms of uncontrolled lower
      urinary tract urgency, frequency and urinary incontinence. Only patients who have a Hoehn and
      Yahr Stage IV or better (or UPDRS equivalent) will be considered. Patients must have tried
      anti-muscarinic agents and failed to improve or were intolerant of these pharmacologic
      agents. Oral anti-muscarinic medications will be discontinued two weeks prior to urodynamics
      testing and treatment visit. At baseline urinary symptom scores will be obtained using The
      King's Health Questionnaire (KHQ, a validated scoring system for urinary symptoms) and the
      AUA Urinary Symptom Score. In addition a 3-day fluid intake and urinary outflow timed voiding
      diary will be submitted at the time of testing and treatment as well as follow-up visits.

      After signing an informed consent and meeting all inclusion and exclusion criteria, patients
      will be tested with urodynamic studies to determine current lower urinary tract
      neurophysiologic functioning. A "free-flow" urinary flow rate and post-void residual urine
      volume test will be performed as well as filling cystometrogram and pressure/flow
      measurement. Patients with evidence of outlet obstruction (high pressure/low flow) will be
      excluded from the study. Only patients with a post-void residual urine volume less than or
      equal to 25% of the total bladder volume at void will be included. No catheters or other
      measurement devices will be attached to the body at the time of the initial free urinary flow
      and post-void urine volume measurement. A repeat pressure/flow determination will be
      performed during the urodynamics cystometrogram.

      After qualification to proceed, patients will then be transferred to the adjoining cystoscopy
      suite. Pre-procedure oral sedation and analgesia will be given. Subjects will undergo
      cystoscopy under topical lidocaine anesthesia and undergo 25-gauge needle injections of
      BTX-A. BTX-A treatment for each participant will be limited to a total dose of 100 units in a
      minimum of 10 to 20 locations. Any patient unable to void after the procedure will receive an
      indwelling catheter for 24 hours. Patients will be contacted by telephone within 24-48 hours
      after the procedure for safety assessment. Follow-up clinic visit evaluations will occur at 1
      month, 3 months, 6 months and 9 months. A 3-day voiding diary, King's Health Questionnaire,
      AUA Symptom Score sheet and Global Response Assessment (GRA) Questionnaire will be collected
      at each follow-up visit. Incontinence will be documented on this diary. Uroflowmetry and
      post-void residual volume will also be assessed at each follow-up visit.
    
  