
    
      Summary

      The main objective is the planned, systematic, and theory-based development and pilot testing
      of an intervention strategy to increase physiotherapists' adherence to evidence-based
      practice guidelines for low back pain. Although it has been demonstrated that the
      recommendations of these guidelines are effective, its implementation in physiotherapy
      practice remains limited. This incomplete implementation results in a considerable
      inefficiency in physiotherapy practice (e.g. the regular use of less effective treatment
      strategies) and consequently contributes to the extensive socio-economic problems associated
      with low back pain (1.7% of the BNP). Until now, however, implementation strategies to
      increase guideline adherence have not been very effective. The lack of a coherent theoretical
      framework has been pointed out as a possibly important explanatory factor. Recent reports
      therefore emphasize an expansion of the theoretical basis with regards implementation
      problems.

      The present project (January 2007) will build on the promising results of a cross-sectional
      study among Dutch physiotherapists, which applied the Precede-Proceed planning model to
      assess determinants of guideline adherence. To that end, a theoretical framework was
      constructed that combined the Diffusion of Innovations Theory, the Precaution Adoption
      Process Model, and elements of Organization Development. The questionnaire based on this
      framework turned out to be a very useful tool for systematically studying barriers and
      facilitators associated with guideline adherence. However, a similar, but longitudinal study
      is needed to assess determinants that actually predict guideline adherence. For this
      longitudinal study, the framework needs to be slightly revised (5 months). The adapted
      theoretical framework in turn, will guide the subsequent revision of the determinant
      questionnaire (3 months).

      The longitudinal determinant study (10 months) among primary care physiotherapists (N =
      1,600) will be performed via mail. Determinants of guideline adherence will be assessed with
      the revised questionnaire. Actual guideline adherence will be determined with recently
      developed longitudinal paper&pencil vignettes that cover the eleven most important indicators
      of adherence. Statistical analyses of these combined data will disclose which individual,
      social and / or organizational determinants in fact predict guideline adherence.

      The results of the longitudinal study will be used to systematically develop an
      implementation enhancing strategy (8 months), specifically aimed at modifying the
      determinants predicting adherence. The development will be based on the Intervention Mapping
      approach. This approach will, for instance, assists in choosing objectives and strategies of
      change, and in combining these into a coherent program plan. To assess the efficacy of this
      combination of implementation strategies, a pilot test (4 months) will be performed among
      primary care physiotherapists (N = 30) within a network of physiotherapy practices (N = 10).
      The short-term effects on determinants predicting guideline adherence and on actual guideline
      implementation will be assessed in a similar way as during the preceding longitudinal study.
      Additional process information will be collected to refine the implementation enhancing
      strategy and to explore opportunities for further implementation of this strategy in primary
      care. A secondary objective of the present study is to further examine the value of the
      planned, systematic, and theory-based approach for the implementation of practice guidelines
      in general. Depending on the findings of the present study, we expect to be able to formulate
      implications for the use of a coherent theoretical framework in the current practice of
      guideline implementation and in the development of strategies to increase guideline adherence
      among a wider variety of health care professions, as well as the use of planning models and
      systematic intervention development models in future implementation efforts and guideline
      adherence studies.

      This study will be the first in the field of guideline implementation that applies (1) a
      comprehensive theoretical framework for guideline adherence, (2) the Precede-Proceed planning
      model for the assessment of determinants predicting guideline adherence, and (3) the
      systematic approach of Intervention Mapping for the development of an implementation
      strategy. The results will be reported in peer-reviewed articles and included in a
      dissertation (December 2009).
    
  