
    
      Prior to surgery, all patients will undergo pre-anesthetic checkup including detailed
      history, physical, systemic examination, height and weight of the patient. All patients will
      be investigated for exclusion of any of the above mentioned contraindications. Routine
      preoperative laboratory investigations as complete blood count, grouping, coagulation
      profile, electrolytes and preoperative baseline serum creatinine will be measured. Patients
      should have low molecular weight heparin administered till the evening prior to daytime
      trauma lists. This precaution allows for an appropriate window of time to minimize the risk
      of bleeding related to neuraxial anesthesia. All patients will be kept nil per mouth 6 h for
      solids and 2 h for water and clear liquids.

      Preparation of the patient and conduct of anesthesia:

      Written consent and emergency resuscitation equipments including airway devices, advanced
      life support drugs for LA toxicity and intraoperative adverse events will be available. All
      patients will be anesthetized by the same team of anesthesiologists and operated upon by the
      same surgeon who will be unaware of the study medications.

      After arriving at the operative room, the pulse oximetry, electrocardiography, temperature
      probe and non-invasive blood pressure monitor will be applied. A large bore I.V. cannula (18
      gauge) will be inserted.

      Spinal anesthesia will be used for all patients. Under aseptic technique and local skin
      infiltration with 1% lidocaine, spinal anesthesia will be performed at the L3-4 or L4-5
      spinal interspace by 25 gauge spinal needle. After successful cerebrospinal fluid
      recognition, 10 mg heavy bupivacaine 0.5% mixed with 25 ug fentanyl will be injected into the
      subarachnoid space. Then the spinal needle will be removed and the patients will be
      positioned carefully to the suitable position. Once adequate anesthesia to at least T10
      dermatome achieved, the operation will be allowed to be started. Supplemental oxygen will be
      administered via face mask at flow rate between 5 and 8 L/min. Management of the patients
      will be performed by another anesthesiologist unaware about the used protocol. Vital signs
      including heart rate (HR), systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP),
      mean blood pressur (MBP) and arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2) will be recorded as baseline 5
      min before conduction of spinal anesthesia, immediately after conduction of anesthesia then
      every 5 min till end of surgery. The level of sensory block will be assessed before beginning
      of surgery using an ice cube. Urinary catheter will be inserted for all patients. Hypotension
      defined as decrease in mean blood pressure (MAP) to more than 20% of baseline values will be
      treated with a 3 mg I.V. bolus of ephedrine repeated every 2 min if hypotension persists. If
      hypotension persists after 30 mg ephedrine, additional amounts of Ringer's lactate (5ml/ kg)
      will be infused through the 18 gauge cannula.

      Patients will be asked to report any intraoperative pain or discomfort using visual analog
      scale (VAS) of 0-10.

      After finishing surgery, patients will be transferred to the surgical ICU where they will be
      monitored by an intensivist who will be blinded to the study group.

      Once the patients sent to ICU, both groups will receive 1.5 ml/kg/h of Ringer's lactate
      solution as fluid maintenance. Follow-up will be done for 5 days postoperatively using:

        -  Monitors for HR, SBP, DBP, MBP, SpO2 , respiratory rate and recovery time of motor
           blockade (up to Bromage 2)

        -  Analgesia: paracetamol 1 gm/ 6 hours regularly

        -  Supplemental oxygen will be provided in the first 24 hours after the operation if
           arterial oxygen saturation < 94%.

        -  Early mobilization: will improve oxygenation and respiratory function.

        -  Fluid balance as hypovolemia is common postoperatively and oral fluid intake should be
           encouraged over the intravenous route.

        -  Urinary tract infections (UTI): is common and urinary catheters should be removed as
           soon as possible to reduce the risk of infection and urine output will be collected and
           calculated as [after 12 hours, on day 2 (in 24 hours), 3 (in 24 hours), and 5 (in 24
           hours after surgery]

        -  Routine laboratory investigations as CBC, coagulation profile, electrolytes, blood urea
           and serum creatinine.

        -  Symptoms suggestive of AKI: fatigue, loss of appetite, headache, nausea, vomiting and
           pain in the flanks Patients will be discharged from ICU when hemodynamics are stable and
           laboratory investigations are within normal.
    
  