
    
      Community-acquired pneumonia is a common and potentially serious infection that affects
      children worldwide. The annual incidence of pneumonia in children younger than five years of
      age is 34 to 40 cases per 1000 in Europe and North America, higher than at any other time of
      life [1]. In developing countries, pneumonia is not only more common than it is in the
      developed world (5 to 10% of all children < 5 years old), but also is more severe and is the
      largest cause of death in children [1, 2]. About 20% of deaths in children younger than five
      years of age are attributable to pneumonia (1.9 million deaths per year) [3]. More than 90%
      of these deaths are in resource-poor countries.

      Zinc deficiency is widespread in developing countries and is recognized to impair growth and
      immune function [4]. Andean areas are included in the regions with the highest risk of zinc
      deficiency worldwide [5]. In Ecuador, 33% of children suffer from zinc deficiency. However,
      on the coast of Ecuador, where Guayaquil is located, the prevalence of zinc deficiency is 37%
      based on plasma zinc concentration below 70 micrograms/dl [6]. Stunting, which may result
      from chronic zinc undernutrition is present in 21.9% of children in Guayaquil [7]. In
      addition, in a previous study, we reported low dietary zinc intake in children from 12 to 59
      months [8]. In urban areas of Ecuador, breast-feeding is not widely practiced, which could
      put very young children at risk of zinc deficiency [9]. Zinc is considered the most abundant
      intracellular micronutrient that participates in a wide range of cellular processes and plays
      a central role in the immune response to pathogens [10]. We previously demonstrated that zinc
      supplementation in Ecuadorian children caused an increased response to delayed type
      hypersensitivity tests to multiple pathogen-derived antigens [8].

      There is no data available to determine whether the etiologies of pneumonia are dependent on
      a child´s zinc status. In general, bronchiolitis and upper respiratory tract infections are
      likely to be viral, whereas most cases of severe pneumonia and pneumonia-related deaths are
      more likely to be bacterial [1]. Recently, one in vitro study found that zinc mediates
      antiviral activity on respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), an etiological agent of pneumonia in
      children, by altering the ability of the cell to support RSV replication [11]. If zinc status
      has an influence on the etiology of pneumonia, this suggests that zinc deficiency might be
      associated with a "selective acquired immunodeficiency".

      Meta-analyses have shown that zinc supplementation is useful for diarrhea and pneumonia
      prevention in developing countries [12, 13]. It has been extensively shown that zinc is an
      important adjunct to diarrhea treatment [13]. With regard to pneumonia, only three recent
      studies have reported the use of zinc as an adjunct to antimicrobial treatment for pneumonia
      in children. A clinical study performed in Kolkata, India, in children with acute lower
      respiratory infection who were given zinc supplements, demonstrated a significant reduction
      in the duration of fever and very ill status only in boys, but not in girls [14]. The
      weaknesses of this trial included the small sample size and the fact that the observed
      beneficial effect was based on a subgroup analysis. Another study performed in Vellore,
      India, in a larger group of children younger than 2 years of age, demonstrated that zinc, as
      an adjunct to antimicrobial treatment, did not have an overall effect on the duration of
      hospitalization or clinical signs associated with pneumonia [15]. In addition, Bose et al
      reported that the use of zinc was associated with an increased duration of clinical signs of
      pneumonia. These different findings could be explained by the dissimilarities between both
      geographical locations and mean basal plasma zinc concentrations in these studies (Kolkata:
      63 µg/dl vs. Vellore: 72 µg/dl). Nevertheless, a clinical trial performed in Bangladesh
      reported that the use of zinc as an adjunct to the treatment of severe pneumonia in children
      reduced the duration of clinical manifestations of the disease including chest indrawing,
      tachypnea, hypoxia, and length of hospitalization [16]. This study had a sample size similar
      to the trial in Vellore [15] and thus had adequate power. In summary, there are conflicting
      results on the effect of zinc given during a severe pneumonia episode in young children.
      Pneumonia etiology is one factor that has been extensively discussed as a possible mechanism
      to explain the controversial findings of these studies. Bose et al. suggested that the
      increased duration of pneumonia signs during zinc supplementation might be due to different
      etiologies of pneumonia [15]. Brooks et al. speculated that the observed reductions in
      pneumonia duration might be explained by zinc's role in the acute phase response to pathogens
      [16]. However, at present there is no evidence showing that zinc supplementation has an
      etiology-dependent effect on the clinical evolution of pneumonia. In a recent editorial,
      Hambidge also suggested that the controversial findings from these three studies could be due
      to the basal zinc status of the intervention groups, associated pneumonia pathogens, and age
      of the enrolled children [17].

      Consequently, to clarify the role of zinc in relation to pneumonia, our study will determine
      whether or not a low baseline zinc status is associated with the etiology of pneumonia. This
      potential finding may strengthen the scientific evidence that supports mass population zinc
      supplementation. Furthermore, this study will also establish if zinc used as treatment
      adjunct during a severe pneumonia episode results in more rapid clinical recovery from
      pneumonia. Moreover, our study intends to evaluate the effect of zinc, used as an adjunct to
      the treatment of pneumonia, on the clinical evolution in correlation with the etiology of
      pneumonia in Ecuadorian children when compared to placebo.
    
  