
    
      Therapy with SMOFlipid will be provided at a targeted dose of 3 gm/kg/day (by continuous
      infusion). SMOFlipid will be initiated and advanced according to the following guidelines:
      Day 1 - provide 1 g/kg; Day 2 - provide 2 g/kg; Day 3 - provide 3 g/kg. SMOFlipid will be
      infused intravenously through either a central or peripheral catheter in conjunction with
      parenteral nutrition. The same standards of care provided to all patients receiving
      parenteral nutrition (PN) solution will be followed.

      Essential fatty acid levels will be measured at 4 and 12 weeks after the initiation of
      SMOFlipid. This time frame will be used to assess essential fatty acids of both inpatients
      and outpatients. These labs are clinically indicated; therefore, we will record the results
      of the total fatty acid lipid profile panel from the medical record into our case report
      forms.

      Patients will remain on SMOFlipid until weaned from PN. In the event that a patient who has
      been listed for a liver or liver/intestinal transplant has an organ become available, the
      participation in this protocol will not preclude them from receiving the transplant.
      SMOFlipid will not be administered post transplant.

      If the infant no longer is requiring any PN, then the SMOFlipid will be stopped regardless of
      bilirubin. If the bilirubin is less than 2 mg/dL but the child still requires PN, then the
      SMOFlipid will be continued up until the infant no longer requires PN. The reason for
      stopping SMOFlipid when the infant no longer requires PN is that this would be the only
      reason many infants would still need IV access and therefore the risk of maintaining IV
      access only for the medication is likely to exceed the benefit of SMOFlipid at that point.

      Babies who receive SMOFlipid are not precluded from receiving Omegaven per that compassionate
      use protocol (H-23365) if they meet the inclusion criteria for that protocol.
    
  