
    
      On the first day we will do the following:

        1. We will ask your child to complete standardized tests of language, reading and
           intelligence.

        2. We will ask you child to do computerized tests about grammar and higher mental
           functions, such as memory and planning.

        3. While your child is doing tests, you will fill out some questionnaires and answer some
           questions about your child's health, behavior, and schooling. You may refuse to answer
           any individual question on the questionnaire.

        4. We will review your child's medical records. Medical record review is for review of
           previous MRI scans and other conditions that might affect your child's ability in this
           study.

      All participants will undergo the same cognitive and academic test battery initially at age 6
      and again at age 8 years old.

      On the day of the MRI scanning:

        1. A member of the team will ask you and your child medical information to check that it is
           okay for your child to be tested.

        2. Before your child begins the study, we will ask your child if s/he has had any
           medications, alcohol, tobacco, or over-the-counter drugs recently. If your child is
           taking stimulants for Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder or ADHD (such as Ritalin,
           Concerta, Dexedrine, Adderall), antihistamines, pseudoephedrine or Sudafed, we will ask
           you to hold these medicines 24 hours before the scan. Your child can take them after the
           scan is complete. Deferring stimulants for 24 hours is safe and commonly done by many
           children with ADHD on weekends.

        3. In the fMRI scanner, your child will lay on a table that slides inside the magnet. A
           technician will place your child's head in a head-coil (a helmet-like device) and make
           sure that s/he is comfortable. Your child will hold onto a ball that sounds an alarm
           when squeezed. This is a signal for the technician to stop the scan, come in to talk
           with your child, and take him or her out of the scanner if s/he is unable to continue
           with the tests. We will take pictures of the structure of your child's brain. During
           this time s/he can watch part of a video of his/her choice or one from our video
           library. In order for the brain pictures to come out right, it is very important that
           s/he does not move her/his head while inside the scanner. In between tasks, the
           technician will talk to your child through a microphone and ask if everything is OK.
           Your child should respond in a loud, clear voice without moving his/her head. We hope
           your child can complete the testing. Your child can choose to stop the testing at any
           time s/he needs to. Your child should tell the technician if anything is uncomfortable.
           You may sit in the scanning room if your child wants you to and if you don't have any
           metal in your body or any other MRI exclusions.
    
  