
    
      Overweight in pregnant women increases maternal insulin resistance and risk of adverse
      pregnancy outcomes. Recent evidence from both animal studies and human subject studies shows
      that adverse environmental exposures during pregnancy result in adverse influence on
      offsprings. The hypothesis of the current study is that the healthy intervention during
      pregnancy to overweight pregnant women--low glycemic diet, may improve the maternal and
      neonatal insulin resistance at birth.

      The current study adopts randomized, single-blinded, controlled intervention trial, gives low
      glycemic index diet intervention based on the national diet and physical activity
      recommendations for pregnant women to the intervention group and only national diet
      recommendations to the control group. Four diet consultation interviews will be done,at
      baseline (first prenatal examination), the end of the 1st trimester, the 2nd trimester and
      the 3rd trimester respectively, including diet assessment and diet consultation specifically
      to adopting low glycemic diet. Glycemic load of diet will be calculated based on 24 hour diet
      recall data for each individual at every visit to help to lower their diet glycemic load by
      modifying some daily foods. The effect of intervention is investigated by comparing the
      insulin resistance levels between the two arms at birth and when infants are at age 2. For
      discrete traits, such as incidence of gestational diabetes and gestational hypertension,
      Person's chi-square tests were used. For continuous traits, such as insulin resistance index,
      maternal weight gain and neonatal birth weight, we use t-tests for comparisons between two
      groups. The study expects that long-term low GI diet intervention have beneficial effects on
      controlling maternal and neonatal insulin resistance to overweight women and long term
      health.
    
  