
    
      Study Design This will be a randomized controlled trial.

      Setting Kingston General Hospital is the Regional Trauma and Tertiary Care Center in
      Kingston, Ontario. The Emergency Department sees approximately 56,000 patients annually. It
      is staffed by Emergency Medicine Physicians, and residents in both the FRCP and CCFP-EM
      Emergency Medicine programs, as well as off-service residents.

      Population This study will include a convenience sample of recruitment on weekdays when we
      have research assistance available. Specifically included are emergency department patients
      aged ≥18 years, GCS 15, who at 2300h are deemed likely by study personnel to board in the
      Emergency Department until at least 0700h the following morning while they wait for
      consultant assessments, investigations, or transfers.

      Excluded patients include those previously enrolled in this study or involved in sleep
      research within last month, those who are legally blind or have a history of hearing
      impairment, a documented history of cognitive impairment, a positive delirium screen at
      enrollment, and those with a presenting complaint of head trauma. Also excluded are prisoners
      and those who cannot comprehend English.

      Outcomes The primary outcome will be sleep quality as measured by a modified
      Richards-Campbell Sleep Questionnaire (RCSQ), completed by the patient at the termination of
      intervention.

      Secondary outcomes will include individual sleep domains on the Richards Campbell sleep
      questionnaire (depth, latency, awakenings, percentage time awake, and quality of sleep),
      patient satisfaction, perceived hours of sleep, blood pressure, heart rate, new-onset
      delirium, changes in the patient's sense of being well-rested and changes in the patient's
      overall sense of well-being.

      Randomization Group allocation will be randomized by night, cluster randomization, in an
      effort to decrease contamination between patients enrolled during the same evening. All
      eligible patients will be screened and consented (see Level 1 Information Sheet and Consent),
      with primary information (see Enrollment Questionnaire) completed prior to randomization. A
      sequential opaque envelope, with a tin-foil wrapped allocation card, will then be opened.
      During treatment nights, patients will then be consented to the intervention (see Level 2
      Information Sheet and Consent). Sleep aids will then be distributed to consenting patients
      (see Verbal Instructions at Enrollment). Treatment patients will be reminded to not disclose
      allocation until the last question of the Completion Questionnaire the following morning.
      Night randomization will be randomly permuted to boxes of 6-10. A randomization log will be
      kept and the date will be recorded in the log and on the case report form.

      Patients in both groups will be informed of the randomized nature of the study, and the
      nature of both study groups at the completion of data collection.

      Study procedures and consent Patients will be identified as potentially eligible by a trained
      research staff at 2300h on each day of recruitment. This will be accomplished through
      examination of electronic medical records in the emergency department and discussion with
      treating clinicians. Eligibility will be confirmed with Eligibility Confirmation prior to
      consent.

      This study will employ a two-level consent procedure. This is necessary to avoid a
      measurement bias in patients ultimately randomized to the control group. Many of our outcomes
      are subjective, and patients randomized to the control group (no sleep mask or earplugs)
      might be prone to answer sleep quality and patient satisfaction questions more negatively if
      they gain knowledge that mask and sleep plugs had been available but withheld via the consent
      process.

      Data sources and data collection Outcome data will be collected with the assistance of the
      Research Assistant prior to and at the termination of intervention (including modified-RCSQ
      and satisfaction VAS) and retrospectively (vital signs and overnight, sedating or stimulating
      medications used from the nursing records assessed via electronic medical records).

      Efforts will be made to blind the research staff undertaking the morning measurements to
      study group. The nighttime treating nurse will remove the sleep mask and ear plugs prior to
      leaving at 0700hrs. Data collection will begin at 0800hrs to allow for a 1hr washout in the
      Emergency Department.

      The delirium assessment will be made by the study staff at enrollment and termination of
      intervention (approximately 0700h) via standardized screening protocol (Delirium Triage
      Screen and Brief Confusion Assessment Method from Han, 2013).

      "Nursing interaction" will be quantified at the end of the study period in the morning. We
      define one "Nursing interaction" as a visit to the patient bedside recorded in the electronic
      medical record (EDIS). Typical interventions will include medication delivery, vital sign
      assessment, or responding to a call bell. For example, two medications offered at once will
      count for a single intervention.

      Should a patient leave the Emergency Department prior to collecting outcome data, a research
      staff member will mail the paper-based questionnaire to the patient. This will be followed by
      telephoning the patient once a week for 3 weeks or until their information is returned.

      Emergency Department description: as in similar studies, serial decibel measurements will be
      made in each section of our emergency department on five nights. Each section will be
      represented by a mean dB reading and peak value. Similar measurements for light intensity
      will be made. This will provide comparisons between sections for analysis.

      Statistical Methods

      Analysis plan Baseline characteristics will be summarized by descriptive statistics (e.g.
      mean/SD for continuous variables, count/percent for categorical). The primary analysis will
      be an intension-to-treat analysis. The primary analysis will be unadjusted for patient or
      environmental characteristics. Mean Richards-Campbell Sleep Score will be compared between
      treatment groups using a mixed effects model. Patient and environmental characteristics will
      be compared between groups with descriptive statistics. These characteristics include age,
      gender, pain (as recorded on a visual analogue scale), emergency department location (section
      A, B, C, D, E), the presence of a companion in the room, lighting conditions (lights on/off),
      private room versus multi-patient area versus hallway/non patient area placement, day of week
      and the use of sedatives, home sleep quality, and chronic use of medications and sleep aids
      at home. A sensitivity analysis employing linear regression will be used to explore the
      association between treatment group and Richards-Campbell Sleep Score while controlling for
      these potential confounders. Secondary analysis will include a per-protocol analysis
      including only patients who actually used the ear plugs and sleep mask for >3 hours.

      Power calculation Power calculations have been completed using mean RCSQ scores from previous
      work done in ICU patients (no data were available from patients in the emergency department).
      The mean score in this patient population is 57 +/- 28. For a two-sided alpha=0.05 and a
      power of 80% to detect a 20% difference in mean RCSQ between groups we will need 96 patients
      in each group. Because of the cluster analysis we will increase this to 150 patients in each
      group to account for the possible loss in power.

      Recruitment and timeline This study will be registered on clinicaltrials.gov prior to
      participant enrolment.

      From an informal review of the KGH ED patient census we anticipate there will be
      approximately 7 people waiting for morning imaging or CCAC referrals who could be assessed
      for eligibility. Making a conservative estimate of 4 eligible and consenting patients who
      complete the study per recruiting day, 75 recruiting days are required. Given the convenience
      sample with recruitment on weekdays only, the recruitment phase of the study will require 15
      weeks.
    
  