
    
      This study is a prospective, randomized Phase III intervention study. Following histological
      documentation of the diagnosis by biopsy or resection of an anaplastic astrocytoma or
      glioblastoma, patients will be randomized either to receive postoperative extended-field
      radiotherapy (arm A) or to receive postoperative chemotherapy with temozolomide (arm B).
      Randomization will be done for all sites at the CRO, Alcedis GmbH.

      For patients intending to participate in the study, the procedure is as follows:

        -  Request a reference neuropathological review from the brain tumor reference center in
           Bonn (Prof. Dr. G. Reifenberger) through the local neuropathology department. This
           review need not be present at randomization because anaplastic astrocytoma and
           glioblastoma cases are eligible

        -  Contact: Prof. Dr. W. Wick, Dep. Neurooncology, National Center for Tumor Diseases and
           Neurology Clinic, University of Heidelberg, wolfgang.wick@med.uni-heidelberg.de or CRO:
           Alcedis, Giessen at Alcedis GmbH, I. Helm, Winchester Str. 2, 35394 Gießen, Tel.: 0641
           944360, Fax: 0641 94436 70, E-mail: ihe@alcedis.de

        -  Provide written confirmation that the patient signed the ethics committee-approved
           consent form

        -  Submit the registration form and a copy of the EORTC-QLQ given in Annexes

      In subjects with progressive or recurrent disease, the investigating site will verify whether
      specific tumor treatment is justified. If yes, chemotherapy with temozolomide is recommended
      in arm A, possibly after further surgery. Subjects in arm B will receive radiotherapy,
      possible after further surgery. As all-cause mortality is the primary endpoint, all
      therapeutic measures following first-line therapy should be documented.

      If study treatment is discontinued (first-line therapy) because of progressive disease or if
      progression occurs after completion of study treatment, the pertinent images should be
      submitted to the reference center for neuroradiology in Tübingen for reference review.

      The treatment modalities employed in the study are chemotherapeutic and radiotherapeutic
      procedures licensed in the Federal Republic of Germany for use in human subjects.
      Temozolomide is currently licensed for treating subjects with recurrent disease and since
      2006 in newly diagnosed glioblastoma together with radiotherapy. The time allotted for the
      individual treatment sections is 6 weeks for radiotherapy, while chemotherapy will be
      continued until progression or unacceptable adverse effects occur. The precise chemotherapy
      sequence is shown in the protocol. The criteria for withdrawal from the study are defined in
      in the protocol. Four years is the period scheduled for recruiting all patients.
    
  