
    
      It has been demonstrated a low sensitivity and specificity of HRM for GERD (53.6% and 72.5%
      respectively), since there was a significant overlap between patients and controls in the
      majority of parameters. Masuda et al. attempted to improve HRM accuracy using a comprehensive
      index and new parameters, such as the backflow preventive and promotive pressure through the
      lower esophageal sphincter (LES). Although a significant correlation between reflux burden
      and the new index was found, sensitivity and specificity of HRM for GERD remained unchanged.

      Recently, provocative tests have been added to the standard protocol of HRM studies. Among
      these, a traditional maneuver in water perfused manometry (straight leg raise maneuver, SLR)
      appeared promising in predicting reflux even with HRM.

      A multicenter study with a large number of patients could provide more precise thresholds to
      predict pathologic esophageal acid exposure time and proof of real-life generalizability of
      SLR.

      A thorough clinical evaluation will be performed. GerdQ, GERD Health Related Quality of Life
      (GERD-HRQL) and Reflux Symptom Index (RSI) questionnaires will be administered. HRM will be
      performed according to the standard protocol defined by Chicago Classification 4.0. Upon
      completion of the test, the SLR maneuver will be performed. With the patient in supine
      position, one leg is raised to form an angle of at least 45 degrees with the bed. The patient
      will be asked to keep that position for at least 5 seconds. The maneuver will be repeated
      after 20-30 seconds. The first adequate maneuver will be considered for the study.
      Intra-esophageal and intra-abdominal pressure will be analyzed both during baseline and SLR
      maneuver. Intra-esophageal pressure is measured as peak and mean over 5 seconds, 1 cm and 5
      cm above the proximal margin of the LES. Intra-abdominal pressure will be measured as peak
      and mean over 5 seconds 1 cm below the distal margin of the diaphragm notch.

      Primary aim is to determine the optimal threshold of intra-esophageal pressure augmentation
      during straight leg raise (SLR) maneuver that predicted pathological esophageal acid exposure
      time (AET). Secondary aim is to assess the diagnostic performance of HMR with SRL maneuver in
      patients with GERD symptoms, calculating sensitivity, specificity, false-positive rate (FPR),
      false-negative rate (FNR) and total misclassification rate.

      The Principal Investigator will maintain research data on an encrypted file server with
      access controls only accessible to approved study investigators. Research records will be
      de-identified using coded subject identifiers prior to transfer from sites to the Principal
      Investigator to protect patient confidentiality. Study data will be maintained by the
      Principal Investigator and deleted 3 years after the end of the study.

      Data from each site will be electronically transferred to Principal Investigator. The
      electronic copy will contain no patient identifying data elements such as name, date of
      birth, medical record numbers. Participating institutions will create unique patient
      participant numbers based on a standard formula allocated by Principal investigator (two
      digit institution code, two digit patient identifier, 01-20).
    
  