
    
      The establishment of a biomarker(s) that can predict a clinical response to therapy over the
      course of a 1-2 year clinical trial is critical for the expeditious development of treatments
      for Multiple Sclerosis (MS). Identification of this biomarker would enable shorter and
      smaller clinical trials resulting in the faster development of much needed treatments for MS,
      specifically neuro-reparative therapies. The etiology of disease progression is conduction
      block, demyelination and axonal degeneration. Evoked potentials provide a direct assessment
      of the underlying etiologies of disease progression in MS. They are a functional assessment
      of multiple pathways, including visual, motor and sensory, evaluating the integrity of myelin
      and axons.

      The variability of motor evoked potentials (MEP) measures has limited multimodal evoked
      potential (mmEP) use in international, multicenter clinical trials. MEP evaluation does
      significantly contribute to the predictive value of mmEP's. Recent advances in technology and
      establishment of standardized protocols for MEP reduces the variability associated with this
      procedure. The objective of this study is to evaluate the reliability and feasibility of MEP
      and SSEP in an international, multicenter trial so that mmEP can be further evaluated as a
      biomarker for disease progression. The rationale for this study is to explore the feasibility
      and reliability of MEP's and somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP's) in a multicenter
      clinical trial for potential use as a biomarker that can predict clinical
      progression/improvement in international clinical trials evaluating remyelinating therapies.

      Study Objectives and Endpoints:

      Objective:

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the feasibility and test-retest reliability
      of MEP's and (SSEP's) in a multicenter clinical trial in healthy subjects and subjects with
      MS.

      Endpoints:

      The primary reliability endpoint will be the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) of the
      following evoked potential parameters

      Motor Evoked parameters that will be measured:

        -  MEP latency

        -  Central motor conduction time (CMCT) root latency methods

        -  MEP amplitude

        -  MEP amplitude to compound motor amplitude ratio (MEP-M ratio) for the right and left
           abductor digiti minimi (ADM) and the right and left tibialis anterior (TA)

        -  Somatosensory evoked potential parameters will include Evoked potential latencies for
           both upper and lower limbs bilaterally.

      Study Design:

      This multinational, multicenter study will be conducted in healthy adult volunteers and MS
      patients to establish the feasibility and reliability of mmEP's. A total of 40 subjects, 10
      (5 healthy and 5 MS) from each of the 4 sites will be enrolled.

      The study will consist of two visits, 1-30 days apart, during which subjects will be screened
      to confirm eligibility and will complete all specified study assessments.

      Study Locations:

      Canada, Germany, Switzerland and Italy, with 1 site in each country.

      Number of Planned Subjects:

      A minimum of 40 subjects are planned for this study. Subjects who withdraw from the study
      prior to completion of the second visit may be replaced at the discretion of the
      investigator.

      Study Population:

      This study will be conducted in subjects 25 to 58 years of age, inclusive, who are either
      healthy volunteers (HV) or have been diagnosed with clinically definite MS who have a
      detectable lesion by MEP or SSEP.

      Study Groups:

      Two groups, healthy volunteers and clinically definite MS will be included.

      Duration of Study Participation:

      Study duration for each subject will be two visits, the second visit schedule >24 hours-30
      days from the first visit

      Criteria for Evaluation:

      Key Study Assessments:

      Electrophysiological. MEP's and SSEPs will be measured in both upper and lower limbs
      bilaterally. All studies will be read locally and reviewed by a blinded reader at another
      center. The ICC of every measured evoked potential parameter will be determined on both the
      central and local reads.
    
  