
    
      Perineal trauma at the time of vaginal delivery is a significant cause of maternal morbidity
      including vaginal pain, dyspareunia, urinary incontinence, infection, and social isolation in
      severe cases. There are well known risk factors in the literature for OASIS (obstetric anal
      sphincter injuries), however, this literature is by no means comprehensive. A prior RCT in
      2012 looked at the role of patient positioning at the time of pushing and delivery to
      determine whether stirrup positioning and forced hip flexion leads to higher rates of any
      perineal tears. The study concluded that stirrup positioning did not lead to higher rates of
      perineal tearing but was not powered to evaluate the role of positioning on OASIS tears or on
      postpartum perineal morbidity.

      In addition to lacking data with respect to patient positioning, data is limited regarding
      perineal morbidity beyond the traditional grading system of 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th degree
      tears. 3rd and 4th degree lacerations are labeled as OASIS, however, perineal morbidity can
      result from "lower" orders of perineal tearing at the time of delivery. Prior studies have
      tried to illustrate various subsets of second degree lacerations in an attempt to subdivide
      2nd degree lacerations into categories of severity, however, little has been done in practice
      with this form of division and little is written on the topic of perineal morbidity beyond
      OASIS tears.

      It is common practice for practitioners to instruct patients to flex the hips at the time of
      delivery of the fetal vertex. Though this is commonplace, it is reasonable to assume that
      this stretching of the perineum at the time of fetal vertex emergence could potentially lead
      to higher rates of severe lacerations and their sequelae. The closest studies to examine this
      have been in comparing women who deliver in the squatting position compared to in lithotomy.
      Those who deliver in squatting positions have been found to have deeper perineal lacerations,
      which demonstrate the possibility that forced flexion at the hips could lead to the same
      outcome in the lithotomy position. Should research show an increased risk of morbidity with
      this near universal positioning practice as compared to hip extension, this study could
      change practice patterns for the betterment of patients worldwide.
    
  