
    
      Most cases of familial glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid deficiency are caused by
      mutations interrupting steroidogenesis such as 21- hydroxylase deficiency. Recently,
      nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase (NNT) mutations were found to cause isolated
      glucocorticoid deficiency or combined mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid deficiency through
      decreased detoxification of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in adrenocortical cells.

      NNT mutation in mice causes also glucose intolerance. Ascorbic acid is an essential
      water-soluble vitamin with excellent reducing properties, well known by its high antioxidant
      activity due to the neutralization of free radicals and other reactive oxygen species. This
      vitamin acts as the first line of defense during oxidative stress in the human body.

      Ascorbic acid treatment for variant disease (e.g. - cancer, type 2 diabetes, anxiety,
      depression, asthma and cardiovascular diseases) have been meticulously studies with no major
      adverse effects.

      In a previous study, the investigators demonstrated a higher ROS levels, a lower ATP content
      and a change in mitochondrial morphology in NNT_p.G200S homozygous fibroblasts compared with
      control fibroblasts.

      Preliminary results of NNT_p.G200S homozygous fibroblasts' treatment with 10 micro molar
      L-ascorbic acid shows significant improvement in mitochondrial morphology and in ROS content.

      The aim of this study is to figure out if ascorbic acid treatment improves the phenotype of
      NNT patients by reducing ROS in their adrenocortical cells and preventing their apoptosis.

      During the study NNT_p.G200S homozygous patients (no.-3) will be hospitalised for ACTH and
      OGTT tests and start ascorbic acid treatment at a doses of 75-80% of the upper limit of
      allowance according to IOM. ACTH and OGTT will be repeated 6 months later to assess
      improvement in glucocorticoids production and insulin resistance.
    
  