
    
      Breast cancer treatment-related lymphedema (swelling) is an incurable, chronic condition
      experienced by a significant percentage of breast cancer survivors. It has many associated
      symptoms, negatively impacts quality of life (QOL), and increases health care costs. As with
      other chronic diseases, such as diabetes, life-long self-care is required. No objective
      measurement mechanism exists that can easily be used to self-monitor arm volume, a key
      self-care outcome. Those with lymphedema are forced to rely on visual recognition of
      increasing volume to know if their self-care is effective and when to seek treatment. Timely
      recognition of worsening swelling is believed to result in better patient outcomes; however,
      substantial volume increases often occur before observable changes are noted and this window
      of opportunity is missed. Many with lymphedema only seek care when they have developed
      infection in the swollen limb.

      The inability to objectively monitor arm volume on a regular basis likely results in
      discomfort, poorer QOL, and increased health care costs.The broad, long-term objective of
      this application is to develop a method for monitoring arm lymphedema that can be used at
      home to improve lymphedema self-management and patient outcomes. To accomplish this, the
      investigators will conduct a two-phase, translational pilot study to explore the use of a
      hand-held bioelectrical impedance device as an arm volume self-measurement method.

      The purpose of Phase 1 is to develop a bioelectrical impedance self-measurement protocol.
      Healthy volunteers (n=11) and individuals with lymphedema (n=11) will be in Phase 1 (protocol
      development). This will take place in laboratory and home settings. This Phase is not
      interventional and is not detailed in this posting.

      The purpose of Phase 2 is to compare self-care activities and health and economic outcomes
      between breast cancer survivors with lymphedema following the self-monitoring protocol
      developed in Phase 1 and breast cancer survivors with lymphedema not on protocol (n=42).The
      protocol will be field-tested by breast cancer survivors with lymphedema in Phase 2 (a two
      group randomized clinical trial). One group will self-measure with impedance at home for
      three months, weekly record self-care activities, and will complete follow-up assessments.
      The other group will mirror Group 1 except for impedance measurements. This is an
      interventional study and is presented as such in this clinical trial posting.
    
  