
    
      The Age Related Eye Disease Study 2 (AREDS2) was a multicenter Phase III randomized clinical
      trial designed to assess the effects of oral supplementation of high doses of macular
      xanthophylls (lutein and zeaxanthin) and/or omega-3 LCPUFAs as a treatment for age-related
      macular degeneration (AMD), cataract and moderate vision loss. In addition to this objective,
      the study provided information on the clinical course, prognosis, and risk factors for
      development and progression of both AMD and cataract. Other study goals included the
      evaluation of eliminating beta-carotene and/or reducing zinc in the original AREDS
      formulation on the progression and development of AMD. AREDS2 also sought to validate the
      fundus photographic AMD scale developed from AREDS.

      Inclusion criteria in AREDS2 resulted in the enrollment of participants with intermediate
      AMD, defined by the presence of large drusen, with and without additional pigmentary changes.
      Owing to the longitudinal nature of AREDS2 study, anatomical features of AMD in study
      participants can be monitored and characterized as a function of time to further understand
      the steps in AMD progression. Spectral domain OCT (SDOCT) is a non-invasive imaging
      technology that has the speed and resolution to image fine structures such as drusen and the
      photoreceptor layers. With annotation and processing of three-dimensional SDOCT scans, focal
      AMD pathology such as drusen can be mapped and monitored over time. The AREDS2 Ancillary
      SDOCT Study (A2A SDOCT) added the use of novel higher resolution three-dimensional OCT
      retinal imaging at four AREDS2 study centers to examine 400 of the participants in the AREDS2
      clinical trial.

      The purpose of this ancillary AREDS2 study (study acronym: A2A_SDOCT) is to identify whether
      measurable AMD pathology (drusen, photoreceptor layer thickness, early findings of geographic
      atrophy (GA) or neovascularization) imaged by spectral domain optical coherence tomography
      (SDOCT) can predict progression of AMD and vision loss. The A2A_SDOCT study began as an
      ancillary AREDS2 study; however AREDS2 had stopped gathering participant data on October 31,
      2012 and will be terminated soon. This extension study is needed to complete the AREDS2
      dataset by collecting images at one or two additional time points, as the study started over
      a year behind the AREDS2 study. The data collection period for the extension will end April
      30, 2014. Data analysis will conclude by October 31, 2014. All AREDS2 study procedure
      guidelines for data collection will be followed, as described below, even though this visit
      falls outside the AREDS2 study timeline.
    
  