
    
      Preventing the development of pressure wounds in patients and preventing staff injuries and a
      safe work environment has been an ongoing effort at Christiana Care Health System (CCHS).
      Skin damage on hospitalized patients can be devastating. Not only does it increase patient's
      hospital stay, but it also causes pain and affects patients quality of life and subsequently
      costs. One practice in prevention and treatment of wounds is the use of pressure reducing,
      relieving or pressure redistribution surfaces (mattresses) and repositioning devices
      (electric lifts). Manufacturers of mattresses emphasize the need to limit layers between
      surface (mattress) and the patient.

      Safe work environments focus on programs that help to ensure the prevention of work related
      injuries. Injury prevention programs have focused on equipment to eliminate manual lifting in
      an effort to decrease staff injuries from patient transfers and repositioning. Part of this
      practice is to leave the sling under the patient in order to reduce the amount of times staff
      are manually repositioning or turning the patient. With an increasing patient population that
      is either obese or extremely obese (bariatric patients) positioning and lifting equipment
      need to manage large weight limits. In response, manufacturers have constructed slings with
      increased fabric strength to handle heavier patients. There is concern that the newer sling
      fabrics may interfere with the low airloss and pressure redistribution purpose of mattresses.
      Information from this study may help in making slings with materials that can support higher
      weights while not causing any added skin problems.

      A convenience sample of 240 adult patients meeting the study criteria will be recruited from
      the inpatient units at Wilmington Hospitaland Christiana Hospital for this comparison study.
      After obtaining informed consent, subjects will be randomized by a member of the study team
      to one of six groups, yielding 40 subjects per group. Groups will be assigned as follows

        -  Supine and with sling

        -  30 degrees HOB (Head of bed)elevation without leg elevation and with sling

        -  30 degrees HOB elevation with 10 degrees leg elevation and with sling

        -  Supine and without sling

        -  30 degrees HOB elevation without leg elevation and without sling

        -  30 degrees HOB elevation with 10 degrees leg elevation and without sling

      Study Methodology

      Staff nurses will identify patients who need use of a sling for transfers and repositioning
      and contact the research team.

      A member of the research team will determine patient eligibility, obtain informed consent,
      and collect demographic information such as

        -  age

        -  height

        -  weight

        -  BMI, (Body Mass Index)

        -  gender

        -  race

        -  Braden score, a list of risk factors in determining potential skin breakdown

        -  diagnosis

        -  activity level

      Once consented, the patients sacral skin temperature and skin pH will be measured using a
      thermometer and nitrazine paper and a control measurement of both temperature and pH will be
      taken on anterior thigh.

      The X sensor or pressure mapping system, will be placed directly under the patient for
      patients randomized to the no sling groups. For patients randomized to the sling groups, the
      sling will be placed between the X sensor and the patient. The use of incontinence pads, etc.
      if needed, will be limited to one and will be noted on data collection tool.

      Pressure mapping, temperature and pH will be recorded at one minute baseline and at 20
      minutes. Pressure mapping over the sacral area will be recorded and will include the highest,
      lowest and average measurements.

      Data Analysis

      The proposed study will have three dependent variables:

        -  pressure

        -  temperature

        -  pH.

      All three dependent variables will be on the ratio scales of measure. The goal of the study
      is to test the null hypothesis that the three dependent variables are equal among six
      conditions. Subjects will be randomly assigned to the six conditions. Each of the dependent
      variables will be collected twice. Therefore, the study will incorporate one between subjects
      factor, condition and one within subjects factor, time period. The between subjects factor
      will have six levels and the within subjects factor will have two levels.

      The traditional approach to analyzing data from the proposed research design is a univariate,
      repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA). Increasingly, random effects or RE models are
      being employed with data from repeated measures designs (Hedeker & Gibbons, 1997 and Singer
      and Willett, 2003). RE models offer two important advantages over ANOVA, (Raudenbush and
      Bryk, 2002). First, unequal samples sizes such as occurs with missing data do not present the
      difficulties they impose for ANOVA. Second, it is easy to specify complex models that include
      multiple random effects. The proposed research model is straightforward and there are only
      two time periods where data will be collected. In such instances, a third alternative is
      available: a multivariate repeated measures ANOVA (Tabachnick & Fidell, 2006). Like RE
      models, the multivariate approach is robust to violations of the sphericity assumption
      (Stevens, 2002). Unlike RE models, the analysis is straight forward and results are
      interpreted according to traditional ANOVA conventions, a time effect, a group effect, and a
      group by time interaction, which makes them understandable to a wider audience (Maxwell and
      Delaney 2004). Consequently, data for the proposed study will be analyzed using the
      multivariate repeated measures ANOVA.

      A priori power was estimated for the three, multivariate repeated measures ANOVA for each
      dependent variable in the study. The proposed analyses will use a two tailed alpha levels set
      to .05. Overall power was set to .80, meaning the study will have an 80 percent probability
      of finding a significant difference if such differences exist in the population. Equal sample
      sizes are assumed. The power analysis concentrated on the multivariate group by time
      interaction because it usually is the least powerful element in a repeated measures ANOVA
      (Field, 2005 and Wickens and Keppel, 2004). A medium effect size is anticipated Cohens 1988 f
      = .25. In addition, a drop out rate of 20 percent is expected. Results show an overall sample
      size of 240 will be required, 40 subjects per group. This sample size was selected as the
      smallest sample that would be important to detect.
    
  