
    
      This study is an open-label short-term proof of concept study. The investigators will
      administer pramlintide to patients with severe post-prandial hypoglycemia following gastric
      bypass, in order to determine whether pramlintide is effective in reducing the frequency or
      severity of hypoglycemia. Pramlintide will be prescribed for 8 weeks. In order to assess the
      efficacy of pramlintide to prevent post-prandial hypoglycemia and hypoglycemic symptoms, the
      investigators will compare (a) blood glucose measurements and frequency of hypoglycemic
      symptoms, before and at the end of the drug intervention, using both capillary glucose
      monitoring and continuous glucose monitoring, and (b) glycemic, hormonal, and energetic
      responses to a three-hour mixed meal tolerance test.

      The study will utilize an open label design to evaluate the efficacy of pramlintide in
      patients who have had gastric bypass and have severe postprandial hypoglycemia. The study
      will not be randomized or blinded. The investigators will recruit 26 participants from Joslin
      Diabetes Center.

      Briefly, participants in this study will be asked to complete 4 study visits. The first visit
      will be for screening. They will then be asked to keep a 3-day log in which they record food
      intake (including estimated portion sizes), blood glucoses eight times daily, as well as any
      hypoglycemic symptoms, before they initiate treatment. At a second study visit, they will
      undergo a mixed meal tolerance test, which will serve as a baseline evaluation. Patterns of
      (a) glucose excursions (initial postprandial peak, subsequent postprandial fall and potential
      hypoglycemia), and (b) hormonal responses (insulin, C-peptide, glucagon, incretins) will be
      assessed. At the end of the mixed meal, satiety will be assessed using a visual analog scale.
      Baseline hypoglycemia frequency and severity will be assessed by reviewing patient glucose
      and hypoglycemia symptom log recorded prior to the visit.

      At the completion of visit 2, pramlintide will be prescribed, with instructions for titration
      of the drug from minimal to maximal dose (see titration schedule below) to help reduce the
      incidence of side effects. During the treatment period, the participants will keep a record
      of all hypoglycemic symptoms and blood glucose measurements at those times.

      There will be one follow-up visit (visit 3) in the middle of the treatment period for
      evaluation of symptoms and tolerance of medication. During the last (eighth) week of
      treatment, for comparison with pre-treatment glycemia, participants will again complete a
      food diary, and measure and record blood glucoses eight times daily for 3 days. During that
      final week of the study, participants will also come to a fourth study visit, during which
      they will undergo a repeat mixed meal tolerance test for comparison with the pre-treatment
      results.
    
  