
    
      The investigators will conduct a cluster randomized trial to compare the effect of electronic
      messaging and education (i.e., usual care) versus a multi-pronged "high touch" intervention
      to reduce vaccine hesitancy in skilled nursing facility (SNF) staff and residents among a
      random sample of facilities across four SNF chains. This will be a cluster randomized trial
      where the intervention is applied at the facility level. The primary interest is the effect
      of this intervention on SNFs that are characterized by having a relatively high proportion of
      residents who are Black or Latinx. The four SNF chains that have been selected have already
      given assent to participate in this trial. The facilities will then be stratified into three
      categories based on racial composition of residents:

        1. < 25% Black and Latinx residents

        2. 25-40% Black and Latinx residents

        3. > 40% Black and Latinx residents

      Facilities will undergo constrained randomization within each chain and stratum to ensure
      that the proportion of Black and Latinx residents is balanced across the intervention arms. A
      total of 60 SNFs will be randomized to the intervention, allocated proportionally across the
      strata. The SNFs that were removed due to institutional instability will be compared
      separately to the control arm to assess potential bias due to selection into the study. Staff
      in facilities randomized to intervention arm will be informed by corporate leadership that
      they will be participating in a program to maximize COVID 19 vaccination among staff and
      residents. They will not be informed that this is part of a trial. Individual SNFs will be
      randomized to the intervention or usual care; randomization will be stratified by chain and
      by the proportion of minority residents based on three groups: <25%, 25%-40%, >40%. The
      research implementation team will not be masked to facility assignment. However, the PIs, the
      lead statistician, and programmers will be masked.

      All SNFs in the four chains are prepared to receive electronic messaging and educational
      material (i.e., usual care) through the American Health Care Association (AHCA). Within the
      four SNF chains that have agreed to participate in the trial, the investigators will ask the
      CEOs if there are any facilities that should be excluded due to leadership instability or
      other inability to participate in the multi-pronged intervention. Remaining facilities will
      be randomized to additionally receive the multi-pronged intervention versus continuing usual
      care.

      The entire trial will take place over 11-15 weeks: each facility in the high touch
      intervention will be involved in approximately 1-3 week start up activities, 6-8 weeks of
      vaccine administration (three scheduled deliveries for vaccine approximately 3-4 weeks a
      part), and 4 weeks of data collection. Facilities in the usual care group will follow the
      same timeline for enrollment and data collection. During the start-up period in the high
      touch facilities, the research team works with the leadership and opinion leaders in each SNF
      to optimize program roll-out within each unique environment.

      Among four SNF chains, the research team will randomize eligible facilities to receive an
      additional "high touch" intervention. These high touch facilities will receive the electronic
      messaging and educational material described above. In addition, these facilities will work
      with the research team on the following:

        1. Facility Opinion Leader. At each intervention facility, the research team will work with
           the facility administration to identify local opinion leaders among nursing assistants
           (NA), nursing, dietary, and housekeeping. The opinion leaders will participate in the
           following activities: 1) Participate in an initial informational meeting with the
           research team and other facility opinion leaders; 2) Identify a local champion who could
           help participate in educational materials; 3) Participate in the social media messaging
           described in the Electronic Messaging section above; 4) Engage the research team for
           support and problem solving.

           The research team will invite all of the opinion leaders to participate in a one hour
           virtual informational meeting with members of the research team and other facility
           leaders. Meetings will be organized by discipline (e.g., nursing, dietary) and SNF
           chain. The research team will offer a few make-up sessions for staff who are unable to
           attend. During these meetings, basic information on vaccine safety and efficacy will be
           covered, leaving the majority of time for an open question and answer session. These
           sessions will NOT be recorded. Opinion leaders who participate in these meetings will be
           given a gift card for their time.

           Our research team will provide opinion leaders with direct contact information (email
           and phone number) of the research team so that they may ask questions during
           implementation. Insight Therapeutics will also work to identify a support team that can
           offer guidance and problem solve during implementation.

        2. Consenting Specialist. Through Insight Therapeutics, the research team will employ
           external staff members to facilitate the clinical consent for vaccination process. Each
           facility will make up to ten referrals of residents who were not vaccinated during the
           first of the three available vaccine dates to the consenting specialists. Consenting
           specialists will contact each proxy, review risks and benefits of the vaccine, and
           answer questions. The research team will provide a 1-800 number for proxies who have
           additional questions/hesitancy and will offer a group Zoom call for interested proxies
           to review risks and benefits. As indicated, this consenting process will be a clinical
           consent for the vaccination itself - not a study-specific informed consent process to
           participate in research. The investigators are seeking a waiver of informed consent for
           the overall intervention study.

        3. Building Trust Locally. The facility opinion leaders will be encouraged to identify well
           respected persons in the community (e.g., minister, teacher, government leader) who are
           willing to provide a message promoting trust in the vaccine. Through Insight
           Therapeutics, the research team will reach out to these leaders and coordinate the video
           messages and implementation plan. Messages will be distributed widely within a facility
           by email, website, text and/or social media. Further, the research team will prepare the
           community leaders to serve as an additional support for the facility opinion leaders
           during implementation.

        4. Positive Reinforcement. The research team will create and distribute buttons, T-shirts,
           and masks that promote awareness about vaccination (e.g., Ask me about the COVID-19
           vaccine! OR Vaccinated for You!). These items will be distributed through facility
           leadership at each facility, with recommendations to give each staff member these
           goodies when vaccinated.

        5. Testing Supplies. The research team will provide funds to each facility in the high
           touch intervention arm, that the facility may use to acquire additional COVID-19 testing
           kits. This will enable frequent testing of any residents and staff that experience
           symptoms following vaccination. Given the cost of most point-of-care testing kits, these
           funds will support the cost of approximately 200 test kits. The research team will
           suggest that facilities follow the CDC recommendations for testing following
           vaccination. The research team will additionally facilitate kits for facilities that are
           experiencing difficulty securing the test kits.

      The high touch intervention will be implemented in two waves. The first cycle of vaccine
      administration, the research team will focus on identifying opinion leaders and positive
      reinforcement. During the second round, the research team will add building trust locally, a
      consenting specialist, and testing supplies.

      Nursing home data are collected prior to the start of the study for descriptive purposes and
      to inform the development of a list of eligible facilities for recruitment. These include
      elements from Nursing Home Compare, including: the number of beds, hospital-based, special
      care dementia unit, nursing and nursing assistant hours/resident/day, and number of
      deficiencies on state inspections.

      Resident data is already being collected for all facilities within the four chains as part of
      the RADx-UP supplement. Existing data transfer agreements from all four chains have been
      signed and authorized. The research team plans to use data from the electronic medical
      record, as well as data from the Minimum Data Set (MDS) for this study. Resident
      characteristics will be obtained during baseline only (that is during the 3 months before the
      vaccine is first delivered to the facility) whereas vaccination data will be obtained during
      the 6-8 weeks of implementation and 4 weeks of follow-up. Resident and outcome data will be
      aggregated at the level of the facility.

      The hypothesis that will be tested is whether facilities that receive the high touch
      multi-pronged intervention will achieve a greater number of staff and residents vaccinated as
      compared with facilities randomized to usual care. The research team will use an
      intention-to-treat approach as the primary analytic approach, including all facilities that
      were randomized to the intervention regardless of implementation of the intervention
      components. Additional exploratory analyses will estimate a complier average causal effect to
      assess the effect of the intervention on those SNFs who fully engage in the intervention. A
      similar approach will be used to determine the effect of the high touch intervention on staff
      vaccination.

      The logistic model described for the primary analysis will be extended to include race and
      ethnicity indicators as well as interaction terms, to better understand if the treatment
      effect is heterogeneous across different subgroups of residents.
    
  