
    
      Within 4 weeks of completing screening assessments to determine eligibility, subjects will be
      enrolled in the study. The study will be conducted in two parts.

      Part 1: After screening, all subjects will be followed for two weeks without modification of
      their baseline medical or dietary care.

      Part 2: Beginning at Week 2, subjects who were receiving non-registered formulations of BH4
      at enrollment will suspend this treatment and within one day will start Phenoptin at
      approximately the same dose of the non-registered BH4 formulation. Subjects not receiving BH4
      at enrollment will begin treatment with Phenoptin at approximately 5 mg/kg/day, given orally,
      prior to meals.

      At the discretion of the Investigator, the Phenoptin dose may be adjusted up or down at the
      Week 6 visit to control blood Phe levels (<360 µmol/L), or to optimize the clinical effect.
      The maximum dose allowed will be approximately 20 mg/kg/day. All subjects will receive
      Phenoptin for a total of 8 weeks. Subjects will be instructed to continue their usual diet
      without modification. Study visits will occur every other week.

      Tyrosine, biopterin and neopterin will be analyzed at the following visits: Week 0
      (enrollment), Week 2 (prior to dosing with Phenoptin), Week 8 (after 6 weeks of treatment
      with Phenoptin) and Week 10 (after 8 weeks of treatment with Phenoptin).During each visit,
      blood Phe level will be measured (2.5-5 hours after a meal), and safety evaluations will be
      performed. Safety will be assessed by monitoring adverse events and vital signs, performing
      physical examinations, assessing signs and symptoms of primary BH4 deficiency (i.e.,
      neurological symptoms such as seizures, changes in muscle tone, weakness, etc.) and clinical
      laboratory tests (chemistry, hematology and urinalysis).

      Extension: Upon completion of 8 weeks of treatment (i.e., at the Week 10 visit), subjects
      will be offered the option to continue treatment with Phenoptin in an extension of this
      study. Participation in the study extension will continue until one of the following occurs:

        1. the subject withdraws consent and discontinues from the study,

        2. the subject is discontinued from the study at the discretion of the investigator,

        3. the study drug is available through the appropriate marketing approval, or

        4. the study is terminated.

      During the extension period, study drug will be dispensed to subjects monthly, and study
      visits will be required every 3 months. The Phenoptin dose may be adjusted at any visit
      during the study extension at the discretion of the Investigator. The maximum dose allowed
      will be approximately 20 mg/kg/day.
    
  