
    
      RATIONALE: In June 2006, the American Society of Clinical Oncology published a series of
      recommendations on fertility preservation for patients with cancer, concluding that "To
      preserve the full range of options, fertility preservation, approaches should be considered
      as early as possible during treatment planning". These guidelines reflect the greater
      attention that has been given in recent years to the fertility complications that can occur
      as a result of cancer treatment (eg, chemotherapies and radiation).

      Different cancer treatments such as cytotoxic therapy can lead to azoospermia and sterility
      for an unknown period. Whether the type of cancer significantly affects semen quality or not
      is under debate. In some studies, semen quality of cancer patients did not differ
      significantly from those without, but other studies have indicated a significant decrease in
      sperm quality in some malignancies such as testicular cancer and Hodgkin. Fertility and
      reproductive function are the principal concerns in 80% of successfully treated men with
      cancer. Although cancer survivors can become parents by adoption or gamete donation, most
      would prefer to have biologic parenthood and biologically related children.

      POPULATION: Adult and post-pubertal males, 13 years of age or older, presenting to our clinic
      because diagnosed with cancer, who wish to preserve their future fertility. If minors,
      parents or guardians have to give consent to the procedure while the boys give their assent.

      DESIGN: This is a prospective observational cohort study.

      PROCEDURES: Subject Recruitment and Screening Subjects will be recruited by referral from the
      Memphis area cancer centers and physicians whose patients express the desire to have
      pre-treatment sperm cryopreservation. Minors will be recruited by referral from the St. Jude
      Children's Research Hospital (SJCRH) and Methodist-Le Bonheur physicians. These subjects will
      undergo an informed consent process in accordance with University of Tennessee Health Science
      Center and SJCRH Institutional Review Board. If the five years of storage are up before
      subjects are ready to claim it, it will be their responsibility to keep the account open by
      paying a fee of about $300.00 per any additional year in storage. If they withdraw from the
      study before the five years are up, they will be free to claim the sperm from storage or to
      leave it there until the five years are up. Afterwards, they will be responsible for the
      annual fees.

      Long term Semen Freezing :

      After freezing, sperm samples will be sent to FairFax Cryobank in Austin, Texas for long-term
      storage. A storage agreement plan has been pre-arranged with FairFax and University of
      Tennessee Medical Group.

      Follow-up clinical information will be collected only when patients return for fertility
      treatment, if coming to our facility.

      No follow-up evaluation will be performed if the patients decide to have their specimens
      shipped to their new hometown or fertility clinic. However, patients will be asked to contact
      the investigators regarding their serum/tissue sample use and fertility outcomes. If no
      contact in this regard is made, patients will be re-contacted by the investigators once every
      year, if at that time they are 18 years old, or older, and if the five-year storage has
      expired.
    
  