
    
      Veterans shoulder a disproportionate burden of obesity and its co-morbidities, including
      diabetes, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. Modest weight loss in obese patients through diet
      and exercise improves health and prevents chronic disease, but primary care providers (PCPs)
      often fail to adequately counsel patients about their weight due to lack of time and
      training. Thus, tools and brief interventions are needed to support providers' behavior
      change counseling. The VA currently offers the MOVE! program to treat overweight and obese
      patients, but only 9% of eligible patients attend. At the same time, Veterans on average see
      their PCPs 3.6 times per year, which supports the importance of developing primary care
      (PC)-based interventions. The United States Preventive Services Task force (USPSTF)
      recommends the use of the 5As framework (Assess, Advise, Agree, Assist, Arrange [5A]) for
      counseling patients about weight.

      Interactive behavior change technologies utilizing expert system software programs are an
      innovative way to facilitate 5As counseling to promote behavior change in primary care. These
      programs perform computerized risk, lifestyle, and theory- based, behavioral assessment to
      provide computer-generated, tailored advice to patients. They also can provide information to
      healthcare teams.

      Collaborative goal setting can be used to achieve behavior change in this intervention. This
      construct, a critical component of several behavior change theories and models and
      corresponding to "agree" in the 5As model, has been widely recommended for health promotion
      in primary care. Investigators did formative work using key informant interviews with several
      VA Patient Aligned Care Teams (PACT), MOVE! staff, and focus groups with Veterans
      demonstrated that goal setting is feasible and acceptable to patients and PACT teamlets, and
      provided insight on barriers to goal setting, and ways to facilitate goal-setting
      conversations.

      During the development phase of this project, investigators developed a primary care-based
      intervention called MOVE! Toward Your Goals (MTG) to facilitate weight management within
      primary care and increase adoption of intensive VA programs such as MOVE!. The MTG
      intervention uses a new MTG software tool (that the investigators developed) delivered on
      tablets to facilitate 5As-based weight management counseling with a health coach and
      healthcare team to promote goal-setting, behavior change, and weight loss in the primary care
      setting. The Veteran also receives follow up with 12 health coaching calls over 1 year.

      Investigators will conduct a large, multicenter (Manhattan and Brooklyn campuses, New York
      Harbor Healthcare System) randomized controlled trial of 320 subjects, who will be randomized
      to receive either Enhanced Usual Care or the MTG Intervention.

      The objectives of this study are to: (a) test the impact of the MTG intervention on weight
      and behavior changes; (b) identify predictors of weight loss in Veterans who use goal setting
      techniques; and (c) determine the impact of the MTG intervention on primary care team
      obesity-related counseling practices and attitudes.
    
  