
    
      Study Design: A block randomised, cross-over design of 24h rates of bone turnover in healthy,
      post-menopausal women with osteopenia receiving either a milk-based protein supplement (MBPS)
      or isoenergetic placebo control (PLACEBO).

      Participants: 16 Post-menopausal women with osteopenia as determined by site-specific bone
      mineral density BMD (DXA) diagnosed and screened by a clinician and for dietary intake of
      calcium and Vit D by a clinical dietitian.

      Subject screening (clinical examination) and dietary intake of calcium and Vit D (by food
      frequency questionnaire) will precede the experimental protocol.

      Experimental protocol and data collection:

      Subjects will attend for a 2 day and 2 night (overnight) residence equipped to conduct
      residential human trials.

      The subjects' programmed protocol is as follows;

        1. Arrive @ 17:00h with overnight bag;

        2. Empty bladder and then provide and retain urine samples for the duration of the stay
           (assisted collection by researchers);

        3. Consume a standardised evening meal (pre-prepared by the research dietitian) and then
           relax reading/watching films etc;

        4. At 20:00h a research nurse will insert a cannula into a superficial arm vein and a blood
           draw (5ml) will be taken and processed for later analysis;

        5. Further blood draws (5ml) will be taken at 22:00h, 2300h, 2400h,0100h and 0200h and the
           cannula withdrawn;

        6. At 22:00h consume either placebo control (PLACEBO) (day 1) OR supplement (MBPM)(day 2) -
           or vice versa - in randomised order.

        7. Retire to bedroom;

        8. Consume a standardised breakfast and lunch (pre-prepared by the research dietitian)
           whilst living in and around the University grounds (i.e. in close proximity to ensure
           24h urine collection is complete);

        9. Repeat from 2 above to end of 2nd day.
    
  