
    
      Rural Native American (NA) communities experience disproportionate disease burden compared to
      other US populations, with poor indoor air quality resulting from in-home biomass smoke
      exposures (residential wood stoves) a likely contributor to these health burden
      discrepancies. Epidemiological studies support the etiological association between indoor
      biomass smoke exposure and several domains of global disease burden, particularly with
      respect to pediatric respiratory tract infections and adult chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD) and chronic bronchitis. Elderly populations are particularly susceptible to
      chronic respiratory conditions, and declining pulmonary function is associated with increased
      morbidity and mortality. Randomized trials in developing countries have demonstrated the
      impact that improved cookstove technologies have in reducing biomass smoke exposures and
      children's risk of acute respiratory infection. However limited knowledge is available
      regarding the potential improvements in NA elderly populations following wood stove
      interventions.

      Today, a critical need exists for efficient community-based interventions aimed at promoting
      healthy indoor environments in at-risk communities. Financial and logistical barriers that
      currently exist in rural and economically disadvantaged NA communities prohibit the
      implementation and sustainability of many environmental health interventions. Regarding wood
      stoves, qualitative input from experts and Native communities underscores the need for
      innovative low-cost, sustainable interventions targeting the reduction of in-home biomass
      smoke exposures. In this proposal, investigators will test community-level and
      education-based household-level strategies aimed at promoting and implementing best-burn
      practices to improve air quality and respiratory health in at-risk elderly populations.

      This proposal represents a multidisciplinary collaboration between university and tribal
      stakeholders from two Native American Reservations to develop, adapt, implement, and evaluate
      a two-level intervention to reduce exposure to indoor biomass smoke and improve respiratory
      health among elderly tribal members. Community-based participatory research techniques will
      be used to adapt intervention approaches to meet the cultural context of each participating
      community. At the community level, investigators will facilitate local development of tribal
      agency-led wood yard and distribution programs ensuring that elderly and/or persons with need
      have access to dry wood for heating. With community advisory guidance, investigators will use
      a three arm randomized placebo-controlled intervention trial to implement and assess
      education on best burn practices (Tx1) at the household level. This educational intervention
      will be evaluated against an indoor air filtration unit arm (Tx2), as well as a placebo arm
      (Tx3, sham air filters). Tx3 will be used in comparison with the other two treatment arms to
      evaluate the penetration and efficacy of the community-level fuel program. Outcomes will be
      evaluated with respect to changes in markers of respiratory health among elders and changes
      in indoor air quality (PM2.5). The investigators hypothesize that locally-designed
      education-based interventions, in the context of a community-based strategy focused on wood
      fuels, will result in efficacious and sustainable strategies for reducing personal exposures
      to indoor biomass smoke PM2.5 and lead to respiratory health improvements in elderly NA
      populations.

      Specific Aims are as follows:

      Aim 1. Facilitate the tribally-centered development, adaption, implementation, and evaluation
      of community-level wood yard and distribution programs for participating tribal households.

      Aim 2. Facilitate the development, adaptation, implementation, and evaluation of
      household-level education strategies targeting best-burn practices (Tx1) for each
      participating tribal community.

      Aim 3. Compare effectiveness, both within and between communities, of household-level
      interventions among elderly adults participating in a three-arm randomized placebo-controlled
      trial.

      Aim 3a. Compare group changes in pulmonary function and respiratory symptoms and infections.

      Aim 3b. Compare group changes in indoor and personal PM2.5 exposures.

      Aim 4. Evaluate penetration, acceptance, and sustainability of community- and household-level
      strategies using both qualitative and quantitative data generated in collaboration with
      tribal community advisory boards and research participants.

      Impact. The long-term goal of this project will be to reduce mortality and morbidity in NA
      communities from exposures related to residential home heating. This study will advance
      knowledge of effective interventions within two unique NA Reservations and describe
      improvements in sub-clinical indicators of pulmonary health in susceptible elderly
      populations. Reducing in-home wood smoke exposures through community level facilitation of
      access to proper fuels and introduction of sustainable, culturally appropriate best-burn
      practices will inform strategies for translation to other NA communities or similar rural and
      underserved populations.
    
  