
    
      This is a Phase 2, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of iOWH032 in adult
      patients (Part A) and then pediatric patients (Part B) with acute watery diarrhea of less
      than 24 hours' duration due to cholera. All subjects will be treated with standard of care
      (IV rehydration fluids, ORS, and azithromycin less than/equal to1 g po) in addition to study
      drug (iOWH032 active drug or placebo). Patients will be admitted, undergo a 4- to 6-hour
      screening/observation period, be randomized in the study and treated with study drug (active
      or placebo) for up to 3 days (ie, up to 9 doses), with a follow-up visit on Day 7.

      In Part A, approximately 170 adult patients with severe dehydrating diarrhea due to cholera
      will be enrolled and randomized 1:1 to receive iOWH032 500 mg or placebo TID for up to 3
      days. Following completion of Part A, the data and safety monitoring board (DSMB) will review
      the unblinded data to assess safety and efficacy and conduct a futility analysis prior to
      proceeding to Part B.

      Following the DSMB recommendation of dose and dosing schedule for pediatric patients, Part B
      will be initiated. Approximately 156 pediatric patients with severe dehydrating diarrhea due
      to cholera will be enrolled and randomized 1:1 to receive iOWH032 or placebo at the
      recommended dose and dosing regimen.

      The primary efficacy population for Parts A and B will consist of patients who tolerate the
      first 3 doses of study drug (0, 8, and 16 hours post-randomization) without vomiting and
      whose diagnosis is subsequently confirmed by a positive culture for V. cholerae O1.

      The International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh (icddr,b) Ethics
      Committee and Western Institutional Review Board (WIRB) will be informed of any serious
      adverse event (SAE). Occurrence of 2 or more drug-related SAEs within a group of 10 patients
      (20% of cumulative completed patients in the treatment group) in Part A or Part B will result
      in unblinding of those patients and review by the DSMB. The study can be halted,
      discontinued, or amended according to the recommendations of the icddr,b DSMB.
    
  