
    
      Little attention has been paid to the large group of adolescents who use substances but are
      not, or not yet, dependent and who could successfully reduce substance use through early
      intervention. Brief interventions (BI) that are based in cognitive-behavioral and
      motivational interviewing (CB-MI) strategies provide an option for such mid-level drug
      abusers (e.g., DSM-IV substance abuse disorder), and extant research on them suggests this
      approach can be effective with youth.

      Winters and colleagues have studied with controlled designs the efficacy of brief
      interventions for application to mild-to-moderate substance abusing adolescents. These
      studies have used the more traditional approach of counselor-led interventions. This program
      will be parent-led rather than directed by a counselor in a clinical setting.

      The stage I activities will involve manual development, parent training development, and a
      small feasibility study; Stage II involves an efficacy trial. Two samples, 110 families each,
      will participate in the trial. Families will be assigned to either an intervention or control
      condition. Data to quantify intervention effects will be obtained by interviewing adolescents
      and the target parent at multiple time points (baseline and, 3-, 6- and 12-months post
      baseline). The investigators hypothesize that the home-based intervention will be superior to
      the control condition. In addition, the investigators expect response to the intervention by
      the adolescent to be mediated by motivation, cognitions, problem solving, peer drug use,
      parenting skills and parent self-efficacy. Secondary analyses will focus on additional
      predictors of intervention effects, and analyses of parent adherence, parent acceptance, and
      of training adherence.

      The final product of the work will be a tested comparative intervention protocol that is
      shaped in an engaging and useful presentation format for use by parents.
    
  