
    
      BACKGROUND: Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease affecting 2-3% of the population
      worldwide and having tremendously impact on the patients' quality of life. Progress has been
      made in the understanding of the cellular immunology and biology of psoriasis, but the
      ultimate cause for psoriasis is still unknown.

      miRNA are ~22 nt noncoding RNAs that modulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional
      level. miRNAs have regulatory roles in development, differentiation, growth control and
      apoptosis.

      AIM OF PROJECT: To identify psoriasis specific miRNA. To investigate the differences in miRNA
      expression and their targets between lesional and non-lesional psoriatic skin. To investigate
      changes in the miRNA expression during biological treatment.

      METHODS: Patients included are adults (> 18 years) with psoriasis vulgaris who are going to
      be treated with biological drugs independent of this project (according to national
      guidelines). A signed informed consent will be obtained before patients are included in the
      project.

      Patients are not allowed to have received local treatment 2 weeks before inclusion or having
      had any systemic treatment including UVB 6 weeks before inclusion. 4 mm punch-biopsies from
      lesional and non-lesional psoriatic skin will be obtained using a local anaesthetic
      containing 1% Lidocaine at day 0 and up to four times after treatment at the following days
      4, 14, 28 or 84. Before and during treatment patients will be monitored with a clinical score
      including PASI, BSA and PGA. Clinical evaluation will be conducted by a trained dermatologist
      at day 0 and day 84. That allows us to compare clinical changes to findings obtained during
      this study.

      miRNA and mRNA expression will be analysis with quantitativePCR, protein level with ELISA and
      cell proliferation will be measure by a standard cell proliferation assay. miRNA microarray
      are commercially available and will be used to identify miRNA of interest.

      NOVELTY: Changes in the expression of miRNA in psoriasis and miRNA regulation during
      treatment of psoriasis have only been sparsely studied. The results from this research
      project will therefore increase our understanding of the underlying mechanisms leading to
      psoriasis and may generate important new tools for individualised treatment of psoriasis.
    
  