
    
      Detailed Description of the Proposed Research

      Design overview. A large cohort of pregnant women will be recruited, and those who meet
      criteria will be divided into two groups according to their testimony regarding their smoking
      behavior and saliva cotinine screening, as in our previous studies. At 3-time points, the
      antenatal period, 2-days and 6-months of age; we will assess infants' responses to challenges
      using biochemical, behavioral, and subjective measures. The challenges selected are "proven"
      stressors and previous research has demonstrated their effectiveness in eliciting
      stress-reactions (e.g., increased cortisol). In parallel, we will obtain an obstetric history
      (from medical records), demographics, measure of symptomology, information on smoking and
      drinking habits, life stresses, and family cohesion at each time point, plus information
      about mothers' feelings/behavior and mothers' ratings of infants "regulatory" behavior after
      birth. The antenatal and neonatal sessions will be carried out in Hadassah Hospital and the
      6-month session in the developmental laboratory at Hebrew University. Genetic material will
      be collected from parents and their infant at childbirth.

      Recruitment Women smokers will be recruited will be recruited by nurses in well-baby clinics
      (where physicians do routine prenatal check-ups), gynecologists, midwives, and by
      advertisement. In addition, we will recruit women at the time of routine checks in Hadassah
      hospital (Nuchal translucency test) at 12 weeks, triple/quadra test blood testing at 16
      weeks, early (14-16 weeks) and advanced (20-22 week) fetal anatomy scan, and glucose test at
      24-28 weeks) (supervised by Dr. Mankuta). In all, we will recruit 150 women for the "smoking"
      group, using the following inclusion criteria: smokes at least 10 cigarettes a day (i.e.,
      habitual smokers) no abuse of alcohol or drugs, no chronic physical disability, 22-35 years
      of age, living with partner, speaks English, Hebrew, or Russian, natural conception). A
      (second) group of 150 women who meet inclusion criteria (except smoking) and matched in age,
      education, gender of infant, and parity to the "smokers" will serve as controls. At
      recruitment and each time-point, mothers (and their spouses) who agree to participate in the
      research protocol will be interviewed for smoking habits (Fagerstrom Tolerance Questionnaire,
      FTQ) as detailed in our previous studies on smoking. At recruitment, women will be explicitly
      told that we are not encouraging smoking and will provide resources if, at any time, during
      the study, they want to stop smoking.

      Antenatal period (Dr. David Mankuta)

      The prenatal session will be carried out at 34-36 weeks of gestation (by last menstrual
      period and confirmed by early ultrasound) and will consist of 3 phases: (1) waiting room- in
      which mothers receive instructions, (2) ultrasound- to evaluate limb movement before and
      after vibroacoustic stimulation (VAS), as well as measures of fetuses' well-being
      (cardiotocograph test, biophysical profile), and (3) post exam- administration of
      questionnaires.

      Limb movement. Measures of fetal limb movement are good reflections of infant state, are
      stable from late gestation out to 4-weeks postnatal age 80 , are affected by antenatal stress
      81, and forecast infants' state regulation 2 weeks after birth. Ultrasound (ATL 3500 and
      5000) will be used to visualize and film the fetus for offline coding of limb movements. To
      begin testing, infant must be in state 1F, characterized by minimal fetal movement for 2
      minutes. When this criterion is met, baseline the VAS (Fetal Acoustic Corometrics Stimulator
      Model 146; ≈75 HZ, ≈82 db) will be presented for 5 s. Fetal movements will be videotaped with
      the recorder built into the scanner. During off-line time-event coding, each limb movement
      will be counted. From these raw counts, we will average the number of movements observed in
      10 s intervals during the 1 min prior to (baseline) and during the 5 min after stimulation.
      Reactivity will be derived by calculating the difference between the mean baseline count and
      the mean count recorded during the 5 s of stimulation. Regulation will be calculated as (1)
      the slope of the counts across the post stimulation period (5 minutes), and (2) the
      difference between the mean baseline count and the mean count of last three 10 second epochs.
      for first time point. Previous studies have shown limb-counts to be stable (24-36 weeks),
      reliable, and sensitive to maternal stress.

      Questionnaires
    
  