
    
      Background

      In recent years an increasing focus has been on the unfulfilled needs of cancer patients for
      an individual rehabilitation taking into consideration the physical, psychological, social,
      economic, as well as work-related consequences of the cancer disease. Furthermore, there is a
      great need for ongoing adjustments of the organisation and procurement of rehabilitation
      offers and for optimizing the continuity of care, especially regarding transfer between
      sectors.

      Research question

      The aim of this study is to investigate whether a joint effort towards intensifying the
      collaboration and communication between hospital and general practice and encouraging the GP
      to take an active and prominent part in the rehabilitation process on actual patients has any
      effect on:

        1. Health Related Quality of Life

        2. The rehabilitation of cancer patients

        3. The experience of continuity of care among cancer patients

        4. How the GP act with regard to rehabilitation among cancer patients

      Material and methods

      The study uses a randomised, controlled design and is carried out as a PhD project. At Vejle
      Hospital approximately 1000 patients (500 in the intervention group and 500 in the control
      group) was included at the initiation of treatment. The intervention consists of an extended
      information routine from hospital to GP based on individual interviews with the patients in
      the intervention group and a specific encouragement of the patients' GP to play a proactive
      role in the patients' rehabilitation course. The individual needs concerning the different
      types of consequences of the disease and following rehabilitation needs will be brought into
      focus. The data will be obtained from public health registers and questionnaires to patients
      6 and 14 months after the time of diagnosis (measuring Health Related Quality of Life,
      satisfaction with and use of rehabilitation activities, perceived continuity of care and
      satisfaction with their GP) and to GPs after 12 months (measuring satisfaction with the
      information from the hospital and activities to meet the patients' rehabilitation needs).
    
  