
    
      The study is observational and it is monocentric, and it will involve 80 patients. Patients'
      data, extrapolated from the medical records of the Department of Reproductive Medicine in the
      Policlinico Hospital in Modena, will be collected in an internal database for analysis. The
      inclusion criteria for the population included in the study will be: 1) basal serum FSH
      concentration below 20 UI/L; 2) age between 18 and 46 years; 3) body weight > 60 kg; 4) use
      of corifollitrofin alpha for ovarian stimulation. The following parameters will be evaluated:
      the age of the patients, their weight, their body mass index (BMI), duration of infertility,
      cycle characteristics; basal (day 2) AMH, AFC measurement, basal estradiol, basal
      progesterone, basal FSH, basal LH, and those same values on day 5 and day 8 of ovarian
      stimulation; follicles ≥ 17 mm on day 8, type of gonadothropin further added, days of
      stimulation with the further gonadothropin and its units per day, AMH on trigger day and the
      number of oocytes retrieved. The confidentiality of the informations will be guaranteed by
      anonymized data analysis. All the data are commonly recorded in our clinical practice.

      The observed period will be of 12 months. The date of conclusion of the study, after
      favorable opinion of the Ethics Committee and the authorization of the Company Management, is
      scheduled for June 2021.

      To guarantee the consent and the information of the patients involved in the study, the
      Information Sheet and the relative Consent Form are attached. We consider appropriate to
      inform the General Physician of the enlisted patients about the study: the Information Letter
      for the General Physician is therefore attached.

      Variables/Time Points of Interest

      The variables which will be recorded on cycle day 2 of a spontaneous menstruation
      (stimulation day 1 with Corifollitropin alfa) are: woman's age (years), weight (kg),
      body-mass-index (kg/m2), duration of infertility (months), cycle length (in days, by patient
      recall), cycle regularity (yes/no; deviation of > 5 days from two consecutive cycles is
      considered an irregular cycle), total number of antral follicles (2-10 mm) in both ovaries
      (AFC) measured by a transvaginal scan and serum AMH (ng/ml), oestradiol, progesterone, FSH
      and LH.

      Patients will return every two days to the clinic for a transvaginal ultrasound from
      stimulation day 5 up to and including the day of hCG. Serum hormone concentrations (FSH, LH,
      oestradiol, progesterone and AMH) will be measured on stimulation days 5 and 8 and on the day
      of hCG.

      All hormones reported above will be measured in the central lab of the ospital as per routine
      practice. Remaining serum will be used for the AMH assay. The measurement of the AMH will ber
      profrmed in the ObGyn University research Lab.
    
  