
    
      Iron is involved in essential functions of the body. It allows the transport of oxygen in the
      blood, via hemoglobin, at the muscular level, via myoglobin, and it is also involved in
      cellular metabolism in general, in particular for the production of ATP at the mitochondrial
      level, within the cytochromes and iron-sulfur proteins of the respiratory chain.

      Iron deficiency has been shown to be responsible for fatigue and muscle weakness, regardless
      of the presence of an anemia. Recently, iron deficiency has been identified as an important
      prognostic factor in heart failure patients, with a prevalence increasing with NYHA class
      level, and association with mortality. Iron therapy improves the symptoms of heart failure
      patients and the 6-minute walk test, even in the absence of anemia. The correction of iron
      deficiency is now proposed as one of the therapies for heart failure. However, the
      pathophysiology of the association between cardiac dysfunction and iron deficiency is still
      poorly understood.

      The investigators previously developed a mouse model of iron deficiency without anemia, in
      which the investigators observed impaired physical performances, a decrease of left
      ventricular ejection fraction, and a decrease in mitochondrial complex I activity. These
      abnormalities were normalized after iron injection. These animal data suggest that iron
      deficiency is responsible for left ventricular dysfunction secondary to mitochondrial I
      complex abnormalities, and that iron therapy corrects them.

      Iron deficiency is very common in the preoperative period of cardiac surgery, affecting 40 to
      50% of patients. During this surgery, it is possible to perform a myocardial biopsy without
      risk to the patient. There is therefore an opportunity to further explore the impact of iron
      deficiency and its treatment on mitochondrial energy metabolism of cardiomyocytes. We
      hypothesize that the activity of the mitochondrial complex I is decreased in the presence of
      iron deficiency and that the iron treatment corrects this decrease.

      The purpose of this study is to verify in patients requiring valvular heart surgery, if iron
      deficiency is responsible for a decrease in mitochondrial complex I activity and a decrease
      in cardiac function during the perioperative period, and to verify whether iron treatment
      improves these abnormalities.
    
  