
    
      The protection afforded by the commonly used influenza sub-unit vaccines is thought to be due
      principally to the production of antibodies to viral haemagglutinin. The haemagglutination
      inhibitory (HAI) antibody titer is generally used as a surrogate marker of protection and a
      HAI antibody titer of 1:40 or greater is considered to confer protection. This is attained,
      however, in only 50% of elderly subject. Thus, there is an unmet need for an effective
      non-toxic adjuvant capable of enhancing the antibody response to influenza and other
      vaccines. Type I IFNs have been shown to induce B-lymphocytes to differentiate into antibody
      producing plasma cells and to be necessary for the production of both specific and polyclonal
      IgGs in response to influenza infection. Furthermore, type I IFNs increase the primary
      antibody response to a soluble antigen in vivo, and increase the production of all IgG
      sub-classes. Type I IFNs play a key role in adjuvant-induced Th1 responses. Thus, we
      evaluated the safety of sublingual administration of IFNa and its effect on immune response
      to influenza vaccination.Institutionalized subjects, aged 75 or more, were randomly assigned
      to two groups to receive in a double-blind fashion either 107 IU of Intron ATM in 1 ml of
      isotonic saline or 1 ml of saline alone (placebo) administered sublingually. Interferon or
      placebo were retained in the mouth for at least 30 seconds prior to ejection. All subjects
      were then vaccinated, within 30 minutes, with a single intramuscular injection (im) of
      influenza vaccine (InfluvacTM, Solvay Pharma, France).

      The primary objective of this study is to compare the immunogenicity percentage of subjects
      who increased up to 4 fold their HAI antibody titer at day 21) obtained in the IFN treated
      group relative to the placebo treated group.

      The secondary objectives are to compare mean HAI antibodies titers obtained in the two groups
      at day 21 ; specific IgG, IgG2a, IgG2a/IgG1 ratio and secretory IgA titers in the 2 groups;
      specific secretory IgA titers in saliva; durability of protective HAI antibodies titers 3 and
      6 months after the vaccination and the safety of sublingual administration of IFNa.
    
  