
    
      This is a prospective trial to evaluate the feasibility of performing a telephone interview
      to predict if pregnancy expulsion has occurred. In those women for whom expulsion has not
      been predicted to have occurred, the trial will evaluate if they will present for a follow-up
      visit. We plan to recruit 154 women that desire a medical abortion from Magee-Womens
      Hospital, Planned Parenthood of Western Pennsylvania, and private offices in the surrounding
      area. Women who are no more than 63 days gestation will receive mifepristone 200mg and
      misoprostol 800mcg. Each subject will choose between two evidence-based methods of using the
      misoprostol: buccally 24-72 hours or vaginally 0-72 hours after mifepristone. A follow-up
      phone call with a clinician will occur 5-9 days after mifepristone administration. Based on
      clinical history, including a structured question set, the subject and the clinician will
      predict if expulsion occurred. If either or both feel that expulsion may not have occurred,
      the women will return for follow-up in the office within one week for sonographic evaluation.
      If they both predict that expulsion has occurred at this initial phone call follow-up, the
      subject will perform a urine pregnancy test at home in approximately 3 weeks. She will have a
      follow-up phone call after the pregnancy test to obtain the results. The subject will only
      have an additional visit and ultrasound examination if the urine pregnancy test is positive.

      The primary outcome is the percentage of women that will be available for follow-up over the
      phone, and/or return visit if necessary. The secondary outcomes are to determine if a
      standardized set of questions of clinical history after medical abortion will be useful to
      predict expulsion of the pregnancy and which mode of misoprostol administration women prefer.
      In addition, the study will confirm if women and clinicians are accurate at predicting
      expulsion of the pregnancy, compare the ability of patients and clinicians to predict
      expulsion of the pregnancy, determine how many women require follow-up evaluation after a
      telephone interview, and to determine the pregnancy continuation rate after misoprostol and
      mifepristone in this study.
    
  