
    
      In order to reduce PEP risk, a rectal non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug was administered
      30 minutes before the ERCP in all patients. As the standard of care at the study hospital,
      the patients swallowed 2% lidocaine hydrochloride gel for local pharyngeal anesthesia, and 10
      mg of diazepam were injected intramuscularly before ERCP. Anti-convulsants were not allowed.
      ERCP was performed in a standard manner using a side-viewing endoscope.

      After successful selective deep cannulation of the common bile duct with a guidewire, the
      guidewire was extracted, and SOM was performed before contrast agent was introduced to
      determine the margins of the choledocholithiasis.

      EST was performed, and the size of EST, which was large incision (incision to the full part
      of the ampulla) or long enough to ensure successful stone extraction, depended on the
      transverse diameter of the stones.

      After stones removal, a 7.5Fr×26 cm biliary plastic stent, which was a suspended overlong
      biliary stent formed from a nasobiliary drainage tube (Boston Scientific), was placed to
      ensure that the biliary duct would not be clipped during endoclip papillaplasty and to reduce
      duodenobiliary reflux during the next 3-week before follow-up.

      The investigators will recruit patients according to admission criteria and exclusion
      criteria. The participants underwent SOM before, immediately after EST, and 3 weeks after EST
      with endoclip papilloplasty. The participants were followed for 3 days during hospitalized.
      Complications including perforation, bleeding, and PEP were recorded. Blood routine,
      pancreatic enzymes (amylase and lipase), and liver function (serum alanine aminotransferase,
      aspartate aminotransferase, r-glutamyl transpeptidase, and alkaline phosphatase) were tested
      at 4 and 24 h after ERCP. All participants were followed at 3 weeks. The stent will be
      romoved with Allis clamp 3 weeks after the procedure.Symptoms were examined and blood tests
      as above were repeated ahead of stents retrieval and sphincter of Oddi monitoring through
      duodenoscope.
    
  