
    
      Heart disease is one of the leading causes of death in women 55 years and younger, accounting
      for more than 8,000 deaths each year in the United States. Approximately 40,000 young women
      are hospitalized each year in the United States as a result of a heart attack. Research has
      shown that young women who have heart attacks are twice as likely to die in the hospital as
      young men who have heart attacks. While there has been an increase in awareness, little
      research has been conducted on understanding heart disease and heart attacks in young women.
      Specific biologic markers involved with inflammation, metabolic abnormalities, sex hormones,
      and genetics may indicate a predisposition to a heart attack and poor recovery. This study
      will analyze the biologic, demographic, psychosocial, environmental, and behavioral factors
      that may contribute to premature heart disease and to poor recovery after a heart attack in
      women. Researchers will examine if delays in receiving medical care following a heart attack
      can affect recovery and health outcomes for women. Gender differences in outcomes and the
      quality of medical care that is received following a heart attack will also be examined.

      This study will enroll women and men who are hospitalized following a possible heart attack.
      At study entry, participants will be interviewed to collect information about symptoms,
      functioning, quality of life, and medical care. A medical record review will also occur. At 1
      month after admission from the hospital, an interview will occur via phone and a blood sample
      will be collected when the participant returns to the hospital or alternatively be collected
      at a medical clinic convenient to the participant. Another telephone interview will occur at
      12 months. Participants' blood samples will be stored for future biologic and genetic
      studies.
    
  