
    
      Few older adults with Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) receive treatment although it is one
      of the most prevalent anxiety disorders in this population and involves significant health
      care costs. Studies show that older adults generally prefer psychotherapy and find it more
      acceptable than medication for help with anxiety. Unfortunately, face-to-face psychotherapy
      is difficult to access for many of them. Guided self-help (GSH) is an alternative to
      psychotherapy which requires that the patient take home a standardized psychological
      treatment and work through it more or less independently. The role of the therapist is
      primarily of supportive nature and the amount of contact between the patient and therapist is
      minimized. There is evidence that GSH based on the principles of cognitive-behavioral therapy
      (GSH-CBT) and guided by a licensed mental health provider is effective for treating GAD in
      older adults. However, the capacity of our health care system to respond adequately to the
      mental health needs of older adults has been questioned and cost-effective solutions are
      required to meet the needs of a rapidly aging population. Because the therapist's role in
      GSH-CBT is limited to supporting the patient, it is conceivable that this role could be
      assumed by trained and supervised lay providers (LP) instead of licensed providers. LP are
      generally providers with no post-graduate training in a specialized mental health program.
      The main goal of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of GSH-CBT guided by LP for GAD in
      older adults. Secondary goals are to identify the characteristics of patients associated with
      improvement during treatment and to document perception of treatment by patients and LP. We
      will conduct a multisite randomized controlled trial comparing an experimental group
      receiving GSH-CBT guided by LP (n=45) to a wait-list control group (n=45). LP training will
      include readings, didactic training, and role plays. LP will be supervised throughout the
      project by licensed psychologists. Treatment will last 15 weeks and be based on a
      participant's manual. Weekly telephone sessions with LP (30 minutes maximum) will be limited
      to providing support. Data will be obtained through clinician evaluations and self-assessment
      questionnaires. They will include symptoms of GAD and variables related to anxiety, such as
      depression. For the experimental group, measurements will take place at pre- and
      post-treatment and at 6 and 12 months post-treatment. For the control group, three
      evaluations are planned: two pre-treatment evaluations (before and after the waiting period)
      and after receiving treatment (post-treatment). The efficacy of GSH-CBT will be established
      by comparing the change in the two groups on the main variables. This project will provide
      evidence on the effectiveness of a novel approach to treat GAD in older adults. If effective,
      it may be implemented on a larger scale and provide many older adults with much needed mental
      health treatment through an expanded workforce.
    
  