
    
      Background:Heart failure is a prevalent condition of major public health importance that
      leads to significant morbidity and mortality despite the use of current evidence-based
      therapy. Further development of novel therapies to alleviate symptoms, improve functional
      status and ultimately clinical outcomes are needed. Cardiac function alone cannot explain all
      aspects of the heart failure syndrome: hence a search for peripheral mechanisms and
      inter-connected cardiac and non-cardiac pathways has ensued. Testosterone plays an integral
      role in multiple organ systems for growth, development and maintenance of health with known
      effects on peripheral musculature, vasculature, sympathetic tone, endothelial function and
      restoration of muscle metabolic function which would be beneficial in HF. Chronic HF has been
      associated with reduced testosterone levels, and low testosterone levels have been linked to
      reduced VO2, increased BNP and ANP levels, and worse clinical outcomes. Testosterone
      supplementation acts as a peripheral vasodilator and acutely increases cardiac output,which
      would improve oxygen delivery to skeletal muscles and secondarily delay transfer to anaerobic
      metabolism and depletion of high-energy phosphates. The increase in muscle mass associated
      with testosterone therapy may also result in increased endurance and decreased muscle
      fatigability in HF patients. Early small trials demonstrate safety, tolerability and an
      improvement in exercise walking distance in patients with HF. We contend that the time is now
      ripe for an adequately-powered phase II trial in order to test if this therapy can improve
      symptoms and functional status for patients with heart failure.

      Specific Aim:Evaluate the efficacy and safety of testosterone supplementation on functional
      capacity, biomarkers, quality of life and clinical outcomes for patients with heart failure.

      Synopsis:We propose a phase II randomized controlled, multi-center, double-blind trial, "The
      VO2Increase with Testosterone Addition - Heart Failure (VITA-HF) Trial". We plan to enroll
      318 patients with chronic HF and NYHA II-III in a 1:1 trial of testosterone therapy (versus
      placebo): our primary objective is to test the effects on peak VO2 at 26 weeks (a commonly
      used surrogate outcome in phase II HFRCTthat represents both central and peripheral effects
      of our interventions). Given the assumptions made (a peak VO2 standard deviation of 2.7
      mls/kg/min, paired t-test, and 2-sided alpha 0.05), 318 patients will have 85% power to
      detect a 1.0 ml/kg/min difference between the groups in the change in peak VO2 over 26 weeks.
      The minimally clinically important difference for peak VO2 may be as small as 0.26 mls/kg/min
      but is possibly higher and therefore, we have taken a conservative approach similar to that
      of other CIHR and NIH trials. Additional measures of quality of life, biomarkers (BNP) and
      clinical outcomes will be performed at 26 and 52 weeks. Quantitative measurement of core
      laboratory echocardiographic imaging will also assess the effect on left ventricular
      remodeling and markers of systolic and diastolic function. Assessment at 26 weeks will allow
      for the early effects to be demonstrated whereas our secondary endpoint evaluated at 52 weeks
      will demonstrate clinical and other outcomes important for phase III planning (including
      clinical, biochemical and echocardiographic endpoints).Androgel 5g was selected due to
      compliance and prior RCT dosing to ensure efficacy with a broad safety margin.

      Feasibility:The investigators on this grant are attending physicians in large, tertiary care
      heart failure clinics with large patient populations and extensive experience with recruiting
      patients into clinical studies. The 7 sites selected have both experience and expertise in
      enrolling HF patients in CIHR and NIH trials.

      Importance:Our proposed trial (VITA-HF) tests a novel strategic target which could enhance
      the quality and potentially the quantity of life of patients with heart failure by modulating
      complementary peripheral and central HF mechanisms.
    
  