
    
      The objective of this multi-province randomized controlled trial will be to determine if the
      TIR Stroke Family Support Program delivered across the care continuum contributes to positive
      caregiver outcomes. Since this program targets family caregiver support, the primary outcomes
      of the intervention will be caregivers' perception of being supported in their care-giving
      role and improvements in caregiver mental health outcomes (e.g., less depression and more
      psychological well-being). To determine the impact of the intervention on caregiver outcomes,
      we will compare two modes of intervention delivery with standard care: 1) repeated contact in
      person and by telephone with a stroke support person and 2) a self-directed program by the
      caregiver.

      We will perform a multi-site, mixed methods RCT. Caregivers of patients who are receiving
      acute care for their first stroke will be recruited within the first week of hospital
      admission. Members of the stroke team from the participating hospitals' stroke units will
      identify potential participants and ask their permission to be approached by each site's
      research assistant. The research assistant will fully explain the study, answer questions,
      obtain consent, administer the baseline questionnaires, and then contact the project
      coordinator who will then randomize participants to one of three groups: A) TIR Stroke Family
      Support Program delivered by a stroke support person, B) caregiver self-directed TIR Stroke
      Family Support Program, and C) usual care that includes provision of the Heart and Stroke
      educational resource "Let's Talk about Stroke". The research assistants will give caregivers
      a copy of "Let's Talk about Stroke" (if they have not yet received a copy) and introduce them
      to the stroke support person who will deliver the full intervention and instruct the family
      in the use of the self-directed arm of the intervention. A second part-time research
      assistant blinded to group assignment will complete routine follow-up assessments with
      participants at 3, 6, and 12 months post-stroke. A subset of 36 participants (6 from each
      site) will also participate in a qualitative interview after completion of their 12-month
      follow-up assessment.

      The goals of this multi-site randomized controlled trial are to:

        1. Assess whether the intervention improves caregivers outcomes (via quantitative analysis)

        2. Assess how the intervention improves caregiver outcomes (via qualitative analysis)

        3. Assess how the intervention is delivered (via stroke support person journals)
    
  