
    
      80 women will receive the HIPP Intervention or Wellness Contact Control. While main outcomes
      are focused on feasibility and acceptability, physical activity, fitness, and body weight and
      composition data will be collected at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months, along with blood
      draws.

      HIPP Intervention: The physical activity intervention is based on the Social Cognitive Theory
      and Transtheoretical Model and, emphasizes behavioral strategies for increasing activity
      levels (i.e., goal-setting, self-monitoring, problem-solving barriers, increasing social
      support, rewarding oneself for meeting physical activity goals), and includes regular
      mailings (three mailings in month 1, two mailings in months 2 and 3, one mailing in months 4,
      5, 6, 8, and 10) of physical activity manuals that are matched to the participant's current
      level of motivational readiness and individually-tailored computer expert system feedback
      reports. Computer expert system feedback reports will be based on participants' monthly
      update survey data and include information on:

        1. current stage of motivational readiness for physical activity;

        2. increasing self- efficacy (i.e., confidence) for physical activity participation;

        3. weighing the pros and cons of engaging in physical activity (decisional balance);

        4. social support from family and friends for physical activity participation;

        5. outcome expectations (beliefs regarding the consequences of physical activity
           participation);

        6. perceived enjoyment of physical activity;

        7. how the participant compares to her prior responses (progress feedback);

        8. how the participant compares to individuals who are physically active and with national
           guidelines (normative feedback);

        9. self monitoring of physical activity behavior (using pedometers and activity logs to
           track the total steps and minutes of moderate intensity physical activity per day).

      The computer expert system draws from a bank of 330 messages addressing different levels of
      psychosocial and environmental factors affecting physical activity. Intervention participants
      will also receive tip sheets addressing physical activity barriers specific to African
      American women in the Deep South (as identified during our focus groups and comprehensive
      literature review).

      Wellness Contact Control Condition: Cancer prevention information on topics other than
      physical activity (e.g., "Add Fruits and Veggies to Your Diet") from the American Cancer
      Society (ACS) website (www.cancer.org) will be mailed to control participants at the same
      time points that the HIPP Intervention participants receive their physical activity
      intervention materials.
    
  