
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the incidence of grade II-IV acute graft-versus-host disease in patients
           with hematologic cancer or other diseases treated with a myeloablative conditioning
           regimen comprising targeted (steady-state concentration of 800-1,000 ng/mL) busulfan,
           cyclophosphamide, and anti-thymocyte globulin followed by matched unrelated donor
           allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

        -  To determine the day +100 transplantation-related mortality in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the effect of cyclophosphamide pharmacokinetic parameters on day +100
           transplantation-related mortality in these patients.

        -  To determine the ability of low-dose anti-thymocyte globulin administered on day +5 to
           induce activation-induced cell death of activated donor lymphocytes.

        -  To determine the incidence of chronic graft-versus-host disease in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  To determine event-free and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To evaluate pharmacogenomic associations between genetic polymorphisms in drug
           disposition enzymes with the pharmacokinetics of busulfan and cyclophosphamide.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Myeloablative conditioning regimen: Patients receive busulfan IV over 2 hours on days -8
           to -5; cyclophosphamide IV over 4 hours on days -3 to -2; and anti-thymocyte globulin IV
           over 6 hours on day -3 and then over 4 hours on days -2, -1, and 5.

        -  Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic bone
           marrow or peripheral blood stem cell infusion on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host-disease prophylaxis: Patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously or
           orally on days 6 to150, followed by an even taper to day 180 in the absence of
           graft-versus-host-disease. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil IV or orally
           beginning on day 6 and continuing to day 28.

      Patients undergo blood collection periodically during study for pharmacokinetic,
      pharmacogenomic, and other translational studies. Genomic DNA extracted from blood samples is
      analyzed by polymerase chain reaction for genetic polymorphisms in cyclophosphamide/busulfan
      disposition enzymes. Activated donor lymphocytes are assessed using flow cytometry to measure
      activation-induced cell death, as reflected by apoptosis in activated T cells. Chimerism on
      or around day 100 is also assessed using fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis and DNA
      fingerprinting.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.
    
  