
    
      This study is designed to investigate in blacks the relationship of risk for diabetes and
      heart disease from obesity plasma glucose and triglyceride concentrations and the
      triglyceride related risk factors of small dense low density lipoprotein (LDL), high density
      lipoprotein (HDL) and central obesity.

      The Framingham Study demonstrated that obesity and elevated glucose and triglyceride levels
      are important risk factors for coronary artery disease in white women. However, studies that
      have had significant participation of black women such as the Charleston Heart Study, failed
      to show a relationship of obesity or triglyceride to coronary artery disease mortality in
      black women. In fact, black women independent of body weight or triglyceride levels
      experience high mortality from coronary artery disease. Our earlier research has demonstrated
      that obese black men have elevated triglyceride levels but obese black women have normal
      triglyceride levels. Consequently if elevated triglyceride levels do not occur in obese
      nondiabetic black women, then elevated triglyceride levels may not represent a major
      cardiovascular risk for black women.

      The study, Diabetes and Heart Disease Risk in Blacks, is designed to determine the role of
      obesity, glucose and triglyceride on risk for heart disease in blacks. For this study of
      blacks, we will study 2 groups, African Americans and Black Africans living in the United
      States. African Americans must self-identify as African American, be born in the United
      States and have parents who self-identify as African American and were born in the United
      States. The second group will be blacks living in the United States but were born in Africa
      and whose parents were born in Africa.

      We will recruit 2000 healthy, non-diabetic individuals, age range 18-70, and body mass index
      (3 subgroups: nonobese, overweight and obese). In 2 outpatient visits to the Clinical Center,
      participants will have body fat analyses, an electrocardiogram, an oral glucose tolerance
      test, questionnaires about sleep and stress and an intravenous glucose tolerance test. This
      study has the potential to provide significant insight and lead to the development of
      programs that help decrease diabetes and cardiovascular risk in blacks.
    
  