
    
      A randomized clinical trial of the effectiveness of a single dose of azithromycin compared to
      6 weeks of topical tetracycline, and the added benefit of family-based azithromycin
      treatment, in preventing recurrence of trichiasis following surgery is proposed. This will
      provide the evidence base to inform and change the global public health policy and the
      donation program policy, regarding post-surgical treatment for trichiasis patients and
      possibly their families.

      The investigators will determine the impact of three treatment strategies following
      trichiasis surgery on the rate of trichiasis recurrence in the operated eye at six months and
      one year. A randomized clinical trial of 1425 trichiasis surgical patients will be conducted
      in Sodo,Ethiopia. The first group (Control Group) will receive topical tetracycline following
      surgery; the second group (Intervention Patient Group) will receive oral azithromycin; the
      third group (Intervention Family Group) will receive oral azithromycin, and all family
      members resident in the patient's household will also receive oral azithromycin. Data will be
      collected at baseline (pre-surgery) on ocular status and infection status. Data will be
      collected at the time of surgery on surgery-related variables and surgical and post-operative
      complications. Additional data will be collected on any surgical complications and early
      recurrence at the two-week visit when sutures will be removed. A follow up visit at two
      months will include data collection on recurrence and presence of ocular infection.
      Evaluations for trichiasis recurrence will occur again at six months and at one year
      post-surgery. The latter visit will also include data collection on presence of ocular
      infection in the surgical case, and ocular infection in household members. Evaluation of the
      risk of recurrence at six months and one, two, and three years within each group will be
      completed to determine the benefit of using azithromycin compared to topical tetracycline,
      and the added benefit of family-based treatment.
    
  