
    
      Participation in military operations, especially in times of war, places personnel and their
      family members at increased risk for mental health problems. In 2003, among the 1.4 million
      active duty United States service members, mental disorders remained the leading cause of
      hospitalization for men and the second leading cause of hospitalization for women.
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and suicide behavior among military personnel are the
      leading causes of psychiatric hospitalization. Both are considered significant public health
      problems. Existing literature provides strong support for the relationship between PTSD and
      suicide ideation, attempts, and deaths. PTSD, in fact, shows the strongest association with
      suicide behavior of any of the anxiety disorders and has equal or greater odds ratio than
      mood disorders for resulting in impulsive suicide attempts. However, to date, no
      evidence-based interventions have been developed for individuals with PTSD who attempt
      suicide. Therefore, the investigators aim to develop, implement, and evaluate an inpatient
      based cognitive behavioral care plan for service members and beneficiaries, with symptoms of
      either Acute Stress Disorder (ASD) or PTSD, who are admitted for hospitalization following a
      recent suicide attempt.

      The investigators will randomize 50 traumatized patients hospitalized at the Walter Reed Army
      Medical Center for a recent suicide attempt to one of two conditions: (1) Post-Admission
      Cognitive Therapy + Enhanced Usual Care (PACT+EUC) or (2) Enhanced Usual Care (EUC).
      Individuals who are over the age of 18, able to communicate in English and willing to provide
      informed consent will be recruited. The PACT+EUC condition will consist of six 1-hr
      individual cognitive therapy sessions administered over 3 days over the course of the
      patient's hospital stay. The EUC condition will consist of the usual care patients receive at
      an inpatient facility during their hospitalization in addition to assessment services
      provided by independent evaluators who work directly with our research team. The primary
      outcome variable is the number of subsequent suicide attempts. The investigators expect that
      patients in the control condition will reattempt suicide at an earlier date and at a higher
      frequency as compared to patients enrolled in the intervention condition. Secondary outcome
      measures include the severity of depression, hopelessness, suicide ideation, and post
      traumatic symptoms. Patients in both conditions will be assessed on the dependent measures at
      baseline and at 1-, 2-, and 3- month follow-up intervals. Data analyses will provide
      estimates of the level of improvement demonstrated by the intervention condition, PACT
      relative to the control condition, EUC over time.

      The development and subsequent dissemination of innovative inpatient focused interventions
      for traumatized individuals with suicide attempt behavior will significantly contribute to
      our national and military suicide prevention objectives. The research aims to effectively
      utilize a unique window of opportunity during the hospitalization period following a recent
      suicide attempt to deliver a brief and targeted intervention to military personnel and family
      members diagnosed with a trauma-related condition. If our designed intervention demonstrates
      to be clinically feasible, acceptable, and associated with preliminary evidence of
      improvement in symptoms relative to the control condition, a larger randomized controlled
      trial will be proposed to definitively determine the efficacy of the intervention. Without
      adequate treatment, PTSD and suicide behavior may result in costly utilization of social
      services, human suffering, and eventual death. The Department of Veterans Affairs reports
      that veterans as compared to the general US population are at greater risk for suicide by
      almost 23%. The study targets at-risk individuals immediately following psychiatric
      hospitalization to minimize the likelihood of future complications as seen previously with
      Vietnam veterans. The projected time to achieve a consumer-related outcome would be 3-5
      years.
    
  