
    
      Background: Elderly patients discharged from hospital currently experience fragmented care,
      repeated and lengthy emergency department (ED) visits, relapse into their earlier condition,
      and rapid cognitive and functional decline. The Acute Care for Elders (ACE) program at Mount
      Sinai Hospital uses innovative strategies such as transition coaches, follow-up calls and
      patient self-care guides to improve the care transition experiences of the frail elderly
      patients from hospitals to the community. The ACE program reduced lengths of hospital stay
      and readmissions for elderly patients, increased patient satisfaction, and saved the
      healthcare system over $6 million in 2014.

      In 2016, the ACE program was implemented at one hospital in the Centre intégré en santé et en
      services sociaux de Chaudière-Appalaches (CISSS CA), a large integrated healthcare
      organization in Quebec, with a focus on improving transitions between hospital and the
      community for the elderly. This project used rapid, iterative user-centered design
      prototyping and a "Wiki-suite" (a free online database containing evidence-based knowledge
      tools in all areas of healthcare and an accompanying training course) to engage multiple
      stakeholders including a patient partner to improve care for elderly patients. Within this
      one year project, the investigators developed a context-adapted ACE intervention with the
      support of the Mt. Sinai Hospital, the Canadian Foundation for Healthcare Improvement and the
      Canadian Frailty Network.

      The goal is to scale up the ACE program for elderly care transition to three new hospital
      sites within the CISSS CA, using the Wiki-suite to allow for further context-adaptation of
      the program in these new hospitals.

      Objectives: 1) Implement a context-adapted ACE program in three hospitals in the CISSS CA and
      measure its impact on patient, caregiver, clinical and hospital-level outcomes; 2) Identify
      underlying mechanisms by which the context-adapted ACE program improves care transitions for
      the elderly; 3) Identify underlying mechanisms by which the Wiki-suite contributes to
      context-adaptation and local uptake of knowledge tools.

      Methods: Objective 1: Staggered implementation of the ACE program across the three CISSS CA
      sites; interrupted time series to measure the impact on hospital-level outcomes; pre/post
      cohort study to measure the impact of the new program on patient, caregiver and clinical
      outcomes. Objectives 2 and 3: Parallel mixed-methods process evaluation study to understand
      the mechanisms by which the context-adapted ACE program improves care transitions for the
      elderly and by which the Wiki-suite contributes to adaptation, implementation and scaling up
      of geriatric knowledge tools.

      Expected results: This project will provide much needed evidence on effective Knowledge
      Translation (KT) strategies to adapt best practices to local context in transition of care
      for the elderly. It will contribute to adapting geriatric knowledge to local contexts. The
      knowledge generated through this project will support future scale-up of the ACE program and
      the wiki methodology to other settings in Canada.
    
  