
    
      According to statistics in Taiwan, by 2050, one-third population of Taiwan citizens will be
      over 65 years old. By the definition in World Health Organization, "Active aging" is the
      process of optimizing opportunities for health, participation and security in order to
      enhance the quality of life as people age. Active aging aims to extend healthy life
      expectancy and quality of life for all people as they age.

      Chang Gung Health and Culture Village is one of the largest and most experienced aged care
      and retirement living providers in Taiwan.In this project, for promoting the successful aging
      of elderly residents, investigators will integrate health management systems and wireless
      sensor networks, physiological telemetry, learning and exercise behavior in Chang Gung Health
      and Culture Village. The investigators expect to build a Intelligent Care Facilities space
      for Elders base on exercise and rehabilitation with ten smart devices that involve combining
      an interactive art environment with computer science technology, multimedia applications and
      health administration in three years. Investigators invited the elderly residents to
      participate in the application of these devices, thereby increasing participants' physical
      activity and improving the physiological conditions. Participants were also requested to
      complete a technology acceptance model (TAM) questionnaire for these smart devices.

      With respect to old age, long-term care is the human rights. How to provide an excellent
      eldercare to the elder people is a challenge. "Elder care", "Technology", "Art", "Medicine",
      a team of interdisciplinary experts is required to achieve this goal. The products of this
      study will promote an excellent elder care, in the setting of their choice by offering older
      people the information, services and support needed to make choices which enhance health,
      well-being and independence. In addition to analyze the acceptance model of intelligent care
      facilities for elders, the investigators expect the experience can help academic and
      industrial circles to research and develop care facilities for elders in the future.
    
  