
    
      Trauma injury is the leading cause of death in people 1-44 years old in the US. Burn injury
      is a particularly debilitating form of trauma. In the U.S. the incidence of burn injury is
      estimated to be greater than 2 million cases per year. Burns account for ~ 300,000 deaths
      worldwide every year. In 1996, the cost of caring for burn patients in the U.S. was estimated
      at $573 million per year.

      Notably, 20-40% of trauma deaths that occur after hospital admission involve massive
      bleeding. Hemorrhage is the second most common cause of early in-hospital mortality
      accounting for a large portion of trauma deaths that occur within the first 24 hours.
      Resuscitation has dramatically changed over the last decade or so. Nowadays, we are
      substituting the normal saline and the other resuscitating fluids with blood products. This
      early administration of blood products during resuscitation is referred to as damage control
      resuscitation (DCR). The goal of DCR is to prevent and immediately correct trauma associated
      coagulopathy. DCR was initially practiced in the military where a balanced ratio of
      FFP:platelets:RBCs of 1:1:1 was employed. DCR has resulted in improved outcomes in both the
      military as well as civilian trauma setting as compared to previous resuscitation patterns.
      Despite the early use of a 1:1:1 ratio, a 1:1:2 ratio also became commonly used. Thus, the
      Pragmatic, Randomized Optimal Platelet and Plasma Ratios (PROPPR) study was done to
      investigate the best ratio of products to use during resuscitation. The PROPPR study found no
      differences in mortality between the 1:1:1 and the 1:1:2 groups at 24 hours or at 30 days.
      Additionally, there was no difference in complications between the two groups. Notably,
      exsanguination was significantly decreased in the 1:1:1 group and more patients in the 1:1:1
      group reached hemostasis. The Prospective Observational Multicenter Major Trauma Transfusion
      (PROMMTT) study showed that early transfusion (within minutes of arriving at hospital) was
      associated with improved 6-hour survival. Furthermore, patients with increased plasma to RBC
      ratios (>1:2) were found to have improved 30-day survival as compared to patients who
      received lower plasma to RBC ratios (<1:2). Notably, 1-day and 30-day survival were found to
      be increased when patients received higher ratios of platelets to RBCs. Delayed but balanced
      transfusion ratios did not have the same protective effect as receiving plasma early.

      To date there have been few studies on the effects of hemorrhage during burn and soft tissue
      excision and optimal blood product resuscitation. It is unclear whether DCR is optimal in
      burn patients. Moreover, it is unknown exactly what is happening in burn patients with
      respect to coagulation, platelet function, and microparticles (MPs). Patients with burns and
      soft tissue injuries typically have considerable bleeding during surgeries. Intraoperative
      blood loss is estimated at 9.2% of blood volume for every 1% of total body surface area
      (TBSA) burn excised in adults. In children undergoing burn excision, blood loss is estimated
      as 2% of blood volume for every 1% TBSA excised in extremities and trunk and 5% of blood
      volume for each 1% TBSA excised for the face. Moreover, early complete excision and grafting
      of major burns has been shown to decrease transfusions, infections, and mortality in
      children. Interestingly, many burn surgeons anecdotally report that their burn patients
      develop microvascular bleeding during the surgery. This phenomenon may be indicative of
      development of coagulopathy.

      There have been several prospective studies looking at perioperative coagulation status in
      burn patients. These studies show that the coagulation proteins (FV, FVIII, FIX, and
      fibrinogen) decrease during surgery. Notably, in most cases, the factor levels were still
      within "normal" reference ranges. FVIII and fibrinogen are acute phase reactants and were
      elevated in the burn patients preoperatively. These studies were performed before the
      adoption of DCR. Additionally, several studies have shown that antithrombin, protein S, and
      protein C (the natural anticoagulants) levels decrease in burn injuries. A recent study by
      Palmieri et al. looked at compared a transfusion ratio of 1:1 RBCs:FFP to 4:1 RBCs:FFP in
      children with >20% TBSA burns. In their study of 16 children, they found a trend toward
      increased length of stay (LOS), peak PELOD score (measure of organ dysfunction), increased
      time to wound healing, and increased infection rates in the 4:1 group; however, the
      differences were not statistically significant. Notably, they found that the 1: 1 ratio was
      safe in the burn patients and that the 1:1 ratio was also less expensive ($26,635 versus
      $34,485). A recent study by Pidcoke et al. showed that current blood product resuscitation
      during burn and soft tissue excision is not hemostatic. Thus, the effect of using a balanced
      resuscitation ratio of blood products including platelets in burn patients has not been well
      studied.

      In general, platelet dysfunction is believed to play a role in the development of trauma
      associated coagulopathy (TAC). The effect of burns on patients' platelets count and activity
      is unknown. Upon hospital admission, burn patients typically have normal platelet counts. By
      days 3-5, the patients' platelet counts usually drop, especially in burns of large TBSA. In
      severe burn patients, platelet mediators, such as platelet factor 4 (PF4) and thromboxane B2
      (TxB2), have been found to be elevated. This is thought to be attributable to platelet
      activation and consumption. Thus, further investigation of the effect of burns on platelets
      will offer further insight into the transfusion needs of burn patients.

      In a study done by Lu et al. on the development of TAC in burn patients, TAC was defined as
      an INR ≥ 1.3, aPTT ≥ 1.5 times the mean normal limit, and normal platelet counts, no patient
      presented with TAC upon admission. Only few changes in INR and aPTT values were observed over
      time. Further studies are needed; however, the authors may have underdiagnosed TAC in the
      burn patients based upon their definition of TAC. It is likely that platelets and MPs play a
      significant role in the development of TAC as well as the bleeding seen in burn patients
      during excision and grafting.

      MPs are small vesicles (< 1 µm) that resemble their parent cell in terms of similar surface
      proteins and membrane lipids. Interestingly, all blood cells can release MPs. The most
      abundant MPs in the blood are platelet MPs (PMPs). PMPs have been found to have 50- to
      100-fold higher procoagulant activity than activated whole platelets. PMPs are formed via
      five mechanisms: 1) platelet activation and subsequent shedding of membrane fragments, 2)
      complement mediated membrane attack, 3) high shear forces, 4) senescence and apoptosis of
      platelets and megakaryocytes, and 5) platelet cytoskeletal abnormalities. In the PROMMTT
      study, patient were found to have increased levels of MPs derived from endothelial cells,
      RBCs, and leukocytes as well as increased levels of tissue factor bearing MPs (TF-MPs).
      Notably, coagulopathic trauma patients were found to have much lower levels of PMPs, TF-MPs,
      and thrombin generation in addition to more bleeding and increased mortality.

      To further understand the role of PMPs, Matijevic et al. examined PMPs in plasma. They
      compared thawed plasma at day 5 to freshly thawed fresh frozen plasma (FFP) at day 0. They
      found that the majority of MPs were indeed PMPs and that day 5 plasma had a 50% reduction in
      MPs and a 29% decrease in procoagulant activity. A recent prospective observational study of
      trauma patients found that patients with low levels of phosphatidylserine (PS) positive PMPs
      had impaired clot formation and were more likely to receive more RBC transfusions during the
      first 24 hours following injury. These studies suggest that PMPs may play an important
      previously overlooked role in TAC. The role of MPs in burn patients is unknown. It is likely
      that MPs play a significant and overlooked role in the coagulation and development of
      coagulopathies in burn patients. Further studies are needed to further evaluate the role of
      MPs particularly the number, identity, size, and contribution to coagulation in burn
      patients.

      Following surgery with burn excision and grafting, patients remain hospitalized for various
      lengths of time. This often depends upon the TBSA burned, smoke inhalation, and infectious
      complications, and other complicating medical problems. Based upon previous studies, burn
      patients are thought to become hypercoagulable. This hypercoagulable state has been
      attributed to increased levels of some clotting factors (FV, FVIII), platelets, and
      fibrinogen, and decreased levels of antithrombin, protein S, and protein C. Notably, the
      incidence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) in burn patients is low.
      A study using the National Burn Repository database found the rate of venous thromboembolism
      (VTE) to be 0.61%. Another study found the rate to be 0.25% for DVT and 0.05% for PE. Yet
      another study which used duplex ultrasonography to screen burn patients for DVT on admission
      and at discharge found a prevalence of 6.1%. Thus, the rate of VTE in burn patients is
      thought to be much higher than previously expected due to asymptomatic DVTs as well as the
      difficulty in diagnosing DVTs in this population due to overlapping symptoms between DVTs and
      burns (ex. extremity swelling).

      There have been several published reports of VTE in burn patients. Recently, Van Haren et al.
      studied the coagulation status of 24 burn patients over the course of their hospital stay
      using thromboelastography (TEG) and standard laboratory coagulation tests. Notably, repeat
      samples taken one week after admission were found to be hypercoagulable (decreased R and K
      times, increased α angle and increased MA) and levels of fibrinogen, protein S, protein C,
      and antithrombin were found to be increased. Two patients that were hypercoagulable (TEG
      showing decreased R time) at admission were found to later develop VTE despite
      anticoagulation therapy. Surprisingly, prophylactic use of anticoagulation is not overall
      common in burn patients. A survey of burn centers showed that about one quarter of USA
      centers did not use any form of VTE prophylaxis. Thus, additional studies are needed to
      further explore the coagulation status and various coagulation and anticoagulation factor
      levels of burn patients throughout their hospital course. Only by understanding what is
      physiologically taking place in these patients can we offer the best therapeutic treatment
      (no anticoagulation versus anticoagulation, and if so, which one?).

      The goal of the proposed study is to further understand the physiologic changes that occur
      initially in burn patients and how the coagulation status of the burn patient changes over
      time. In addition to changes in coagulation and anticoagulation proteins, this study will
      focus on the effect of burns on platelets and MPs. We will also examine the MP populations
      and characterize the identity, size, PS content of the MPs and elucidate their effect on
      coagulation parameters as well as inflammation.
    
  