
    
      This study will employ a randomized controlled two-arm design. All testing and training will
      take place at St. Michael's Hospital (30 Bond Street, Toronto, Ontario). During the study
      participants will be performing simulated lower endoscopic procedures on a virtual reality
      (VR) endoscopy simulator.

      Description of Simulation Devices used

      Low-Fidelity Simulator (Bench Top Model): The low-fidelity simulator is a validated bench-top
      endoscopy simulator that helps develop general endoscopic skills. The simulator is comprised
      of a series of vertical wooden barriers with numbered targets (holes) conforming to 27
      different sequences of varying complexity. An Olympus paediatric videocolonoscope is used to
      navigate the defined sequences as quickly and accurately as possible, with visual output
      being displayed on a video monitor.

      High-Fidelity Simulator: Virtual Reality Model: The high-fidelity simulator to be used for
      testing and training is the EndoVR® virtual reality (VR) endoscopy simulator. It models
      navigation through a colon, using a specialized endoscope that is inserted into a
      computer-based module with a screen showing the colonic lumen of a virtual patient. It
      provides both visual and haptic feedback related to the procedure. The VR simulator has a
      number of standardized case-based scenarios of varying complexity for colonoscopy.

      Details of experimental design

      Baseline questionnaire: A written questionnaire will be administered to all participants at
      the start of the project to collect demographic and background information including: age,
      sex, level of training, previous endoscopy experience and nature of experience (if
      applicable), and video game experience, which may correlate with baseline endoscopic skill.

      Pre-test: All participants will then take part in a pre-test designed to assess their
      baseline (1) knowledge of colonoscopy; (2) technical skills; and (3) non-technical skills. No
      feedback will be provided at any point during the pre-test. The pre-test will consist of the
      following:

      Knowledge Test: A 30 minute (20 questions) multiple-choice question test designed to assess
      participants' theoretical knowledge of colonoscopy, including indications, sedation, safety,
      findings, pathology and follow-up.

      VR Simulation Test: Participants baseline endoscopic technical proficiency will be will be
      assessed through the completion of a colonoscopy procedure on the VR simulator. This scenario
      simulates a screening colonoscopy, without the need for any type of intervention such as
      biopsy. The procedure will be timed so that participants do not take longer than 30 minutes
      to complete the procedure. An expert rater will be present to assess performance, but will
      not provide assistance. All participants will be videotaped in order to obtain performance
      measures such that their faces are not captured to ensure anonymity. Prior to starting the
      procedure, participants will complete a questionnaire to measure their self-efficacy.

      VR Simulation Based "Integrated Scenario" Test: Following the simulator-only test,
      participants will complete an Integrated Scenario format test to assess their baseline
      endoscopic non-technical proficiency. This test was modeled after another test during which
      participants perform a colonoscopy procedure on the VR simulator while interacting with an
      endoscopic nurse and a standardized patient (SP) portraying a patient. The simulated
      procedure will mimic the setup of an endoscopic suite, as the VR simulator will be positioned
      next to a patient bed. A standardized patient, who will receive instructions regarding their
      medical role, will act out a scenario on colon cancer screening. Trainees will be expected to
      explain the colonoscopy procedure, its benefits and risks, and obtain procedural consent. The
      trainee will then carry out the procedure on the VR simulator while responding to the patient
      and interacting with the standardized nurse (SN) as appropriate. The SP will act out cues
      from the VR simulator if the simulator signals that the procedure has exceeded its threshold
      for discomfort. The performance of all participants will be videotaped (in a manner that
      their faces are not captured to ensure anonymity) in order to obtain performance measures.
      Participants will be given a maximum of 45 minutes to complete the procedure. Prior to
      starting the procedure, participants will complete a questionnaire to measure their
      self-efficacy.

      Training interventions: Subsequently participants will be randomized, using an online
      randomization algorithm, to one of two groups (following a 1:1 allocation distribution)

      Sample size calculation: A power analysis was computed using G*Power version 3.1.9. Using a
      previous study that evaluated an NTS training curriculum in surgery as assessed by the
      Non-Technical Skills for Surgeons (NOTSS) and OSANTS forms, we conducted the analysis using
      the relevant effect size. Based on an effect size of 0.65 (effect size f), an alpha of 0.05
      (two-tailed), a beta of 0.20, 2 groups, and 3 measurements, 16 participants are required to
      achieve a power of greater than 0.80 using repeated measures ANOVA (between-factors).
      Furthermore, a previous study comparing a curriculum in endoscopic simulation found that a
      minimum of 15 participants per group was sufficient to detect a significant difference. To
      accommodate for a projected 20% dropout and/or non-response that may occur, we therefore plan
      to recruit a total of 36 participants.

      Statistical analysis: Statistical analyses will be performed using Statistical Package for
      the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 20. All statistical tests will be considered significant
      at p < 0.05. Baseline Questionnaire: Patient demographics and baseline variables will be
      compared between the two groups using Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) and chi-square tests for
      continuous and categorical variables respectively. (b)Clinical Performance (Technical and
      Non-Technical): Clinical performance during the live colonoscopies for each group will be
      determined by comparing the scores from the DOPS, GiECAT, NAPCOMS, and Modified-OSANTS.
      Specifically, a mixed factor 2 (NTS curriculum vs. TS curriculum) x 2 (procedure 1 vs.
      procedure 2) ANOVA will be used to determine whether there is a difference based on the
      rating scales. Tukey's honest significant difference (HSD) test will be used as a post-hoc
      analysis to determine any significant differences.

      Technical Performance: Technical performance on the simulator for each group will be
      determined by comparing the scores from the DOPS, GiECAT, and GAGES. Specifically, a mixed
      factor 2 (NTS curriculum vs. TS curriculum) x 3 (pretest, posttest, retention test) ANOVA
      will be used to determine whether there is a difference based on the rating scales. Tukey HSD
      test will be used as a post-hoc analysis to determine any significant differences.

      Non-Technical Performance: Non-technical performance on the simulator for each group will be
      determined by comparing the scores from the GiECAT and modified OSANTS. Specifically, a mixed
      factor 2 (NTS curriculum vs. TS curriculum) x 3 (pretest, posttest, retention test) ANOVA
      will be used to determine whether there is a difference based on the rating scales. Tukey HSD
      test will be used as a post-hoc analysis to determine any significant differences.
    
  