
    
      Hepatitis C Virus infection is one of the main causes of chronic liver disease worldwide with
      current estimates of approximately 130 - 210 million individuals (according to 3% of the
      world population) chronically infected with the hepatitis C virus. However, hepatitis C virus
      infections are among the most common causes leading to chronic hepatitis, liver cirrhosis and
      liver related death worldwide.

      The current standard of care is a combination of pegylated Interferon and Ribavirin
      (dual-therapy). Since 2011, direct-acting antiviral drugs inhibiting viral protease are
      approved as an addition to the standard therapy (triple-therapy).

      The occurrence of adverse events as well as their severity generally depends on the therapy
      regimen and is influenced by type and dosage of medications.

      Most common adverse events (affects up to 95% of patients) are fever, fatigue, headache,
      nausea, arthralgia, depression, skin reactions, neutropenia, and anemia.

      A more frequent occurrence of adverse events with triple-therapy compared to dual- therapy
      has become clear since it's introduction, particularly with regard to anemia, neutropenia,
      gastrointestinal discomfort, fatigue, dysgeusia, and skin reactions. How- ever, there is
      accumulating evidence for a more often appearance of infections and/or infestations in
      patients receiving triple-therapy.

      The medical consequence from adverse events is a reduction of quality of life and
      consecutively the loss of antiviral therapy adherence. Thus, early recognition and immediate
      treatment of adverse events are crucial aspects in the success of antiviral treatment.

      Aim of this study is to quantify reported adverse events with respect to therapy reg- imen
      (dual-therapy vs. triple-therapy) in patients who are treated at the Department of Internal
      Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology at the Medical University Graz.
      Furthermore, a detailed review of international treatment recommendations, as well as an
      analysis of possible predictor parameters for the appearance of adverse events and treatment
      success is done.
    
  