
    
      If the subject enrolls in the study, the child will undergo testing for 1) memory, 2) general
      brain function (i.e. intelligence testing). The parent will complete 3) a parental assessment
      of the subject's behavior through a standardized questionnaire.

      Initial testing of all case and control participants will include an assessment for
      neurologic and psychiatric conditions, including attention deficit or learning disorders. In
      addition, each participant will be assessed by the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence
      (WASI) and the Child Behavioral Checklist (CBCL), which measures children's psychological
      well-being, competencies and behavioral/emotional problems.

      After explaining the study to your child, we will show your child 80 items on a computer
      screen with a colored border in either in red, green, blue, or yellow. Following a short
      break, we will show your child 160 items on the screen. Half of these items were previously
      displayed and half of these items are new. We will ask your child two or three questions:
      Have we shown you this item before?How sure are you about your response? Your child will be
      given the choice of one of three categories: Very sure / halfway sure / not sure. What color
      was it? This question will only be asked if the answer to question 1 was yes.This portion of
      the test takes about 30 min. Subjects will then participate in a similar test of picture
      recognition, but we will ask about the location of the original image instead of the color.
      Your child will then be given a standardized intelligence test. This takes roughly 45 min to
      an hour to complete.

      Some test participants will partake in a reading portion where the test administrator will
      read a passage to the participant and the child will say whether or not they recognize a
      series of phrases. This should take about 20 min to complete. Participants are read a passage
      and presented with a series of sentences. After listening to the text, they will be informed
      that some of the sentences they will hear are part of the text, whereas other sentences are
      new. They will be asked to circle "yes" on their answer sheet when they recognize the
      sentence as being taken directly from the text, and "no" when they think the sentence was not
      taken from the text and has not been heard before. It will be emphasized that participants
      must recognize as old only those sentences that included exactly the same words as the
      sentences encountered in the text. Participants will also be told that for every "yes" answer
      they would have to select the option "Remember" if they have a clear memory of their
      encounter with the sentence in mind, and they can further remember some qualitative and
      contextual information related to the memory itself, or select the option "Familiar" if they
      have the feeling that the sentence is part of the text story but they cannot recollect any
      qualitative detail about the encoding of the sentence.
    
  