
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) of patients with untreated metastatic
      colorectal cancer (mCRC) receiving the combination of modified leucovorin calcium,
      fluorouracil, oxaliplatin (FOLFOX6) (mFOLFOX6) and aflibercept.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the objective response rate (complete response [CR] + partial response [PR])
      and the disease control rate (CR + PR + stable disease [SD]), as determined by Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria, of patients with untreated mCRC
      receiving the combination of mFOLFOX6 and aflibercept.

      II. To evaluate overall survival of patients with untreated mCRC receiving the combination of
      mFOLFOX6 and aflibercept.

      III. To further characterize the safety and toxicity of the combination of mFOLFOX6 and
      aflibercept, including 60 day all-cause mortality.

      IV. To describe patients with mCRC whose disease is rendered resectable as a consequence of
      therapy with the combination of mFOLFOX 6 and aflibercept.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the use of dynamic imaging modalities including dynamic contrast
      enhanced-magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) and fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission
      tomography (PET) to evaluate changes in vascular permeability and FDG avidity and correlate
      with clinical efficacy (PFS, overall survival [OS], and response by RECIST 1.1).

      II. To evaluate circulating levels of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA),
      phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis, class F (PlGF), soluble vascular endothelial
      growth factor receptor 2 (VEGF-R2), chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 12 (CXCL12) and chemokine
      (C-X-C motif) receptor 4 (CXCR4) as potential biomarkers for efficacy of aflibercept.

      III. To evaluate for the presence of VEGF single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and whether
      any SNP(s), when detected, may be predictive of efficacy and/or toxicity of aflibercept.

      IV. To assess microvessel density/tumor blood flow, capillary permeability and vessel
      normalization by tumor biopsy pre and post treatment with aflibercept.

      V. To evaluate the presence of hypertension as a predictive biomarker for clinical efficacy
      of aflibercept.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive aflibercept intravenously (IV) over 1 hour followed by oxaliplatin IV over 2
      hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV over 5-15 minutes and then
      continuously over 46 hours on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.
    
  