
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of sirolimus used in combination with bevacizumab
           in patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma.

        -  Determine the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the clinical activity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of sirolimus in these patients.

        -  Determine the biologically active dose range of sirolimus in these patients.

        -  Correlate phosphorylated p70S6K activity with clinical response in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Correlate PTEN, 4EBP-1, phosphorylated p70S6K, CD31, and vascular endothelial growth
           factor expression with clinical response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate the degree of angiogenesis (as measured by DCE-CT scan) with drug levels and
           clinical response.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of sirolimus.

      Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes once every 2 weeks and oral sirolimus once
      daily. Treatment continues for up to 6 months in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of sirolimus until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Six additional patients receive treatment at
      the MTD.

      Blood samples are collected from healthy participants to measure p70S6 kinase activity.
      Patients undergo blood sample collection at baseline and periodically during study for
      pharmacokinetic and p70S6K activity assessment. Samples are also analyzed by high-performance
      liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrophotometry to determine peak drug
      concentrations. Patients without archived tumor samples undergo tumor tissue biopsy at
      baseline. Samples are analyzed for PTEN, 4E-BP1, vascular endothelial growth factor,
      epidermal growth factor, p70S6K, and CD31 by immunohistochemistry. Patients also undergo
      DCE-CT scan at baseline and on day 29 to assess angiogenesis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 52 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 36 patients and 5 healthy participants will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  