
    
      School engagement is critical to students' long-term success and appears to be strongly
      influenced by peer relationships. School engagement results from the interaction of the
      individual with the school context and is a multi-dimensional concept involving behavioral,
      emotional, and cognitive components. These include attendance, conduct, effort,
      participation, emotions towards school, identification with school, interest, and
      psychological investment in learning. Children who are engaged in school have higher levels
      of academic achievement and increased likelihood of occupational success as adults, even
      beyond that predicted by achievement. Children who are successful in school are also
      healthier adults, which is due in part to health risk behaviors that begin in adolescence.
      School engagement appears to protect against substance use and delinquency. Factors that have
      been associated with low levels of engagement (or disengagement) include trauma, stress,
      discrimination, and bullying, whereas supportive relationships with parents, peers, and
      teachers promote school engagement. Because school engagement is modifiable, it is an obvious
      target for school-based intervention.

      Prior studies have documented interventions that improve school engagement, but effect sizes
      are generally small and they are resource-intensive and therefore difficult to implement
      widely. As far as the investigators know, none have used a social network or team-based
      behavioral economics approach. A partnership between UCLA and Alliance College-Ready Middle
      Academy #12 (Alliance 12), a charter middle school in Los Angeles led to the development of
      the novel Gradebook Game. This intervention aims to induce supportive social pressure aligned
      with a school's mission in order to promote school engagement and achievement. Sixth grade
      students are organized into teams by Advisory period and mentored by 8th grade team captains.
      Throughout the regular school day, students are assigned points for effort, achievement, and
      citizenship (as captured by the online gradebook and behavior tracker), which then get
      repackaged into weekly team scorecards for the Game. Teams compete against each other for
      total points in bi-weekly match-ups, and wins are rewarded with incentives tailored to the
      school's needs. This intervention is unique in bringing a team-based behavioral economics
      approach to impact school engagement. It is grounded in principles from two successful
      interventions: the Good Behavior Game and Peer Connection. The Gradebook Game Intervention
      has been piloted for feasibility in one Advisory group of 6th grade students at Alliance 12
      during the Spring of 2016. If effective, it could feasibly be implemented widely and has the
      potential to transform social norms and school culture, providing a much-needed tool among
      schools with low student engagement.

      The investigators plan to study the effectiveness of the Gradebook Game in promoting school
      engagement and achievement. This study would likely be the first to evaluate an intervention
      that utilizes team competition to generate social pressure and peer support around behaviors
      that promote success in school. This study has the potential to inform whether the Gradebook
      Game intervention should be adopted by other schools struggling with low student engagement;
      and depending on the results, it could lead to a larger, more rigorous study that would
      evaluate whether the Gradebook Game is effective in promoting school engagement and
      achievement among a diverse study population, which could be beneficial to schools and
      families across the nation.
    
  