
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the safety profile and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of recombinant vesicular
      stomatitis virus-expressing interferon-beta and tyrosinase related protein 1
      (VSV-IFNbeta-TYRP1) therapy when administered by intravenous (IV) and intratumoral (IT)
      injection in patients with previously treated metastatic melanoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To gather preliminary data on tumor response rate and progression-free survival time of
      VSV-IFNbeta-TYRP1 intravenous and intratumoral therapy among patients with metastatic
      malignant melanoma.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of VSV-IFNbeta-TYRP1 in patients by
      measurement of viremia in the blood using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction
      (RT-PCR) for VSV-N ribonucleic acid (RNA).

      II. To characterize the pharmacodynamics (PD) of VSV-IFNbeta-TYRP1 by measuring serum
      interferon-beta.

      III. To determine if there is viral shedding (mouthwash, buccal swab, and urine) before and
      after viral treatment at different time points.

      IV. Assess fresh pre- and post-treatment tumor biopsy samples for viral RNA, viral protein by
      immunohistochemistry (IHC), infectious virus recovery, infiltrating immune cells.

      V. Assess transcriptome of fresh pre- and post-treatment tumor biopsy samples. VI. Assess
      exome of fresh peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) and fresh tumor samples pre-VSV treatment
      for neoantigen profiling.

      VII. Assess changes in cytokine levels and immune cell profile in peripheral blood and tumor
      samples, pre and post viral treatment.

      VIII. Assess if there is an increase in the amount of VSV and melanoma antigen, specifically
      TYRP1, reactive IFN-gamma secreting T cells by intracellular staining intracellular cytokine
      (ICS) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISpot) assays.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP A: Patients receive recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus-expressing interferon-beta
      and tyrosinase related protein 1 intratumorally (IT) and intravenously (IV) over 30-60
      minutes 2-4 hours later on day 1.

      GROUP B: Patients receive recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus-expressing interferon-beta
      and tyrosinase related protein 1 IT and IV over 30-60 minutes 2-4 hours later on day 1. Cycle
      1 continues for 28 days, with subsequent cycles repeating every 21 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients in Group A are followed up at 42 days. Patients
      in Group B are followed up at 28 days, every 3 months until progressive disease, and then
      every 6 months for a maximum of 5 years after study registration.
    
  