
    
      Introduction: In china, the incidence and death rate of lung cancer is 48.32 per 100 000
      person-years and 39.27 per 100 000 person-years, respectively, the highest in malignant
      tumor. Surgical operation is still main treatment means to resectable NSCLC. VATS pulmonary
      resection is performed in clinical operation with the aim of decreasing postoperative
      complications morbidity. The mechanisms may be due to minimize the inflammation reaction to
      surgical injury. There are some trials regarding two-port VATS versus three-port VATS versus
      four-port VATS or single-port VATS versus three-port VATS. However, there is no prospective
      randomised controlled trial regarding Single-port versus two-port versus three-port video
      assisted thoracoscopic pulmonary resection on NSCLC. So, we hope to demonstrate that
      single-port and two-port VATS were feasible and safe through the trial, and we hope the
      results of our study will provide a high level of clinical evidence for choosing the best
      operative approach in VATS.

      Methods and analysis: this is a three years prospective randomised controlled trial, which
      aims to attest the safety and feasibility of simple-port VATS and two-port VATS. Group A, B
      and C receives single-port VATS, two-port VATS and three-port VATS pulmonary resection
      respectively. The primary endpoint is postoperative recurrence rate. The secondary endpoints
      include other postoperative complications morbidity , such as the number and location of
      lymph nodes dissected、operation time, intraoperative volume of blood loss, hospital stays,
      hospitalization expenses, quantity of using antalgica, change of pulmonary function. 70
      patients are enrolled per group in three years, after adding 10% loss of the sample, 77
      patients will be required for each group so a total of 231 patients will be enrolled into the
      study in the end.
    
  