
    
      Objectives: to further compare acupuncture treatment and care interventions for the relief of
      inflammatory symptoms of the breast during lactation and to investigate the relationship
      between bacteria in the breast milk and clinical signs and symptoms.

      Design: randomised, non-blinded, controlled trial of acupuncture and care interventions.

      Setting: a midwife-led breast-feeding clinic in Sweden.

      Participants: 205 mothers with 210 cases of inflammatory symptoms of the breast during
      lactation agreed to participate. The mothers were randomly assigned to one of three treatment
      groups, two of which included acupuncture amongst the care interventions and one without
      acupuncture. All groups were given essential care. Protocols, which included scales for
      erythema, breast tension and pain, were maintained for each day of contact with the
      breast-feeding clinic. A Severity Index (SI) for each mother and each day was created by
      adding together the scores on the erythema, breast tension and pain scales. The range of the
      SI was 0 (least severe) to 19 (most severe).

      Findings: There was no significant difference in numbers of mothers in the treatment groups
      with the lowest possible score for severity of symptoms on contact days 3, 4 or 5. There were
      no statistically significant differences between the treatment groups for number of contact
      days needed until the mother felt well enough to discontinue contact with the breast-feeding
      clinic or for number of mothers prescribed antibiotics. There were significant differences in
      the mean SI scores on contact days 3 and 4 between the non-acupuncture group and the two
      acupuncture groups. Mothers with less favourable outcomes (≥ 6 contact days, n = 61) were, at
      first contact with the midwife more often given advice on correction of the baby's attachment
      to the breast. An obstetrician was called to examine 20 % of the mothers and antibiotic
      therapy was prescribed for 15 % of the study population. The presence of Group B streptococci
      in the breast milk was related to less favourable outcomes.

      Key conclusions and implications for practice: If acupuncture treatment is acceptable to the
      mother, this, together with care interventions such as correction of breast-feeding position
      and babies' attachment to the breast might be a more expedient and less invasive choice of
      treatment than the use of oxytocin nasal spray. Midwives, nurses or medical practitioners
      with specialist competence in breast feeding should be the primary care providers for mothers
      with inflammatory symptoms of the breast during lactation. The use of antibiotics for
      inflammatory symptoms of the breast should be closely monitored in order to help the global
      community reduce resistance development among bacterial pathogens.
    
  