
    
      Diabetic retinopathy is one of the leading causes of blindness in the world. Signs of
      retinopathy are detected in almost 100% of type 1 diabetic patients who have had their
      disease for at least 20 years and almost 100% of type 2 diabetic patients with the similar
      duration of disease (1). Histopathologic findings range from microaneurysms and cotton wool
      spots to more ominous neovascularization. The latter process, known as proliferative diabetic
      retinopathy, can progress to total blindness if untreated. The biochemical mechanisms
      responsible for PDR have been extensively studied, and appear to be multifactorial.
      Associated findings include abnormalities of vasoactive peptides such as vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF), pigment epithelium derived factor (PEDF), and insulin-like growth
      factor (ILF-1), lipids, oxidative pathways, enzymatic pathways, such as protein kinase, and
      carbohydrate metabolism (1-4). Whether these (and other) factors are interrelated or have a
      common underlying defect is unknown. The common endpoint, however, is vascular leakage with
      neovascularization. Current therapeutic regimens based on these biochemical abnormalities
      have to date been unsuccessful in stemming the progression of proliferative diabetic
      retinopathy. Current treatment strategies emphasize glycemic and blood pressure control, with
      laser photocoagulation and vitrectomy for advanced cases (5).

      Early retinal disease in diabetic patients may take the form of diabetic macular edema (DME).
      This is observed in 20% to 25% of both type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients. The
      pathophysiology of DME involves the leakage of plasma from small vessels in the macula.
      Resorption of this fluid followed by hard exudate formation can lead to severe impairment of
      central vision (6).

      Anecdotal evidence from ophthalmologic institutions (Houston Eye Institute, Shands at
      University of Florida, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute) suggests that this treatment arrests the
      progression of retinal disease in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy. The
      mechanism of this effect is unknown, but may be related to reversal of retinal ischemia or
      downregulation of vasoactive peptides by restoration of hepatic metabolism.

      Protocol

      This study is designed as a prospective, controlled, single blinded evaluation of pulsatile
      insulin in the role of diabetic retinopathy. The patients entered into the study will be from
      two distinct sources. First, in conjunction with a national eye imaging company, patients
      with known type 1 or type 2 diabetes will be evaluated for retinal disease. This evaluation
      will consist of mydriatic fundus photography in diabetic patients not having had recent
      ophthalmologic evaluation (period greater than 12 months). The fundus photographs will be
      read by an observer under the auspices of the Wilmer Ophthalmologic Institute at Johns
      Hopkins Hospital. Classifications of patients will be evaluated in this study include:

      I Patients with non high risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy II Patients with severe non
      proliferative diabetic retinopathy

      Patients who are diagnosed as one of these classifications will be offered entrance into the
      study. Study patients will be matched for age, sex, and disease severity into a treatment and
      control group. All study patients will be evaluated in conjunction with an ophthalmologist.
      This evaluation will include clinical examination and fundus photography. Treatment group
      patients will undergo weekly pulsatile insulin delivery sessions as per protocol above.
      Control group patients will have weekly clinic visits to maximize glycemic and hypertensive
      control. All patients will repeat their fundus photography at three month intervals, with
      ophthalmologic evaluation as above every six months, or more often if requested by the
      ophthalmologist.
    
  