
    
      This project has 3 objectives: 1. To implement and validate a new optimized workflow enabling
      rigid registration between AAA meshes extracted from preoperative CT-scan with fluoroscopic
      images. 2. To develop an elastic registration of the AAA meshes based on 2D or 3D modeling of
      the endovascular device. 3. To validate the accuracy of elastic registration and compare it
      with the rigid registration.

      Experimental protocol: These 3 objectives will be completed in three experimental phases:

        1. Improvement and implementation of the current rigid registration software. In this
           phase, several new features such as an improved correction system by automatic capture
           of DSA, an automated 3D/3D rigid registration, recognition of the origin of internal
           iliac arteries will be implemented. This new beta version will be tested in 20 patients
           at CHUM Research center and Dalhousie University-QEII Health Sciences Centre.

        2. Implementation of an elastic registration based on endovascular device segmentation and
           center line corrections. The luminal path of the segmented lumen on preoperative CT-scan
           will be aligned with the path of the endovascular devices, then an elastic deformation
           of the aortic lumen and thrombus meshes generated from CT-scanner will be applied and
           registered to fluoroscopic and DSA images. A workflow allowing a fast recognition and
           segmentation of endovascular devices from one to three stereotaxic fluoroscopic views
           will be implemented in the Leonardo workstation and tested off-line on the previous 20
           patient database and also in-vitro in realistic phantoms.

        3. Online validation of elastic registration: The best strategy as defined above will be
           validated clinically on-line. The beta version will be tested in real time in 20
           patients requiring SG procedures and compared to the prior cohort having EVAR/FEVAR
           procedures with rigid registration. The accuracy of rigid and elastic registrations will
           be compared in the two experimental groups.
    
  