
    
      Cefepime, a fourth-generation cephalosporin, is widely prescribed for the treatment of
      serious bacterial infections. Cefepime has a more narrow spectrum and has relatively lower
      minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) values compared to meropenem. Therefore cefepime is
      widely endorsed, and preferred over a carbapenem antibiotic, as a first line agent for the
      management of febrile neutropenia (FN) in hematologic patients.

      Several studies have shown adequate exposure using the recommended 3x2 g dosing strategy for
      cefepime in most FN patients. The pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PKPD) target of
      fT100%>MIC, which is frequently used for BL AB in critically ill patients, is achieved in
      most patients. Subsets of patients have been shown to be at risk for underdosing, especially
      those with a higher than normal creatinine clearance, obese or cachectic patients and those
      infected with bacteria with a MIC >4 mg/L. Despite adequate cefepime exposure, the
      association with clinical outcome still needs to be confirmed on a large scale. An
      association between suboptimal PKPD target attainment and clinical outcome was shown on a
      large scale for β-lactam antibiotics. These data need to be validated for the specific
      antimicrobials agents and in subsets of patients. Another study suggested a cefepime PKPD
      target for clinical outcome of at least fT>MIC of 68% to 74% based on simulations using 2
      existing population PK models. In a mixed population of critically and non-critically ill
      patients with Gram negative blood stream infections this threshold was a significant
      predictor of in-hospital mortality. A recent study, undertaken in patients with nosocomial
      pneumonia treated with cefepime, even reported clinical failure despite achievement of
      fT100%>MIC, they suggest a fCmin/MIC ratio of at least 2.1 as a better predictor for clinical
      failure in Gram negative bacterial pneumonia patients. Up until today, there are no explicit
      data linking PKPD target attainment with clinical outcome in FN patients.

      With respect to cefepime toxicity, there is a lot of controversy on the upper limit that
      should not be exceeded in clinical practice. Cefepime toxicity is mainly neurological, going
      from mild confusion to seizures or encephalopathy. In the first study that assessed the
      relationship between cefepime PK and associated neurotoxicity, trough levels >22 mg/L were
      found to be associated with a 50% probability of neurological toxicity. However, a more
      recent study showed, using a non-parametric approach, that estimated rates of neurotoxicity
      using this threshold are very high and discordant with rates seen in clinical practice. Hence
      this threshold seems not representative for the clinical practice. Other PK parameters (Cmax,
      AUC, ...) and covariates (CrCl, Age, dose, duration of therapy, co-medication, …) probably
      also influence cefepime related neurotoxicity. Recently, an attempt to redefine cefepime's
      threshold for neurotoxicity was published in a retrospective cohort study. No neurotoxicity
      was observed below 35 mg/L for all samples (steady-state levels during continuous infusion,
      trough and non-trough levels during intermittent infusion). However, when looking only at
      trough levels, they also advise avoiding levels >20 mg/L until more information from
      prospective studies is available.

      Moreover, until now there has only been one study investigating the carryover of cefepime in
      samples taken via a central venous catheter. This study suggested possible carryover for
      triple lumen catheters and peripherally-inserted central catheters. Due to the small sample
      size and the in vitro nature of this research, these results need to be confirmed.

      The aim of this research is two-fold. Firstly, the aim is to investigate whether there is
      significant carryover of cefepime in samples taken via a central venous catheter. Next, the
      aim is to assess prospectively the relation between cefepime exposure and efficacy or safety
      in a FN patient population. As literature on these topics is scarce this research will
      further explore the exposure-response relationship in order to define a therapeutic window
      for maximal clinical cure and minimal neurotoxicity that can be used in future research and
      clinical practice.
    
  