
    
      Anemia is common in trauma patients and is associated with a high rate of blood transfusion.
      The pathophysiology of this anemia is "anemia of inflammation" and develops via 3 mechanisms:
      impaired iron regulation, shortened red blood cell life span, and reduced rate of
      erythropoiesis. Once iron enters cells (enterocytes and macrophages), the iron export protein
      ferroportin controls egress. Hepcidin, a peptide made in the liver, is the key regulator of
      iron homeostasis. Hepcidin binds to ferroportin, leading to its ultimate degradation.
      Hepcidin reduces iron availability via 2 mechanisms: decreased absorption of iron across the
      GI tract and decreased release of iron from the reticuloendothelial system. It therefore
      induces a functional iron deficiency by shuttling iron into the macrophages and making it
      unavailable for erythropoiesis. Hepcidin is decreased by iron deficiency, most anemias, and
      tissue hypoxia. Hepcidin is upregulated by iron excess and inflammation. Hepcidin likely
      plays an important role in the acute inflammatory response that occurs with trauma. However,
      no studies have measured hepcidin in critically ill trauma patients. If serum hepcidin levels
      are elevated in trauma, this will confirm that inability to use existing iron stores is part
      of, if not key to, the anemia of trauma and critical illness. This has important implications
      since the use of blood transfusion for anemia treatment may further induce an inflammatory
      response with resultant suppression of native erythropoiesis.

      The investigators hypothesize that hepcidin will be increased and erythropoietin decreased
      early after trauma and that resolution of anemia will not occur until late (28-31 days). By
      measuring time-dependent changes in hemoglobin, hepcidin, cytokine, and erythropoietin
      concentrations in trauma patients, the investigators can critically examine the
      inter-relationships to target potential therapeutic strategies for the treatment and
      amelioration of anemia in trauma and critical care.
    
  