
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether progression-free survival (PFS) meets an efficacy threshold in
      patients with previously treated advanced small bowel adenocarcinoma who receive treatment
      with ramucirumab and paclitaxel or FOLFIRI.

      II. If the stated threshold is met in both arms, to choose the better regimen with respect to
      progression free survival (PFS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess overall response rate (ORR) [complete and partial, confirmed and unconfirmed] in
      the subset of patients with measurable disease treated with ramucirumab and paclitaxel or
      FOLFIRI in this patient population.

      II. To assess overall survival (OS) in patients treated with ramucirumab and paclitaxel or
      FOLFIRI in this patient population.

      III. To evaluate safety and toxicity associated with combination ramucirumab and paclitaxel
      treatment or FOLFIRI therapy in this patient population.

      TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the correlation of maximum decrease in CEA levels and time to maximum decrease
      in CEA levels with PFS, OS, and ORR.

      II. To bank tissue and blood samples for other future correlative studies from patients
      enrolled on the study.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive ramucirumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15,
      and paclitaxel IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15, leucovorin IV over 2
      hours on days 1 and 15, and fluorouracil IV bolus on days 1 and 15. Patients also receive
      fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1-3 and 15-17. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients completing study treatment are followed up every 8 weeks until disease progression.
      Once the disease has progressed, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 3 years
      post registration.
    
  