
    
      Overview: This NIH-funded study uses assisted partner services (APS) to identify HIV-infected
      and HCV-infected persons who inject drugs (PWID) in Kenya and link them to care. In addition
      to determining the role of APS in HIV and HCV case-finding for this hard-to-reach key
      population, we leverage our experience with HIV and HCV phylogenetics in the US and South
      Africa to define modes and risk factors for onward viral transmission. The specific aims of
      the proposal are as follows:

      AIM 1. To determine whether contact tracing and partner notification practices, known in
      Kenya as assisted partner services (APS), can identify and link to care, the sexual and
      injection partners of HIV-infected and HIV/ hepatitis C (HCV) co-infected persons who inject
      drugs (PWID).

      AIM 2. To define the risk factors for HIV transmission among PWID, and to elucidate the role
      of PWID in the overall Kenyan HIV epidemic, using viral genetic sequencing techniques.

      AIM 3. To characterize the modes and risk factors for onward HCV transmission among PWID
      using viral genetic sequencing.

      Design: We will enroll 1000 HIV-infected PWID through a needle and syringe exchange program
      (NSP) in Nairobi, Kenya. Each index participant will undergo a structured questionnaire, a
      rapid HCV test, a blood draw, and will provide locator information regarding their sexual and
      injection partners from the past 3 years. Study staff will then attempt to locate all
      partners. Once located, partner participants will undergo rapid HIV and HCV testing, a
      structured questionnaire, and a blood draw. All blood samples will be sent to a central
      laboratory in Nairobi for processing. Dried blood spot samples will be created in Nairobi and
      will later be sent to the University of KwaZulu-Natal for quantitative viral loads for both
      HIV and hepatitis C, and follow-up phylogenetic testing. All participants who test positive
      for HIV or hepatitis C will be referred for counseling and treatment. HIV care and treatment
      will take place at multiple local centers offering these services.
    
  