
    
      Pediatric overweight and obesity are significant public health concerns, and group based
      interventions incorporating behavioral, nutrition, and activity disciplines have showed
      modest success in improving youth health and weight status. The role of financial rewards in
      encouraging attendance at weight management sessions and acquisition of healthy eating and
      activity habits is not well understood in the context of pediatric weight management,
      however. Behavior theory suggests that positive reinforcement can increase the frequency of
      desirable behaviors. As such, the primary goal of the study is to evaluate the role of
      different reinforcement systems in increasing healthy nutritional choices, increasing
      physical activity, and decreasing sedentary activity among youth participating in a
      multifamily group based pediatric overweight/obesity intervention program. An additional aim
      of the study is to evaluate the role of different levels of rewards in decreasing BMI among
      youth participating in a multifamily group based pediatric overweight/obesity intervention
      program. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two different reward conditions:
      Condition A (rewards for attendance only) and Condition A+G (rewards for attendance and goal
      attainment).

      Up to 80 participants will be recruited to participate. Eligibility criteria include patient
      age 8-17 years, patient with public insurance managed by Children's Community Health Network,
      English speaking patient and parent, and patient body mass index at or above the 85th
      percentile for age and sex. Exclusion criteria include: significant patient developmental or
      cognitive delay, or concurrent involvement in another formal weight management program.

      Pre and post intervention assessments of anthropometric, psychosocial, nutritional, and
      physical fitness variables will be conducted, and participants will complete 8 weekly
      multi-family group-based weight management intervention sessions involving psychology,
      physical therapy, and dietitian disciplines. Following this intensive phase, families will
      follow up on a quarterly basis for one year. Families will receive financial rewards for
      attending program sessions (Conditions A and A+G) and for completing behavioral monitoring
      assignments (Condition A+G).
    
  