
    
      Rationale: Motor impairments after a stroke are disabling and interfere with the performance
      of daily activities, such as locomotion. Walking devices, such as a single cane, are usually
      prescribed to increase safety and improve gait ability. Previous studies failed to determine
      the real effects of the provision of a walking cane after a stroke, mainly due to biases
      related to their methodological designs. In addition, there is no information on the
      carry-over effects of a cane to social participation.

      Aim: This study will test the hypothesis that the provision of a cane is effective in
      improving walking speed, step length, cadence, walking capacity, walking confidence, and
      participation of individuals with chronic stroke.

      Design: For this prospective, single-blinded, randomized clinical trial, people after stroke
      will be randomly allocated into either experimental or control groups. The experimental group
      will receive a single-point cane, with ergonomic handgrip, which will be individually
      adjusted to the participant's height. A physiotherapist will provide instructions on how to
      walk with the cane and the participants will practice for about 15 minutes or until they feel
      comfortable with the device. Then, they will take the cane home and will be instructed to use
      it all the time during locomotion. Weekly, they will receive a phone call, to ensure that
      they are using the cane and to clarify any doubts. A home visit may be conducted, if
      necessary.

      The control group will be instructed to perform stretching of the lower limb muscles daily
      and keep their daily activities, without the use of a cane. To ensure the level of attention
      similar to that of the participants in the experimental group, the individuals in the control
      group will also receive weekly phone calls. At baseline (Week 0), post intervention (Week 4),
      and one month after the cessation (Week 8) of the interventions, researchers blinded to group
      allocations will collect all outcome measures.

      Study outcomes: walking speed, step length, cadence, walking capacity, walking confidence,
      and participation.
    
  