
    
      Volunteers admitted for the study were randomly assigned into two distinct treatment groups.
      Randomization was performed by simple and stratified draw for each type of treatment. The
      treatment options were: a) Hydrogel™ and b) P1G10. The active principle had been previously
      dissolved in water and dispersed into Polawax dressing at 0.1% w/w final. Polawax™ is an
      emulsifying wax for cosmetic preparations. According to the manufacturers, it is able to hold
      together all types of ingredients without residue or separation. It is, therefore, ideal for
      "oil in water" creams and lotions. Number were used to identify both formulations.

      The staff participating in this clinical trial, including researchers was unaware of the
      identity of the formulation applied on each proband. Each formulation used during the
      intervention was dispensed weekly at the Laboratory of Antitumor Substances of the Institute
      of Biological Sciences of the Federal University of Minas Gerais by members of the research
      group who had no contact with the staff responsible for the application of the protocol. The
      formulations were stored at 4°C until its application.

      The treatment and the collection of data, took place between August 2012 and October 2016,
      and it was carried out by health professional and a technical assistant previously trained to
      evaluate and perform the procedure.

      The application of the intervention was done three times per week (Monday, Wednesday and
      Friday), completing 48 applications or until full epithelialization of the ulcer was
      observed, whichever occurred first. The treatment was performed exclusively at the outpatient
      level. When the proband could not attend the scheduled treatment, he (she) was instructed to
      perform the dressing change only with 0.9% saline solution. Patients who missed two
      consecutive scheduled interventions were withdrawn from the study.

      Ulcers were cleaned with 0.9% physiological solution using soft pressure, without scrubbing
      or addition of antiseptic substances. Subsequently, a thin layer of the ointment containing
      P1G10 or Hydrogel was applied over the ulcer bed, covering all its extension. Then double
      gauze was applied, fixed with adhesive tape and crepe bandage, if necessary. In cases of
      users with more than one wound, each wound received identical treatment, but only one ulcer
      was selected for the study.

      During the first week of treatment, the subjects were observed for 30 minutes after the
      intervention, in order to verify possible undesirable effects. After this interval, if they
      did not present adverse events, they were released. Users were also instructed to contact the
      responsible investigators by telephone if they observed the emergence of any adverse effects.
      A prior trial of the formulation containing 0.1% P1G10 applied onto the arm of healthy
      individuals during one-month did not induce local or systemic affects.
    
  