
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of
      CB-839 hydrochloride (HCl) (telaglenastat) when combined with radiation therapy (RT) and
      temozolomide (TMZ) in patients with newly diagnosed IDH-mutated diffuse astrocytoma (DA) and
      anaplastic astrocytoma (AA).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. Determine the safety and tolerability of
      RT/TMZ/CB-839 HCl (telaglenastat) in patients based on physician reported adverse event (AE)
      data.

      III. Estimate the 2-year progression-free survival (PFS2) of RT/TMZ/CB-839 HCl
      (telaglenastat) in patients with IDH-mutated glioma based on the Response Assessment in
      Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria.

      IV. Estimate the 2-year overall survival (OS2) of RT/TMZ/CB-839 HCl (telaglenastat) in
      patients with IDH-mutated glioma based on RANO criteria.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the minor response rate (MRR) and clinical benefit rate (CBR) for the
      combination of CB-839 HCl (telaglenastat) and RT/TMZ in IDH-mutated glioma based on RANO
      criteria.

      II. Determine the patient-reported tolerability of RT/TMZ/CB-839 HCl (telaglenastat) using
      the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory-Brain Tumor (MDASI-BT) instrument to measure self-reported
      symptom severity and interference with daily activities.

      II. Determine the neurocognitive impact of CB-839 HCl (telaglenastat) when used in
      combination with RT/TMZ.

      III. Determine the effect of CB-839 HCl (telaglenastat)/RT/TMZ on plasma oncometabolite
      levels of glutamine, glutamate, aspartate, asparagine, and 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG) in
      patients with IDH-mutated glioma and associate the changes with disease response.

      IV. Determine the effect of CB-839 HCl (telaglenastat)/RT/TMZ on tumor glutamine and
      glutamate MRS signals in patients with IDH-mutated glioma and associate the signal with
      disease response.

      V. Determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of CB-839 HCl (telaglenastat) when used alone and in
      combination with TMZ.

      VI. To perform molecular profiling assays on archived tumor tissue and peripheral blood,
      including, but not limited to, low-pass whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole exome sequencing
      (WES), and messenger RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) in order to VIa. Identify potential predictive
      and prognostic biomarkers beyond any genomic alteration by which treatment may be assigned.

      VIb. Identify resistance mechanisms using genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)- and
      ribonucleic acid (RNA)-based assessment platforms.

      VII. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic Data
      Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for current
      and future research; specimens will be annotated with key clinical data, including
      presentation, diagnosis, staging, summary treatment, and if possible, outcome.

      VIII. To bank formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, blood (for cell-free DNA
      analysis), and nucleic acids obtained from patients at the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical
      Trials Network (ETCTN) Biorepository at Nationwide Children's Hospital.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of CB-839.

      Patients receive CB-839 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) 7 days a week, temozolomide PO once
      daily (QD) 7 days a week, and undergo RT 5 days a week for up to 5.5 weeks (diffuse
      astrocytoma) or 6.5 weeks (anaplastic astrocytoma) in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2
      years.
    
  