
    
      Soft tissue injuries are commonly associated with pelvic and acetabular injuries and
      additional tissue injury occurs during surgery. Post operative wound drainage, infections and
      prolonged hospital stay are a common problem during postoperative care. Traditional treatment
      is dressing of the surgical wound with different conventional dressings.

      Use of negative pressure wound therapy has been shown to be beneficial in significantly
      decreasing wound drainage. Stannard et al. reported the results of randomizing 44 patients
      with lower extremity fractures (including 4 pilon fractures) into either receiving standard
      post operative dressing versus NPWT (negative pressure wound therapy). His results showed no
      difference in infection rate or wound breakdown, but did show a significant difference in the
      drainage time. The NPWT group stopped draining 3 days earlier than the standard dressing
      group. The use of NPWT has greatly increased over the years and has been an important adjunct
      to wound management. These results and anecdotal clinical experience with the use of NPWT
      (wound VAC) has led us to develop our research question; Does the use of incisional VAC
      following pelvic &/or acetabular surgery decrease wound complications.

      The VAC (KCI USA) device is relatively new device that utilizes negative pressure as a
      treatment modality for soft tissue injuries following high velocity injuries. VAC device
      exerts intermittent or constant negative pressure and removes excess fluid from the
      interstitial space and increases perfusion through vessels. Previous VAC studies showed
      decreased bacterial load after applying VAC device to the infected wounds.

      There have been no randomized studies to prove the cost effectiveness and efficacy of VAC
      device in reducing wound drainage, infections, and prolonged hospital stays in comparison to
      traditional gauze dressing wound management during post operative management of pelvic and
      acetabular fractures.

      In examining the incidence of wound complications/infections, we can determine if the
      incisional VAC decreases the need for additional intervention and if there are any patient
      related factors (i.e. obesity) related to increased risk of wound complications.
    
  