
    
      Cerebral palsy afflicts at least two in 1,000 children in the United States and approximately
      2,000,000 children worldwide. Behavioral techniques that impact the plasticity of the nervous
      system need to be incorporated into practical, evidence-based therapeutic interventions for
      this condition.

      CI therapy was derived from basic research with animal and human subjects. Randomized,
      controlled studies indicate that it can substantially reduce the motor deficit of adult
      patients with mild to moderately severe chronic strokes and can increase their independence
      over a period of years. CI therapy involves motor restriction of the less affected upper
      extremity for a period of 2 to 3 weeks while concurrently training the more affected upper
      limb. This gives rise to concentrated, repetitive use of the more affected extremity. In
      adults, CI therapy has lead to a large increase in use-dependent cortical reorganization
      involving the recruitment of substantial new regions of the brain in the innervation of more
      affected extremity movement.

      The study will evaluate CI therapy in a pediatric population. The study will test whether
      pediatric CI therapy can promote new and improved motor behavior in young children with
      hemiparesis associated with cerebral palsy. Pediatric CI therapy involves total restraint of
      the unaffected upper extremity with simultaneous repetitive use of the affected extremity for
      6 hours/day for 21 consecutive days.

      Fifty-two children ages 2 to 6 years old with hemiparetic cerebral palsy will be randomly
      assigned to either the pediatric CI therapy group or to a control group. The control group
      will receive standard rehabilitation therapy. All children will have a complete medical
      evaluation with emphasis on motor function prior to treatment initiation. Children will
      undergo follow-up testing at 1, 6, and 12 months post-treatment. The primary study assessment
      tools are the Pediatric Developmental Motor Scales - II (PDMS-II), DASI - II, Bayley
      Developmental Skills Test, Pediatric Motor Activity Log (PMAL), Child Arm Use Test (CAUT),
      and Emerging Behavior Scale (EBS).
    
  