
    
      The study objective is to determine whether the use of high potency statins, compared with
      the use of low potency statins, is associated with an increased risk of incident diabetes
      following hospitalisation for a cardiovascular event or procedure. The investigators will use
      a common-protocol approach to conduct retrospective cohort studies using health care data
      from eight jurisdictions (the Canadian provinces of Alberta, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Ontario,
      Quebec, and Saskatchewan, as well as the United States (US) MarketScan and the United Kingdom
      (UK) Clinical Practice Research Datalink [CPRD]). The Canadian provincial databases contain
      information on physician billing, diagnoses and procedures from hospital discharge abstracts,
      and dispensations for prescription drugs at a population level. The CPRD is a clinical
      database that is representative of the UK population and contains the records for patients
      seen at over 680 general practitioner practices in the UK; these data will be linked to the
      Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) database, which contains in-hospital diagnosis and
      procedure data. US MarketScan includes individuals and their dependents covered by large U.S.
      employer health insurance plans, and government and public organizations.

      Study population

      In each jurisdiction, the investigators will assemble a study cohort that includes all
      patients with a new prescription for a statin (after hospital discharge), including
      simvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, atorvastatin, and rosuvastatin, from the
      earliest availability of data at each site to the last date of available data. The date of
      study cohort entry is defined by the prescription date of the newly-prescribed statin.
      Patients will be followed from the date of study cohort entry until an event (defined below)
      or censoring due to death, departure from the database, 24 months after the initiation of
      statin treatment, a dispensing for cerivastatin, or the end of the study period (31 March
      2011 or the last date of data availability at that site), whichever occurs first. Data from
      Alberta, Ontario, and Nova Scotia will be restricted to patients aged 65 years and older as
      prescription data are not available for younger patients.

      Case-control selection

      The cohort defined above will be analyzed using a nested case-control analysis, where cases
      are defined as a hospitalization for incident diabetes or the prescription for an insulin or
      an oral antidiabetic medication. Risk set sampling will be used to randomly select up to 10
      controls for each case, matched on sex, age (± two years; however, if no controls are
      available, within five years), and cohort entry (± 90 days).

      Exposure assessment

      The exposure categories will be separated by statin potency (high vs. low dose), and the
      duration of current exposure. For all cases and controls, exposure will be defined
      hierarchically; more specifically, patients who receive both a high and low potency statin
      within the same exposure category will be classified as high potency statin users. Current
      use of a high potency statin will be defined by the last prescription for a high dose statin
      prior to the index date. Current users will be further classified into three mutually
      exclusive durations of current exposure (≤120, 121-365, and 366-730 days).

      Statistical analyses

      Conditional logistic regression will be used to estimate the odds ratios and corresponding
      95% confidence intervals (CIs) of the association between statin use and the diabetes
      endpoint, comparing current use of high potency statins to low potency statins. This is
      considered the primary analysis. Several sensitivity analyses will be performed to assess the
      robustness of study results and address some of the study limitations. High dimensional
      propensity scores will be estimated for all patients in the cohorts using logistic
      regression. Finally, all site-specific estimates will be meta-analyzed using fixed or
      random-effects models with inverse variance weighting. The amount of between-site
      heterogeneity will be estimated using the I square statistic.
    
  