
    
      BACKGROUND A Cochrane review from 2003 found that about 30% of people 65 years or older each
      year fall and that number is even higher for elder people living in institutions. Falls are
      the cause of 95% of all hip fractures, resulting in prolonged hospitalization and prolonged
      disability. Half of the elderly who incurs hip fracture will never be able to walk like they
      did before the fall, and one year mortality is between 15 and 25%. Meanwhile, the population
      65 years old and older are increasing and the National Institute of Aging notes in a 2001
      report that the world's population of 65 years old and older is growing by 800.000 a year. It
      is estimated that the cost of fall-related accidents in 2020 will reach $54.9 billion in the
      U.S. alone.

      In patients who are referred to the emergency room after unexplained fall, a study of 564
      patients showed that 80% of the patients had vestibular symptoms characterized by balance
      problems, nausea, impairment, vomiting, and dizziness. 41% of the patients had dizziness
      suggesting a dysfunctional vestibular system called vestibular dysfunction. A study in 6785
      participants included the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys in the U.S.
      showed that the prevalence of vestibular dysfunction increases significantly with age. The
      prevalence for vestibular dysfunction among participants aged 60-69 years was 49.4%, 68,7%
      among participants aged 70-79 and 84,8% for the participants aged 80 years or older.

      In patients with vestibular dysfunction, vestibular rehabilitation (VR) can reduce fall risk.
      In 2007 a large Cochrane review compared randomized studies of VR, where the authors
      concluded that there is moderate to strong evidence of the efficacy of VR. Several authors
      describe that the reduction of the patient's dizziness in VR only can be achieved by
      simultaneous establishment of daily exercises at home. Several studies show however that the
      elderly has a decreased compliance in relation to the performance of home exercise.

      A solution to support the older vestibular rehabilitation process and to maintain the
      achieved level of functionality after the rehabilitation process is the computer-training
      program "Move It To Improve It" (MITII). The program has been successfully used for home
      training of patients with cerebral palsy and is composed of exercises that are both
      motivating and guiding.

      Based on individual studies and tests therapists developed a personalized rehabilitation
      program permanently corrected, modified and adjusted for vestibular dysfunction patients. The
      system could generate feedback to the therapists at hospital with information about the
      person's daily training time. Basic element in MITII is an exercise. As an example the
      exercise could be to catch an insect with a net using head movements. Management method is
      drag-and-drop, which means that management of the network is done by the user with a colour
      which can retain and move objects on the screen.

      PURPOSE

      The study consist of three studies which has the purposes:

      To compare a computer exercise program (Mitii) with conservative home-training according to
      printed instructions in the rehabilitation of patients with vistibular dysfunction in an
      outpatient clinic To investigate whether the effect of vestibular rehabilitation is preserved
      three months after the completion of supervised training in an outpatient clinic for specific
      vestibular rehabilitation and whether a computer assisted home training program (Mitii) is
      superior to printed instructions in this respect To evaluate patient experience and barriers
      for the use fo the computer assisted rehabilitation of patients with vestibular dysfunction

      METHODS

      The study consists of three parts:

        1. A randomized study where the aim is to examine whether Mitii can improve the outcome of
           vestibular rehabilitation.The study includes 31 patients in a control and 32 patients in
           a intervention group with vestibular dysfunction. The control group undergoing normal
           rehabilitation in the fall clinic (ie, 2 times weekly rehabilitation in the fall clinic
           + home exercise program with printed instructions) while the intervention group
           undergoes rehabilitation with MITII (ie 2 times weekly rehabilitation in the fall clinic
           + MITII to support home exercises. The expectation is that the intervention group
           improve the most.

        2. After completion of the rehabilitation period the patients must maintain their
           functionality by home exercises. The patients in the intervention group keeps MITII in
           further 12 weeks to compare with control group of patients who have had a traditional
           exercise program as printed instructions available. The expectation is that the
           intervention group will be able to maintain their functionality best.

        3. The last part of the study will be qualitative to study how the elderly feel about using
           IT support in their own homes. This qualitative study will consist of interviews of 7
           patients included in the intervention group.

      STUDY POPULATION Patients referred to the fall clinic from their GP or Casualty department,
      Aarhus University Hospital. A geriatric doctor will examine and evaluate what underlies the
      patient's fall issue. The patients who are diagnosed by vestibular dysfunction and are
      accepting to take part of the project, refers to the Ear, nose and throat department H,
      Aarhus University Hospital for verification of the vestibular dysfunction.
    
  