
    
      Left atrial appendage (LAA) occlusion (LAAO) is a well-accepted alternative to oral
      anticoagulant in the prevention of stroke or systemic thromboembolism in patients with atrial
      fibrillation (AF).1 While the occlusion is effective, the procedure can sometime be
      challenging. Part of the challenge is based on the high degree of variability, both at the
      patient level (anatomy, size, access, filling status etc); and at the device level (different
      architecture, size, depth, degree of conformity or compression of the device etc.). This is
      reflected in the percentage change in device sizes of 6.1% to 6.4%; inability to close the
      LAA 1% to 2.7%; complications such as embolization, tamponade etc.; residual leaks and
      chances for thrombus formation and subsequent stroke or systemic embolization; lengthy
      procedures etc.2,3 A well-prepared preprocedural planning addressing the exact anatomy of the
      left atrial appendage in conjunction with the optimal device size and conformability, results
      in optimal device selection, reduced instrumentation in the left atrium, faster and safer
      procedure and optimal final occlusion of the LAA. Different and complimentary techniques are
      being used by implanting teams, such as transoesophageal echocardiography (TEE), computed
      tomography (CT) scan, angiography, 3D reconstruction and 3D printing etc.

      Some centres are using FEops HEARTguideTM as part of their preprocedural assessment. This is
      a computational tomography (CT)-based 3D in silico simulation technology suite relying on
      proprietary computational modelling and simulation techniques, offering physicians detailed
      preoperative insights into the interaction between transcatheter structural heart devices and
      the patient's anatomy. It is CE-marked and commercially available on the European and
      Canadian market. It is currently being used in 81 hospitals in 22 countries.

      Belgian Hospitals who are using 3D simulations by FEops HEARTguide as part of their
      preprocedural assessment are asked to participate to this prospective multicentric registry.
      The present registry aims to compare all preprocedural imaging tools and to investigate to
      what extend 3D in silico simulations influences device size selection in LAAO.

      The objectives of the current proposal are to analyse to what extend:

        1. The use of 3D in silico simulation by FEops HEARTguide improves of influences the
           pre-procedural assessment and device size selection and to what extend it correlates
           with final implanted device size and depth compared to TEE, CT and angiography.

        2. The use of 3D in silico simulation by FEops HEARTguide increases the operator's
           confidence in the device size selection.

      A total of 100 consecutive patients for the total registry, or 15 to 20 consecutive patients
      per center, with standard of care follow-up at ±6 weeks and 1 year post procedure.
    
  