
    
      Femara (letrozole) is an extensively investigated, marketed aromatase inhibitor (AI) widely
      used as treatment in the maintenance phase of estrogen-receptor (ER) positive breast cancer,
      as it inhibit the synthesis of estrogens. Estrogen is a well known driver of cancer growth in
      ER-positive tumors and a high percentage of the epithelial ovarian cancers express ER as
      well. Of which low grade ovarian cancers demonstrates the highest level of expression,
      supporting our strategy of a sub-group analysis (LOGOS). Therefore, letrozole in this study
      be investigated prospectively and evaluated as maintenance therapy after standard surgical
      and chemotherapy treatment in comparison to placebo (which is the current standard
      maintenance treatment) in subjects with primary, ER-positive low or high grade serous or
      endometrioid epithelial ovarian cancer (including fallopian tube and primary peritoneal
      cancer) of FIGO Stage II-IV, whose cancer has not progressed by the end of the platinum-based
      chemotherapy.

      The objectives are to evaluate the letrozole maintenance treatment compared to placebo in
      terms of

        -  progression-free survival (PFS; primary endpoint)

        -  overall survival (OS)

        -  quality-adjusted progression free survival (QAPFS)

        -  time to first subsequent treatment (TFST)

        -  quality-adjusted time without symptoms of toxicity (Q-TWiST)

        -  health related quality of life (QoL) assessed by EQ-5D-5L, FACT-ES and FACT-O
           questionnaires

      Methods: 540 for this study eligible subjects are 1:1 allocated in this randomized,
      controlled, double-blinded, multi-centre study to either the test (letrozole) or control
      (placebo) group. The maximum maintenance treatment duration is 5 years or until symptoms of
      toxicity or progression of underlying disease.

      Health and health-related quality of life will continuously be assessed at study entry and
      during routine recalls which are scheduled every 12 weeks for the first 2 years, followed by
      every 24 weeks for the next 3 years. Procedures performed to assess the participants' health
      are the same as are performed during the regular routine ovarian cancer follow-up visits:
      blood tests, physical as well as gynaecological examinations and may include imaging. In
      addition, the participants are asked to complete during the study quality of life (QoL)
      specific questionnaires and wear an activity tracker for one week just before the scheduled
      visits. These assessments will be used for the evaluation of letrozole's efficacy and burden
      in comparison to the standard maintenance treatment. Survival follow-up data after the
      mainentance treatment duration of 5 years (study end) are obtained for up to another 7 years.
    
  