
    
      This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group controlled, Landiolol vs
      Placebo (saline), phase III trial assessing the efficacy and the safety of landiolol
      postoperative treatment on POAF occurrence within 7 days of surgery in patients undergoing
      cardiac surgery with sternotomy.

      Subjects are randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive either Landiolol or Placebo
      (saline). A stratification of the randomization is planned according to the hospital and the
      age of the patient (65 ≤ age ≤ 70 and age > 70).

      A preventive treatment is infused during at least the first 24 hours after surgery (in ICU)
      to each patient included in the study until the optimal oral betablocker dose. Continuous
      infusion of landiolol at 2 µg/kg/min (1.2 ml/h, for a 60 kg patient) in Landiolol group or
      continuous infusion of saline (at 1.2 ml/h for a 60 kg patient) in Placebo group is
      administrated until restoration of an effective oral beta-blocker treatment.

      Treatment:

      Treatment is initiated after the surgery, on arrival at the ICU (Day-0) in the absence of a
      contraindication. The target of continuous intravenous infusion of landiolol is 2 µg/kg/min
      (1.2 ml/h for a 60 kg patient), or placebo (saline) at the same infusion rate as landiolol.

      The modalities for initiating the treatment are as follows:

        -  No bolus is performed,

        -  Continuous infusion starting at the lowest dosage (1 µg/kg/min),

        -  Increasing in increments every 10 to 15 minutes until 2 µg/kg/min by maintaining a MAP ≥
           65 mmHg and HR ≥ 50/min.

      Relay with oral betablocker treatment:

      The relay with oral betablocker treatment, bisoprolol (1.25 mg x 2/day) for initial
      introduction (target HR < 100/min) or with the patient's preoperative beta-blocker in case of
      preoperative treatment, is resumed on Day-1 if possible or as soon as possible.

      The dosage of landiolol can be reduced as follows:

        -  Within the first hour after the first dose of the alternative medicinal product has been
           administered, the infusion rate of landiolol should be reduced by one-half (e.g. from 2
           to 1 µg/kg/min).

        -  After administration of the second dose of the alternative medicinal product (12 hours
           later), the patient's response should be supervised and if satisfactory control is
           maintained for a least one hour, the landiolol infusion can be discontinued.

      Maximal duration of continuous intravenous treatment before oral betablocker relay is 5 days,
      exclusively administrated in ICU for safety reasons.

      Precautions for patient safety:

      The landiolol infusion should be decreased half and progressively re-increased every 15 min
      by step of 0.5 µg/kg/min and/or discontinued temporarily or permanently in case of:

        -  Bradycardia defined by HR < 50 /mim

        -  Hypotension defined by SAP < 90 mmHg or MAP < 65 mmHg

        -  Atrioventricular conduction treated by pacing

        -  Norepinephrine increase > 50% after introduction of landiolol infusion

      In case of POAF event:

      Patients will benefit from the usual care:

        -  Intravenous magnesium sulfate injection: 3 g over 1 hour

        -  Intravenous or per os treatment with amiodarone depending on patient's condition:

             -  Intravenous: IV bolus of 300 mg over 1 hour; then IV infusion pump of 150-600 mg
                per day

             -  Per os: loading dose with 4-6 tablets of 200 mg; then 2 tablets per day during one
                week

        -  If AF persists, cardioversion

        -  Anticoagulant therapy if required Treatment with landiolol or placebo is continued and
           the infusion rate is adjusted if needed as described above.

      Primary endpoint: Continuous monitoring of heart rate is performed in ICU and POAF event > 5
      minutes and/or requiring medical treatment and/or cardioversion is recorded during the ICU
      stay and reported.
    
  