
    
      RESEARCH PLAN: In the setting of the opioid epidemic, it is crucial to develop
      non-pharmacologic treatments for pain and biomarkers to accurately assess pain treatment
      outcomes. In the present investigation, the investigators assess a novel non-pharmacologic
      approach to chronic pain treatment in patients suffering from fibromyalgia (a notoriously
      difficult to treat pain syndrome), utilizing neuroimaging as a biomarker. Resting state
      functional connectivity MRI (rs-fcMRI), a specific neuroimaging technique, has emerged as a
      reliable research tool to objectively assess, understand, and predict clinical pain in
      syndromes such as fibromyalgia. Preliminary results reveal a trend towards improved pain and
      function with a FDA-approved, non-pharmacologic therapy - auricular Cranial Electrical
      Stimulation (CES) - over standard therapy control, correlating to altered network
      connectivity on rs-fcMRI. CES-related improvements continued through 12 weeks following the
      completion of treatment and correlated to changes in cross-network connectivity, which
      differed between groups. OBJECTIVE: The proposed CDA-2, a randomized, sham-controlled trial
      of auricular CES, evaluates 1) the clinical utility of CES for fibromyalgia as compared to
      sham placebo control, 2) short- and long-term CES-related neural changes visualized on
      rs-fcMRI and 3) the ability of rs-fcMRI to predict CES treatment response. HYPOTHESIS: True
      CES results in non-placebo-related short- and long-term pain and functional improvements that
      can be correlated with altered connectivity and predicted by baseline rs-fcMRI. METHODS:
      Fifty total subjects (male and female Veterans, age 20-60 years old) will be randomized to
      either sham (n=25) or true (n=25) auricular CES. Neuroimaging data, self-reported pain, and
      function will be assessed at baseline and at 1 and 12 weeks post-treatment to evaluate neural
      correlates of CES-related treatment. Subjects who meet study criteria will receive baseline
      assessments including rs-fcMRI, Defense and Veterans Pain Rating Scale (DVPRS) measures,
      PROMIS measures, arm curl, 30-s chair stand, handgrip strength tests, and baseline analgesic
      consumption. Subjects will be block-randomized, stratified based on gender, to either true or
      sham CES (series of 4, weekly) treatments and assessed for rs-fcMRI and functional changes at
      1 and 12 weeks post-treatment. This study addresses the critical need to identify and
      understand neural correlates of pain and non-opioid pain management.
    
  