
    
      The goal of this project was to quantify the impact of visual acuity impairment on
      socialization and physical function of nursing home residents, and to determine the cost
      effectiveness of a visual impairment intervention program designed to enhance access to eye
      care services. To accomplish these aims, the investigators enrolled a complete sample of
      visually impaired persons from 28 nursing homes in the Lower Eastern Shore of Maryland and
      Delaware. From the same facilities, the investigators also enrolled a random sample of
      non-visually impaired residents, with sample size equal to the sample of visually impaired.
      The group of visually impaired residents was randomized (by facility) to an intervention
      program or "usual care" group. The intervention program facilitated the utilization of eye
      care services of the three main causes of visual impairment: refractive error, cataract, and
      low vision associated with age-related eye diseases. All study groups provided data at
      baseline, six and twelve months from intervention, and data on eye care utilization,
      hospitalizations, use of psychoactive medications and mortality collected every other month
      (bi-monthly). Patients had a screening test of visual acuity, using standard letter/symbol
      charts, and grating charts. The mental status was tested using the MiniMental State
      Examination. Social function, physical function, and mobility were assessed through
      questionnaires asked of nursing home staff familiar with the patient, and the questions were
      modeled on the Minimum Data Set questions or specially designed for nursing home residents.

      The investigators compare the mobility scores, and socialization scores, of nursing home
      residents with visual loss randomized to the intervention homes to the scores of nursing home
      residents with visual loss randomized to control homes. The investigators use the mobility
      and socialization scores of those without visual loss at baseline and follow up to compare
      with the trajectory of decline in those with visual loss.
    
  