
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the survival of patients with metastatic melanoma administered interleukin-2
           gene-modified tumor infiltrating lymphocytes after cyclophosphamide and fludarabine.

        -  Compare survival results with prior Surgery Branch studies using adoptive cell therapy
           without the interleukin-2 retroviral vector (SBIL-2) gene.

      Secondary

        -  Determine clinical tumor regression in patients administered interleukin-2 gene-modified
           TIL after cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by interleukin-2.

        -  Determine the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Phase I (closed to accrual as of 3/29/06):

             -  Harvest: TIL are harvested, transduced with IL-2 gene, and expanded in vitro over a
                period of approximately 4 weeks.

             -  Nonmyeloablative preparative regimen (chemotherapy): Patients receive
                cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -7 and -6 and fludarabine IV over 30
                minutes on days -5 to -1.

             -  Lymphocyte administration: Patients receive IL-2 gene-transduced TIL IV over 20-30
                minutes on day 0. They also receive high-dose IL-2 IV over 15 minutes every 8 hours
                on days 0 -5 (maximum 15 doses). Beginning 1-2 days after lymphocyte
                administration, patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) daily, ,
                until blood counts recover.

             -  Retreatment: Patients are re-evaluated every 4-6 weeks. Retreatment depends on
                disease status after each regimen. Patients with dose-limiting toxicity do not
                receive further treatment.

                  -  No response: Patients with stable disease or disease progression after the
                     initial treatment are followed or removed from the study.

                  -  Partial response: Patients with a partial or minor response after the initial
                     treatment may receive retreatment, approximately 2-4 weeks later, with
                     chemotherapy, IL-2 gene-transduced TIL, immunization, and high-dose IL-2 as
                     above, every 4-6 weeks for up to 2 courses provided at least a partial
                     response is documented after each regimen.

                  -  Complete response: Patients with a complete response receive no further
                     treatment.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive treatment and retreatment as in phase I with the MTD of IL-2
           gene-transduced TIL.

      Patients are followed every 3-6 weeks in the absence disease progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 33 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  