
    
      Method of sampling/recruitment:

      Recruitment from community sample, including: The University staff and student volunteers
      lists; Psychology undergraduate credit systems, Social media/forums; Charities; Research
      recruitment platforms, and a mailing lists.

      Sample size:

      An apriori power analysis, based on an ANCOVA, with a medium effect for the primary outcome
      (body appreciation) indicated a sample of 128 would be needed to achieve 80% power. Assuming
      an attrition rate of 50%, the total number of participants required will be 256.

      In line with recommendations for evaluating interventions, we will include an internal pilot
      whereby we review the recruitment progress (completion) about 3 months into the trial and
      could then consider whether we need to make any minor or major adjustments to the recruitment
      strategy or study. If these substantial changes are needed, the pilot component will be
      written up and analysed separately to inform the next phase.

      Procedure:

      Time-point 1: Participants asked to read information sheet and provide consent. Participants
      will then be asked to complete the demographic measures and provide information on their skin
      condition(s). Participants will then complete baseline measures of trait body appreciation,
      body functionality, and, skin-specific quality of life, appearance anxiety with the order of
      these questionnaires counterbalanced. The online system will then randomly allocate
      individual meeting the exclusion criteria to either 'Expand Your Horizon' or an active
      control, at a ratio of 1:1. Participants will then be asked to complete the first writing
      activity and complete state measures

      Time-point 2 (approximately 2 days later): Participants asked to complete the second writing
      exercise, and rate their state measures.

      Time-point 3 (approximately 1 week later): Participants will be asked to complete the final
      writing task, before completing state measures and repeating the outcome measures given at
      baseline. Participants in both conditions will then be asked to provide feedback on the
      intervention.

      Time-point 4 (One month later): Participants will be asked to repeat the outcome measures.
      Participants will then be shown the debrief screen and told which group they were in.
      Participants in the control condition will be offered a link to the intervention.

      Analytic strategy:

      The data will be initially assessed to check whether they meet the assumptions of the
      statistical tests used.

      Descriptive statistics will then be used to describe the sample, and to summarise information
      on attrition at each point of the study and feedback on the intervention. Demographic and
      skin disease-history variables will be assessed for covariance using t-tests, ANOVAs and
      bivariate correlations as appropriate.

      To assess whether randomisation of allocation to groups (intervention vs control) has been
      effective, t-tests and ANOVAs will be used, as appropriate, to compare demographics baseline
      measures.

      T-tests will also be used to compare the levels of skin-specific appearance satisfaction,
      appearance satisfaction and body-functionality satisfaction between participants in both the
      intervention and control condition. This will include both intention-to-treat and completer
      analyses.

      The effectiveness of the intervention will be tested using a series of between group ANCOVAs.

      The number of participants showing reliable and clinical change on measures of anxiety and
      skin-specific quality of life will also be calculated for each group.

      Change over time (Pre, post, one month follow up) for each group will be assessed using a
      repeated measures ANOVA. If any significant covariates, are identified ANCOVAs will be used
      instead.
    
  