
    
      This randomized controlled trial will test an intervention for an understudied population -
      family caregivers of persons living with dementia (PLWD). This project is the first of its
      kind to longitudinally follow family caregivers of PLWD into bereavement. Furthermore, the
      intervention, Caregiver Speaks, employs an innovative storytelling approach - photo
      elicitation (the use of photos to elicit thoughts, feelings, and reactions to a person's
      experience) - to encourage family caregivers to make meaning of their caregiving and
      bereavement experiences as a way of reducing depression, anxiety, and ultimately grief
      intensity. Caregiver Speaks is deployed via a readily available social media network
      (Facebook), which allows easy access for already overburdened family caregivers of PLWD, and
      can improve their social support. Preliminary work demonstrates that 1) this project is
      feasible as an RCT intervention study of caregiver experiences, 2) the research team can
      conduct this type of storytelling intervention via Facebook, and 3) family caregivers use
      (and want to use) social media during active caregiving and into bereavement, despite their
      heavy care burdens. The research team will base the proposal on Park and Folkman's
      meaning-making model of stress and coping. This model illustrates how individuals cope with
      adverse life events (i.e., trauma, or death of a loved one) by reconstructing and
      transforming the event's meaning and incorporating the reappraised meaning into one's larger
      self-narrative. Caregiver Speaks uses storytelling in the form of photo-elicitation, in order
      to facilitate this meaning-making. Caregivers share photos and discussions regarding their
      caregiving and bereavement experiences in a private, facilitated Facebook group. This model
      suggests that caregivers' ability to make sense of (meaning making), and find benefit in an
      adverse life situation (caregiving and bereavement) will be validated through social support,
      and result in reduced depression, anxiety, and grief intensity. Caregivers will be randomly
      assigned to either: 1) Group 1, which will receive the Caregiver Speaks intervention, or 2)
      Group 2, which will receive standard care, including the standard care for bereavement. The
      research team will use both quantitative and qualitative methods in parallel and equal status
      to measure the intervention's efficacy. The overall hypothesis is that participating in
      Caregiver Speaks during caregiving and into bereavement will reduce caregivers' depression
      and anxiety, and as a result will reduce grief intensity in bereavement. The three specific
      aims are to: 1) determine the efficacy of the Caregiver Speaks intervention in reducing
      depression and anxiety among family caregivers of people with dementia, 2) examine the
      intervention's effect on grief intensity among bereaved family caregivers of people with
      dementia, and 3) describe how caregivers made meaning of their caregiving and bereavement
      experiences.
    
  