
    
      This clinical trial will consist of a single arm, where participants, after a 1-week baseline
      period, will be placed on daily BRB administration for a period of 8 weeks followed by a 4
      week washout period. Prior to study enrollment, all participants will have an Oral Cancer
      screening intraoral exam and persons with oral pathology (e.g. premalignant or oral squamous
      cell carcinoma) will be referred for appropriate clinical care. Biological samples will be
      collected at 0, 1, 4, 5, 8, 9, 12 and 13 weeks. An 8-week BRB administration period was
      selected to allow for ample time for effects to be observed in the major endpoints, based on
      previous clinical data. Likewise, a 4 week washout period at the end of the trial will allow
      for effects of BRB withdrawal on major outcomes to be measured.

      A total of 58 healthy subjects will be recruited into this intervention study. Eligible
      subjects, after phone screening, will visit the clinic for an additional in-person screening
      which includes measurement of expired carbon monoxide and pregnancy test (females). Prior to
      enrollment, each subject will be offered a free oral cancer screening. After obtaining
      informed consent, eligible subjects will be administered a questionnaire to obtain
      information on basic demographics, medical history, lifestyle, tobacco and alcohol
      consumption, and usual dietary intake and biological samples (exfoliated buccal cells and
      urine) and anthropometric data (e.g. height and weight) will be collected. Subjects will be
      asked to return after 1 week (Visit 2, 2nd baseline visit) and biological samples will be
      collected. Subjects will be provided their first supply of test agent (BRB lozenge) and a
      usage diary and instructed on the proper method for application and completion of the diary
      entries. At Visits 3-6 (weeks 4, 5, 8, and 9, respectively) subjects will return any unused
      product, receive a new batch of lozenges (except for week 9), complete a brief questionnaire
      on compliance and provide biological samples. At week 9 (Visit 6), subjects will return their
      study diaries and enter the washout period where no test agent will be provided. At the final
      visits (Visit 7 and 8, weeks 12 and 13), subjects will provide biological samples.
    
  