
    
      Primary central nervous system lymphomas (PCNSL) are extra-nodal, malignant non-Hodgkin
      lymphomas of diffuse large B-cell type confined to the CNS or eyes without evidence of
      systemic spread. PCNSL account for up to 1% of all lymphomas and 3% of primary brain tumors.
      Despite recent progress in PCNSL treatment, remissions are short lasting and the outcome
      remains poor with a minority of long-term survivors (20%). Moreover, treatments expose
      patients to a high risk of neurotoxicity. Even though PCNSL has been extensively studied, the
      pathogenic mechanisms underlying its remarkable tropism and its peculiar clinical behaviour
      are not well elucidated. Since 2010, the French National Institute of Cancer (INCa) has
      supported the creation of medical networks dedicated to rare cancers, including PCNSL (LOC
      network). LOC has developed a national clinical database of newly diagnosed PCNSL with a
      virtual tumor database to perform translational studies. Furthermore, LOC has launched
      several prospective trials including a phase III clinical trial (BLOCAGE - PHRC 2014) with an
      expected sample size of 300 patients to perform ancillary analysis. Modeling malignant
      extracerebral/systemic non-Hodgkin lymphoma therapy and outcome has been previously
      performed, however due to its peculiar anatomical and immunoprivileged microenvironment, and
      its specific therapeutic management, specific modeling of PCNSL is required. Interestingly,
      in glioblastoma, another primary brain tumor, a model prediction of expected tumor burden
      provided a personalized assessment of a therapy's effectiveness. Therefore, a comprehensive
      mechanistic view of mathematical modeling of PCNSL growth and treatment response could be
      used to better stratify PCNSL evolution and to predict the best treatment options. From a
      radiological point of view, PCNSL often display a characteristic presentation with
      periventricular contrast enhancing lesions. This is due to its hypercellularity, high
      nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio, disruption of the blood-brain barrier, and its predilection for
      the periventricular and superficial regions often in contact with ventricular or meningeal
      surface. Interestingly, some small studies suggest that the integration of radiological and
      high-throughput data would help to stratify the prognosis of PCNSL. In addition, MRI assesses
      therapeutic response but this evaluation lacks of sensitivity to detect non-enhancing
      lesions. Radiomics is a promising new paradigm for extending clinical imaging into the era of
      molecular and genomic imaging. Interesting results using MRI and molecular phenotypes have
      been obtained in different cancers and very recently in glioblastomas4. However, there is
      only some evidence suggesting that molecular phenotype of PCNSL could be related to some
      particular imaging morphophenotypes. Interestingly, our team has recently identified a
      potential molecular-radiological association between the presence of TERT promoter mutations
      and the localization of PCNSL within corpus callosum. Furthermore, using MRI data
      (macroscopic data) will be also used to explore predictors of MRI patterns in a multivariate
      framework, we will develop a linear modeling approach that measures the association of MRI
      patterns with a number of potential predictors, including expression levels on a gene-by-gene
      basis, driver mutations and clinical variables. Somatically acquired mutation and cytogenetic
      lesion will be encoded as being present/absent. We choose a linear model due to its
      interpretability and established statistical methods, enabling us to test which MRI
      morphological pattern are associated with deregulated transcripts in the presence of specific
      alterations after correcting for other confounding factors and other clinical variables and
      coexisting driver mutations. The total variance in the MRI data will be studied and dissected
      using data from selected driver genes, cytogenetic lesion and the most relevant principal
      components of MRI data will be analyzed in a Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator
      (LASSO) penalized model. The optimal model maximizes the explained variance R2.

      We will evaluate prognosis accuracy of survival models using Harrel's C statistic, as
      implemented in Hmisc R package. This statistic measures the fraction of pairs of patients
      with concordant risk predictions, and outcome similarly to the area under the receiver
      operating characteristic curve. To reduce the bias of estimated risk, we will use a fivefold
      cross-validating scheme. In addition, we will also analyze survival impact of this
      multidimensional data using random forest as an alternative approach for predicting outcome
      and measuring variable importance. These are implemented in the randomForesetSRC R package.
      the preliminary results obtained on a sub sample of patient showed that the 100 patient
      cohort will be sufficient to build and assess the predictive values of the models we will
      study. Tools to integrate multiple sources data set described above for a small subset will
      be scaled up using all the variables available from the complete dataset: non negative matrix
      co-factorization and regularized generalized canonical correlation analysis.

      Patient prognosis may tightly correlate with a characteristic morphological tumor phenotype
      on the histological level and with tumor shape, which itself may correlate with the gene
      expression pattern. For this reason, macro-level growth simulations with the above
      statistical model will be complemented by simulations with mechanistic models at the
      histological level, and at whole tumor level. The histological-level model will be calibrated
      with experiments using diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) cell lines co-cultured with
      other microenvironment cells like glial cells, and with murine experiments. This model shall
      shed light on the mechanisms at cell level capable of explaining the observed cell
      proliferation and multicellular arrangement pattern.
    
  