
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the engraftment potential of unrelated allogeneic umbilical cord blood (UCB)
           using nonmyeloablative conditioning comprising fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and
           total-body irradiation followed by post-transplant immunosuppression comprising
           cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil in patients with hematologic malignancies.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the rate of neutrophil and platelet recovery and the completeness of donor
           cell engraftment in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease
           (GVHD) in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of malignant relapse in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the 1- and 2-year survival and event-free survival of patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the phenotype and function of immune cells recovering after UCB
           transplantation in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to HLA disparity (0-1 vs 2) and number of graft
      units (1 vs 2).

        -  Nonmyeloablative conditioning: Patients receive nonmyeloablative conditioning comprising
           fludarabine IV over 1 hour on days -8 to -6 and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days
           -7 and -6. Patients undergo total-body irradiation twice daily on days -4 to -1.

        -  Unrelated allogeneic umbilical cord blood transplantation (UCBT): Patients undergo 1 or
           2 unrelated allogeneic UCBTs on day 0.

        -  Immunosuppression: Patients receive cyclosporine orally or IV over 2 hours 2-3 times
           daily beginning on day -3 and continuing until day 100, followed by a taper in the
           absence of graft-vs-host disease (GVHD). Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil
           orally or IV twice daily on days -3 to 30, continuing beyond day 30 if no donor
           engraftment. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) IV or subcutaneously beginning on
           day 1 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  