
    
      The procedure that is being evaluated in this study is an esophageal capsule which is part of
      the Given® Diagnostic System. This system has been developed for aiding the
      gastroenterologist in diagnosing small bowel diseases or disorders, as routine methods used
      today cannot explore the entire length of the small bowel in detail. It is currently
      available in more than 50 countries worldwide, including the Europe, USA, Canada, Central and
      South America, Australia and Asia. More than 300,000 capsules have already been ingested
      worldwide. In this study, a capsule developed and approved for the esophagus (food tube
      between the mouth and stomach) with two optical heads (mini cameras) will be used and
      intended to take better recorded pictures of the esophagus.

      During the study the study participant will undergo a capsule endoscopy and an upper
      esophagoscopy. The method under investigation in this study is the capsule endoscopy.

      The capsule endoscope is a small camera, about an inch long and less than half an inch wide,
      which you will be asked to swallow. The camera travels from a person's mouth all the way
      through their stomach and intestines and is eventually passed in the stool. The camera has a
      light source (like a flash on a regular camera) and takes pictures of the esophagus. The
      pictures are sent to a recorder, about the size of a wallet, using electronic signals for 20
      minutes while the wireless endoscope goes through your esophagus. The disposable capsule is
      passed in the stool in an average of 24 hours.

      After the capsule endoscopy the study participant will undergo the esophagoscopy. An
      esophagoscopy is the standard method used to view the esophagus. It involves inserting a long
      flexible tube with a light and camera on the end (called an endoscope) through the mouth and
      down the throat and esophagus. It may also involve the use of a sedative.

      The study involves approximately two-three clinic visits.
    
  