
    
      During the study, blood samples or other healthy tissue will be obtained from participants,
      as well as medical and family histories. When possible, leftover tumor samples will also be
      collected. If participants agree to be re-contacted in the future, they will be asked about
      once each year to update their health information and family history.

      A blood sample will be drawn at St. Jude or at a convenient place of the participant's
      choice. Saliva collection will be obtained if a blood draw is not possible. For participants
      who are present at St. Jude, saliva collection will generally be performed only once using a
      saliva collection kit. However, if the first collection is not sufficient for protocol
      required studies, then additional saliva samples may need to be collected, for up to a total
      of 5 occurrences. For non St. Jude participants, or participants who do not wish or cannot
      come to St. Jude, saliva will be collected locally and shipped back to the St. Jude. A skin
      sample will be performed as a source of germline DNA from participants who have undergone an
      allogeneic bone marrow transplant and do not have a source of pre-transplant DNA available. A
      skin sample will only be obtained one time.

      The biological samples will be stored in the St. Jude Biorepository. The DNA of the samples
      will be studied to determine if there are changes in specific genes that might explain the
      cancers in the participant or their family members. When available, and if consent is given
      by the participant, previously collected and stored leftover tumor samples, bone marrow
      samples or stored DNA may be analyzed.

      Genetic variants of interest include: 1) mutations in known genes that may have escaped
      detection through prior clinical genetic testing; 2) coding mutations predicted to disrupt
      protein function, particularly in genes and pathways known to be associated with cancer; 3)
      potential mutations in regulatory regions of the genome, as predicted by epigenetic studies.
      In some cases, individuals with known predisposing mutations exhibit milder, more severe or
      atypical phenotypes. Family members who harbor a predisposing mutation but are discordant for
      a cancer phenotype will be selected for cellular and genetic studies. These will include DNA
      sequencing and possibly also creation and analysis of induce pluripotent stem cells (iPSC),
      transcriptome or epigenetic analysis.

      All samples will be identified by a code after removal of all personal identifiable
      information. Samples will remain in the repository for current and future study.
    
  