
    
      Gastroesophageal reflux disease(GERD) is a common disease, mainly related to the reflux of
      stomach content induced by the dysfunction of lower esophageal sphincter. The common symptoms
      of GERD are heartburn, acid regurgitation, chest pain and globus hystericus. The methods to
      treat GERD are changes of lifestyle, pharmacotherapy, antireflux surgery and endoscopy.
      Proton pump inhibitors (PPI) can effectively block gastric acid secretion and promote the
      repair of esophagus, but the drug reactions and the degree of improvement in symptoms are
      sometimes unpredictable. Recently there are many instruments used to analyze personal
      physical status. Meridian energy analysis device ( Ryodoraku ) is used to assess the energy
      of meridian system by analysis of resistance of the skin surface, as well as the wrist-worn
      heart rate monitor (ANSWatch) used to assess the autonomic nervous system by analysis of
      heart rate variability. Therefore, the aim of this study is to investigate the association
      between the clinical efficacy of PPI in patients with GERD and the personal physical status
      by Ryodoraku and ANSWatch.

      Investigators will recruit 120 patients with GERD in clinic who have to receive PPIs for four
      weeks and assess each volunteer before and after taking the medication. Assessment methods :
      1. ANSWatch to assess the autonomic nervous system, 2. Ryodoraku to assess the energy of
      meridian system, 3. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy to assess the grade of reflux
      esophagitis, 4. gastroesophageal reflux disease questionnaire to assess the severity of GERD.
      Investigators analysed and compared the database from the assessments between before and
      after taking the medication.

      Investigators anticipate to substantiate that the changes of Ryodoraku and ANSWatch are good
      predictors for the clinical efficacy of PPI in patients with GERD.
    
  