
    
      In the first interview, the patients in the experimental group will be collected data and
      contact information will be obtained using the Patient Information Form, Exercise Change
      Phase Short Question Form, Exercise Change Processes Scale, Exercise Decision Making Balance
      Scale and Exercise Self-Efficacy Scale as a pre-test. Then, the patients will be given their
      username and password to log into the website. The change stage of the patients will be
      determined by the researcher with the Exercise Change Phase Short Question Form, and it will
      be ensured that they reach the educational content prepared according to the transtheoretic
      model. Motivating interviews will be provided for the patients to receive training on the
      website by contacting them one-on-one. In the following 1st and 3rd months, the patients will
      be contacted individually again to confirm whether they follow the website, and they will be
      asked to fill the scales on the website by providing consultancy on the issues they need. In
      the 6th month, the final test data will be obtained from the website using the same data
      collection forms.

      The patients in the control group will be collected data and contact information will be
      obtained at the first interview using the Patient Information Form, Exercise Change Phase
      Short Question Form, Change Processes Scale, Decision Making Balance Scale and Self-Efficacy
      Scale. Later, patients will be given their username and password so that they can log into
      the website where the scales are located in order to apply the final test. No intervention
      will be applied to the patients in the control group. At the end of the 6th month, the same
      scales will be applied on the website as a final test. At the end of the study, the patients
      in the control group will be able to access the exercise training content prepared for the
      purpose of gaining exercise behavior on the website.

      Nursing Initiative The patients in the experimental group will be given a web-based exercise
      training based on the transtheoretic model according to the stages of change they are in.

      Interference Material As the initiative material, the participants; A website will be
      established where they can log in with an individually given username and password. As the
      content; The harms of sedentary life, the benefits of exercise on general health, especially
      its effects on reducing heart diseases and risks, and materials for gaining exercise behavior
      will be included.
    
  