
    
      Tonsillectomy is the second most common pediatric surgical procedure, with more than 280,000
      performed in children under the age of 15 in the United States in 2010. The most common
      indications for tonsillectomy in children include recurrent infections and obstructive sleep
      apnea. While tonsillectomy in the pediatric population is generally safe and well-tolerated,
      post-operative complications are not uncommon, with post-operative pain, respiratory
      compromise, and post-tonsillectomy hemorrhage being chief among them.

      Post-operative pain has been described as the main morbidity associated with tonsillectomy
      and is often ineffectively controlled. Pain beyond the initial 24-hour post-operative period
      has been noted to be worse with the use of electrocautery when compared to cold-knife
      dissection and snare tonsillectomy, perhaps attributable to the high levels of heat (400 째C
      to 600 째C) applied directly to the tonsillar area. Yet electrocautery remains one of the most
      frequently utilized tools due to its hemostatic effects through vessel coagulation at the
      time of dissection. Still, a recent large meta-analysis reported the rates of primary
      post-tonsillectomy hemorrhage (bleeding within the first 24 hours) at 2.4% and secondary
      post-tonsillectomy hemorrhage (beyond 24 hours) at 2.6%, suggesting that bleeding after
      tonsillectomy remains a relatively common occurrence. The search for a methodology that
      improves post-operative pain without increasing the risk of post-operative hemorrhage remains
      an active area of research.

      Coblation, which creates an ionized plasma layer by passing a bipolar radio-frequency current
      through a medium of saline, offers another approach. The saline irrigation results in much
      less heat when compared to monopolar cautery, measuring approximately 40째C to 70째C. Coblation
      can be used in both subcapsular and intracapsular fashion. Subcapsular tonsillectomy with
      coblation has demonstrated a minimal decrease in pain, and may result in slightly higher
      rates of post-operative hemorrhage.

      It has been pointed out that bipolar cautery could result in lower thermal injury and reduced
      blood loss, however tonsillectomy using traditional bipolar forceps leads to longer operative
      times. One group found that the use of BiClamp, a bipolar vascular sealing device originally
      designed for thyroidectomy, provided decreased operative times and less intraoperative
      bleeding compared to electrocautery. They noted, however, instances of posterior pillar
      perforation, which they attributed to curvature of the device that was designed for thyroid
      surgery, making dissection of the superior pole more difficult. Medtronic has now developed a
      similar device designed for use in tonsillectomy with a curved jaw meant to follow the
      contour of the tonsillar bed. In its marketing material for the recently developed BiZact ,
      Medtronic describes a bipolar device that continuously measures the impedance of clamped
      tissue, adjusting energy levels in real-time and automatically stopping energy delivery when
      a seal is established. Their literature suggests the device permanently seals vessels up to
      3mm with less thermal damage, resulting in less intraoperative blood loss, more efficient
      procedures, and possibly less pain.

      In a pilot study of 186 patients, intraoperative blood loss was shown to be <1ml of blood
      loss in 71 cases (38.2%) and between 1 and 10ml of blood loss in 81 cases (43.5%).
      Post-operative hemorrhage rate of 4.3% is similar to rates described by other studies. BiZact
      tonsillectomy allows for a shortened operative time with a median time of 5.1 minutes. Other
      studies have shown other techniques to have a time duration of 21.6 minutes (electrocautery),
      20.20 minutes (coblator), and 16.14 minutes (microdebrider).

      In off label use of the device at our institution, data from surgeons using the device showed
      that surgeons perceived a relative improvement in following compared to standard
      tonsillectomy:

        1. Less perceived thermal heat transfer to surrounding soft tissues

        2. Left perceived blood loss

        3. Superior ease of obtaining timely hemostasis

        4. Faster operative time
    
  