
    
      Introduction

      Dental caries is a prevalent chronic disease, affecting 60-90% of school-age children in
      industrialized countries; although in the last four decades the prevalence and severity of
      caries lesions have decreased, it is still a frequent disease for this age group. The
      American Dental Association (ADA) classifies dental caries by clinical presentation as
      initial, moderate, and severe; furthermore, the ADA classifies the disease using the
      international caries detection and diagnosis system (ICDAS II; International Caries Detection
      and Assessment System II) and by a radiographic presentation of the proximal faces based on
      the E0-E2, D1-D3 notation system. Within the non-vital pulp treatments, pulpectomy is
      indicated in temporary teeth; pulpectomy is a conventional endodontic treatment for teeth
      with exposed, infected, and/or necrotic tissue to eliminate pulp and periradicular infection.

      In a recent systematic review that compared three different strategies for the management of
      deep caries lesions (i.e. complete caries removal, selective caries removal, and step caries
      removal), Aïem and colleagues (2020) report an increased restoration failure risk when
      selective removal is used compared to complete removal of caries. In a study where French
      dentists were surveyed on the management of deep caries lesions in primary dentition, the
      majority of respondents mentioned performing deep caries removal in a single step. Endodontic
      procedures in the pediatric population can assist to keep temporary teeth until exfoliation,
      which is a key principle of pediatric dentistry. Vital pulp and non-vital pulp treatments are
      employed in the treatment of severe lesions and deep caries; meanwhile, pulpectomy is a
      treatment largely used in the primary dentition. In pulp therapy, a pulpotomy is performed by
      removing the pulp from the chamber, while in a pulpectomy, all the tissue from both the
      chamber and the root canals is removed.

      There are two parameters used to determine root canal treatment success: 1) the morphology
      and shaping of the canal; and 2) the duct cleanliness or the adequate level of disinfection
      provided by the type and quantity of intra-canal irrigation (e.g. chlorhexidine, sodium
      hypochlorite, citric acid, profuse irrigation). A pulpectomy is the technique of choice for
      primary dentition in deep carious lesions with pulp necrosis since pulpectomy has a higher
      success rate than pulpotomy. While the time for access to the root canal is less with the use
      of rotary instrumentation systems compared to a manual technique, manual techniques have the
      same efficacy as rotary systems in root canal cleaning procedures. Rotary systems have
      greater clinical success compared to manual techniques, in addition to having advantages in
      instrumentation time, canal shaping, reduction in working time, better cooperation and less
      patient fatigue, improvement in the conicity of the root canal, and promoting a higher
      quality of obturation. In a recent meta-analysis, Manchanda and colleagues (2020) conclude
      that rotary instrumentation has similar clinical and radiographic success rates to manual
      techniques in primary dentition; additionally, rotatory techniques show lower levels of
      postoperative pain and less instrumentation time. In the only study in the Mexican population
      that compared a rotary system (i.e. K3) against a manual technique (i.e. K-file) it was found
      that the instrumentation and obturation time was shorter, being a promising technique in
      children.

      Given the limited comparative literature about rotatory techniques used in pulpectomy
      treatment, it is necessary to conduct clinical trials that compare both manual and rotatory
      techniques in first dentition treatment. So far, studies have been carried out comparing
      rotary systems designed for adults in the pediatric population. Recently, interest to
      validate and implement safe and effective protocols for the management of rotary systems in
      primary dentition has emerged in pediatric dentistry. Below is a protocol designed to
      investigate the advantages and disadvantages associated with the use of rotary systems
      designed for our population of interest.

      Study design

      Population: patients with pulpectomy indication according to the criteria mentioned by Kuo
      and colleagues (2006).

      Place: Pediatric Dentistry Clinic, Universidad Latinoamericana, Campus Valle.

      Time frame: January 2021 - December 2021

      Sampling technique: convenience sampling with group randomization.

      Study groups: 4 (n= 100 teeth)

        1. Patients who are treated with a manual pulpectomy and a K-file system.

        2. Patients who are treated with a manual pulpectomy and a Kedo-SH system.

        3. Patients who are treated with a rotatory technique pulpectomy and a K3 system.

        4. Patients who are treated with a rotatory technique pulpectomy and a Kedo-S system.

      PICOS framework

      P: pediatric population

      I: manual system pulpectomy

      C: rotary system pulpectomy

      O: instrumentation and obturation time, filling quality by radiographic evaluation,
      postoperative pain levels at 12hr and 24hr, frequency of complications (e.g. fistulas,
      thinning of the mesiodistal walls, periapical or furcation radiolucency) after a 3-, 6-, 9-,
      and 12-month follow-up.

      S: a randomized controlled trial

      Research question

      Are there differences between the use of a manual system compared to a rotary system in the
      pediatric population?

      Main objective

      Compare the performance between a manual technique and a rotatory technique during
      biomechanical work.

      Particular objectives

        1. Compare the instrumentation (i.e. during biomechanical work) and filling time between a
           manual technique and a rotatory technique.

        2. Compare the filling quality by radiographic evaluation between a manual technique and a
           rotatory technique at the end of the procedure.

        3. Compare postoperative pain levels using the visual analog scale at 12 and 24 hours.

        4. Compare the frequency of complications (e.g. fistulas, thinning of the mesiodistal
           walls, periapical or furcation radiolucency) after a 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-month follow-up
           between the two techniques.

      Hypotheses

      H1: The rotatory techniques will take less instrumentation and obturation time than the
      manual techniques.

      H1: The quality of the obturation in the rotatory technique will be reported radiographically
      more frequently as optimal than the manual technique.

      H1: The pain levels reported by patients will be lower in the rotatory technique than in the
      manual technique.

      H1: The rotatory technique will have a lower frequency of complications such as fistulas,
      thinning of the mesiodistal walls, periapical or furcation radiolucency at each time point
      compared to the manual technique.

      Statistical analysis

      Descriptive statistics will be performed on all variables. Statistical analysis will be
      performed using SPSS 25 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL). All variables will be examined to determine
      the existence of outliers and whether or not they meet the Gaussian distribution assumption;
      furthermore, Gaussian distribution will be determined with the Shapiro-Wilk test and by
      visualizing the data through histograms and Q-Q graphs. The demographic and clinical
      variables will be summarized in proportions and percentages. Nominal variables will be
      evaluated with Chi-square tests to assess differences between groups. Categorical variables
      will be evaluated to determine statistical inferences with the Mann-Whitney test. Continuous
      variables will be assessed for statistical inferences using t-tests and Levene's test to
      assess variance equality. Statistical significance will be set at p= 0.05 and a Bonferroni
      correction will be made for multiple comparisons.

      Sample size

      The sample size necessary to detect statistically significant differences was calculated by
      taking the following parameters; α = 0.05 and statistical power of 0.8 (i.e. 1-β). For the
      calculation of the sample size, the time of instrumentation was used as a measure of clinical
      outcome. The sample was calculated based on the article by Ochoa-Romero and colleagues (2011)
      where instrumentation time was used as the primary outcome. The sample calculator used can be
      found on the website: https://clincalc.com/stats/samplesize.aspx. The calculator designed for
      two independent groups for continuous variables was selected, using the mean for each group
      (i.e. group 1: rotatory technique 1.7 minutes ± 0.5; group 2: manual technique 2.5 minutes ±
      0.8) taking into account an enrollment 1:1 ratio for this study. The total sample size was 24
      teeth (i.e. at least 6 teeth per group to find statistically significant differences in
      instrumentation time).
    
  