
    
      Gliomas are the most common primary brain tumors and are classified by their
      histopathological appearances using the World Health Organization (WHO) system into low-grade
      glioma (LGG) (grades I and II) and high-grade glioma (grade III anaplastic glioma and grade
      IV glioblastoma.

      Gliomas, particularly high-grade, exhibit irregular growth patterns infiltrating the
      surrounding brain and thus showing irregular boundaries that may not be clear on conventional
      magnetic resonance images (MRI) MR images are visually inspected by radiologists, however,
      visual assessment is subjective, time consuming and prone to variability due to inter-rater
      differences. Accurate delineation of tumor boundaries as well as assessment of tumor volume
      are essential for treatment planning and monitoring treatment response . However, accurate
      delineation of the boundaries of glioma using subjective visual assessment is often difficult
      due to tumor heterogeneity and complexity, overlapping signal intensity with surrounding
      tissues and uneven tumor growth into nearby structures .

      Compared to tumor volumetry, the routine visual evaluation of tumor size is based upon simple
      linear measurements of the gross tumor volume. These bi-dimensional measurements are often
      performed on a single MRI slice without volumetric measurements. These linear measurements
      are user-dependent and prone to errors due to increased measurement variability, especially
      in irregularly shaped lesions Computer-based fully-automatic tumor segmentation methods
      present a possible solution to these issues. The process is based upon information extraction
      from structural brain MRI images using a probabilistic tissue model to define the clear tumor
      boundaries using different MRI pulse sequences. These methods could accurately and rapidly
      identify glioma from surrounding normal brain tissue, and perform tumor volumetry, while
      eliminating intra-observer and inter-observer variability Internal changes within glioma,
      such as enhancement pattern and degeneration are crucial for identification of glioma grade,
      planning of treatment, monitoring of disease progression and evaluating the efficacy of
      therapy. In the process of automatic glioma segmentation, different parts of the glioma are
      characterized as solid (active) tumor, necrosis and peri-tumoral edema .

      Automatic segmentation methods utilize artificial intelligence and machine learning
      techniques for extraction of information from multi-sequence MRI including, basically, T1W,
      Gadolinium enhanced T1W, T2W and FLAIR sequences .

      Appropriate assessment of the extent of tumor resection plays an important role in the
      prognosis of glioma, since maximizing the extent of resection influences survival in these
      patients. Complete resection of enhancing tumor, defined as the removal of the final 1-2% of
      the tumor, seems to provide the most benefit in terms of patient's survival . Automatic
      segmentation could lead to better diagnosis and proper treatment planning through accurate
      tumor localization and classification .
    
  