
    
      (*) Study design

      A. MostCare system data acquisition Before each CO measurement, the arterial pressure
      catheter and transducer quality will be assessed as follows: easy aspiration of 5 ml of blood
      easily re-injected without resistance; visual assessment of the quality of the arterial
      waveform contour; adequate response to the flush test (square wave). If necessary, the best
      position for the signal quality will be checked by extending the wrist and manipulating the
      catheter. For each determination of Echo-Doppler (and ThD-CO when applicable), a
      corresponding value for MostCare must be obtained by averaging the individual beats over the
      same time necessary to obtain the Echo-doppler-CO (and ThD-CO when applicable) measurements.

      B. Echo-Doppler data acquisition (transoesophageal - TOE - or transthoracic - TTE - echo)
      Echo-Doppler-CO will be measured using the standard formula CSA x VTI (cross sectional area x
      velocity time integral x heart rate in ml/min). 2D measurement of the aortic annulus diameter
      allows calculation of the flow CSA which is then multiplied by the VTI (velocity time
      integral) of the Pulsed Doppler flow velocity profile across the aortic valve to determine
      the SV.

      Other hemodynamic variables as an ancillary part of the study will compare shortening
      fraction (SF) or EF fraction from Echocardiography with CCE and dp/dt.

      C. Thermodilution data acquisition (ThD-CO) (when applicable) Data coming from ThD pulmonary
      artery catheter (PAC) or a CVC + femoral artery catheter (transpulmonary thermodilution,
      PiCCO system) will be collected from the monitor itself or the system for patient monitoring
      used in the units.

      For standard PAC-ThD-CO, five consecutive injections of 10 ml of 5% glucose cold solution
      will be randomly injected during respiratory cycle over a 5-min period. Thermodilution-CO (or
      PiCCO-CO) will be calculated as the average of the five measurements. All these 5
      measurements will be collected.

      MostCare, Echo-doppler (and Thermodilution when applicable) Change in ventilator parameters,
      sedation drugs, or fluid infusions or vasopressor dose will not be allowed during the
      acquisition time.

      (*) Study timing and procedure

      For each patient CO determinations will be performed as follows:

      Mandatory measurements:

      • Baseline: (MostCare + Echo-doppler simultaneously, and MostCare + Echo-doppler +
      Thermodilution when applicable) = single comparison between techniques.

      Recorded but not mandatory measurements (fitting to the therapeutic protocol used in each
      center):

      • Pre- and post- treatment (fluid challenge, vasoactive drugs and inotropics changes)
      (MostCare + Echo-doppler simultaneously, and MostCare + Echo-doppler + Thermodilution when
      applicable) = dynamic comparison between techniques (two measures). This will allow a
      sub-analysis of CO (the trend of CO) changes, validity of trend, for both SV and CO before
      and after a therapeutic intervention.

      Data to be collected:

      Patient: demographic, anthropometric, pre-medical history, indication(s) for ICU admission;
      (cardiovascular diseases and cardiac function, respiratory diseases, etc...), severity scores
      (SAPS II, SOFA, ….).

      All patients enrolled will be analysed in intention-to-treat even data recording failed. In
      this case, that would be a limit if any, for the tested technique.

      Hemodynamic MostCare: SV, HR, CO, CCE, ∆P/∆T, ABPs, ABPd, ABPm. Other hemodynamic data: CVP,
      PaoP, SvO2, lactate,... Echocardiography: stroke volume, heart rate, cardiac output. Other
      hemodynamic variables are allowed to be collected by Echo according to the centre protocols
      and the experience of each centre.

      Cardiac and vasoactive drugs dose or infusion rate will be collected: dobutamine, dopamine,
      norepinephrine, epinephrine, nitrates, beta-blockers, ACE-I,ecc.

      Ventilatory: mechanical ventilation settings: mode of ventilation (CPAP, BiPAP, VC, PC),
      pressure support (if applicable), peak and plateau pressure, PEEP level, FiO2 oxygenation
      (SaO2, PaO2,…) ICU stay and outcome: morbidity (number and type of complications), length of
      stay, mortality.

      (*) Statistical analysis and methodology, number of patients to be enrolled, duration of the
      study:

      Collected data will be copied on an excel file to be properly independently analyzed with a
      statistical software. Correlation tests (Spearman or Pearson), Student paired t-test, and
      Bland-Altman analysis will be applied. A minimum of 30 patients per centre will be enrolled
      in the study in a period of 18 months.

      This "minimum number" of patients is mandatory as: 1) the enrollment of 30 patients per
      centre eliminates the potential bias that may occur when few data come from a single centre,
      2) minimum 300 patients enrolled represents a suitable number to obtain the "statistical
      power" necessary to validate the comparison between the different methods, and 3) further
      analysis and comparisons in subgroup of patients having similar clinical settings can be
      performed.
    
  