
    
      Recent crises in the Middle East, most notably in Syria, have resulted in an unprecedented
      increase in the worldwide number of refugees and asylum seekers. Switzerland (CH) is strongly
      affected by this crisis too. Eight percent of asylum requests in 2016 were made by people
      from Syria (2015: 12 %). More than 7'000 asylum seekers from Syria entered CH over the last
      two years. Due to the ongoing war in this region, it is unlikely that this kind of migration
      and flight will stop. Notably, 50% of the refugee population are children and adolescents.

      Refugees have typically been exposed to multiple stressors related to war and displacement
      including loss of family members, destruction of homes and livelihoods and human rights
      violations such as sexual violence or torture. They have often undertaken a risky and
      stressful flight leaving their homes for an unknown future. Accordingly, studies consistently
      show that refugees are at considerable risk of developing common mental disorders, including
      depression, anxiety, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and related somatic health
      symptoms. Recent WHO projections suggest that approximately 15-20% of Syrian refugees will
      develop some type of mental health problem and therefore represent an enormous public mental
      health challenge.

      According to the UNHCR, 86% of all displaced persons remain in conflict or neighboring
      countries where appropriate health care is mostly not available. But also Western health
      systems are often unable to appropriately cover the needs of this particularly vulnerable
      population regarding prevention and treatment of mental health problems. As a response to
      this situation, the WHO developed the low-intensity Problem Management Plus (PM+) programs, a
      new generation of shorter, less expensive and trans-diagnostic (i.e., not specifically aimed
      at treating a certain mental disorder) programs to reduce common mental health symptoms and
      improve psychosocial functioning. PM+ is based on the WHO treatment guidelines for conditions
      related to stress. PM+ is a 5-sessions intervention aimed at reducing symptoms of depression,
      anxiety, PTSD, and related conditions, is delivered by trained non-specialized workers or lay
      people, and is available in individual and group delivery formats for both children and
      adults. It comprises evidence-based techniques of (a) problem solving, (b) stress management,
      (c) behavioral activation, and (d) accessing social support. PM+ has been successfully
      implemented in Kenya and Pakistan.

      The STRENGTHS (Syrian REfuGees MeNTal HealTH Care Systems) study aims at evaluating the
      effectiveness and implementation of PM+ with Syrian refugees in different settings in low-
      and high-resource countries. The study consortium includes international experts in the
      domains of trauma and public mental health as well as representatives of WHO and UNHCR. The
      Zürich study site has been consigned to examine PM+ with adult refugees in an individual
      treatment setting in Switzerland. At the same time, similar studies in other countries will
      be undertaken. Despite the objective of these studies to implement and evaluate the
      effectiveness of PM+ in refugees, each research institution acts independently. Moreover, the
      other studies will be completed in different treatment settings - i.e., in children and
      adolescents (Lebanon), in groups (Turkey and Netherlands), and internet-delivered PM+
      (Germany and Egypt).

      To date, the feasibility of PM+ has not been investigated in a highly industrialized country,
      such as Switzerland.

      In the present study, the investigators will evaluate the feasibility of PM+ in Syrian
      refugees in Switzerland.

      This research entails single-blind randomized controlled trial.

      The amendment was secured by December 2018. Trainers, assessors, supervisors and helpers are
      already identified, recruited an trained.

      After the approval, the first participants will be identified, invited to screening and if
      they fulfill the criteria they will be invited to participate in the pilot study. The pilot
      study will end by the end of 2019. After the pilot study the results will be evaluated,
      analyzed and integrated in the planning of the definitive randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      (next study, not the part of current registration).
    
  