
    
      For years, the Surgical Intensive Care Unit of the University Hospital Basel has used an
      early enteral approach for the feeding of critically ill patients with different formulas
      that have high protein content (20% of total energy). However, the energy goal in the first
      week is only 20 kcal for normal-weight and 12.5 kcal for obese patients, which results in
      daily protein amounts of 0.8 to 1 g/kg bodyweight (BW), so that additional protein has to be
      administered. Due to a suggestion of the dietetic service of the University Hospital Basel,
      Fresenius Kabi produced a whey based enteral feeding formula for intensive care patients.
      Specific further adaptations for this patient group included micronutrients and a fatty acid
      profile as well as low fibres. Surgical Intensive Care Unit of the University Hospital Basel
      now are offered the opportunity to test this formula in clinical practice and hypothesize
      that this specific high-protein (30% of energy) enteral formula reaches the same amount of
      daily caloric intake with a higher total daily amount of protein and equal intestinal
      tolerance compared to a usual intestinal nutritional formula.

      In order to test this hypothesis, investigators plan a double-blind, randomized and
      controlled study with the aim to achieve a target protein quantity of ≥1.3 g/kg BW with an
      energy target of 20kcal/kg BW per day, based on a new, specifically designed formula for
      critically ill patients. The amount of protein on day four after starting the early enteral
      feeding is defined as primary endpoint. Secondary endpoints are the total amount of calories,
      the nitrogen balance on day five as well as side effects like gastric residual content,
      diarrhoea and constipation. Inclusion criteria were an expected stay at the ICU of four days
      or longer on admission and 18 years of age or older Exclusion criteria consisted of BMI ≤ 18,
      pregnancy, intestinal perforation, mechanical intestinal obstruction, terminal state of
      consuming disease, severely impaired liver function and noradrenaline ≥0.5µg/kg BW/min.. On
      this purpose, 90 critically ill patients will get either of the two enteral feeding products
      as described above. In case of the event that an increased protein intake can be obtained by
      the protein-rich formula, an additional study will investigate the influence of early
      protein-rich nutrition on skeletal muscle wasting with critically ill patients.

      In a pre-study investigators will administer the high protein formula to 20 patients to test
      tolerance and suitability for the nutritional Targets in question. Tolerance will be defined
      by the absence of one of the following clinical symptoms :

        -  Reflux

        -  Diarrhoea

        -  Constipation

        -  Nausea

        -  Vomiting
    
  