
    
      This is a prospective observational cohort study, where the primary objective of this study
      is to compare patient and caregiver quality of life and other patient-centered outcomes for
      inpatient versus outpatient management of neutropenia in children with AML or MDS receiving
      standard intensive AML frontline chemotherapy.

      Local study investigators (pediatric oncologists and study coordinators) at each of the
      fifteen participating pediatric institutions will communicate on a weekly basis with their
      inpatient leukemia service to identify AML or MDS patients potentially eligible for study
      enrollment. Once identified, study personnel will review each patient for study eligibility
      criteria. Three visits with the patient and their caregivers will occur: a screening visit,
      initial survey visit, and a follow-up visit.

      Screening Visit: The eligibility criteria for participation will be confirmed prior to
      approaching for consent. Eligible patients interested in the study will be approached for
      consent at any time from AML/MDS diagnosis through last day of chemotherapy in the treatment
      course under study. In some cases, the patient's caregivers may not be present in the
      hospital to provide consent. In these cases, study personnel will obtain verbal consent from
      the caregivers and child assent (if appropriate).

      Visit 1 will occur prior to the last day of chemotherapy administration in the course. This
      visit will include:

        -  2 Brief demographic surveys to capture covariates unavailable in the medical record

        -  Baseline health-related quality of life (HRQOL) surveys

        -  A baseline financial toxicity assessment

      Surveys will be administered via paper or a smart device and will last a total of 15-30
      minutes per respondent. In the case that the child is 5 years of age or older, the child
      self-report and parent proxy-report scales will be separately administered to the child and
      caregiver, respectively. If the child is under 5 years of age, only the parent-proxy version
      will be administered. Only the caregiver completes the baseline financial toxicity
      assessment. We will provide a $25 gift card to each child-parent dyad upon completion of the
      baseline surveys

      Visit 2 will occur within the period after absolute neutrophil count recovery and ideally
      prior to the start of the subsequent course of chemotherapy, but no later than the last day
      of chemotherapy in that next treatment course. This visit will include:

        -  Follow-up HRQOL surveys

        -  Patient-centered outcome survey developed previously from qualitative interviews of AML
           patients and their caregivers

        -  A follow-up financial toxicity assessment

      Surveys will be administered via paper or a smart device and will last a total of 15-30
      minutes per respondent. In the case that the child is 5 years of age or older, the child
      self-report and parent proxy-report scales will be administered to the child and caregiver,
      respectively. If the child is under 5 years of age, only the parent-proxy version will be
      administered. The follow-up financial toxicity assessment and the patient-centered outcome
      survey are completed by the caregiver only. We will provide a $25 gift card to each
      child-parent dyad upon completion of the follow-up surveys.
    
  