
    
      material and method: The sample will comprise of 84 bilateral pairs of newly erupted first
      permanent molars in children with age of 6-9 years.This sample will be randomly selected
      after patient's screening from pediatric dentistry clinics at King Abdul-Aziz University
      Dental Hospital, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Informed written consent will be obtained from the
      parents prior to sampling.

      Healthy children with all four first permanent molar will be included in the study. Children
      must have at least one pair of contralateral newly erupted first permanent molars free from
      caries. Teeth with deep pits and fissures free of caries, restorations, sealants, fracture,
      hypoplasia, or cracks will be included in the study.

      The children who met the inclusion criteria will be enrolled in the trial after a signed
      consent form is obtained. Pairs of maxillary or mandibular first molars will be included so
      that one side will be randomly assigned to study group and the contralateral side to control
      group.

      Study group: This group will consist of 84 first permanent molars. These molars will be
      sealed using light curing resin-modified glass ionomer varnish (ClinproTM XT Vanish, 3M ESPE,
      Dental Products, St. Paul, MN, USA)

      Control group: This group will consist of 84 first permanent molars. These molars will
      receive 5% Sodium Fluoride (NaF) with Tri-Calcium Phosphate topical varnish (Vanish White
      Varnish, 3M ESPE, Dental Products, St. Paul, MN, USA). These molars will serve as a control
      group.

      The clinical examination will be assessing the caries lesions at baseline and 3,6, 12, and 18
      months by the trained and calibrated dentists' according to ICDAS II criteria (International
      Caries Detection and Assessment System). Teeth with deep pits and fissures, which scored 0
      will be included in this study.

      In addition, once the clinical examination is done, bitewing radiographs will be taken for
      each child on the first visit to diagnose caries at the baseline.

      A child structured questionnaire to be completed by interviewing the parents (adopted from
      WHO Oral Health Questionnaire for Children) concerning the dental history of the child and
      oral hygiene habits will be given at the baseline and at each recall visit.
    
  