
    
      The Carolinas Healthcare System (CHS) Department of Family Medicine in partnership with The
      University of North Carolina at Charlotte (UNCC) Geography Department have initiated a
      primary-care practice-based research network (PBRN) bringing together primary care
      physicians, local academic centers, and community organizations to study healthcare delivery
      to the burgeoning Hispanic population in Charlotte, North Carolina. CHS has created six
      primary care ambulatory clinics that serve as teaching centers and as "safety-net" practices
      for disadvantaged patients within the community. Despite many similarities between the
      clinics, including a shared informatics system, no research network currently exists.
      Creation of the proposed PBRN would allow the participating primary care providers to
      evaluate the community they serve, determine disparities in healthcare access and delivery,
      and to elucidate the impact of current services on the community. In addition, the PBRN
      brings together two academic institutions with prior experience implementing the
      community-oriented primary care model and the use of Geographic Information Systems tools for
      evaluating communities and understanding health care access.

      The neighborhoods surrounding the CHS clinics have changed drastically over the past two
      decades secondary to a marked increase in Hispanic immigration to the area. This growth has
      produced an increasing demand on local healthcare providers. Our goal is to utilize the newly
      created research network to better understand healthcare delivery to the transitioning
      Hispanic population and thereby maximize quality of care and the efficacy of its delivery.
      Community organizations will be involved from the outset to allow community-based
      participation in the research design and overall goals. Creation of this initial PBRN will be
      used to lay the groundwork for expansion into other primary care practices and to seek
      funding for further research initiatives to improve community health.
    
  