
    
      Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the esophagus. Primary
      symptoms manifest while eating and include dysphagia, chest pain, and food impaction. EoE was
      first described in the 1990s, but is increasingly recognized worldwide. It affects both
      adults and children.

      Given that EoE is thought to be an allergen driven disease, elimination diets are considered
      logical and safe first-line treatment options. Elimination diets focus on the removal of the
      food groups most likely to evoke the inflammatory response (e.g. dairy, wheat, soy, egg,
      etc.). This is the first study to examine the effects of an additive free diet on
      eosinophilic esophagitis.

      Primary Objective: To compare histologic outcomes (eosinophils per high power field: eos/hpf)
      of DED and FREE in children with eosinophilic esophagitis.

      Secondary Objective: To compare endoscopic outcomes (Eosinophilic Esophagitis Endoscopic
      Reference scores: EREFs) of DED and FREE in children with eosinophilic esophagitis

      Tertiary Objectives: To compare symptomatic (Pediatric Eosinophilic Esophagitis Symptom
      Severity Module v2.0: PEESS) and quality of life (Peds-QL EoE Module 1) outcomes of DED and
      FREE in children with eosinophilic esophagitis

      The investigators plan to enroll 72 patients over 4 sites each enrolling 18 patients per site
      in a 16-month period (approximately 1 patient per month per site) having 9 patients per site
      in each group (DED and FREE).

      The investigators will enroll patients > 5- <17 years of age with isolated esophageal
      eosinophilia (>15 eos/hpf). Patients with food impaction, peripheral eosinophilia > 1,500 µL
      , concomitant GI inflammatory conditions, history of upper GI tract surgery (e.g.
      fundoplication), acid reflux by pH probe, anaphylactic food allergies, severe developmental
      delay, taking recently prescribed inhaled corticosteroids or oral corticosteroids, have other
      medical conditions likely interfere with the study, has a significant psychiatric condition,
      has taken a PPI in the last 4 weeks, has taken swallowed steroids in the last 12 weeks, or
      are not fluent in spoken and written English will be excluded.

      Participants will be enrolled at: Nemours Children's Hospital, Orlando, FL; Alfred I Dupont
      Hospital, Wilmington, DE; Seattle Children's Hospital, Seattle, WA

      Once eligibility criteria are met, participants will be randomized to DED or FREE study
      groups. Participants will receive dietary education. Lead dietitians from each site will be
      identified and the approaches to dietary education will be standardized. Dietary education
      will be completed at the baseline visit and during follow up phone calls throughout the
      study.Each participant will complete all study visits in 12 weeks.
    
  