
    
      Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) is a common genetic disorder affecting low-density
      lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) metabolism, resulting in reduced catabolism of LDL particles
      and marked elevations in circulating LDL-C. If untreated, lifelong exposure to elevated LDL-C
      results in the development of atherosclerotic lesions early in life and a substantially
      increased risk of premature cardiovascular disease as compared to the general population.
      Early detection and effective treatment of FH can result in a significant improvement in
      clinical outcomes. Despite these compelling data, FH remains largely underdiagnosed with less
      than 5% of individuals with FH being identified in most regions around the world. Compounding
      its burden is the observation that FH is undertreated even among those with an established
      diagnosis.

      The European Atherosclerosis Society (EAS) FH Studies Collaboration (FHSC) is a global
      initiative that was launched in 2015 to bring together a large-scale consortium of
      investigators and stakeholders involved in the care of people living with FH. The EAS FHSC
      ultimately seeks to empower the medical and global community to seek changes in their
      respective countries or organisations to promote early diagnosis and effective treatment of
      FH. The Coordinating Centre is based at the Imperial Centre for Cardiovascular Disease
      Prevention (ICCP), Imperial College London (ICL), UK. Currently investigators from over 65
      countries are involved in the EAS FHSC network.

      Specifically, the EAS FHSC aims to:

        -  Establish a worldwide, standardised registry of patients with FH by bringing together
           regional/national/international cohorts and registries with access to FH patients. This
           will allow the collaboration to maximise the exploitation of the data to accurately and
           reliably investigate (i) the burden of both homozygous FH (HoFH) and HeFH, (ii) how FH
           is detected and managed, (iii) the clinical consequences of current practice on delivery
           of care and outcomes, (iv) the factors that influence optimal management and LDL-C
           target attainment in FH.

        -  Disseminate the information gained from the registry to an international audience
           including physicians, other healthcare professionals, policy-makers and patients'
           organizations, to sensitise them to the contemporary burden of FH, encourage open
           discussion on FH management, promoting a uniform evidence-based standard-of-care, and
           encourage them to contribute actively to research.

        -  Consolidate a network of investigators interested in FH through which collaborative
           research and networking on FH can be conducted on a large-scale.

      The FHSC Global Registry is a comprehensive, robust database of compiled secondary,
      unidentifiable, anonymised data on the burden of FH worldwide. These secondary data were
      sourced from multiple resources of active multiple cohorts, registries, databases and
      collections with access to information on individuals with a clinical and/or genetic
      diagnosis of homozygous or heterozygous FH across nearly 60 countries thus far, independent
      and external to the FHSC, and submitted to the FHSC Registry by the respective data suppliers
      where data is pooled, harmonised and integrated into a single global database. The FHSC
      registry has been conceived with a long term strategy in mind, in order to increase the
      follow-up of patients, including new individuals diagnosed with FH over time, bringing new
      cohorts into the registry, and take into account temporal trends and changes in clinical
      practice.

      Quality assurance was addressed by providing the data suppliers with the FHSC protocol, which
      sets out the criteria of minimal standards for data collection prior to submission to the
      FHSC Global Registry, ensuring data completeness and accuracy. The incoming data was
      collated, standardised in accordance with a data dictionary, cleaned and validated by
      coordinating data queries with the respective data suppliers, and integrated within a secure
      data warehouse.

      The FHSC Global Registry currently contains over 60,000 cases and remains active and will
      continue to receive secondary data over the years ahead. Standard validated statistical
      procedures and models for observational studies and weighted meta-analyses are being
      performed on the secondary data to address multiple scientific inquiries.

      Further details, including FHSC protocol, are published open-access at:

      FHSC Investigators. Pooling and expanding registries of familial hypercholesterolaemia to
      assess gaps in care and improve disease management and outcomes: Rationale and design of the
      global EAS Familial Hypercholesterolaemia Studies Collaboration. Atheroscler Suppl. 2016
      Dec;22:1-32. doi: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosissup.2016.10.001.
    
  