
    
      Peripheral intravenous (PIV) therapy is one of the most common invasive procedures performed
      in US hospitals. A majority of hospital patients require intravenous therapy each year in the
      United States. Despite widespread use, a number of potential complications can occur during
      PIV therapy. One of the most common causes of IV complications is IV infiltration or
      extravasation. Infiltration is the leakage of non-vesicant fluids like saline into the
      surrounding tissue. Extravasation is the leakage of vesicant fluids, which include cytotoxic
      drugs, intravenous nutrition, and calcium, potassium, and bicarbonate solutions. If not
      detected and corrected early, infiltration and extravasation can lead to significant
      complications such as severe inflammation, compartment syndrome, and skin necrosis.

      ivWatch, LLC has developed an investigational device that may detect IV infiltration and
      extravasation occurrences using a near infrared light sensor. Previous studies have evaluated
      the performance of the ivWatch device by comparing to a nurse's diagnosis. The nursing
      standard of care relies on tactile and visual indicators to diagnose an infiltration event.
      The ivWatch product often signals an infiltration event before these indicators are apparent
      to clinicians. Consequently, comparisons to the nurse's diagnosis often lead to questionable
      false positives for the ivWatch device. A better reference is required to evaluate the
      performance of the ivWatch device.

      The purpose of this research study is to evaluate the ability of ultrasound to detect PIV
      infiltrations. Ultrasound is a depth-resolved imaging technique for evaluating tissue
      microstructure. Researchers have used ultrasound to examine exogenous fluids injected into
      cutaneous and subcutaneous tissue. Ultrasound has been used to detect small volumes of fluids
      such as cosmetic fillers and subcutaneous injections. These studies suggest ultrasound may be
      a potential reference standard for future evaluation of ivWatch devices.
    
  