
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the proportion of patients who survive progression-free for at least 6 months
      and the proportion of patients who have objective tumor response (complete or partial) in
      patients with persistent or recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary
      peritoneal carcinoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v3.0.

      II. To determine the duration of progression-free survival and overall survival.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Objectives in formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor tissue before treatment
      with dasatinib.

      II. Explore the association between the expression and phosphorylation of biomarkers involved
      in Src signaling pathways and measures of clinical outcome as well as disease status.

      III. Bank residual FFPE tumor tissue for the development and characterization of predictive
      and/or prognostic biomarkers or the validation of thereapeutic targets.

      IV. Objectives in blood drawn before and/or during treatment with dasatinib. V. Isolate,
      enumerate and characterize circulating tumor cells (CTC) as well as circulating endothelial
      cells (CEC)/circulating endothelial precursors (CEP).

      VI. Prepare a buffy-coat specimen from residual blood remaining after isolation of CTC and
      CEC/CEP.

      VII. Explore whether CTC and CEC/CEP counts or characteristics are associated with measures
      of clinical outcome and disease status.

      VIII. Explore whether the expression and phosphorylation of biomarkers involved in Src
      signaling pathways in CTC and CEC/CEP are associated with measures of clinical outcome and
      disease status.

      IX. Explore the associations between germline single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes
      involved in drug metabolism, resistance and DNA repair and measures of clinical outcome and
      disease status.

      X. Bank residual DNA and buffy-coat specimens for the development and characterization of
      predictive and/or prognostic biomarkers or the validation of therapeutic targets.

      XI. Objectives in plasma prepared from blood drawn before and/or during treatment with
      dasatinib.

      XII. Explore the association between angiogenic markers and cytokines including VEGF and
      measures of clinical outcome and disease status.

      XIII. Explore the association between measures of cell-free DNA and measures of clinical
      outcome and disease status.

      XIV. Bank residual plasma for the development and characterization of predictive and/or
      prognostic biomarkers or the validation of therapeutic targets.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral dasatinib once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  