
    
      We propose a randomized controlled clinical trial to take place in the YMCA setting and to be
      delivered by YMCA staff. The trial will compare CBT smoking cessation treatment plus a
      program of regular exercise (CBT + EXERCISE) to CBT smoking cessation treatment plus an equal
      staff contact control (CBT + CONTACT). In order to promote transportability to the YMCA, the
      exercise program will be the YMCA's existing Personal Fitness Program, which like our CTQ
      exercise program, is guided by trained staff and requires participants to exercise at least 3
      times per week.

      If CBT + EXERCISE is found to be more efficacious than CBT + CONTACT when delivered at the
      YMCA by YMCA staff, then we will be well positioned to partner with the YMCA's initiative of
      Y Total Health to pursue widespread, national dissemination of this program. The proposed
      testing of the efficacy of the CTQ program in the YMCA setting is a necessary intermediate
      step in the eventual dissemination of the CTQ program.

      Primary Aim. To determine the efficacy of CBT + EXERCISE compared with CBT + CONTACT when
      delivered in the YMCAs by YMCA staff to enhance the achievement and maintenance (3, 6, and 12
      months follow-up) of smoking cessation (continuous abstinence) among healthy adult female
      smokers.

      Hypothesis. Participants in the CBT + EXERCISE condition will have significantly greater
      continuous abstinence rates than those in the CBT + CONTACT condition at end-of-treatment, 3,
      6, and 12 months follow-up.

      Additional Questions of Interest.

      1. To perform process-to-outcome analyses on the intermediate variables which influence the
      achievement and maintenance of smoking cessation among healthy female smokers. Specifically,
      to determine if exercise affects weight and/or weight concerns, negative affect associated
      with nicotine withdrawal, and/or self-efficacy and to determine if these hypothesized
      mediators affect the achievement and maintenance of smoking cessation.

      To explore potential moderators of the treatment, such as baseline demographic and
      psychological characteristics (e.g., age, baseline mood) on smoking cessation outcomes.
    
  