
    
      Patients with epilepsy (PWE) exercise less compared to the general population. One barrier to
      participation in exercise is the subtle effect of anti epileptic drugs (AEDs) on balance and
      reaction time. Information on these measures in PWE is scarce, although previous data does
      suggest a detrimental effect. The objective of this trial is to study balance and reaction
      time in patients taking common AEDs. The investigators plan to study the effect of
      levetiracetam and lamotrigine on balance and reaction time. By studying patients in the
      epilepsy monitoring unit who are undergoing medication taper and withdrawal, the
      investigators can observe the effects of varying doses of these drugs within a single subject
      and also compare these data points to age matched controls. A Wii balance board (WBB) will be
      used to measure balance. It is hypothesized that levetiracetam and lamotrigine will elicit a
      dose-dependent, detrimental effect on balance and reaction time.

      Patients admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit who are currently taking levetiracetam or
      lamotrigine either in monotherapy will be recruited for the study. The target enrollment is
      20 PWE, and 20 healthy controls.

      For the PWE in the study, baseline AED blood levels will be obtained at baseline. The WBB has
      cells which detect load shifts in the body. Participants will stand on the WBB and remain as
      steady as possible. First on both feet with eyes open for 30 seconds, and then on both feet
      with eyes closed for 30 seconds, then on one foot with eyes open for 10 seconds, and then on
      one foot with eyes closed for 10 seconds. Each task will have 3 trials, with adequate break
      between.

      Visit 2 will occur following weaning of AEDs. The investigators will measure center of
      pressure and reaction time testing similar to visit one. Blood AED levels will be checked at
      three half lives of the medication. This will be taken within 8 hours of visit 2.
    
  