
    
      1. The TCApp application TCapp is a tool intended to connect patients and therapists in the
           time between medical consultations. It is currently available on Google Play and Apple
           Store markets, there are more than 412 patients who are currently using it and it was
           developed in collaboration with different public and private mental health institutions
           in the Barcelona area (Althaia, Hospital de Sant Rafael, CST, ITA and Hospital Sant Joan
           de Déu). TCApp was designed from the start with therapists' and patients´ needs and
           interests in mind. By using TCapp, patients and therapists are in continuous contact,
           allowing for a quicker reaction from the therapist according to the patients' needs.

           With TCApp, patients can record their thoughts, behaviors, emotions and whatever the
           therapists consider relevant for the therapy, since the app can be customized according
           to the therapy requirements of each specific patient. It involves algorithms based on
           artificial intelligence that can generate alarms when strategic words (i.e. suicide,
           death, etc.) are written. It also introduces technologies that allow for real-time
           online contact with therapists and gamification aesthetics that include prizes, rewards
           and reminders aimed at improving patients' engagement.

           The BackOffice tool for therapists is a web-based platform where therapists can see in
           real time what their patients have registered (i.e. generation of graphs in a period of
           time to visualize parameter comparison and patient evolution) and they can interact in
           real time with them by using PUSH notifications. The tool is integrated in Azure server
           in order to ensure accordance with the most restrictive data protection laws and it is
           prepared for for its integration in the local management systems of hospitals and
           clinics. Finally, there is currently no application available to provide the same
           services and benefits as TCapp as most of the available applications contain self-help
           functionalities, rather than allowing for a bidirectional link between the patient and
           the therapist.

           Once TCApp has proven to be an efficient and effective tool for use in ED units of
           public and private mental health services in Spain, the long-term contributions of the
           current study are as follows:

             -  To promote the clinical use of TCApp in ED units not only in Spain but also at an
                international level.

             -  Reduce the direct and indirect costs associated with the treatment of eating
                disorders.

             -  Improve the quality of patient care and the treatment effectiveness for EDs (e.g.,
                increase patients' adherence to treatment, prevent relapse) while reducing waiting
                lists at various hospitals from Spain.

             -  Explore the future export of the application to other mental disorders whose
                treatment is also based on cognitive behavioural therapy, such as depression,
                addictions and anxiety.

        2. Work plan and duration of the project 2.1 Methods 2.1.1 Sample The total sample will
           include approximately 250 patients with an ED diagnosis currently receiving treatment,
           who will be recruited from different public and private mental health services in Spain
           (Parc Taulí Hospital, Sant Joan de Déu Hospital, Dexeus University Hospital of the
           Quirónsalud group in Barcelona, Sant Rafael Hospital, Servei Salut de les Illes Balears
           and Infantil Universitario Niño Jesús de Madrid). All patients will receive standard CBT
           treatment, which includes the support of a multidisciplinary team from the different ED
           units (psychiatry, psychology, nutrition, nursing).

      The a priori sample size calculation was based on results from previous studies that
      implemented Internet-based programs in the treatment of EDs (Aardoom et al., 2013; Hötzel et
      al., 2014; Ruwaard et al., 2013). A small between-group effect size (Cohen' s d = 0.40) is
      expected. The calculation was conducted by the software program G*POWER. The primary analysis
      will concern the hypothesis that the average level of eating pathology at post-intervention
      in the control group, based on the EDE-Q scores, will be significantly higher than the
      average levels of eating pathology in the experimental group. Assuming an alpha of 0.05 and a
      power of 0.80 (β -1) in an independent samples one-way t-test, a minimum of 100 participants
      would be required per study arm. Allowing for a dropout rate of 25% of study participants
      from the baseline, 250 participants need to be recruited in total.

      2.1.2 Design and procedure We will follow a mixed-methods approach, combining quantitative
      and qualitative methods, through a randomised controlled trial with an intensive intervention
      (TAU + TCApp) and a TAU control condition.

      First, all material with information related to the study (research protocol, informed
      consent, patient information sheet, Data Collection Logbook, safety- and privacy-related
      issues concerning the TCApp application) will be submitted for approval to each one of the
      Ethical Committees of the participating hospitals. It should be mentioned that the approval
      of the Ethical Committee of the University leading the study (Universitat Oberta de
      Catalunya) was obtained on February 21st, 2017.

      Participants will be recruited after previous recommendation by one of the ED specialists
      working at each centre. Specialists will do a preliminary screening taking into consideration
      the inclusion and exclusion criteria in order to identify potential candidates for the study.
      Interested individuals will be able to confirm their participation by notifying the ED
      specialist who will be responsible for their treatment. Then, an informational letter and an
      informed consent form will be delivered to them.

      After completing and signing the informed consent form (for patients under 18 years of age,
      their parents will have to sign the informed consent), initial clinical interviews will be
      conducted by psychologists or other collaborators working in the ED unit. All the
      interviewers will be previously trained in administering the K-SADS-PL or SCID interview,
      depending on the participant's age. The objective of these interviews is: a) to definitively
      determine whether participants are eligible for the study according to the inclusion
      criteria, b) to establish the diagnosis for each patient and c) to evaluate them for possible
      comorbidities. At this time, sociodemographic and clinical data of each patient will also be
      collected through a brief interview. Then, those who meet the inclusion criteria will be
      invited to complete the baseline questionnaires for the study. During this baseline
      evaluation (T0), questionnaires will be administered to patients, their informal caregivers
      and the ED specialist responsible for the online monitoring of each patient. In addition,
      telephone interviews will be conducted with the technical staff and the ED specialists.

      After completion of the baseline questionnaires, participants will be randomized to one of
      the two study conditions (experimental and control group). Randomization will be carried out
      by an independent researcher in blocks of 10 participants within each ED unit (50% of
      patients from each block will be assigned to the experimental group and the other 50% to the
      control group), using a random allocation program.

      After this, patients will be notified about the group they belong to during their next visit
      to the ED unit. At this time, patients from the experimental group will be given oral and
      written instructions about how to download and use TCApp. In turn, patients from the TAU
      control group will be told that access to TCApp will be offered to them after a waiting
      period of 6 months.

      Then, each group of patients will receive the treatment that corresponds to them during a
      period of 12 weeks. At the end of the 12-week treatment, patients from the experimental group
      will stop using TCApp and the evaluation post-treatment (T1, 12 weeks later) will be carried
      out and will include: a) a brief clinical interview (patients), b) questionnaires (patients,
      informal caregivers, ED specialists); c) telephone interviews (technical staff, ED
      specialists) and d) a focus groups with ED specialists of each institution who are interested
      in participating as well as with patients of the experimental group.

      Both intent-to-treat and completers analyses will be carried out. Intent-to-treat analysis
      will include every participant who was randomly allocated to one of the study conditions,
      that is to say, 250 patients. Whenever possible, we will try to collect follow-up data from
      participants who have dropped out, in order to keep our dataset as complete as possible.
      Baseline differences between completers and dropouts will be analysed using data from the
      clinical interviews and the baseline questionnaires, and possible reasons for dropout will be
      examined through interviews with ED specialists (T1).

      A participant will be considered a completer if he/she has completed the initial clinical
      interview as well as T0 and T1 evaluations. For participants from the experimental group to
      be considered completers, they will have to have used TCApp at least 70% of the time
      initially agreed upon before the start of the experiment (i.e., at least once a day during a
      period of 12 weeks). Only data from completers will be used to determine the treatment effect
      on the main outcome variable.

      2.1.3 Study conditions The experimental group will receive the standard treatment based on
      CBT principles that is offered by the different ED units in Spain, plus an online
      intervention using TCApp for a period of 12 weeks. Only one ED specialist will be responsible
      for the online monitoring of each patient. For the specific purposes of our study, this role
      has been assigned to the nursing staff for most of the centres.

      The TCApp application provides patients with a number of different functions, including daily
      self-records of their thoughts, emotions and behaviors, a chat with their therapists and
      motivational exercises. A TCApp online platform is also available for therapists for the
      online monitoring of each patient. Here, therapists have the possibility to follow the
      patient's daily self-records, generate personalized reports and graphs and communicate with
      him/her via chat, based on the information that the patient has provided online.

      During these 12 weeks, the patient should use TCApp at least once a day, completing at least
      one self-record daily and/or contacting his/her therapist via chat when needed. The therapist
      responsible for the online monitoring should, at least once a week, connect to the online
      platform and perform the following actions: follow the patient's daily self-records, generate
      personalized reports or graphs and communicate with him/her via chat. After a 12-week period,
      patients from the experimental group and their therapists will stop using the TCApp
      application (they will be discharged).

      The TAU control group will receive the standard face-to-face CBT, offered by the different ED
      units in Spain. Patients from the control group will be offered access to TCApp after a
      6-month period.
    
  