
    
      It is estimated that nearly 70% of individuals will experiment at least once in their life a
      traumatic event (eg war, natural disaster, accident or assault). The psychotrauma, whose
      symptoms (including revivalism, hypersensitivity to the environment, anxiety, avoidance
      behavior), may be sustainable and thus constitute a posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). One
      characteristic of PTSD can be studied in the laboratory is the lack of recall of extinction
      of conditioned fear, caused largely by a lack of induction of hyperactivation in the
      prefrontal cortex. Knowing that this hyperactivation may occur in some cases of remission of
      symptoms of PTSD, it is possible that the deficit in recall of extinction is lifted in such
      cases. This idea is also supported by animal models showing that the induction of natural or
      artificial prefrontal hyperactivation facilitates the recall of extinction. However, no study
      has yet addressed so far the effects of different treatments (conventional: pharmacotherapy
      and psychotherapy, or rTMS: repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation) for PTSD, supposed
      to induce prefrontal hyperactivation and avoid the recall deficit of extinction of
      conditioned fear. The persistence of this deficit beyond the remission of PTSD symptoms could
      represent a situation with a high risk of relapse.

      Objective. Our main objective is to examine performance in recall of extinction of
      conditioned fear on the one hand, in patients in remission of PTSD after conventional
      treatment and, secondly, in patients who received rTMS at 10 Hz

      Population: THIS PRELIMINARY STUDY will include 9 patients with PTSD, 3 individuals in
      remission from PTSD, 3 psychotraumatized subjects without secondary PTSD and 3 individuals
      without a history of psychotrauma. These groups will be matched for age, sex and
      sociocultural level.

      Method: All studies will be conducted at the Nice University Hospital. The pre-inclusion
      visit (D-7), including different clinical evaluations (MINI-DSM-IV, CAPS, PDI, Hamilton
      Depression Scale and Covi Anxiety), will be held at the Emergency Psychiatric Unit (Hospital
      Saint-Roch). The study will take place at the Psychiatry University Department and at the
      Neurology Exploration Department (Hospital Pasteur), where the subjects will have other
      clinical assessments (at D0, D17-D19, D21), the conditioning test and extinction (day 0) and
      recall test of extinction (at D21). The fear conditioning (measured by increases in heart
      rate and skin conductance) corresponds to presentations coupled with an image and tactile
      stimulation (the intensity of which will be chosen by the subject), while sessions of
      extinction and extinction recall that correspond to presentations of the image alone (without
      tactile stimulation). In addition to these sessions, one third of PTSD patients will be
      treated with rTMS at 10 Hz (D3 to D7 and D10-D14, 1 session / day), another third with
      placebo treatment and one third without treatment. Eventually (D21), two other tests will
      indirectly assess prefrontal hyperactivation (emotional Stroop and attentional bias) and
      self-questionnaires will be performed in all subjects immediately after the recall of
      extinction.

      The persistent failure to recall extinction in some individuals in remission from PTSD would
      sign the maintenance of prefrontal dysfunction, and therefore a high risk of relapse. The
      induction of hyperactivation using prefrontal rTMS at 10 Hz would not only reduce symptoms of
      PTSD, but also reduce the risk of recurrence of these symptoms.
    
  