
    
      This multisite study is an observational study during which prevalent dialysis patients are
      followed during maximum 3 years, and they undergo different tests.

      Once a year (max 3 times), blood is sampled, stool is collected, and finger nails are taken
      all before a midweek session. Demographic data are registered and Davies-Stokes scores are
      calculated. Blood is analysed for different solutes: e.g. total and free fractions of
      protein-bound toxins, sedimentation, erythrocytes, hematocrit, leukocytes, thrombocytes,
      Ferritin, VitB12, Fasting glucose, c-reactive protein, urea, creatinine, albumin, total
      protein, cholesterol, triglycerides, bilirubin,...

      At the same occasion, patients are questioned about different items (QoL, nutrition) by a
      (study) nurse or coordinator, using different questionnaires: Euroqol 5 dimension scale
      (EQ-5D), Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (Promis-29), and Mini
      Nutritional Assessment (MNA).

      A subgroup of patients were asked to perform some functional tests: Tinetti-Test, Sit to
      Stand (5 times), Frailty and Injuries: Cooperative Studies on Intervention Techniques
      (Ficsit) test, 2 or 6 minutes walking test, handgrip strength and quadriceps power
      measurement, back scratch test, compensatory stepping correction-backward test and skin fold
      measurement. All tests are non-invasive and are validated for routine measurements in the
      elderly.

      In order to quantify sleep, patients were asked to wear a Motionwatch (Actigraphy) to
      register their arm movements during 2 or 3 nights as well as to fill out 2 questionnaires
      related to sleep: Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) and Insomnia Severity Index (ISI). To
      compare sleep in dialysis patients with healthy persons, age and gender matched healthy
      volunteers were also included in the study and were asked to sleep 2 or 3 nights with the
      Motionwatch and to complete the ISI and PSQI.

      Patients who were transplanted got an extra blood sampling just before transplantation as
      well as 4 months after transplantation.
    
  