
    
      Prescribing opioids to injured patients who are discharged from an inpatient trauma admission
      is almost ubiquitous; however up to 26% of patients prescribed opioids for chronic pain abuse
      them leaving them at an increased risk of overdose and overdose fatality. Addressing this
      problem through an institutional level approach involving both patients and providers,
      including changes in physician prescription behaviors and directly intervening with the
      patients to increase knowledge of risks of opioid misuse and overdose, affords us the best
      opportunity to address this escalating public health concern.

      Using a quasi-experimental design the investigators will compare the effect of adopting and
      implementing a Safe Opioid Prescription Practice (SOPP) protocol within a Level 1 trauma
      service team compared to a Level 1 trauma service team implementing standard care. Providers
      at both sites will complete web-based surveys to assess baseline knowledge, attitudes and
      barriers related to safe prescription practices. The intervention site will complete
      technical assistance activities to lead to the adoption and implementation of a SOPP
      protocol. The control site will continue to offer standard care to trauma patients throughout
      all phases. To measure institutional level changes, chart reviews will be conducted at both
      sites using a blinded medical review of discharged trauma service patients at baseline, early
      implementation, implementation and maintenance phases. To measure patient level changes, the
      investigators will assess patient perception of the discharge experience at both sites during
      the adoption phase (Cohort 1=100); implementation phase (Cohort 2=100) and maintenance phase
      (Cohort 3=100) via telephone interview within 7 days post discharge. Three month interviews
      will also be conducted with Cohort 2 to assess patient opioid usage, pain management
      strategies and Naloxone usage among Cohort 2. The aims of the proposed research study are to
      1) examine and measure the adoption, implementation and maintenance of the SOPP protocol in
      the intervention site compared to standard care site and 2) to assess patient level outcomes
      of the SOPP protocol. The secondary aim of this study is to assess the effect the SOPP
      protocol on provider prescribing practices comparing the average dosage (in morphine
      milligram equivalents) and duration of dose from the chart review at baseline to the early
      implementation, implementation and maintenance phases of the study. The findings from this
      study will allow us to better understand the translation of a safe opioid prescription
      practice and has the potential to impact best practices for patient discharge within Level 1
      trauma centers.
    
  