
    
      The trial is designed as an investigator initiated prospective study of patients with
      advanced pancreatic and lung (non-small cell lung cancer, NSCLC) cancer initiating systemic
      treatment to determine the feasibility and efficacy of supportive application with integrated
      weekly Patient-Reported Outcomes (PRO) on unplanned hospitalization, Quality of Life (QoL),
      survival, satisfaction with oncologist communication, and resource utilization.

      This study will consist of Part A (Feasibility), as well as a possible Part B (Randomized
      controlled trial, RCT).

      Initially, 30 patients with advanced lung (NSCLC) and pancreatic cancer initiating systemic
      therapy will be enrolled in the Part A to assess the feasibility of the supportive
      application with integrated weekly PRO. Patients included in feasibility Part A will be
      instructed in self-reporting via web-based supportive application with integrated weekly PRO.

      In case of successfully completed Part A, the randomized Part B will be activated to
      determine the efficacy of the supportive application with integrated weekly PRO on unplanned
      hospitalization, QoL, survival, satisfaction and resource utilization for patients with
      advanced lung (NSCLC) and pancreatic cancer initiating systemic therapy. Format of that Part
      B will be adjusted if indicated based on the feasibility responses seen in the 30 patients in
      Part A. Patients will be randomized in Part B with a 1:1 ratio in a stratified manner
      according to cancer type (lung cancer versus pancreatic cancer). If initiated, the data from
      Part B: RCT will be analyzed separately and will not be pooled with Part A for the purpose of
      statistical analysis.

      Over the course of the study patients in both arms will be asked to complete questionnaires
      about QoL at baseline and week 12 and 24. Additionally, patients in both arms are asked to
      complete the modified Health Care Climate Questionnaire (HCCQ) at week 12 and 24.
    
  