
    
      Latinos will comprise nearly 30% of the population by 2050, and socially disadvantaged
      Latinos experience a greater burden of poor health and negative social consequences related
      to their alcohol use than non-Latino Whites. The burden of poor health related to alcohol use
      also suggests the need for early identification and intervention before alcohol use
      progresses to a more serious condition requiring intensive treatment. Despite the need for
      services, low treatment utilization rates and poor treatment retention suggest it is
      important to make alcohol interventions more accessible for Latinos. Spanish-language
      motivational interventions have been shown to reduce heavy drinking in diverse populations,
      yet access to these types of interventions remains a limitation. Community health workers are
      an effective way to help under-served populations manage chronic illnesses such as diabetes
      and hypertension, but they have been used very little in addiction services. Preliminary
      evidence from a randomized pilot trial suggested that an intervention integrating
      Motivational Enhancement Therapy and Strengths Based Case Management (hereafter referred to
      as MET/SBCM) led to greater reductions in alcohol use compared to a brief feedback condition
      among socially disadvantaged Spanish speaking Latino male day laborers who were heavy
      drinkers. Multi-level interventions such as MET/SBCM that target the complex individual- and
      community-level needs for health-disparities populations are highly recommended as a strategy
      to improve population health. In that pilot trial the MET/SBCM intervention was provided in
      Spanish by community health workers (promotores) with high fidelity and participants reported
      high treatment satisfaction. The results are encouraging for moving forward with additional
      efforts to study alcohol interventions delivered by community health workers. Based on these
      promising but preliminary findings, we propose to test the multi-level MET/SBCM intervention
      targeting a broader population of socially disadvantaged Latinos who engage in unhealthy
      drinking. For the proposed study a partnership will be formed between UCLA and a large
      community-based healthcare organization, Providence Center for Community Health Improvement
      (Providence) to conduct a phase 2 randomized controlled trial. Providence has a well
      established Latino Health Promoter Program that serves a large population of Latinos, most of
      whom have low income, low education status and limited English proficiency. The MET-SBCM
      intervention, to be conducted by promotores at Providence, is thus poised to provide Latinos
      access to a needed health service for unhealthy alcohol use. If successful, the study will
      extend the potential reach and impact of brief alcohol intervention for Latinos in the
      general population.

      Primary Aim #1 is to determine the efficacy of the MET/SBCM intervention compared to an
      educational booklet control condition in reducing alcohol use and alcohol-related problems
      among Latinos who report exceeding US low-risk drinking guidelines (for men: 5 or more drinks
      weekly or 15 or more drinks in a given week; for women: 4 or more drinks weekly or 8 or more
      drinks in a given week).

      Hypothesis 1: Participants assigned to a 3-session MET/SBCM intervention will show decreases
      in the average drinks consumed per week, the frequency of heavy drinking days, and
      alcohol-related problems at 3-, 6-, and 12-month follow-ups compared to participants assigned
      to the educational booklet control condition.

      Primary Aim #2 is to determine the efficacy of the MET/SBCM intervention in increasing
      utilization of community services (e.g., job services, housing assistance, food assistance,
      mental health services) among Latinos who report exceeding US low-risk drinking guidelines.

      Hypothesis 2: Participants assigned to the MET/SBCM intervention will utilize more types of
      services by the 3-, 6-, and 12-month follow-ups compared to participants assigned to the
      educational booklet control condition.

      Primary Aim #3 is to examine mechanisms of behavior change underlying observed MET/SBCM
      intervention effects on alcohol use (or in the event the intervention is not effective, to
      identify negative findings in the causal chains). Candidate mechanisms are selected based on
      theory and the extant literature on brief motivation-based interventions and strengths-based
      case management. The mechanisms will include (1) readiness to change, (2) perceived reward
      value and risks associated with alcohol use, (3) perception of drinking norms, (4) change
      talk, (5) general self-efficacy, (6) self-esteem and (7) utilization of community services.
      We predict that changes in these mechanisms by the 3-month follow-up will mediate the effects
      of the intervention on average drinks per week at the 6- and 12-months follow-ups.

      The overarching goal of this project is to establish an evidence base for an intervention
      approach that is ultimately sustainable by a large community-based organization serving
      Latinos. Working with community health workers positions this intervention to address larger
      health disparities within this community. The project is significant in its efforts to
      improve the reach and impact of effective alcohol interventions among socially disadvantaged
      Latinos, thereby contributing to improved population health.
    
  