
    
      Via the moveUP Coach App, patients receive personalized rehabilitation for knee or hip
      replacement, both before and after surgery. This mobile application is on the market, meets
      the legal requirements in Europe and has been provisionally remunerated under an agreement
      (convention) between the mandatory health insurance (NIHDI) and the hospital that participate
      in this study.

      Eligible patients will be randomized to one of the three treatment options of the study:

        1. The "usual care group" will not be informed about the mobile application and will
           perform exercises as per standard of care with a physiotherapist during face to face
           visits.

        2. The group "possibility to use the mobile application with a predefined number of
           physiotherapy sessions" will receive all necessary information on the mobile application
           and can still decide whether or not to use the mobile application. A predefined number
           of traditional physiotherapy sessions is combined with the use of the mobile app in this
           group.

        3. The group "possibility to use the mobile application without a predetermined number of
           physiotherapy sessions" will receive all necessary information on the mobile application
           and can still decide whether or not to use the mobile application. No predefined number
           of traditional physiotherapy sessions are required.

      The patient will be asked to complete 3 questionnaires (KOOS-JR, HOOS-JR and EQ5D-5L) at
      baseline, 6 weeks and 6 months after arthroplasty. These patient reported outcomes will give
      an indication on the rehabilitation outcome and quality of life compared in the 3 groups.

      Additionally, a health economic evaluation is foreseen by the Federal Knowledge Center for
      Healthcare (KCE) in cooperation with the sponsor UZ Ghent. In this way the results can be
      helpful in getting a more definitive refund for the mobile application in Belgium.
    
  