
    
      The research was approved by the ethics committee of the institution. The sample size was
      calculated in 18 athletes, but when considering losses 25 athletes (10 women and 15 men) were
      recruited.

      Athletes will be over 18 years old, from different sports or teams, with a minimum of six
      hours / week of training / competition, with complaints of anterior knee pain (DAJ) greater
      than 3 on the visual analog scale (VAS), rating lower than or equal to 82 (tendency to
      patellofemoral disorder) in the Anterior Knee Pain Scale (AKPS) and score lower than or equal
      to 83 (fair or poor) on the Lysholm questionnaire. Exclusion criteria will be the history of
      other lower limb injuries or surgery; diabetes or altered sensitivity in the plantar region;
      medication and physical therapy use in the last three months.

      For data collection athletes will answer the sample characterization questionnaires, AKPS and
      Lysholm.

      Modified star excursion balance test (SEBTm), Side Hope test (SHT) and 30 second sit-up test
      (SL30 '') will be applied, at random and with prior familiarization, for the analysis of
      dynamic balance, agility and lower limb strength, respectively.

      It will also be randomized the tests with Infrapatellar Strap, Elastic Bandage and without
      orthosis (control), developed in three different days with 96 hours interval. To apply the
      infrapatellar strap and elastic bandage, the athlete was positioned standing with slight knee
      flexion, with heel support on a pre-established surface (relaxed patellar tendon). The
      Infrapatellar Strap and Elastic Bandage will be positioned over the patellar tendon, with
      moderate pressure, on the lower limb complaining of pain.

      The tests: SEBTm test, Side Hope test (SHT), and 30-second sit-up (STS 30 '') will be
      repeated three times, with a one-minute interval between trials and five minutes between
      tests. At the beginning and end of each test, the analogue visual pain scale (VAS) for knee
      pain will be applied.

      Statistical data will be analyzed using the Statistical Package of Social Science (SPSS®)
      program, version 22 and a significance level of 5% (p <0.05). ANOVA two way test will be used
      to compare groups, times and their interaction.
    
  