
    
      The study consists of a screening period followed by a 28-day treatment period, a 3 to 5 week
      washout period, and a second treatment period. All subjects receive both active test product
      and placebo, but the order in which they receive them (Part 1 or Part 2 of the study) is
      randomized in this single crossover study. Fourteen subjects will be randomized to ensure
      that 10 subjects complete both Part 1 and Part 2 of the study.

      There are a total of 7 study visits including screening. In Part 1, Visits 2, 3 and 4 occur 2
      weeks apart; in Part 2, Visits 5, 6 and 7 also occur 2 weeks apart. Visits 4 and 7 are
      overnight visits during which time hunger and satiety will be assessed and a Mixed Meal
      Tolerance Test (MMTT) will be performed after an overnight fast. The MMTT requires use of an
      indwelling IV catheter so that 11 blood draws can be more comfortably obtained over a period
      of 4 hours.

      Subjects will be required to wear a glucose monitoring sensor during Part 1 and Part 2 of the
      study in order to obtain ADG levels.

      Routine chemistry and hematology tests are done at 4 timepoints during the study. An ECG and
      physical exam is performed at screening.

      A rapid HbA1c will only be tested at screening; if the value is between 6.5% and 10.5%, all
      other screening procedures will be performed; if the HbA1c value is not within the qualifying
      range, the subject will be considered a screen failure and no other screening procedures will
      be performed.

      Subjects are required to keep a daily diary to document dosing (twice daily), medication
      changes and any adverse events.

      Safety tests include chemistry/hematology, vital signs and adverse events.

      Subjects with type 2 diabetes must be under the care of a healthcare professional to take
      part in this study. The test product BKR-013 is not designed to treat diabetes; it is being
      evaluated as a non-prescription medical food for nutritional use in managing glucose levels.
    
  