
    
      Post-surgery, patients are traditionally observed and treated in post-anesthesia care units
      (PACU) until they are discharged to the ward (or directly home) assessed by standardized
      international discharge criteria.

      The research project "Why in PACU?" (Rigshospitalet, Denmark), has since the beginning of
      2016 systematically collected and analyzed procedure-related complications in the recovery
      phase. The complications include pain, nausea/vomiting, circulatory and respiratory problems,
      orthostatic intolerance and cognitive disorders. Common to all the above-mentioned
      post-operative problems are the possible links to the inflammatory response caused by the
      surgical trauma.

      Glucocorticoids (GC) can in this context be central for the reduction of acute postoperative
      organ dysfunctions, caused by the anti-inflammatory effect. In a number of different surgical
      procedures, single dose, pre-operative glucocorticoids have been shown to reduce
      post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV), acute pain and need of opioids as well as
      accelerate the convalescence. Meta-analyses also showed that single-dose administration of
      glucocorticoids (methylprednisolone and dexamethasone) for surgical patients is safe as
      opposed to long-term treatment.

      Studies on pre-operative glucocorticoids before liver surgery have shown beneficial effects
      in regards to markers of liver damage and infection, but studies on clinical outcomes in the
      immediate post-operative phase are lacking.

      The primary aim of this study is to investigate whether high dose pre-operative
      glucocorticoids reduce complications in the immediate post-operative course.

      The investigators will also perform two hypothesis-generating sub studies:

        -  Sub study I - markers of endothelial dysfunction

      The endothelial lining of blood vessels contributes to maintaining haemostasis, and damage
      can increase risks of cardiovascular and thromboembolic complications. In a recent randomized
      trial, pre-operative high dose glucocorticoids diminished circulating markers of endothelial
      damage (after knee arthroplasty). In this study we will investigate whether this also applies
      liver surgery, and if so, if there is any connection to cardiovascular and thromboembolic
      complications.

        -  Sub study II - delirium Studies on delirium after liver surgery show an incidence around
           20%. It has not been investigated whether pre-operative glucocorticoids have an effect
           on this incidence.

      The investigators will investigate the incidence of emergence delirium and delirium during
      the first postoperative day s after liver surgery.

      Sample size:

      The "Why in PACU?" database shows that complications requiring treatment in PACU occur in up
      to 40 % of patients after liver surgery. These complications are primarily respiratory and
      circulatory.

      A 50 % reduction in the number of patients with complications requiring treatment is regarded
      clinically relevant. This will require a sample size of 174 patients, including 10 % dropout
      (80 % power, 5% level of significans, superiority design). Patients will be stratified
      according to extent of surgery, into minor or major resection.

      The sub studies are hypothesis-generating, and are not subject to power calculations. Sub
      study I will include all major resections, sub study II will include patients during the
      first 5 months.

      Analysis: Primary end point (complications in the two groups) is compared with chi square
      test and described with odds ratio (95%CI). Level of significance is p=0,05 Standard
      statistical analysis will include normally or near-normally distributed variables reported as
      means and non-normally distributed variables as medians. Means will be compared using the
      student's t test and medians using the Mann-Whitney U test. Differences in proportions among
      categorical data will be assessed using Fischer's exact test. A p value < 0.05 will represent
      statistical significance for all comparisons.

      Hypothesis: Preoperative GC administration will decrease the incidence of postoperative
      complications and overall hospital length of stay following liver surgery. Preoperative GC
      administration will decrease markers of endothelial dysfunction following major liver
      surgery. Preoperative GC administration will decrease incidence of delirium following liver
      surgery.

      Data collection:

      Data elements to be collected will include, but not be limited to:

        -  Demographics (age, gender, height, weight, tobacco and alcohol consumption,
           comorbidities, American Society of Anaesthesiology (ASA) score)

        -  Preoperative chemotherapy, preoperative use of analgesics and/or other central
           stimulants

        -  Preoperative biochemistry

        -  Diagnosis, procedure, surgery duration

        -  Blood loss, transfusions, use of drain, hepatic inflow occlusion (length of)

        -  Postoperative pain, nausea, sedation and vitals, every 30 minutes until transfer to ward

        -  Postoperative pain, nausea, mood and quality of sleep, self reported, every day until
           discharge or postoperative day 5 (what comes first)

        -  Postoperative use of analgesics and anti emetics until discharge or postoperative day 5
           (what comes first)

        -  Complications (hepatic failure, ascites, intraabdominal collection, postoperative
           bleeding, bile leak, bowel obstruction, wound dehiscence, reoperations, pleural
           effusion, pulmonary embolus, deep venous thrombosis, infections, cardiac events,
           cerebral events, other causes of prolonged hospital stay)

        -  3-minute Diagnostic Confusion Assessment Method (3D-CAM), postoperative day 0 (all) 1-3
           (major resections)

        -  Endothelial markers (Syndecan-1, soluble thrombomodulin, SE-selectin, vascular
           endothelial growth factor (VEGF) postoperative day0-3 (major resections)

        -  Hospital stay, length of stay in PACU

        -  Mortality (30 days)

      The study is not placebo-controlled since the positive effects of dexamethasone 8 mg on PONV
      have been shown in numerous trials, and is already being administered to all patients at the
      clinic. It would therefore not be ethically correct to withdraw from this practise.
    
  