
    
      The Study Drug:

      Lenalidomide is designed to change the body's immune system. It may also interfere with the
      development of tiny blood vessels that help support tumor growth. Therefore, in theory, it
      may decrease or prevent the growth of cancer cells. The drug is also designed to decrease the
      level of certain proteins in the blood called cytokines, which may result in decreased pain.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take lenalidomide
      capsules each morning, with or without food. Take lenalidomide capsules whole, with a 4-ounce
      (1/2 cup) glass of water at the same time each day. Do not break, chew, or open the capsules.
      If you miss a dose of lenalidomide, take it as soon as you remember on the same day. If you
      miss taking your dose for the entire day, take your regular dose the next scheduled day (do
      NOT take double your regular dose to make up for the missed dose).

      If you take too much lenalidomide, call your study doctor or health care provider or poison
      control center right away.

      You will also be allowed to take strong pain killers such as morphine as prescribed by your
      study doctor for pain. If you need more than 3 doses of these pain killers in a 24-hour
      period, you should call your study doctor.

      Study Visits:

      You will visit the clinic throughout the study. At each visit, you will be asked to return
      any unused study drug and empty bottles to the clinic and you will be asked about any side
      effects you may be experiencing. The last study visit will be on Day 43 or Day 57, depending
      on the side effects you may experience. The following tests and procedures will be performed:

      On Day 8:

      Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests and women who are able to have
      children will have a blood pregnancy test.

      Day 15:

      Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests. Women who are able to have
      children will have a blood (1-2 teaspoons) pregnancy test. You will complete 5 questionnaires
      about the pain, the pain symptoms, and any side effects you may be having. The questionnaires
      will take about 30 to 40 minutes to complete. Women who are able to have children will have a
      blood pregnancy test.

      Day 22:

      Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests. Women who are able to have
      children will have a blood (1-2 teaspoons) pregnancy test.

      Day 29:

      You will complete the same questionnaires as on Day 15. Women who are able to have children
      will have a blood pregnancy test and will be counseled about pregnancy precautions and risks.
      Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests. Women who are able to have
      children will have a blood (1-2 teaspoons) pregnancy test.

      Day 36:

      Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Day 43:

      Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests. You will complete the same
      questionnaires as on Day 15. If this is your last visit, you will have an ECG. Women who are
      able to have children will have a blood (1-2 teaspoons) pregnancy test.

      Day 57 (if necessary):

      You will complete the same questionnaires as on Day 15. Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be
      drawn for routine tests. You will complete the same questionnaires as on Day 15. If this is
      your last visit, you will have an ECG. Women who are able to have children will have a blood
      (1-2 teaspoons) pregnancy test.

      Day 71 (if necessary):

      If you stopped taking the drug on Day 57, a blood (1-2 teaspoons) pregnancy test will be
      done.

      Length of Study:

      You may take lenalidomide for up to 57 days. You will be taken off study if the disease gets
      worse or if intolerable side effects occur.

      If you are a female who is able to have children and you do take lenalidomide for all 57
      days, you will be required to have a blood (1-2 teaspoons) pregnancy test 28 days after your
      last dose of lenalidomide.

      The routine blood draws on Days 8, 22, and 36 may done at your home (by a study nurse), local
      doctor's office, or at M. D. Anderson.

      All patients who were on lenalidomide and then stopped taking it, will be checked every 3 to
      5 weeks for a period of 1 year. During the follow-up visits, certain tests and procedures
      will be performed. These include a symptom questionnaire, blood draw for routine tests, a
      check of your side effects, and pregnancy testing for women who are still able to become
      pregnant. These are the same tests that were done while you were on the study.

      Daily Drug Diary and Questionnaire:

      Starting on Day 1 until the end of the study, you will complete a questionnaire once daily
      about any symptoms and pain you may be experiencing. It will take about 5 minutes to complete
      each time. You will also be provided with a drug diary to write down when and how often you
      take pain medication. You should bring your completed diary to each study visit so it can be
      reviewed by the research nurse.

      Phone Call Follow-up:

      You will be contacted by telephone at home to be asked questions about your symptoms and any
      side effects you may have experienced. You will be called on Day 8 (plus or minus 3 days),
      Day 22 (plus or minus 3 days) and Day 36 (plus or minus 3 days). The phone calls will last
      about 10-15 minutes each time.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      You will come to the clinic 28 days after your last dose of lenalidomide for a follow-up
      visit. You will be checked for side effects, and women who are able to have children must
      have a negative blood (1-2 teaspoons) pregnancy test.

      This is an investigational study. Lenalidomide is approved by FDA for the treatment of
      myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and in combination with dexamethasone for patients with
      multiple myeloma (MM). Lenalidomide is not FDA approved for pain relief. Its use in this
      study is investigational. If you experience intolerable pain after you stop receiving the
      study drug, you will be allowed to start receiving lenalidomide (off study). You will be
      monitored for side effects for every 2-3 weeks while you are on this medication for a period
      of 1 year. Up to 15 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.
    
  