
    
      Childbirth is commonly regarded as one of life's most painful experiences and, like
      childbirth, the postpartum period can also be painful for women. Pain in the immediate
      postpartum period may significantly affect a woman's overall delivery experience. Pain
      control is especially important in this period, as women are bonding with their infant and
      trying to initiate breastfeeding, which may be adversely affected by poor pain management.

      Postpartum pain may come from multiple sources. Women experience uterine cramping as a result
      of uterine involution. Depending on delivery type, women may also have incision pain
      following cesarean section or perineal pain resulting from episiotomy, perineal tears, or
      generalized genital trauma during delivery. Perineal pain is common, present in 75% of
      patients with intact perineum and up to 95-97% with perineal lacerations or episiotomies
      during the first day after delivery. Commonly employed methods of controlling postpartum pain
      include opioid analgesics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatories, acetaminophen, and topical
      analgesics. Pain medication is generally administered via oral or intravenous route. Several
      studies have investigated suppositories as an alternative method of improving pain following
      delivery. A double-blinded randomized controlled trial by Wilasrusmee et al (2008) showed
      naproxen suppositories to be effective for reducing perineal pain after vaginal delivery.
      Another study showed prophylactic rectal diclofenac to provide effective analgesia after
      perineal repair, maintained into second and third day postpartum, and a Cochrane Review
      showed NSAID suppositories to be associated with less pain 24 hours after birth.

      Rectal analgesia provides a means of improving pain control through local effects on the
      perineum and uterus while possibly decreasing systemic absorption, which may in turn decrease
      systemic side effects and transmission to the newborn infant through breast milk. B&O
      suppositories contain two medications that could potentially decrease postpartum pain.
      Morphine, the principle agent in opium, binds opioid receptors and blocks ascending pain
      pathways. Atropine, a major active component of belladonna, blocks acetylcholine receptors,
      leading to smooth muscle relaxation. This quality may significantly improve pain from uterine
      contractions during the postpartum period. The primary aim of our study is to investigate
      whether belladonna and opium suppositories decrease patient-reported pain in the immediate
      postpartum period.
    
  