
    
      The long-term goal of this proposal is to improve treatment outcomes for OEF/OIF(Operation
      Enduring Freedom/Operation Iraqi Freedom) veterans with alcohol use disorder (AUD) and
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) who are not currently accessing care through the
      Veterans Affairs Healthcare System (VA) or other settings. Many OEF/OIF veterans struggle
      with heavy drinking and related consequences and this can be especially pronounced with the
      co-occurrence of PTSD. Prior research has found aspects of self-regulation (emotion
      regulation, impulse control), stress, and craving to be important putative targets in AUD and
      PTSD symptom reduction. However, with upwards of 50% of veterans who have behavioral health
      needs not seeking treatment, it is imperative to utilize advances in technology to develop
      and test interventions that can reach non-treatment seeking veterans and target both symptoms
      of PTSD and AUD. As the proposed mechanisms (e.g., self-regulation) are becoming better
      understood regarding how they affect PTSD and AUD outcomes, approaches should focus on
      targeting these mechanisms and evaluating if they are essential facilitators of change.
      Mindfulness-based interventions (MBI) can target such mechanisms, but a gap in the knowledge
      persists regarding the utility of MBIs with veterans who screen positive for PTSD and AUD.
      Therefore, we propose to improve treatment outcomes for OEF/OIF veterans with PTSD and AUD by
      targeting self-regulation, stress, and cravings. We will develop and test a novel mobile MBI,
      Mobile Mindfulness Based Relapse Prevention (mMBRP), that will improve upon evidence based
      in-person and group MBRP by reaching veterans outside of treatment settings. The engaging and
      easy to use mobile MBI integrates relapse prevention, stress reduction, and self-regulation
      skills and is relevant to issues surrounding stigma and barriers that veterans face when
      seeking services. The central hypothesis will be tested through a focus on three specific
      aims: (1) refine and add MBRP content to the popular VA developed Mindfulness Coach mobile
      application through a beta testing phase where we test for feasibility and acceptability of
      the app, (2) pilot test the efficacy of the mMBRP mobile app on alcohol use and PTSD outcomes
      compared to control, and (3) assess mechanisms of change such as self-regulation, stress, and
      cravings, as well as exploratory moderators of gender, race/ethnicity, and recency of
      discharge, on mMBRP effects. The unique strengths of this proposal are its focus on an
      underserved population, utilization of mobile technology for intervention delivery, and use
      of a novel intervention known to effectively target self-regulation and stress. The expected
      results will define a viable and easy-to-access treatment that can improve both AUD and PTSD
      symptoms. Results of this study will have a positive impact on substance use outcomes for
      those who have experienced traumatic events and will identify mechanism of action for
      treatment success. The app can be disseminated through our partners in the VA and through
      targeted sharing on social media.
    
  