
    
      Quality control will be performed continuously at various stages of the error correction
      process, according to the sponsor's Standard Operating Procedures.

      Systematic coherence control procedures will be implemented and documented. The correction
      procedures will be tracked. For the study data, requests (Queries) will be issued and
      transmitted to the various centres for resolution.

      To ensure data quality, a Monitoring Plan will be implemented. This plan will detail the
      frequency of visits or check-ups and the proportion of the data verified. It is expected that
      at least 10% of the data will be verified.

      The monitoring factors in relation to the quality of electronic case report form completion
      will be performed by one of the Clinical Research Associates.

      The participating physicians will be automatically contacted in the event of the absence of
      data entry after inclusion of patients and/or dates of scheduled visits and planned controls.

      All of the analyses will be managed by the Direction de la Recherche Clinique et de
      l'Innovation of CHU Amiens. The statistical analysis software to be used is SAS (version
      9.1). According to the target population, a sample of approximately 80 to 100 patients is
      anticipated, which would enable accuracy of ± 8.5 to 9.5% for an estimation of an event rate
      of around 25%.

      During implementation of the study, the observers will be asked to minimise any missing data.
      The data collected is comparable to usual practice, which should be available from the
      original medical record. However, in the event of absence of the latter, the note missing
      data will be added to the data collection form. Several measures will be taken to avoid
      patients being lost to follow-up.

      The study documents provided to the observers for initiation emphasise the fundamental
      importance of patient follow-up and the collection of data during the entire study. If
      necessary, scientific societies as well as the French National Authority of Health (HAS) may
      remind the observers of their obligation to actively participate in the existing national
      observational study.

      The observer will obtain the means to contact the patient, his/her General Practitioner or
      close friend/next of kin.

      Demographic and medical data of patients and follow-up descriptive data will be reflected in
      the patient population included.

      Qualitative parameters are described by their frequency distribution and related bilateral
      95% confidence intervals, quantitative parameters by their average, standard deviation
      minimum, maximum, median and quartiles, number of missing values.

      Each of the rates corresponding to the study criteria is analysed by calculating the
      frequencies of distribution and related bilateral 95% confidence intervals (95% CI).

      The rate of events over time will be described by a survival curve using the Kaplan Meier
      method and the related Kaplan Meier estimators will be calculated.

      On an exploratory basis, the criteria in the study will also be analysed according to the
      basic characteristics of the patients:

        -  Age (in categories)

        -  Sex

        -  Indications.
    
  