
    
      This study has been designed as a multi-center double-blind prospective randomized clinical
      trial. Eligible participants will be adults presenting with SNAC or SLAC wrist arthritis who
      have been deemed an operative candidate and qualify for one of the following salvage
      techniques: four-corner arthrodesis (without triquetral excision) or
      three-corner/capitolunate arthrodeses with triquetral excision.

      Once eligibility is confirmed, participants will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment
      arms. Participants in Group A will undergo four-corner arthrodesis; the scaphoid will be
      excised and the lunate, capitate, triquetrum, and hamate will be prepared and fused.
      Participants in Group B will undergo partial wrist arthrodesis with triquetral excision; the
      scaphoid and triquetrum will be excised. In the three-corner arthrodesis procedure, the
      articular surfaces between the lunate, capitate, and hamate will be prepared and fused. In
      the capitolunate arthrodesis procedure, only the articular surface between the lunate and
      capitate will be prepared and fused.

      Eligible and consented participants will undergo a pre-operative study assessment and
      follow-up assessments at 6-weeks, 3-, 6-, and 12-months post-operative. Assessments will be
      conducted by an assessor blinded to participant treatment allocation. At each assessment,
      grip strength, wrist range of motion (ROM), Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information
      System (PROMIS) questionnaire, Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation (PRWE) questionnaire, and
      Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for pain will be completed. Standard posteroanterior and lateral
      radiographs will be completed at all visits. Complications will be documented at each visit.

      The primary outcome, grip strength, will be measured with a handheld dynamometer. Absolute
      values and percentage of their contralateral side will be compared between the two groups.

      Statistical analysis will use the intention-to-treat approach with all outcomes attributed to
      the assigned group. Descriptive statistics will be used for group comparisons with
      independent t-tests for continuous and Pearson Chi-square or Fisher's Exact tests for
      categorical variables at baseline and for possible complications/adverse events. Linear Mixed
      Modeling (LMM), adjusted for age and sex, will compare outcomes between groups over the
      12-month evaluation period. The level of significance will be set at α=0.05.

      This study hypothesizes that partial wrist fusion with triquetral excision will lead to
      improved grip strength and ROM compared to four-corner arthrodesis. Considering the
      importance of ROM and grip strength in many activities of daily living and manual work, it is
      hypothesized that the group with triquetral excision (Group B) will have better
      patient-reported outcomes. We hypothesize no significant difference between the groups with
      regards to radiographic outcomes and complications.
    
  