
    
      This research study is designed to address these gaps by directly comparing the values of
      non-blinded, real-time and remotely monitored CGM data versus standard POC testing for
      hospital-based glucose management. Specifically, the investigators will investigate
      Cloud-Based Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CB CGM) versus standard POC testing (Usual Care;
      UC) in increasing % time-in-range (70-200 mg/dL), and in decreasing % time in hypoglycemia
      (<70 mg/dL) and severe hyperglycemia (>300 mg/dL) among N=300 adults with T2D. Patients will
      be enrolled at Scripps Mercy Hospital San Diego, Definitive Observation Unit (DOU) located in
      Hillcrest. This hospital serves predominantly low income, underinsured, ethnic/racial
      minority population in San Diego, California (CA). Participants will be randomized either to
      intervention or UC using a 4:1 ratio.

      All participants will have a CGM inserted upon enrollment. For the UC group, CGM data will be
      blinded and used for evaluation only; glucose will be monitored via the hospital's standard
      point-of-care (POC) testing protocol. For the intervention group, CGM data will be
      non-blinded and transmitted to a HIPAA-compliant Digital Dashboard, which filters and
      prioritizes patients by clinical risk (algorithm-based) using real-time CGM data.

      The Digital Dashboard will be monitored 24-hours/day by site-based telemetry teams for hyper-
      and hypoglycemic episodes that need rapid management per protocol. A centrally-located,
      Diabetes Advanced Practice Nurse (APN) will also remotely monitor glucose trends on the
      Digital Dashboard and recommend daily insulin adjustments to optimize the therapeutic
      regimen. Electronic medical records (EMR) will be used to identify eligible patients, and to
      compare exploratory outcomes (infection rate, LOS, healthcare costs, readmissions) between
      intervention and usual care.

      Aim 1: To evaluate the effectiveness of CB CGM versus UC in increasing % time-in-range
      (70-200 mg/dL).

      Aim 2: To evaluate the effectiveness of CB CGM versus UC in decreasing % time in hypoglycemia
      (<70 mg/dL) and severe hyperglycemia (>300 mg/dL).

      Aim 3: To document the differences between CB CGM and UC in outcomes commonly affected by
      glycemic control in the hospital (infection rates, LOS, cost, 30-day hospital readmissions).

      Process Aim: To evaluate feasibility, acceptability, sustainability, and scaling potential of
      CB CGM from patient, nursing, and physician perspectives.
    
  