
    
      To study this in greater detail, the investigators propose to study explanted tissue of CF
      patients that are scheduled to undergo single or double lung transplant surgery as a
      late-stage disease therapeutic strategy. This population will be limited to the Adult CF
      clinic, as pediatric subjects are rarely candidates for lung transplantation. The Adult CF
      Clinic performs upwards of 20 surgeries per year, and tissue that is explanted is typically
      discarded. Using this tissue, the investigators propose the following objectives:

        1. Use 16S culture-independent sequencing to characterize the spatial distribution of
           bacterial pathogens throughout the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients. Lungs will be
           dissected into 5 separate lobes, and mucus material will be collected, homogenized, and
           processed for bacterial species identification.

        2. Perform detailed analysis of specific gene expression throughout the respiratory tract
           that will serve as a proxy of environmental conditions found there. Using the same
           approach in Aim 1, bacterial mRNA will be extracted using established procedures. A
           subset of environmentally-specific genes will be detected to provide a readout of
           bacterial metabolism in use within the CF lung environment.

        3. Use in situ hybridization imaging to visualize the spatial distribution of specific
           bacteria and their gene expression profiles (informed by data generated in objectives 1
           and 2). The bacteria and gene candidates identified/studied in Aims 1 and Aims 2 will
           then be subject to analysis using in situ hybridization imaging. Tissue will be
           processed using microtomy and fluorescent probes will be applied to image the spatial
           distribution of specific bacterial species and their metabolisms throughout the
           respiratory tract.

      Information collected in these three objectives will then be paired with patient data (age,
      genotype, prior medical treatments, clinical microbiology data) to generate better working
      models of late-stage disease in CF patients.
    
  