
    
      My preliminary data from the Viral Immunity in Pregnancy Study found a strong association in
      49 pregnant women between levels of anxiety and of cytokines. When the investigators
      controlled for clinical confounders, some of those associations disappeared - but there was
      still a strong correlation between anxiety score and the cytokine interleukin (IL) 6.

      Hypothesis: Anxious pregnant women (as determined by a score > 21 on the Perinatal Anxiety
      Screening Scale (PASS)) will have elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines in pregnancy (at second
      and third trimesters) and will demonstrate greater continued elevation at 6 weeks and 6
      months postpartum when compared to healthy controls. Leukocyte subpopulation analysis in
      anxious women will show a higher ratio of T-helper 1-type (Th1) to T-helper 2- type (Th2)
      cells and a greater monocyte activation across the perinatal period than that in healthy
      controls.

      Hypothesis: There will be a negative correlation between allopregnanolone (ALLO) and
      pro-inflammatory markers (as listed above in primary outcome measure) in pregnancy, and
      between allopregnanolone (ALLO) in pregnancy and pro-inflammatory markers in the postpartum.

      Hypothesis: Women with a pro-inflammatory immune fingerprint and low levels of
      allopregnanolone (ALLO) as determined by outcomes 1 and 2 will show increased attentional
      bias to threat, as demonstrated by measurement of autonomic reactivity in response to a
      validated pregnancy-specific modified Stroop task.

      Hypothesis: Anxious pregnant women will find it feasible and acceptable to engage in a
      mindfulness-based cognitive behavioral therapy intervention for perinatal anxiety.

      For each of these, the investigators will compare the outcome between anxious and non-anxious
      women.

      The current study has 2 parts. The initial part, funded by Brain and Behavior Foundation, was
      designed to collect general information about the immune and endocrine mechanisms of
      perinatal anxiety and to test following aims:

      Aim 1: To determine if obsessional anxiety in pregnancy corresponds to changes in immune
      functioning.

      Aim 2: To determine if symptoms of obsessional anxiety in pregnancy are associated with
      changes in the levels of progesterone and its metabolites.

      Aim 3: To determine feasibility and acceptability of mindfulness-based cognitive behavioral
      intervention designed to ameliorate prenatal anxiety and the accompanying inflammatory
      dysregulation.

      I next expanded the study to obtain more detailed biological data; There is no intervention
      in the expansion for this phase.

      I plan to recruit a group of 200 pregnant women (100 who screen positive for anxiety and 100
      healthy controls). Subjects will answer questionnaires about mood and anxiety symptoms and
      have participants' blood drawn at four visits across pregnancy and the postpartum; in the
      second visit, participants will also perform a computer task designed to test how well
      participants can inhibit responses. A small subset of subjects will enroll in a group
      mindfulness intervention as well. This study is designed to achieve the following aims:

        1. To compare the "immune fingerprint" of women with significant perinatal anxiety with
           that of a cohort of healthy matched controls.

        2. To determine how perinatal changes in the "immune fingerprint" relate to changes in
           levels of progesterone metabolites (specifically, allopregnanolone) across pregnancy.

        3. To identify how changes in the "immune fingerprint" and progesterone metabolites are
           related to changes in maternal response to threat.

      This study is an effort to further characterize the role of the immune system in common
      psychiatric symptomatology and the likely bidirectional relationship between the immune
      system and reproductive hormones that may be related to disease flares among a subset of
      patients. This work could eventually extend to the gene signatures responsible for immune
      pathways, to epigenetic studies, and/or to brain imaging studies examining differences in
      brain region function as affected by inflammation. Ultimately, this would allow the
      investigators to augment the traditional psychopharmacological focus on serotonin
      modification with new treatment targets, including cytokines, intracellular inflammatory
      mediators, neurogenesis, or glial cell activation.
    
  