
    
      Primary teeth with necrotic pulp are a common problem in pediatric dentistry especially in
      very young children before first permanent molar eruption. Early loss of primary teeth can
      cause a number of problems, including space loss, esthetic, phonetic or functional problems.
      However, some of the infected primary teeth can remain functional until the exfoliation via
      endodontic treatment. Pulpectomy is indicated in primary teeth with necrotic pulp in which
      the radicular tissue exhibits clinical signs of chronic inflammation.

      The primary objective of pulp therapy is to maintain the integrity and health of the teeth
      and their supporting tissues. One of the most important aims of pulpectomy treatment is to
      eradicate or substantially reduce the microbial load in the root canal system. Currently,
      insignificant data is available regarding the identification of microbiota in deciduous teeth
      with pulp necrosis and periapical pathosis. However, documentation exists in relation to the
      polymicrobial nature of microbes predominated by anaerobes in the root canals of deciduous
      teeth with necrotic pulp and periapical lesions similar to permanent teeth.

      Various microorganisms isolated from infected root canals include Streptococci,
      Staphylo-coccus, Diptheroids, Peptostreptococcus, Lactoba-cilli, Propionibacterium,
      Actinomyces, Bacteroides, Fusobacterium etc.

      The commonly isolated facultative anaerobes microorganisms from primary root canals,
      Enterococcus faecalis was isolated in 30% of cases, Escherichia coli in 28.4%, Staphylococcus
      aureus in 25%, α-hemolytic Streptococci in 15% and Proteus mirabilis in 1.6% of cases.

      E. faecalis is a persistent organism that plays a major role in the etiology of persistent
      periradicular lesions after root canal treatment. It is commonly found in high percentage of
      root canal failures and is able to survive in the root canal as a single organism or as a
      major component of the flora.

      Therefore, intracanal medication was advocated to further reduce bacteria in the root canal
      system and reduce the failure of root canal treatment. Thus, chemomechanical debridement
      using intracanal medicament and irrigants is essential to eliminate these microorganisms, and
      their by-products that remained in the pulpal space which was inaccessible to systemic
      antibiotics and root canal instrumentations.

      Chlorhexidine (CHX) usually used as a root canal irrigant especially in primary molars owing
      to its biocompatibility, substantivity and wide antimicrobial activity.

      Recently there is an increase interest in using natural product in medical fields. Chitosan
      is a natural and non-toxic polysaccharide with many biological applications, particularly as
      an antimicrobial agent. Chitosan nanoparticle is a bioactive and environment friendly
      material with unique physicochemical properties .

      To date, none of the studies has consistently investigated the effects of Chitosan as new
      alternative when used as root canal medicament in primary teeth. Therefore the present study
      aimed to compare in vivo susceptibility of root canal bacteria to chitosan, chitosan
      nanoparticals, and chlorhexidine gluconate as intra canal medicaments in necrotic primary
      molars.
    
  