
    
      Essential component of successful root canal treatment is removal of pulp tissue remnants,
      microorganisms, and microbial toxins from root canal system. Machine assisted root canal
      preparation allows for faster and easier instrumentation. Flexible nickel-titanium (NiTi)
      root canal files have become indispensible with technological advancements in metallurgy and
      incorporation of several design features manufacturers have attempted to improve the
      efficiency of these instruments. 1 Thermomechanically treated NiTi has a modified phase
      composition compared to conventional NiTi files. These files contain varying amounts of
      R-phase and martensite in their alloy composition in clinical conditions. Increased
      proportion of martensite phase allows for more flexible files with enhanced cyclic fatigue
      resistance. Simultaneously endodontic motor have undergone significant enhancements regarding
      torque control and kinematics that are adjustable in several directions. 1 Yared (2008)
      introduced the concept of single file reciprocation which was based on balanced-force
      technique. Reciprocation motion have been shown to increase the cyclic fatigue resistance of
      NiTi instruments, also these motions have been associated with increased debris extrusion and
      post treatment discomfort. Recently TruNatomy TM files has been introduced with manufacturers
      claims of 0.8mm slim wire NiTi design with superior flexibility, off-centered cross-section,
      special heat-treated NiTi wire and regressive taper allowing for preservation of dentin and
      tooth integrity.

      Post operative pain following root canal treatment is influenced by number of factors; root
      canal file system and rotary kinetics on incidence and intensity of post-operative pain has
      been conflicting with certain evidence favoring full rotary motion whilst others recommend
      reciprocating motion. Sun et al. (2018) in their systematic review concluded that different
      type of full rotary root canal NiTi file system did not have significant influence on
      post-root canal treatment pain and reciprocation motion was associated with increased post
      treatment discomfort. These scientific studies involved comparing both conventional NiTi and
      heat-treated files.

      In this scenario the present clinical evaluation was planned for comparing the post-operative
      pain incidence in maxillary premolar teeth with acute irreversible pulpitis treated by
      recently introduced heat treated TruNatomy TM and other widely studied heat-treated files
      Hyflex EDM, Protaper Gold and one heat-treated reciprocating EdgeFile in single-visit root
      canal treatment.
    
  