
    
      1. Background

           Cervical Cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors of Chinese females. The early
           stage diseases (Stage Ia, Ib and IIa1) is treated mainly by radical resection and (or)
           radiotherapy. And pelvic lymphocyst is one of the most common adverse events (incidence
           18-35%) of radical resection. When adjuvant radiotherapy (ART) is performed, lymphocyst
           is included in the clinical target volume (CTV) with a dose of 45-50Gy, in most
           hospitals of China. However, there is no pathologic and clinical evidence that
           lymphocyst is associated with local recurrence. However, inclusion of lymphocyst might
           enlarge CTV and increase irradiation dose of organs at risk (OARs) such as small
           intestine and kidneys.

        2. Objective

           The aim of this study is to compare observation with radiation on pelvic lymphocyst of
           cervical cancer patients after radical resection, for incidence of adverse events and
           local recurrence rate.

        3. Patients and methods

      A patient will be enrolled when patient have:

        1. pathologically diagnosed cervical cancer;

        2. Stage I-II diseases (FIGO system ver. 2014);

        3. treated with radical resection;

        4. need of ART according to NCCN guidelines ver. 2016v2.

      Randomization is performed to divide the patients into the control group (Group A) and the
      experimental group (Group B). In Group A, the CTV includes all the lymphocyst. But in Group
      B, the CTV is delineated according to the lymph drainage pathway (not all the lymphocyst
      included). ART is performed with a dose of 60Gy to the gross tumor volume, and 45Gy to the
      CTV. Chemotherapy is given concurrently with cisplatin 30mg/m2 every week regimen. The Grade
      3/4 adverse events (CTCAE criteria ver. 4.03) and the 5-year local-recurrence-free survival
      of the 2 groups are compared after 5-year follow-up with an interval of 3 months.
    
  