
    
      This is a 12-month, retrospective (a study that looks backward in time, usually using medical
      records and interviews with patients who are already known to have a disease)/prospective (a
      study in which the patients are identified and then followed forward in time for the outcome
      of the study), open-label (all people involved know the identity of the assigned drug) study
      of clinical, functional and economic outcomes in schizophrenia patients who require a change
      in antipsychotic treatment. The patients will be randomly (study drug assigned by chance like
      flipping a coin) assigned to receive either paliperidone extended release (ER) or one of two
      other prescriber-selected oral atypical antipsychotic (AAPs). The AAPs include aripiprazole,
      olanzapine, quetiapine, risperidone, or ziprasidone. Baseline will be defined as the time
      when the patient begins to take paliperidone ER or the other AAP. The study has a "pre/post"
      design in which paliperidone ER patients serve as their own controls for the analyses of
      healthcare utilization. If a potential patient needs to switch from their current
      antipsychotic medication they are eligible for this study. The investigator will determine
      that the patient may benefit equally from switching to either paliperidone ER (extended
      release) or to either of 2 other antipsychotics. Healthcare use over the 12-month period
      prior to baseline (the "pre-period") will be compared to the 12-month period following the
      start of paliperidone ER or other AAP (the "post-period"). Data for both periods will be
      obtained by study investigators from enrolled patients' medical charts. Patients will
      continue to be followed in the study, regardless of change in treatment, until visit 5 at
      month 12 or if withdrawn from the study. All patients will receive medical care consistent
      with local medical practices.
    
  