
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum recommended dose (MRD) of the combination of carfilzomib and
      panobinostat in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). (Phase I) II. To
      determine the overall response rate (stable disease [SD], minimal response [MR], partial
      response [PR], very good partial response [VGPR], near complete response/complete response
      [nCR/CR] of the combination. (Phase Ib)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR), stable disease (SD), minimal response (MR),
      partial response (PR), very good partial response (VGPR), near complete response/complete
      response (nCR/CR). (Phase I) II. To determine the time to progression (TTP). (Phase I and Ib)
      III. To determine the progression free survival (PFS). (Phase I and Ib) IV. To determine the
      time to best response. (Phase I and Ib) V. To determine time to next therapy. (Phase I and
      Ib) VI. To determine duration of response. (Phase I and Ib) VII. To determine the overall
      response rate (SD, MR, PR, VGPR, nCR/CR) of the combination. (Phase Ib) VIII. To assess the
      safety of the combination. (Phase Ib)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I and Ib dose escalation study.

      Participants receive carfilzomib intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15,
      and 16 and panobinostat orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, and 12 of each
      course. Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 8 courses, participants may continue carfilzomib
      IV on days 1, 2, 15, and 16, and panobinostat PO on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, and 12 of each
      course. If the disease becomes worse, participants can receive carfilzomib on the original
      dosing schedule (days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16 of each course).

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days.
    
  