
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease, affecting
      approximately up to 10 million people worldwide and with 60,000 new cases diagnosed annually
      in the U.S. alone. Some of the most common signs and symptoms in individuals with PD are
      slowed and small movements and difficulty in movement initiation. The ability to correct
      movements online in response to environmental changes is an important part of daily living.
      Online movement corrections in reaching refer to the ability to smoothly change how and where
      you reach in response to a change in the environment. For example, one can adjust the
      position of the hand and arm when trying to catch a butterfly flying in the air. Generally
      speaking, online movement corrections can happen in response to visual perturbations (e.g.,
      trying to catch a butterfly) or to force perturbations (e.g., someone knocks your hand while
      you're holding a coffee mug). Since individuals with PD have trouble with movements, it
      stands to reason that they may have problems with online movement corrections. Surprisingly,
      very little is known about online movement corrections in individuals with PD. The current
      evidence suggests that individuals with PD can make online movement corrections to small
      visual perturbations, but whether they can successfully respond to large visual perturbations
      is debatable. Furthermore, whether individuals with PD can make online movement corrections
      to force perturbations has not been studied. The aim of this project is to investigate if
      individuals with PD can make online movement corrections during reaching to visual and/or
      force perturbations. We will test both individuals with PD and age-matched healthy controls.
      They will perform reaching movements while visual or force perturbations are applied. We will
      use various perturbation strengths in order to test for potential differences in responses to
      small and large perturbations. Results from this study will provide new information on how
      individuals with PD make online movement corrections, and possibly provide insight to
      improving rehabilitation for PD.
    
  