
    
      PROTOCOL

        1. Study purpose and rationale

           i. Specific Aim and Hypothesis: The objective of this study is to determine if loop
           ileostomy and colonic irrigation reduces 30 day all-cause mortality compared to the
           current standard of care for fulminant Clostridium difficile colitis (FCDC), total
           abdominal colectomy with end ileostomy. We hypothesize that loop ileostomy and colonic
           irrigation (ileostomy) will significantly reduce 30 day all-cause mortality compared to
           total abdominal colectomy with end ileostomy (TAC). Furthermore, we hypothesize that
           this intervention will reduce 30-day morbidity, 90 day all-cause mortality and improve
           gastrointestinal restoration rates compared to TAC.

           ii. Significance: With the emergence of a hypervirulent toxin-producing NAP1/027 strain
           of C. difficile in 2003, C.difficile colitis has become an increasingly common problem
           (1). Up to 10% of patients with C.difficile infection progress to FCDC with a mortality
           of 36-80% (1-3). The standard of care for FCDC is a timely TAC; however despite this
           intervention mortality rates remain high (38-55%) (2,3). The standard of care for FCDC
           is a TAC. This includes end ileostomy, which becomes permanent in over 65% of patients
           as reversal necessitates an extensive operation (5). Neal et al. proposed a new surgical
           approach for FCDC which includes creation of a loop ileostomy, intraoperative colonic
           lavage with warmed polyethylene glycol via the ileostomy and postoperative antegrade
           instillation of vancomycin flushes into the diseased colon via the ileostomy. In a
           single-institution series, this alternative approach for 42 patients was compared to 42
           historical controls that underwent TAC (4). While demographics and severity of illness
           in the control and intervention groups were comparable, the 30 day mortality was
           significantly decreased in ileostomy compared to TAC groups (19% vs. 50%). To date, this
           is the only report of this new alternative procedure for FCDC. Neal et al.'s work is a
           single center, single surgeon series of loop ileostomy cases compared to a historical
           series of patients treated with TAC. To further investigate their promising results and
           innovative treatment, we propose a multi-center national (Canadian) prospective cohort
           study for the evaluation of this intervention compared to controls.

        2. Description of study population

           i. Basic study design: This is a national, multi-center prospective cohort study to
           evaluate loop ileostomy and colonic lavage to the standard of care, total abdominal
           colectomy with end ileostomy. This study will consist of a prospective registry (from
           2014 to 2017) with 2 prospective arms: the loop ileostomy group and the control (TAC)
           group. In addition, we will concurrently perform a retrospective chart review at all
           participating sites from (from 2010 to 2014) to serve as a third group of historical
           controls.

           Study population and assembly of patients: Subjects will be drawn from 20 participating
           adult, tertiary Canadian hospitals. All patients with Clostridium difficile infection
           who are being evaluated for surgery are eligible for this study. Subject identification
           will be carried out by the attending surgeon on call, eligibility will be evaluated, and
           patients will be approached for study participation. Consent for the study will be
           obtained from the subject or a legally authorized representative (the legal
           representative must be a court-appointment mandatory, curator or tutor). Vulnerable
           patients with pre-existing incapacity to consent and who do not have a legally
           authorized representative will be excluded. In contrast, some subjects may have a late
           presentation of FCDC and therefore may lack the physical and mental capacity to provide
           an independent informed consent. At this time, the consent for the study will be
           obtained by the next of kin (next of kin will be defined as in Civil Code of Québec).
           When and if the subject recovers, consent will be obtained by him/her at that time.
           Enrolment into the trial will be in accordance with the Civil Code of Québec (articles
           15, 20, 21) (6) QC notation.

           As this disease process and surgery only occur on an emergency basis, the surgeon
           on-call (pre-determined by each hospital's call schedule) will assess the patient and
           he/she will invite the patient to enrol in the study. The decision to undergo loop
           ileostomy or TAC will be left up to the discretion of the surgeon and the patient. In
           either case, the patient will be will be given the option to enrol in the study either
           in the investigational arm (loop ileostomy) or the control arm (TAC). We will
           concurrently perform a retrospective chart review at all participating sites from
           01/2010 to 01/2014 to serve as a historical comparative control group (180 patients
           estimated). These patients will be identified from hospital databases by discharge and
           procedure codes. Chart review will be conducted using the same inclusion and exclusion
           criterias used for the prospective patients. The stable nature and incidence of
           C.difficile infection in Canada since 2009 and the well-established standard surgical
           approach (TAC) for FCDC (6) justify the comparison to a historical control.

        3. Sample size and how it was determined

           We estimate that 60 colectomies for FCDC will be performed per year (at 20 institutions)
           (5). Neal et al. report an absolute risk reduction of 31% in 30 day mortality. However,
           given that this was a single surgeon experience and that our current 30-day mortality is
           38% (5) (in contrast to 50% for TAC in Neal et al.'s series), we anticipate an absolute
           risk reduction of 22%. For this reduction, with a type I error rate of 0.05, a power of
           80%, a 1:1 control to intervention ratio, 63 patients are required in each arm, and are
           estimated to be accrued over 2 years. We will also cluster by surgeon and institution,
           however as each surgeon and institution are only expected to contribute very few
           (approximately 1-3) cases, we are estimating a small intraclass correlation coefficient
           and design effect close to 1.

        4. Design and description of methodology

           i. Exposures and their measurement: The exposure is the treatment strategy. The
           intervention being evaluated is loop ileostomy with intra-operative colonic lavage.
           Ileostomy and colonic lavage is not considered standard of care at our institutions.
           Patients managed with ileostomy and colonic lavage who do not respond as expected may be
           converted to TAC, intra- or post-operatively, at the discretion of the surgeon. These
           patients will be analyzed in the ileostomy group (similar to an intention to treat
           analysis) since this was the original treatment strategy assigned. A subgroup analysis
           of these patients who had to be converted to TAC, and their impact on the overall
           results, will also be examined.

           ii. Confounders and their measurement: Fortunately, FCDC is managed on an emergency
           basis only; thus the surgeon on-call (based on the on-call schedule) is the one who will
           care for the patient and the patient does not choose their surgeon, nor is the surgeon
           choosing their patient. This eliminates any referral bias, that is, surgeon assignment
           can be considered random and there is no bias for different surgeons to be treating
           different types of patients. All general and colorectal surgeons are equally qualified
           to make the clinical decision to operate for FCDC (inclusion criteria for the study) and
           to perform the both proposed operations, TAC and loop ileostomy. However, individual
           surgeon bias may exist towards one procedure. This will be examined by a short
           qualitative questionnaire requesting the rationale for the choice of operation. Due to
           the infrequency of the operation for FCDC and the need to recruit multiple participating
           surgeons, each surgeon may only contribute 1-3 patients. Variability in individual and
           institution clinical practice will be accounted for by clustering by surgeon and
           institution in the analysis. Institution and surgeon variability may introduce may
           reflect differences in technical skill, hospital infrastructure, degree of adoption of
           early surgical consultation for FCDC, and operating room availability. Due to the
           severity of FCDC requiring surgery and the critically ill nature that patients reach
           prior to surgical consultation, the patient population entered into the trial will be
           relatively homogenous. This remarkable homogeneity within the patient population
           presenting for surgical management of FCDC was observed in our hospitals (2,5) and in
           Neal et al.'s study (4). Nonetheless, we will anticipate and account for confounding
           patient factors in the analysis including older age, immunosuppression, elevated pre-op
           white blood cell count, lactate, intubation and vasopressors (2,3,5). Earlier time to
           surgery is associated with improved survival and may also be a confounder as surgeons
           may be more inclined to offer loop ileostomy and lavage earlier than they would offer
           TAC given its minimally invasive nature. Similarly due to the new intervention's less
           invasive nature, older patients with co-morbidities may be more inclined to consent to
           surgery than they would be if offered TAC; introducing confounding by indication.

        5. Definition of end-points

           The primary outcome is 30 day all-cause mortality. This binary outcome is the most
           suitable and reported outcome for FCDC. The secondary outcomes are: 1) 30 day morbidity,
           a composite binary outcome to include all Clavien-Dindo grade 2-5 (serious)
           complications (6) which also includes death (Clavien grade 5); 2) 90 day all-cause
           mortality (binary) in order to capture those who survive the first month but have a long
           and complicated hospitalization with poor outcome; 3) restoration of gastrointestinal
           continuity by ileostomy closure (binary) which serves as a surrogate for excellent
           recovery; 4) length of hospital stay, a censored outcome, using time to discharge as the
           outcome censoring by death (patients who die during hospitalization will contribute
           towards length of stay for the days that they survived).

        6. Measurements and study instruments (including questionnaires, data collection forms,
           etc)

           Prospective data collection will be performed during the hospitalization daily for 30
           days, and then patients will be followed at 3, 6 and 12 months post-operatively with a
           phone follow-up . If these time points coincide with a visit to the surgeon's office,
           the data can be collected at that time. The patient will not be required to do any extra
           tests or hospital visits if they participate in the study

        7. Data analysis plan

           The distribution of each measured variable will be assessed graphically and with
           diagnostics. Descriptive variables and confounders will be compared between ileostomy
           and TAC groups using two sample t-tests, Wilcoxon rank sum, and fisher exact tests for
           normal, right-skewed and categorical variables, respectively. A logistic regression
           model predicting exposure (TAC vs. ileostomy) will be created with potential confounders
           outlined above (surgeon and patient factors) and a propensity score will be created for
           each individual. A logistic regression model will then be fit for the main outcome, with
           the main predictor being intervention, and the propensity score included as a second
           co-variate to control for confounding. Alternatively, we may choose to match on the
           propensity score. The impact of ileostomy on mortality will be expressed as an odds
           ratio (95% CI). Secondary analyses (considered exploratory) will compare 30 day
           morbidity, 90 day all-cause mortality, length of hospital stay and rate of GI
           restoration for ileostomy and TAC. A subgroup analysis will be performed for ileostomy
           patients who were converted to TAC. The historical control arm will be analyzed
           separately and should they be similar to both groups will be compared to them.

        8. Recruitment procedures including copies of advertisements;

      Subject identification will be carried out by the attending surgeon on call, eligibility will
      be evaluated, and patients will be approached for study participation. A consent for the
      study will be obtained from the subject or a legally authorized representative. As this
      disease process and surgery only occur on an emergency basis, the surgeon on-call
      (pre-determined by each hospital's call schedule) will assess the patient and he/she will
      invite the patient to enrol in the study. The decision to undergo loop ileostomy or TAC will
      be left up to the discretion of the surgeon and the patient. In either case, the patient will
      be will be given the option to enrol in the study either in the investigational arm (loop
      ileostomy) or the control arm (TAC). The patient will be given a consent form as soon as they
      are identified as a potential candidate by the surgeon-on-call. Once the patient and/or the
      legal representative have signed the consent form, the patient will be considered accrued to
      the study.

      Details on confidentiality

      Patient data will be linked to a hospital ID number and a study ID number. Once the patient
      has completed the follow-up period, their hospital ID number will be removed such that they
      are de-identified.

      The data will be maintained in a secure web-based registry (Redcap). This will be used only
      by the research team and will always be accessed from a password protected hospital computer.

      The data will be kept in a de-identified manner for 5 years following study completion.

      The study will be conducted according to ethical principles stated in the Declaration of
      Helsinki (2013), ethics approval will be obtained before initiating study. Also, consent
      forms will take into consideration the well-being, free-will and respect of the participants,
      including respect of privacy.
    
  