
    
      Observational studies suggest that low 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) levels are associated
      with high BMI and fat mass (FM), but it is unknown whether vitamin D supplementation can
      alter body composition or adiposity. Despite enthusiasm for the use of vitamin D supplements
      to reduce FM, the hypothesis that vitamin D can modify adiposity remains unproven. Finding
      strategies to prevent obesity is of critical public health importance due to the high
      prevalence of overweight/obesity and its role in causing diabetes, hypertension,
      dyslipidemia, cardiovascular disease (CVD), among others. Observational studies also link low
      25(OH)D levels to CVD risk factors related to obesity, but sequestration of vitamin D in fat
      tissue may be a confounding factor. The effects of vitamin D supplementation on body
      composition, adiposity and CVD risk factors are best tested in a randomized clinical trial
      (RCT), and according to the Institute of Medicine (IOM) 2011 report, more data from
      randomized clinical trials on these outcomes are needed. Previous trials of vitamin D have
      been limited by the inability to separate effects of supplemental calcium from vitamin D,
      small sample size, insufficient vitamin D dose, failure to monitor 25(OH)D levels or
      inadequate ascertainment of body composition. The NIH-funded VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
      (VITAL) (1 U01 CA138962) affords a unique and cost-effective opportunity to investigate the
      effect of vitamin D on changes in body composition and to assess whether changes in CVD risk
      factors are mediated, at least in part, by these parameters. VITAL is a large-scale,
      randomized, primary prevention trial testing 2000 IU/d vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) and 1
      g/day omega-3 fatty acids (840 mg EPA+DHA in 1.3:1 ratio) in a 2x2 factorial design among
      20,000 men and women (≥50 and ≥55 years, respectively), with mean participant follow-up of 5
      years for CVD and cancer. This ancillary study will address understudied areas and two
      overarching hypotheses that vitamin D supplementation (1) lowers total and regional (trunkal
      and abdominal/androidal) body fat as measured by dual x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans,
      improving biomarkers of adiposity (leptin, adiponectin) and (2) impacts CVD risk factors, at
      least in part through adiposity. The investigators also seek to define how circulating
      achieved 25(OH)D levels, due to supplementation, may be affected by body composition and BMI,
      thus elucidating how adiposity, BMI, and body composition (total and regional) may influence
      vitamin D intake needs in the population. To critically evaluate these hypotheses, the
      investigators will examine a representative, randomized subcohort of 1000 racially diverse
      VITAL participants (25% African American) over two years.
    
  