
    
      Persons with serious mental illness (SMI) die on average 10-15 years earlier than those in
      the general population. Smoking is the strongest risk factor for their elevated mortality.
      Helping SMI smokers to quit is an urgent and unmet need. The hospital is an optimal setting
      to provide smoking cessation services. Hospital admissions for SMI are common with more than
      1.2 million inpatient stays for schizophrenia and mood disorders per year in the US.
      Hospitalized patients experience required abstinence, are available for counseling, and can
      try cessation medications in a supportive setting. The challenge is how to engage SMI
      patients in cessation services post-discharge. An easy-to-access digital intervention is a
      scalable and sustainable way to bridge the inpatient-to-outpatient gap and to promote
      sustained abstinence. Digital interventions can deliver all elements of cessation treatment
      and yield quit rates comparable to face to face and telephonic interventions. SMI patients
      use and benefit from technology-based interventions but currently there is no digital smoking
      cessation program addressing their needs. This R34 application will adapt a proven digital
      intervention, BecomeAnEX (EX), developed and run by Truth Initiative for over 10 years. Its
      core components are real-time one on one coaching via live chat, nicotine replacement therapy
      decision support and delivery, personalized quit plans, a large online social network for
      peer support, a robust and fully integrated text message program, and tailored email
      messaging. Adaptation will ensure that EX addresses the specific challenges of SMI smokers
      and is in line with principles of mental health recovery. In Aim 1 the investigators will
      develop and obtain preliminary feedback about EX-SMI, a version of EX adapted for SMI
      patients. A priori target mechanisms are motivation, abstinence self-efficacy, and cravings.
      In Aim 2 the investigators will conduct a one-arm pilot trial and obtain feedback from 20 SMI
      smokers recruited during psychiatric hospitalization and followed up at 2-weeks and 1-month
      post-discharge. Feasibility and acceptability will be assessed via participant feedback
      regarding their intervention experience, changes in motivation, self-efficacy and cravings,
      and automated tracking data on EX-SMI use post-discharge. In Aim 3, 90 SMI smokers recruited
      during psychiatric hospitalization will be randomized to usual care or to a revised version
      of EX-SMI and followed for 3 months after the hospital stay. The investigators will compare
      the feasibility/acceptability of EX-SMI, measure intervention impact on target mechanisms,
      and obtain initial estimates of efficacy on 7-day point prevalence abstinence. This pilot
      work directly addresses priorities of this RFA in refining and optimizing an efficacious
      intervention for a new target population. Ultimately, this program of research could have a
      powerful public health impact by increasing smoking cessation among persons with SMI.
    
  