
    
      BACKGROUND Pain is the principal symptom in knee osteoarthritis (OA) and results in a
      considerable amount of years lived with disability, emotional distress and has significant
      socioeconomic consequences. Knee OA in particular, has a high prevalence rate compared to
      other types of OA, and is also present in the younger working age population. The treatment
      of knee OA typically focuses on pain relief, however the effects of current conservative
      treatment options remain small to moderate and most are associated with side effects. In many
      cases patients alternatively may be subjected to partial/total knee arthroplasty (TKA). TKA
      is considered to be an effective treatment for end-stage knee osteoarthritis however more
      than 20% of patients receiving TKA, experience persistent and unchanged pain post-surgery.
      Reviewing these results, focus should be on low-risk, minimally invasive therapies. Novel
      advances in the field of cryoneurolysis are in that respect promising. Cryoneurolysis has
      made it possible to apply low temperatures to a target percutaneous peripheral nerve, causing
      Wallerian degeneration. This has been shown to provide pain relief in a variety of chronic
      pain conditions. Recently, Radnovich et al. (2017) targeted the genicular nerves to reduce
      pain in patients with knee OA. The authors reported significant pain relief in patients with
      knee OA for up to 150 days. The authors reported expected adverse effects, that were
      transient, with mild severity, requiring no further intervention. These results might suggest
      that cryoneurolysis treatment is a safe procedure, that may reduce both pain and symptoms in
      patients with knee OA. Further prospective randomized controlled studies, with adequate power
      are needed to confirm the efficacy and safety of cryoneurolysis treatment in patients with
      knee OA.

      In Denmark, a neuromuscular exercise program (GLA:D) has been implemented, for the treatment
      of knee and hip OA in clinical practice. Recent studies show that exercise reduce pain and
      improve function in people with knee or hip OA. Despite of these reports the beneficial
      effects remains moderate with difficulties in maintaining these effects at long-term
      follow-up and includes a significant discontinuation rate for patients reporting high pain
      levels. In this line, pain and muscle weakness, among others, have been reported to be major
      barriers for physical exercise. The application of cryoneurolysis treatment as an effective
      pain reducing treatment prior to a standardized exercise program could perhaps provide
      significant pain relief, resulting in improved adherence, exercise effectiveness and
      long-term benefits of both therapies.

      The primary objective of the current project is to determine the effectiveness of
      cryoneurolysis in its proposed ability to decrease pain in patients with knee osteoarthritis.
      The secondary objective is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of cryoneurolysis in its
      ability to improve outcomes in the GLA:D program to potentially delay or avoid surgical
      intervention.

      We hypothesize that cryoneurolysis in combination with GLA:D will be a safe and effective
      therapeutic option with few side effects to reduce pain in patients with knee osteoarthritis
      and may post pone surgical intervention.

      TRIAL DESIGN This study is a randomized, controlled, trial (RCT) designed to test the
      efficacy of cryoneurolysis treatment in patients with knee osteoarthritis followed by a
      neuromuscular exercise program (GLA:D). The patients will be randomly allocated in either a
      cryoneurolysis intervention group (CRYO) or a sham group (SHAM) and will be assessed at
      baseline, 2 weeks post cryoneurolysis, post GLA;D and at 6, 12 and 24 month follow-up. The
      tests will include both patient-reported outcomes (PRO) and objective functional
      measurements.

      RECRUITMENT AND SAMPLE SIZE Patients with pain and knee OA confirmed by radiography, are
      referred to GLA:D by their general practitioner prior to assessment of surgery eligibility at
      the hospital. The current project will recruit these patients in collaboration with selected
      general practitioners in the Region of Southern Denmark. According the Region of Southern
      Denmark, an average of 270 patients participate in the GLA:D program every year. Based on
      this estimation and considering the eligibility criteria to participate in the current
      project, recruitment will continue for up to 1 year.

      The planned number of trial participants is based on the assumed superiority of the
      cryoneurolysis treatment over control. Estimating the sample size for a two-sample means test
      with a level of significance at 0.05, assuming a common standard deviation (SD) of 30 in VAS
      pain intensity scores indicates that for the intention-to-treat (ITT) population, 74
      individuals is required to obtain a power of at least 80% to establish a minimal clinically
      significant difference (MCSD) of 20 in VAS pain scores. The MCSD and common standard
      deviation is based on previous findings with a similar patient group and intervention. With
      an expected drop-out rate of 20%, a total of 94 individuals will be included in the project,
      47 in each group.

      ALLOCATION AND BLINDING Randomization will be performed as computer-generated block
      randomization with a 1:1 allocation ratio using random block sizes of 2, 4 and 6 in either
      group CRYO or group SHAM. The randomization restrictions will not be disclosed to ensure
      allocation concealment and the sequence will be performed by an external co-investigator.

      To account for the placebo effect and reduce the risk of bias, the patients, therapists and
      data-manager will be blinded to the allocation. Blinding will be assured using a sham trial
      that includes the same procedures as cryoneurolysis treatment but without any freezing
      temperatures. Thus, visible marks as a result of the procedures in both groups will be
      similar.

      INTERVENTIONS Diagnostic nerve block. All patients reporting a decrease of ≥ 50 % in VAS pain
      scores at least 15 min after a diagnostic nerve block of the genicular nerves.

      Cryoneurolysis. The current project involves the novel application and test of
      cryoneurolysis, in the treatment of OA related pain. The rationale behind this method, is
      based on previous reports showing that low temperature conditions can alter nerve function.
      This technology allows for reversible destruction of nerves, also known as Wallerian
      degeneration, that prevents nerve signaling and potentially alleviate pain and motor
      dysfunction in a number of medical conditions. A probe will be inserted percutaneously at the
      target anterior femoral cutaneous nerve and infrapatellar branch of the saphenous nerve
      guided by ultrasound visualization to accurately determine the location of the nerve and to
      account for adjacent neurovascular structures and variations in anatomical structures. The
      target locations are drawn directly on the patients' skin prior to treatment along which a
      dose of local anesthetic will be injected subcutaneously before treatment. Cryoneurolysis at
      each target site requires 2-4 freeze cycles with a duration of 3 mins, and with thaw cycles
      between 20-40 seconds. A temperature probe will be inserted adjacent to the target nerve and
      cryoneurolysis-probe to ensure a controlled cooling effect and to control nerve damage. The
      sham intervention includes a similar procedure but using a sham probe.

      GLA:D. SHAM and CRYO will both participate in the GLA:D program, which is a standard
      education and exercise program for patients with osteoarthritis in Denmark. The program is
      performed in groups and with the supervision of an experienced physiotherapist specialized in
      training of musculoskeletal disorders and has a duration of 8 weeks.

      STATISTICAL METHODS The treatment groups will be examined for comparability based on baseline
      demographic and prognostic measures. An Intention-To-Treat (ITT) analysis will be used for
      all allocated patients and a mixed effects model will be used on the continuous outcome
      measures to determine the effects of cryoneurolysis treatment from baseline to post treatment
      and follow-ups [Between groups factor: CRYO vs SHAM, within groups factor: time]. The model
      will use robust estimation methods to account for outliers. Finally, a multiple imputation
      approach will be used in case of missing data. All P-values < 0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant.

      ETHICS AND SIGNIFICANCE The project will be conducted according to the declaration of
      Helsinki and will be registered in ClinicalTrials.gov. The Project has been approved by the
      Regional Committee on Health Research Ethics for Southern Denmark (S-20180089).

      Cryoneurolysis could potentially provide an effective, safe and minimally invasive option to
      treat pain in OA patients. The potential benefits include increased functional capacity and
      quality of life as a result of significant pain relief and improved benefits of physical
      exercise, ultimately postponing or making surgical intervention unnecessary. Finally, an
      important perspective, is the application of cryoneurolysis in other areas - such as managing
      pain, related to surgery, to improve rehabilitation.
    
  