
    
      The investigators will follow the STROBE guidelines to perform this prospective observational
      study. All patient demographics, co-morbidities and surgical details that are relevant to
      calculate the EuroSCORE will be recorded using our institutional automatic anesthesia record
      system. Laboratory tests will be performed according to our clinical standard before cardiac
      surgery. General anesthesia and surgery will be performed according to attending physician's
      preferences. Invasive arterial blood pressure, central line and transesophageal
      echocardiography (TEE) are all standard procedures. Before induction of anesthesia a two
      channel EEG will be installed on the forehead with reference electrode on FPZ, other
      electrodes on A1-F3 & A2-F4. A Narcotrend Compact M Monitor will be connected to evaluate
      depth of anesthesia continuously during the operation, but also automatically stores EEG data
      (with a rate of 128Hz) to screen for epileptic activity or/and ischemic episodes. This
      monitor is standard practice in our cardiovascular division.

      Patients at higher risk for intraoperative cerebral ischemic events (stenosis of carotid
      artery, deep hypothermic cardiac arrest, history of stroke/prind/TIA, severe aortic
      atherosclerotic disease) do receive bilateral frontal brain oxygenation/perfusion monitoring
      with Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) as part of standard practice at our institution. After
      the administration of the anticoagulant heparin for cardiopulmonary bypass, tranexamic acid
      is given intravenously as our clinical standard according to the BART trial. All other
      intraoperative administrations of drugs, blood transfusions and hemodynamic management will
      be according to the responsible cardiac anesthesiologist and cardiac surgeon. Following
      surgery patients will be transported to the ICU under deep sedation according to the
      anesthesia team. As standard operation procedure the responsible ICU attending or resident is
      evaluating cardiac surgery patients every hours while intubated and at least twice per shift
      if awake (4 times per day) for neurological deficits. A neurological deficit is defined as
      patient developing a new onset motor, sensory, or cognitive dysfunction (e.g., hemiplegia,
      hemiparesis, aphasia, sensory deficit, impaired memory) that persists for 24 or more hours
      due to embolic, thrombotic, or hemorrhagic vascular accident or stroke. Special trained ICU
      nurses evaluate the Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale (RASS) on an hourly basis. The time
      from stopping sedation until reaching a RASS of zero will be used to determine (delayed) time
      to awakening. The appropriateness of timing to stop the sedation is up to the treating ICU
      team.

      Standard practice is, that cardiac enzymes are measured all 6 hours for the first 48 hours,
      according to clinical judgement thereafter, but at least once daily until discharge from the
      ICU. New myocardial infarction will be defined as Troponin values >10x99th percentile URL
      during the first 48 h following cardiac surgery, occurring from a normal baseline Troponin
      value (≤99th percentile URL). In addition, either (i) new pathological Q waves or new LBBB,
      or (ii) angiographically documented new graft or new native coronary artery occlusion, or
      (iii) imaging evidence of new loss of viable myocardium or new regional wall motion
      abnormality.

      Pulmonary and respiratory complications will be noted as (1) pneumonia, (2) prolonged
      intubation of > 24 hours, (3) re-intubation, (4) TRALI or ARDS, as well as (5) tracheostomy
      due to weaning failure.

      Renal complication is defined as acute renal failure (ARF) requiring dialysis during the
      postoperative period. The indication for dialysis include uremia, volume overload, or
      biochemical abnormalities and are based on clinical judgment of the treating ICU team.

      The exact time on the ICU and on the ventilator is automatically recorded in the patient data
      management system (PDMS) and will be recorded on the day of ICU discharge and/or extubation.
      All postoperative diagnosis of complications will be gathered from the involved intensivist,
      cardiac surgeon, cardiologist, neurologist, radiologist and other consulted specialists.
      Mortality will be evaluated for in hospital only.

      The postoperative course of all included patients will be followed until discharge from the
      hospital.
    
  