
    
      Visualization of the ocular fundus is considered an essential part of the physical
      examination, as abnormalities of the optic nerve, retinal vessels, and macula can reveal
      underlying systemic diseases and explain the etiology of visual complaints.

      The Fundus Photography versus Ophthalmoscopy Trials Outcomes in the Emergency Department
      (FOTO-ED) Study demonstrated that only 14% of patients with complaints and conditions in
      which fundus examination is considered important had direct ophthalmoscopy performed by an ED
      physician .Greater than 80% of previously unknown fundus findings relevant to ED patient
      management were missed by ED physicians, but were identified by nonmydriatic digital fundus
      photography. Several of these cases resulted in recall of a discharged patient back to the ED
      for hospital admission once diagnostic fundus photos were reviewed.

      In the search for an alternative to improve ease of use and fundus image quality, plenoptic
      technology provides a promising option for portable fundus imaging. Plenoptic, or light
      field, imaging has recently been introduced commercially with the release of the Lytro
      Plenoptic Camera (Mountain View, CA, USA). Utilizing an array of microlenses, the Lytro
      camera captures all available light in a scene from multiple vectors. By dividing up a scene
      as a whole with many individual microlenses, images can be refocused in post processing after
      acquisition, sharp focus can be attained in low light situations, and stereo images with
      perspective shifting can be attained.

      To date there have been no published quantitative descriptions of the quality and reliability
      of plenoptic ophthalmoscopy using a commercially available, portable light field camera.
      Initial work from a pilot study using animal and human eyes was published in 2016. The
      purpose of the proposed prospective, cross sectional imaging study is to compare standard
      mydriatic fundus photography to a second generation camera developed with a Lytro plenoptic
      camera and customized light source, specifically analyzing diagnostic utility/sensitivity of
      detecting retinal pathology and overall image quality. If the image quality outcomes of the
      investigators proposed study are similar to those of the nonmydriatic fundus camera, the
      implications for physicians and the potential applications to ophthalmology related
      telemedicine are significant.
    
  