
    
      Noting the significant health impact of the use of solid fuels and traditional cooking
      systems on (public) health indicators, it is imperative to find clean cooking solutions for
      urban slum dwelling communities. While several efforts have been made to reduce indoor air
      pollution in India, most efforts focused on "enhancing stove energy efficiency, and not
      reducing emissions." Also, use of a strict top-down approach in the community was responsible
      for many unsuccessful projects. The current project is based on principles of co-creation,
      involving the local community in designing and producing clean cook stoves; a more scalable
      and sustainable solution than fully subsidized efforts.

      The aim of the present trial is to reduce the levels of household air pollution and improve
      the respiratory health of women and children by using a locally designed and manufactured
      improved cook stove. The study design will be a 1:1 randomised controlled intervention trial.

      The intervention group will receive a locally designed and manufactured improved cookstove
      (low-smoke chulha). The control group will continue using the traditional cookstove (chulha)
      or a combination of the traditional stove and the kerosene/diesel stove.

      The first part of project EXHALE was based upon an iterative process of co-creation of a
      low-smoke chulha with local communities in order to support adaption and sustained uptake. A
      qualitative study was conducted to gain insight into the cooking practices and challenges
      faced with the traditional stoves. Workshops were conducted where people were involved in
      creating an ideal stove, using thermocol blocks. Feedback was continuously used to optimize
      the design of the cookstove. Improved cookstoves were evaluated in a qualitative study in a
      slum called Siddhaarthanagar colony in Peenya, Bangalore.

      Block randomization will be performed to reduce bias and achieve balance in the allocation of
      participants to treatment arms. Block sizes vary between two, four and six households to
      reduce the possibility of knowing the next randomization allocation. The study will be
      single-blinded (data-analyst). Randomization is stratified for having a child aged 5 years or
      younger or not.

      Data for the questionnaires and for the assessment of pneumonia will be collected using a
      tablet computer with a pre-formatted questionnaire sheet. All data collection and storage
      devices will be password protected. Only supervisors and the main researcher will have access
      to the data files, identifiers, and keys. An intention-to-treat analysis will be conducted in
      order to ensure external validity of the study and minimize bias.

      Since the intervention is not a clinical intervention, and does not have adverse effect on
      the participants, a data monitoring committee has not been formed. However, to review and
      keep track of the progress of the trial, a clinical advisory committee comprising of relevant
      experts has been formed.
    
  