
    
      This is a longitudinal prospective observational cohort mono centre study. Hs-cTn will be
      measured at different point of times in adult patients undergoing heart valvular surgery with
      cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and without recent medical history of ischemic heart disease.

      The study is conducted at the University Clinical Hospital of Valladolid, Spain. The Cardiac
      Surgery department annually performs approximately 550 cardiac surgeries with CPB in adult
      patients (approximately 300 heart valvular surgeries). Two operating rooms are routinely
      used. There is an intensive care unit (ICU) with 10 beds dedicated exclusively to the
      postoperative care of patients who undergo cardiac surgery.The hospital's research commission
      approved the study. All patients, preoperatively, provided informed written consent both for
      their heart surgery and for their participation in the study.

      Serum levels of hs-cTn will be measured before cardiac surgery, upon arrival at the ICU, as
      well as every 6 hours for 24 hours, then every 8 hours the following 24 hours and a last
      blood sample will be taken 72 hours after cardiac surgery. Samples are analysed at the
      department of Clinical Biochemistry of our hospital.

      Twelve-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs) obtained the day prior to heart valvular surgery,
      immediately upon arrival at the ICU, and then 24, 48 and 72 hours post-surgery will be
      reviewed by a cardiologist to evidence signs of myocardial infarction (MI). All cardiac
      events will be noted as The Third Global MI Task Force definition of MI describes.

      A transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) will be also performed by a cardiologist after cardiac
      valvular surgery to determine the ejection fraction of left ventricle and the occurrence of a
      new regional wall motion abnormality. This TTE will be compared, by the same cardiologist,
      with a TTE performed before cardiac valvular surgery.

      The principal investigator will supervise data handling.
    
  