
    
      OBJECTIVES To determine whether depressive symptoms, pain severity, function, quality of
      life, as well as opioid use can be affected by a lifestyle intervention program in depression
      and chronic pain. To evaluate the implementation of the program at Rivlin Medical Group (RMG)
      chronic pain clinic, and to understand how the SSM intervention can be translated to other
      settings.

      RCT RECRUITMENT AND CONSENT Older adults with chronic pain and depression will be recruited
      from the Rivlin Medical Group. Patients will be pre-screened by clinic staff and be given a
      letter of information/consent form. All potential participants will be given a minimum of 24
      hours to consider participation. After this time, written informed consent will be obtained
      from those interested in participating and they will be screened for eligibility by a
      research coordinator.

      STUDY INTERVENTIONS This study is a 12-week, randomized controlled trial seeking to recruit
      160 participants with depression and chronic pain from RMG. The SSM intervention will be
      offered by trained and certified teachers from the Art of Living Foundation. The HEP
      intervention will be offered by a trained Nurse Practitioner, Social Worker, Psychologist,
      Occupational Therapist or other qualified professional. Raters, clinicians, and care
      providers will be blind to participant study condition.

      DATA COLLECTION Participants will be screened for eligibility using the Patient Health
      Questionnaire (PHQ-9) and Mini Internation Neuropsychiatric Interview Screen and Standard
      7.0.2 (MINI). The primary outcome (depression) will be evaluated using the PHQ-9. The
      secondary outcome (pain severity and pain-related function) will be evaluated using the Brief
      Pain Inventory (BPI. Exploratory outcomes (health related quality of life, and opioid use)
      will be evaluated using the Short-form 36 (SF-36), and a medication log, respectively.
      Measures of primary and secondary outcomes will be administered at all 3 assessment sessions
      and are described below.

      At the baseline assessment the following information will be collected:

      i. Demographics survey that will collect information on age, partial Date of Birth (DOB),
      gender, ethnic background, employment status, housing type, highest level of education
      achieved, smoking, caffeine intake, drug and alcohol use, duration of pain and pain
      diagnosis. Participants will also be asked about their psychiatric history including age of
      first contact with services for mental illness (and which illness), history of hospital
      admissions and the number of episodes of depression; ii. PHQ-9; iii. BPI scale; iv. SF-36; v.
      Medication names, dosages, dosages per day, total daily dosage, and reason for use will be
      recorded, including vitamins and over-the-counter (OTC) medications; vi. Psychology Intake
      Form.

      During the 12 week and 6 month assessment the following questionnaires and measurements will
      be completed:

      i. PHQ-9; ii. BPI scale; iii. SF-36; iv. Medication names and doses will be collected and the
      recordings for opioids will be converted to total daily morphine equivalents using
      standardized conversion tables.
    
  