
    
      If a person agrees to participate in this research study, they will be asked to undergo some
      screening tests or procedures to confirm eligibility. Many of these tests and procedures are
      likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns out that a patient
      does not take part in the research study. If a patient has had some of these tests or
      procedures recently, they may or may not have to be repeated. These tests and procedures
      include: a medical history, performance status, physical examination, assessment of tumor,
      echocardiogram, electrocardiogram, pulmonary (lung) function tests and blood tests. If these
      tests show that a patient is eligible to participate in the research study, they will begin
      the study treatment. If a patient does not meet the eligibility criteria, they will not be
      able to participate in the research study.

      Proton radiation will be delivered daily for 2 to 5 weeks, depending on the dose prescribed
      by your physician. Treatment is delivered (Monday-Friday) for 5 days (no weekends or
      holidays). Each treatment will require that you lie on a table for 30 to 45 minutes.

      Participants will receive radiation therapy as an outpatient at Massachusetts General
      Hospital. During radiation therapy, they will have the following weekly assessments and
      procedures: physical exam, assess for any side effects, blood tests for cardiac markers.

      Study participants will be asked to return for a follow up visit 6-12 weeks after their last
      dose of radiation therapy. During this visit the following tests and procedures will be done:
      PET/CT scan, physical exam, assess for side effects and blood tests for cardiac markers.

      Participants will also be asked to return for a follow-up visit at 6 months, 12 months and
      annually for five years post radiation. Keeping in touch with study participants and checking
      on their condition helps investigators look at the long-term effects of the research study.
      At these visits, the following tests and procedures will be done: physical exam, assess for
      any side effects, ECG, ECHO, pulmonary tests, PET/CT scan, routine blood tests and blood
      tests for cardiac markers (at 6 months and 1 years only).
    
  