
    
      The COMplementary hand-foot Massage to Improve experience of ilneSs trial (COMMIS trial) is a
      prospective, randomized trial and executed at a Western referral Centre: Zuyderland Medical
      Centre located Sittard-Geleen, The Netherlands.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of complementary therapies concerning
      quality of life, pain, nausea, fatigue, sleeping problems, mood and stress in patients who
      underwent an operation as a result of gastrointestinal malignancy (stomach or colorectal).
      Patients had to be >18 years of age. Exclusion criteria were patients who were not able to
      undergo massage, not able to sign informed consent or speaking the native language, deaf
      patients and patients having a hand- or foot disorder.

      Primary outcome measure is quality of life, including psychological state, level of
      functioning in daily life and pain. Secondary outcome measures are patient satisfaction about
      the received hospital care and the need for complementary medicine.

      Recruitment takes place during the second preoperative appointment at the clinic, where
      eligible patients receive oral and written information about the study. One week after this
      conversation, patients are asked if they are interested to participate. If so, informed
      consent is obtained and remaining questions are answered.

      Randomization takes place by the randomization program ALEA. It was not possible to blind
      investigator, patient, physician or nurse.

      Patient groups consist of an intervention group (51 patients) and a control group (51
      patients). The intervention group receives postoperatively during 5 consecutive days
      hand-foot massage from volunteers who are trained by a professional. It was not possible to
      receive massage in the weekends because of the absence of the volunteers. The technique
      comprised standard 'Swedish' massage, which means applying kneading and strokes to soft
      tissues and muscles. The intervention was performed by applying ethereal oils from Volatile,
      which consisted of 10% jojoba and 90% almond oil.

      The control group receives the usual care.

      Patients from both groups are asked to fill in questionnaires about health status/health
      related quality of life (EQ-5D-3L) and anxiety/depression (HADS-NL) at specific moments in
      time. Those include one week pre-operatively (baseline), post-operative day (POD) 1, POD3,
      POD5 and when they return at the policlinic after hospital's discharge. Before discharge,
      every patient is asked to fill in a questionnaire about patient satisfaction concerning the
      received hospital care as well.
    
  