
    
      Neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) are usually administered during anesthesia for
      endotracheal tube placement or surgical interventions. But their use is also common in the
      medical intensive care unit (ICU) (1, 2). Together with sedation and analgesia, they are
      mainly used in continuous infusion in Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrom (ARDS) (3, 4), but
      also in post-cardiac arrest survivor under hypothermia to prevent shivering (5), in abdominal
      compartment syndrome (6), in severe traumatic brain injury with uncontrolled intra-cranial
      pressure (7) and severe asthma among others.

      A monitoring of the treatment is recommended (8) and several monitoring techniques exists:
      qualitative clinical monitoring is known to be inefficient, qualitative clinical monitoring
      using scores such as the BSAS (9) or monitoring using peripheral nerve stimulation
      (train-of-four (TOF) (10)) or other devices such as accelerometry or electromyography.

      As opposed to their use in the operating room where the interest of the monitoring is proven,
      there are discrepancy between studies on whether it is useful to monitor NMBAs in the ICU.
      For instance, Strange et al. did not observe any advantage of the use of a protocol of NMBAs
      administration (11), and Baumann et al. came to the same conclusions. However, more recently
      (12), Hraeich et al. found that the monitoring of NMBAs dosage guided by the TOF allowed to
      significantly reduce the dose administered during ADRS (13).

      Thus, in the ICU, although guidelines recommend to monitor NMBAs administration (8), the
      level of evidence regarding the interest of monitoring and the device to use for such a
      monitoring is low.

      The investigators propose to conduct a prospective multicentric observational study to
      describe the current practice in the use of NMBAs in mechanically ventilated patients in the
      ICU. As a primary objective the investigators will describe the prevalence of NMBAs use in
      the ICU. As a secondary objective, the investigator will investigate the impact of protocol
      and/or monitoring devices of NMBAs on the dose administered and clinical outcome endpoints,
      such as in-ICU mortality, duration of mechanical ventilation or acquired neuromyopathy or
      other complications of NMBAs.
    
  