
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the two regimens on the proportion of patients with undetectable
           prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level (< 0.2 ng/mL) at 44 weeks.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the proportion of patients with PSA decline > 85% at 44 weeks on the
           combination therapy arm compared to that of bicalutamide monotherapy arm.

        -  To assess the distribution of best PSA response in each study arm.

        -  To assess the time to PSA progression and the time to PSA nadir in each arm of the
           study.

        -  To assess the duration of PSA response in each arm of the study.

        -  To characterize the PSA slope before, during, and after treatment.

        -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of enzastaurin hydrochloride in this patient
           population.

        -  To determine whether Gleason score or prior hormonal therapy has any effect on PSA
           response to treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to Gleason score (≤ 6
      vs 7 vs 8-10) and prior hormonal therapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm A:

             -  Weeks 1-12: Patients are observed without treatment. Patients with a
                prostate-specific antigen (PSA) rise of > 50% above baseline or nadir (whichever is
                lowest) and a rise of at least 5 ng/mL, confirmed by a repeat PSA at least 2 weeks
                later, may be started on bicalutamide before the end of week 12 at the discretion
                of the treating physician.

             -  Weeks 13-44: Patients with a rise PSA ≥ 50% above baseline or nadir, and a PSA rise
                of at least 5 ng/mL confirmed by a repeat PSA at least 2 weeks later, are removed
                from study. Patients receive oral bicalutamide once daily. Patients achieving a PSA
                decline ≥ 50% in the absence of toxicity may continue to receive bicalutamide up to
                72 weeks.

        -  Arm B:

             -  Weeks 1-12: Patients receive oral enzastaurin hydrochloride twice daily. Patients
                with a PSA rise of > 50% above baseline or nadir, and a rise of at least 5 ng/mL,
                confirmed by a repeat PSA at least 2 weeks later, may be started on bicalutamide
                before the end of week 12 at the discretion of the treating physician.

             -  Weeks 13-44: Patients with a PSA rise of ≥ 50% above baseline or nadir, and a rise
                of at least 5 ng/mL, confirmed by a repeat PSA at least 2 weeks later, are removed
                from study. Patients receive oral enzastaurin twice daily and oral bicalutamide
                once daily. Patients achieving a PSA decline ≥ 50% in the absence of toxicity may
                continue on this combination therapy up to 72 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 5 years, and
      then every 6 months for up to 10 years.
    
  