
    
      Vascutek Ltd has developed the Thoraflex™ Hybrid Device (Plexus™ 4 and Ante-Flo™) for the
      open surgical repair or replacement of damaged or diseased vessels of the aortic arch and
      descending aorta, with or without involvement of the ascending aorta, in cases of aneurysm
      and/or dissection. The Thoraflex™ Hybrid Device may be considered a development of the
      Elephant Trunk (ET) grafts with the addition of a stented distal section. In some cases this
      will allow for a single stage procedure to be carried out, dependent on the length of
      affected vessel. As the device is fully sealed and has a collar to aid anastomosis, it
      removes the requirement for in situ sealing and the suturing together of two devices, thereby
      reducing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) time and overall procedure time.

      By reducing the procedure time and negating the need for as many subsequent procedures, this
      method could greatly improve the success of this procedure and may improve patient outcomes.

      The ability to treat complex anatomies in addition to reducing procedure and CPB time,
      justify the investigation of the Thoraflex™ Hybrid Device. Safety and effectiveness data for
      subjects treated with the Thoraflex™ Hybrid Device will be compared to historical data from
      subjects treated using standard ET surgical repair.

      It is anticipated that up to 83 patients will be recruited over a 14 month period
      (approximately). Patients will be evaluated at the following time points: Pre-procedure,
      Implant, Discharge/30 days, 3 months, 12 months, 24 months and 36 months. An additional visit
      may be performed for patients who undergo an extension procedure within 1 year of Thoraflex™
      Hybrid Device implantation.

      65 patients will be recruited to the primary study group (maximum 19 per site). An additional
      group of patients with a ruptured aorta may also be recruited (up to approximately 18
      patients across all sites).

      A historical control population has been derived from a comparable patient population who
      received treatment for thoracic aortic disease using the current standard of care, which is
      the conventional (2-stage) elephant trunk technique. Using data from the comparator
      population a Performance Goal Target has been set at 57.4%.

      The study will be deemed a success if the lower limit of the 95% confidence interval,
      associated with the proportion of study patients who are free from the defined composite
      Major Adverse Events (permanent stroke, permanent paraplegia/paraparesis, unanticipated
      aortic related re-operation and all-cause mortality) at 1 year post procedure, is greater
      than 57.4%. Only patients included in the main study group will be included in the
      Performance Goal Analysis; patients recruited into the additional Aortic Rupture group will
      not be included in the primary endpoint analysis. All patients in the main study group will
      be included in the analysis regardless of whether or not an extension procedure has been
      performed.
    
  