
    
      The physiologic alterations of the aging are systemic and they seem to be more evident in the
      institutionalized elderly. The advanced age is associated to the decrease of the force of the
      skeletal muscles, as well as the one of the muscles respiratory. In the breathing system
      happen important muscle-skeletal alterations, interfering in the mechanics ventilatory. The
      changes in the compliance of the thoracic wall and of the lung stcruture resulting in
      imprisonment of air, air-trapping ", increasing the breathing work simultaneously the and
      functional residual capacity (FRC) with consequent decrease of the pressure maximum
      expiratory. Also the decreases of the pick of flow expiratory and changes in the curve
      flow-volume contributing to the closing of the outlying aerial roads. This way the breathing
      muscular function will be strongly harmed and correlated with the state nutritional and it
      forces muscular outlying. Besides, modifications in the curvature of the diaphragm, with a
      negative effect for the capacity to generate muscular force, collaborating for the decrease
      inspiratory.

      The participant was completely evaluated, including personal information, medical history and
      a physical examination.

      Measurement of Translation provided gratis.

      MIP and MEP: Before and after the respiratory muscle training, inspiratory and expiratory
      strength were evaluated and analysed through the maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) and
      maximum expiratory pressure (MEP), respectively. This was measured using a device called a
      vacuum manometer (analogical with operational intervals of -120 to + 120 cmH2O, Critical
      Med/USA-2002 and display with scale intervals of 4 cmH2O). During MIP measurements, a nasal
      clip was used, which prevented air from escaping during the evaluation. In MIP measurements,
      the mouth and oropharynx can create negative pressure that can alter the results depending on
      whether the glottis opens (correct form) or closes (improper form). To prevent this
      interference of the orofacial musculature in the MIP measurements, an escape orifice was
      placed in the measurement instrument. This orifice relieved the pressure without
      significantly affecting the pressure produced by the respiratory muscles. Five tests were
      carried out to get three acceptable measures (i.e., duration of at least 2 seconds and an
      absence of emptying).

      Acceptable tests were required to have at least two reproducible measurements (a maximum
      difference of 5% between the two maxima). A rest of at least one minute between tests was
      used for better equalization of the volumes and (consequently) the attainment of maximum
      pressures. To measure MEP, the patient was instructed to inhale until reaching total
      pulmonary capacity (TPC) and to carry through a supported expiratory effort down to the
      residual volume (RV). A seated position was used when measuring both MIP and MEP.

      Threshold Group Training: after the measurement of the initial MIP and MEP (pre-training),
      the elderly individuals of the TG were submitted to a respiratory exercise program. The
      research of Ide et al. (2007) showed that this program contributes to an increase in chest
      expansion in healthy elderly people. The program was composed of the following exercises:
      active/resistance exercise of horizontal adduction-abduction and flexion-extension of the
      shoulder joint; active/resistance exercise of anterior flexion associated with rotation of
      the trunk and lateral flexion of the trunk; active/resistance exercise of lateral rotation of
      the trunk; active/resistance exercise to put the superior members above the head. The
      relaxation protocol consisted of inspiration and deep expiration without the accompaniment of
      other movements. After training, the Threshold® IMT (Respironics USA - 2004) was used. This
      device is commercially offered in the form of a transparent plastic cylinder; at one end is a
      valve that is kept closed for the positive pressure by a spring, while at the other end is a
      nipple. The valve blocks the aerial flow until the patient generates inspiratory pressure
      sufficient to overcome the spring.

      The utilization of Threshold in this research began with a gradual load, starting with 50% of
      the MIP of each individual and increasing 10% per week until the fourth week. From the fifth
      week on, this was increased by 5% until 100% was reached in the eighth week or the maximum
      pressure value of the Threshold IMT (41 cmH2O) was reached. Thereafter, this value was kept
      constant in the final two weeks. The sessions lasted 20 minutes and consisted of seven series
      of strengthening (2 minutes each) with an interval of 1 minute between the series; sessions
      were conducted three times per week for ten weeks.

      In the use of this training program, all the elderly individuals had been evaluated
      separately and trained in a group with individualized attention.

      Voldyne Group Training: The same respiratory exercises used in the TG were used in the VG.

      The maximum inspiratory sustentation technique (MIS) using the Voldyne mobilizes great
      pulmonary volumes and thereby increases the intra-alveolar pressure until the end of the
      supported inspiration. The increase in the intra-alveolar pressure is directly proportional
      to the contractile strength of the respiratory muscles (diaphragm and accessories), thus
      justifying the fact that intense muscular activity is required to reach the total pulmonary
      capacity (TPC) and to support inspiration at this level.

      The use of EI (Voldyne®) incentive spirometry as muscular training in elderly people and as a
      basis for physiotherapy followed some guidelines. The patient's trunk was positioned at 30º
      relative to the horizontal plane, providing more diaphragmatic conscription. The device was
      positioned vertically. The volume indicator was visible to the patient to provide visual
      biofeedback. The patient was instructed to carry out a slow and deep inspiration until
      reaching TPC from the functional residual capacity (FRC). Slow inspiration favours a laminar
      flow. A sustentation of the maximum inspiration of around three seconds was recommended.
      Expiration occurred normally until the FRC was reached. During the use of Voldyne, patient
      hyperventilation was avoided. Intervals of 60 seconds between the inspiration support maxima
      were recommended 11. The elderly subjects received a verbal command to initiate a new
      inspiration. In this study, the Voldyne was used for 20 minutes, that is, 40 repetitions with
      2 repetitions per minute. The procedure lasted 10 weeks at a frequency of three times per
      week. The group was supervised intermittently during the twenty minutes to ensure that
      hyperventilation was not occurring.

      Control Group Training: This group received only respiratory exercises. The exercises was
      composed of the following exercises: active/resistance exercise of horizontal
      adduction-abduction and flexion-extension of the shoulder joint; active/resistance exercise
      of anterior flexion associated with rotation of the trunk and lateral flexion of the trunk;
      active/resistance exercise of lateral rotation of the trunk; active/resistance exercise to
      put the superior members above the head. The relaxation protocol consisted of inspiration and
      deep expiration without the accompaniment of other movements.

      Statistical Treatment:The average and standard deviation (av ± sd) were calculated for age,
      body mass index, maximum respiratory pressure and functional autonomy. The normality of the
      sample was evaluated by the Shapiro-Wilk test and the homogeneity of the variance by the test
      of Levene. For the within-groups analysis variables, the parametric Student's t test or
      Wilcoxon was used when appropriate (for homogeneous or heterogeneous distribution of the
      data, respectively). For the between-groups evaluation, the nonparametric Kruskal-Wallis test
      was used followed by the Mann-Whitney multiple comparisons test. The statistical significance
      level adopted was p < 0.05. Excel and the SPSS v14.0 statistical package program were used to
      evaluate the data.
    
  