
    
      MITI-HF is a prospective, single blinded, pilot randomized single-site trial. The target
      sample size was 65 participants; however, to account for an estimated 35% attrition rate, the
      target number for recruitment was 100 participants. We calculated the target sample size
      based on a 2:1 randomization (intervention: control) with 90% power (5% alpha) to detect a
      difference of 80% versus 50% (intervention and control group) of scoring over 70, which is
      the cut-off for adequate self-care at three months between the two groups. The power analysis
      was performed using G*Power and confirmed with PASS. Randomization to the intervention or
      usual care group occurred after the informed consent form was signed and New York Heart
      Association (NYHA) Functional Class was scored. To achieve balance in both arms of the study,
      the Minim randomization program was used to minimize prognostic factor differences between
      groups. Minim stratified participants based on NYHA class and gender to one of two arms in a
      2:1 ratio (intervention: control). The research assistants were blinded to group assignment
      until all study data was collected. All eligible patients were screened for health literacy
      using a three-question health literacy questionnaire, cognitive impairment using a six-item
      screener derived from the Mini Mental Status Exam (MMSE), baseline self-care using the SCHFI
      (v.6.2), and NYHA functional class using the Central Assessment of NYHA Functional Class. A
      single board-certified cardiologist scored all of the NYHA functional class scores. Medical,
      socio-demographic, Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ), and Heart Failure Somatic
      Perception Scale (HFSPS) data were collected at baseline via phone call by blinded research
      assistants (RA) approximately two weeks after hospital discharge. Socio-demographics were
      assessed using a questionnaire that inquires about gender, age, marital/partnership status,
      ethnicity/race, and employment. Follow-up data were collected at 90 days by the blinded RAs.
      If the first call was unsuccessful, the RA would try every 3 to 5 days for up to 60 days. If
      there was no contact with the participant after 60 days from the expected follow-up date, the
      participant was considered lost to follow-up. During the follow-up phone call, participants
      completed the SCHFI, KCCQ, HFSPS and self-reported clinical events within the study period.
      Self-reported clinical events were verified with a review of the electronic medical record to
      confirm any hospitalizations, emergency room visits, or outpatient heart failure related
      visits that occurred within the study period.
    
  