
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      To compare the overall survival of selected advanced HCC patients treated with sorafenib
      combined with TACE with sorafenib alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        1. To compare the time to progression(TTP).

        2. To compare the tumor response and disease control rate according to Response Evaluation
           Criteria in Solid Tumors(RECIST), modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
           Tumors(mRECIST) and European Association of Liver Disease(EASL) criteria.

        3. To compare the safety.

      OTHER OBJECTIVES:

      1. To explore the prognostic value of AFP response after treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase 3, prospective, randomized, controlled trial. Patients
      are stratified according to

        1. ECOG ( 0 vs. 1)

        2. Child-Pugh (A vs. B7)

        3. Tumor burden

             1. single vs. multiple lesions

             2. tumor size (>8cm vs. ≤8cm)

             3. vascular invasion (yes vs. no)

             4. extrahepatic metastasis (yes vs. no)

        4. Alpha fetoprotein(AFP)(≤ 200 ng/mL vs. > 200 ng/mL) Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
           treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive two tablets of sorafenib (200 mg tablets) twice daily (each morning
      and evening). Patients undergo the first conventional transarterial chemoembolization (TACE)
      within 3-7 days after the first administration of sorafenib. The conventional TACE consists
      of an injection containing a mixture of chemotherapeutic agents (doxorubicin) and lipiodol
      followed by embolization with polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) or beads until complete stasis was
      achieved in the tumor-feeding vessels. Tumor-feeding vessels should be selected/superselected
      whenever possible. TACE will be repeated "on demand" depending on the radiological response.

      ARM II: Patients receive two tablets of sorafenib (200 mg tablets) twice daily (each morning
      and evening).

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Standard follow-up evaluations include contrast-enhanced CT scan and
      laboratory assessment. Laboratory assessment will be performed every 4 weeks. Radiological
      follow-up (contrast-enhanced CT scan in liver and chest X-ray) will be performed during week
      4 and week 8 after initiation of treatment and thereafter every 8 weeks.
    
  