
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common and disabling condition in the expanding elderly
      population of the US and worldwide. Its etiology remains unknown and both genetic and
      environmental factors have been suspected. The long-term goal of the proposed studies is to
      clarify the etiology of PD and to identify means to prevent it. Specifically, we will study
      the association of PD with susceptibility genes previously found associated with novelty
      seeking behavior, substance use (tobacco, alcohol, and caffeine), and anxiety and depressive
      disorders. The hypotheses tested derive directly from our current work and preliminary
      findings. We will employ the case-unaffected sibling control study design and analyses will
      use a generalization of the sibling transmission dysequilibrium test, or "S-TDT". In total,
      nine candidate susceptibility genes will be considered, of which only five have undergone
      limited study for PD. The candidate susceptibility genes include three detoxification genes,
      three dopaminergic genes, and three serotonergic genes. We will include 800 cases of PD
      referred to the Mayo Clinic from a 120-mile radius or from a 5-state region during
      approximately a 10-year period. We will also include their eligible siblings age 40 years or
      above, projecting that blood DNA samples will be available for 563 affected probands or
      siblings and 1,180 unaffected siblings stratified in 521 informative sibships. Sibships with
      multiple affected or unaffected siblings will be included. PD cases will undergo a clinical
      assessment and blood sampling, and provide family information through a face-to-face
      interview followed by a written mail-in form. All living siblings ages 40 and above will be
      screened for PD using a validated telephone instrument. Subjects screening negative for PD
      will provide DNA with mail-in blood sampling kits only. Persons screening positive will be
      clinically assessed at the Mayo Clinic or at home, and blood DNA samples will be directly
      obtained. Genotyping will be performed using polymerase chain reaction methods and will be
      blinded to affected or unaffected status. The study will avoid population stratification bias
      by using sibling controls. The candidate susceptibility genes selected for primary analyses
      relate to personality traits, substance use, and psychiatric diseases that we have found
      associated with PD. The selection of these genes represents a major paradigm shift. We will
      also establish a large DNA bank for rapid and efficient testing of new genetic hypothesis for
      PD. This application is submitted in response to RFA ES-00-002 ("The Role of the Environment
      in Parkinson's Disease"). We specifically address the RFA's objectives of evaluating
      endogenous (including biomarkers) and exogenous (including dietary and lifestyle)
      susceptibility factors for PD using molecular epidemiology tools.
    
  