
    
      The primary aim of this study is to provide support for the clinical utility of
      Internet-based Compassionate-Mind Training (CMT) with pregnant women, women who were recently
      pregnant, or women who are interested in becoming pregnant. Specifically, the investigators
      will compare an existing treatment, Internet-based Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy (CBT)
      psychoeducational resources to Internet-based CMT psychoeducational resources. The
      researchers hypothesize Internet-based CMT is more effective than Internet-based CBT in
      enhancing self-compassion and self-reassuring and decreasing self-criticizing and
      self-attacking. Additionally, the researchers hypothesize the CBT and CMT conditions will
      have near equivalence for improving participant affect as well as depression and anxiety.

      An additional aim of the study is to assess the feasibility and acceptability of the course.
      As such, participants in each condition will be invited to complete the feedback questions
      for the course. The feedback questions will then be used in the hopes of adapting and
      improving the course based on participant feedback.

      Up to 7.1% of new mothers in the United States may experience depression within the first
      three months of giving birth (Gavin et al., 2005). If minor depressive episodes are included,
      then the prevalence rate becomes as high as 19.2% (Gavin et al., 2005). The global incidence
      of postnatal depression is likely even higher (Almond, 2009). This course will target women
      who are interested in becoming pregnant, currently pregnant, or pregnant in the last year who
      seek to improve well-being during the perinatal period.

      There is a strong base of research to suggest that maternal depression has significant
      impacts on offspring (Forman et al., 2007; Goodman, 2007). These effects tend to develop
      while the child is still in-utero (Forman et al., 2007; Goodman, 2007) and continue until the
      offspring reaches adulthood (Goodman & Brand, 2008). Research by Martins and Gaffan (2000)
      suggests that insecure attachment patterns are more common in children of depressed mothers
      than children of non-depressed mothers. Furthermore, insecure attachment style has
      substantial implications for persistent issues in functioning not only during childhood but
      throughout the entire lifespan (Martins & Gaffan, 2000). Since attachment is perhaps the most
      vital relationship during a human life, it is crucial to help make this relationship a
      positive one.

      Of the PPD interventions analyzed in a meta-analysis by Clatworthy (2012), the briefest
      intervention was shown to positively impact PPD (Matthey, Kavanagh, Howie, Barnett, &
      Charles, 2004), whereas the longest intervention analyzed did not show an effect (Buist,
      Westley, & Hill, 1999). There is evidence to suggest that interventions based on
      psychological models are more effective than purely educational material (Clatworthy, 2012).
      Internet interventions, including the present course, have the advantages of being low cost
      while reaching large audiences around the world.

      Nonconsumable interventions, or reusable interventions, are predominately automated and can
      be reused with minimal cost for each additional individual participant (Muñoz, 2010).
      Nonconsumable interventions are important for reducing health disparities worldwide, as they
      can be reused at low cost. The current Internet Intervention, which will aim to increase
      compassion, is both non-consumable and firmly grounded in the principles of Dr. Paul
      Gilbert's CFT. Additionally, the CFT condition will be compared to a CBT Internet
      intervention to assess relative efficacy. The researchers will focus specifically on the
      constructs of self-compassion, self-reassurance, self-attacking, depression, anxiety, and
      mood.

      Self-compassion involves an individual being both aware and open to the internal suffering
      that one experiences (Neff, Hsieh, & Dejitterat, 2005), while keeping in mind that being
      imperfect is a trait shared across all humans (Neff & Vonk, 2009; Neff, 2009). Samaie and
      Farahani (2011) found that self-compassion served as a significant moderator between
      rumination and stress, suggesting that higher levels of self-compassion can decrease the
      relationship between rumination and stress (Samaie & Farahani, 2011). Also, self-compassion
      has also been linked to one's ability to balance one's own needs and the needs of another in
      a conflict situation (Yarnell & Neff, 2013). The cultivation of self-compassion has been
      shown to improve quality of shared decision making in interpersonal relationships as well as
      improve an individual's ability to balance her needs in a relationship with the needs of her
      partner (Yarnell & Neff, 2013).

      CFT, which has an aim to increase compassion, is a movement towards a more biopsychosocial
      science of psychotherapy (Gilbert, 2010; Lawrence & Lee, 2013). It seeks to increase systemic
      harmony and ability to cultivate compassion for others, receive compassion from others, and
      direct compassion towards the self. This approach draws from social, developmental,
      evolutionary and Buddhist psychology (Gilbert, 2009). CFT holds that psychopathology
      manifests from unbalanced systems of affect regulation, such that the threat-based system is
      activated disproportionately to the contentment, safety, and soothing system. As such, this
      approach seeks to educate the participant about these systems and to increase the
      contentment, safety, and soothing system activity in order to augment compassion and
      well-being (Lawrence & Lee, 2013). Compassionate Mind Training (CMT) is the intervention
      component from the principles of CFT (Gilbert & Procter, 2006).

      A lack of stimulation in the contentment, soothing, and safety system may also have
      physiological effects, particularly by inhibiting the production of oxytocin (Cree, 2010).
      When maternal oxytocin is disregulated, the parent-child bonding process can be adversely
      affected (Carter, 1998). Furthermore, irregularities in neuroendocrine activity related to
      attachment, history of the parent, and social atmosphere can make the bonding process more
      difficult (Carter, 2003). The use of CFT with a perinatal population has the ability to
      stimulate the aforementioned systems, improve the mother's compassion, and positively impact
      the attachment with her baby.

      In a preliminary study, the researchers contacted participants from the UCSF Mothers and
      Babies Internet Project (Barrera, Kelman, & Muñoz, 2014). The majority of respondents stated
      they would be interested in learning how to be more compassionate (83% of English
      participants; 94% of Spanish participants). Also, these women asserted that Internet-based
      CMT would be useful to them (mean rating=7.41 out of 10).

      The hypotheses of the current study are:

        1. Following completion of the didactic portion of the course, participants will see
           greater increases in self-reassurance and decreases in self-attacking and
           self-criticizing in the CMT condition relative to the CBT condition.

        2. Following completion of the didactic portion of the course, participants will see near
           equivalent affect improvements in the CMT and CBT conditions.

        3. Following completion of the entire course, participants will see greater increases in
           self-compassion in the CMT condition relative to the CBT condition.

        4. Following completion of the entire course, participants will see near equivalent
           reductions in depression and anxiety in the CMT and CBT conditions.
    
  