
    
      Background/Context:

      This project deals with medical treatment of primary hyperparathyroidism. The only cure
      currently available is surgical removal of one or more parathyroid glands, but this option is
      neither feasible, nor desirable in all patients with the diagnosis.

      Today a major group of patients are being diagnosed by coincidence with biochemical
      blood-screening, and are therefore in an asymptomatic state of the disease at the time of
      diagnosis. Long term studies show that these patients over time often have progression in
      their disease, and develop complications such as osteoporosis. Thus a medical alternative is
      warranted.

      Previous studies have investigated the effects of well known antiresorptive drugs such as
      bisphosphonates, as well as estrogen-related compounds. These drugs have had effects on
      particularly bone mineral density (BMD) and biochemical bone-turnover markers, but have been
      able only transiently to lower blood-calcium levels. Combined with too many unwanted
      side-effects and a high prevalence of contraindications for a large proportion of the
      patients needing treatment, these drugs have not provided a realistic alternative to surgery.

      Treatment today generally follows the international consensus for treatment of asymptomatic
      patients with primary hyperparathyroidism. Briefly this includes watchful waiting with
      biannual control-sessions for indication of surgery, screening for kidney
      stones/nephrolithiasis, osteoporosis and s-calcium - and s-iPTH levels.

      This randomized controlled trial involves the drugs Cinacalcet og Denosumab. Denosumab has
      previously been shown to greatly improve BMD, lower s-calcium, lower the rate of
      bone-turnover and prevent osteoporotic fractures in several populations with different
      diseases, but has never been tested in a published randomized controlled trial in patients
      with primary hyperparathyroidism.

      Cinacalcet has been proved able to lower s-iPTH, lower s-Calcium and thereby relieve symptoms
      of hypercalcaemia caused by primary hyperparathyroidism. It does not however, lower the rate
      of bone turnover, and it has not been show to improve BMD.

      By combining the two drugs, this study could possibly contribute to the discovery of a
      realistic medical alternative to surgery. It is expected that the therapy will be able to
      both control s-calcium and s-iPTH, and simultaneously enhance bone-structure. The therapy
      thus has the potential of preventing fractures and possibly other long-term effects of
      primary hyperparathyroidism such as formation of kidney stones, and coronary calcification.
      Another objective of this project is to investigate whether the combined therapy can
      facilitate an actual reset of the Calcium-sensing receptor, and thereby de facto cure the
      disease.
    
  