
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a potential complication for patients undergoing cardiac
      surgery. AKI in post-cardiac surgery patients is associated with adverse outcomes, such as
      prolonged intensive care and hospital stay, diminished quality of life, increased long-term
      mortality, and an increased risk of chronic kidney disease requiring dialysis. The mortality
      in cardiac surgery patients with AKI severe enough to require renal replacement therapy (RRT)
      can be as high as 60%. One of the putative agents associated with AKI in animal models
      receiving crystalloid fluids for resuscitative interventions is excess exogenous chloride ion
      (Cl-). As compared to non-Cl- containing solutions in animal models, excess Cl- appears to
      lead to a hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, increased renal vascular resistance, reduced
      renal blood flow, and reduced glomerular filtration rate - all of which are injurious to
      kidney function.

      Historically, one of the most common balanced salt-solutions used in adult cardiac surgery
      has been 0.9% normal saline (NS), a crystalloid solution with 154 mmol/L of Cl-. This is much
      higher than physiologic plasma levels of 103 mmol/L. Isolyte, a less commonly used
      crystalloid solution, is much closer to physiologic levels at 98 mmol/L Cl-. In the context
      of cardiac surgery, there is no literature expressly comparing the effects of balanced
      crystalloid solution such as Isolyte versus NS on AKI incidence. There is a single trial
      examining a low-Cl- containing colloid solution in cardiac surgery that found less metabolic
      acidosis; however, AKI or markers of AKI were not measured outcomes in that lone trial, so it
      is not known whether low Cl- solution will have any effect on AKI risk in humans.

      AKI results from a series of extremely complex cellular and molecular pathways involving
      endothelial, epithelial, inflammatory, and interstitial cells. The gold standard for
      identification and classification of AKI is dependent on serial serum creatinine (Scr)
      measurements, but this measurement can be unreliable during acute changes in kidney function.
      Recent studies have shown that tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP-2) performs better
      than existing markers for predicting the development of moderate or severe AKI (Kidney
      Disease: Improving Global Outcomes [KDIGO] stage 2 or 3) within 12 hours of sample
      collection. To further enhance the sensitivity of utilizing TIMP-2, the investigators plan on
      also measuring urinary insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 7 (IGFBP7). Along with
      TIMP-2, IGFBP7 is also an inducer of G1 cell cycle arrest, a key mechanism implicated in AKI.

      This study will utilize the urinary [TIMP-2]*[IGFBP7] multiplicative product as a composite
      biomarker index to investigate the impact of intraoperative infusion of NS versus Isolyte on
      post-cardiac surgery renal function. This biomarker should identify patients at risk of
      imminent (within 12 hours) AKI KDIGO criteria.

      Patients presenting for cardiac surgery are already quite ill often with multiple
      comorbidities. Acute kidney injury in this population is associated with significant
      morbidity and mortality. The available literature indicates that a fairly simple intervention
      could plausibly reduce the incidence of AKI, but it has not yet been examined in humans.
      Generating an evidence basis for it will substantially improve the safety of patients who
      need cardiac surgery. This intervention to reduce AKI may also then be applied to the broader
      non-cardiac surgery population as well.
    
  