
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major public health concern. Progression of CKD leads to
      end-stage renal disease (ESRD), a total and permanent failure of kidney function requiring
      kidney transplant or maintenance hemodialysis. Among the numerous risk factors of mortality,
      severe malnutrition, now defined as protein energy wasting (PEW), which is manifested by low
      serum levels of albumin or pre-albumin, sarcopenia and weight loss, is one of the strongest
      predictors of mortality, morbidity and infection-related hospitalizations in hemodialysis
      (HD) patients. When PEW is present or the patient is at high risk, oral intradialytic or
      daily supplements, aiming at increasing energy and protein intake, while in selected cases
      intra-dialytic parenteral nutrition may be used for the clinician. Previous reports showed
      that providing patients with intradialytic food, liquid supplements, or parenteral nutrition
      has been shown to compensate for this loss. In patients with ESRD, it is important to prevent
      PEW through a regular nutritional status evaluation and nutritional counseling by a renal
      dietitian. Intradialytic administration of oral or parenteral supplementation of nutrients is
      safe and should be encouraged in selected patients. Although the problem of malnutrition
      became more and more serious due to the increasingly aging and Diabetes Mellitus (DM)
      proportion in HD population, there are still no universally accepted methods to early detect
      or predict this problem. Thus, the intention for early intervention to suitable patients
      faces difficulty. In Taiwan Prediction Model Project Plan (TPMPP), the investigators try to
      develop a model using common available clinical data with the utilization of current machine
      learning methods to early detect the patients with high risks for malnutrition and the
      investigators wish through the routine application of this model, the investigators can do
      nutrition intervention in much earlier stage and improve the patients' outcome. In the first
      stage of TPMPP, the investigators have developed some prediction models through an abundant
      retrospective database collected in Fresenius Database (NephroWeb) from 2011-2018. Before
      real implementation of these models in clinical practice, the investigators need to validate
      these models with prospective design with proper intervention, this is the main purpose of
      this study. The Body Composition Monitor with the principle of Bioimpedance Spectroscopy
      (BCMBIS, Fresenius Medical Care) is a simple and accurate tool for the assessment of body
      composition. Recently, the lean and fat mass indexes (LTI, FTI), derived from BCM, have
      become good predictors of mortality in HD individuals, which have been more sensitive to
      malnutrition, and altogether anthropometric indicators may result in an early detection of
      mortality risk in this population. Thus, the investigators also try to apply these parameters
      in this study as important nutrition outcomes for follow-up.
    
  