
    
      The total project will last 12 months, with 3 months to prepare testing facilities and train
      personnel, 6 months to analyze enough subjects for statistical power, and 3 months of
      statistical analysis and review. Between three to eleven Air Force Reserve bases with a
      Developmental Training Flight (DTF) will be given a RunDNA 3D Motion Analysis system to
      participate as testing facilities. The DTF is part of the Air Force Reserves where new
      recruits undergo education and training prior to BMT. Three to five Exercise Physiologists at
      each DTF base will be trained on how to perform the RunDNA analysis. Training will be done
      remotely, which has already successfully been done through video-based lectures at 6 Air
      Force bases. Each research examiner will pass a test and must submit a 3D analysis done with
      the RunDNA device prior to testing for standardization of procedures.

      Each DTF has upwards of 100 military recruits who are preparing to attend BMT at any given
      time. Recruits will undergo baseline fitness testing when they are within 16 weeks of
      attending BMT. Fitness testing is comprised of a timed mile and a half run, two-minute timed
      pushup test, and two-minute timed sit up test. Three days or less after Fitness Testing (once
      any soreness has resolved), the recruits will undergo the RunDNA Analysis.

      The RunDNA analysis consists of a Running Readiness Assessment (RRA) to determine mobility
      and strength and a 3D gait analysis to assess running form. The RRA is comprised of thirteen
      movement-based assessments that are scored with specific criteria for each test. The tests
      are:

        1. Toe Touch

        2. Back Bend

        3. Rotation

        4. Single Leg Balance - Eyes Closed

        5. Squat

        6. Single leg sit to stand

        7. Unilateral Hip Bridge Endurance Test

        8. Single Leg Calf Raise

        9. Side Plank

       10. Toe Splay

       11. Hallux Extension

       12. Hallux Abduction

       13. Ankle Range of Motion Items 1 through 5 have additional break downs to further identify
           limitations in movement and prescribe specific corrective exercise programs. DTF site
           personnel will enter the RRA results into the RunDNA mobile app at the time of
           administration. A scoring system has been created for a total of 55 points, where 1
           point is given for a strength limitation, 2 points for a mobility limitation, and 3
           points for painful movement. Each runner will be given a score from their RRA.

      The 3D running analysis will use a portable device mounted on a tripod five feet behind a
      treadmill. There are 3 optical motion capture cameras with LED lights in each device.
      Eighteen reflective markers will be adhered to each runner using the modified Helen Hayes
      protocol. Runners will be given a minimum of 2 minutes to warm up, and then 15 seconds of
      running will be captured. After the quality of the 3D capture has been verified, each runner
      will be assigned a running category determined by the software. The software will communicate
      the running category with the mobile app and the groups that are being prescribed exercises
      will have those programs added to their profile.

      Research participants (recruits) will also fill out information on demographics, running
      experience, and injury history under their profile in the mobile application.

      Investigators will randomly assigning which participants will be getting the intervention
      program at the DTF sites to prescribe personalized programs based off the RunDNA analysis.
      Examiners will assign the program based off of the user id that is generate, where odds will
      be give the intervention and evens will not. The prescription of the programs is standardized
      by using the mobile app to analyze the runner's results and prescribe one corrective exercise
      program from the RRA, one gait category program, and one fitness training program. The gait
      category program will be one of twelve programs that classify runners after the software
      analyzes all running variables. Each category has specific warm up exercises, specific
      drills, and specific gait retraining methods to lower the risk of injury for runners by
      improving their form. An example category is an overstrider cadence program. This person
      lands with the foot too far in front of the body because they have a slow step rate. The
      overstrider cadence program includes a dynamic warm up, drills using a higher step rate, and
      gait retraining where the runner matches their footsteps to a metronome that is 5-10% higher
      than their self-selected step rate.

      Recruits will go through a minimum of 8 weeks of training at DTF using the mobile app and GPS
      watches to track compliance and training loads. The training program utilizes motor learning
      principles to gradually increase the time a runner uses the new form with faded feedback to
      allow for a natural adoption of the running technique. Cross training is included for
      cardiovascular fitness, as well as speed work for running in the later stages of the program
      to improve performance. Within 2 weeks of the recruit going to BMT, site personnel will
      readminister the Fitness Tests and RunDNA Analysis using the same procedures listed above to
      monitor changes in fitness, mobility, strength, and running form. Results will be recorded in
      the RunDNA app for analysis.

      All recruits will be monitored through the mobile application during BMT to assess Fitness
      Test performance, injury rates, utilization of medical services, graduation rate, and
      subjective pain and fatigue reports. Recruits will continue to wear the GPS device to track
      training load. A daily subjective questionnaire will be filled out by the recruits on their
      issued iPad reporting on injury status and syncing the watch's training data. If iPads are
      not available to use the RunDNA app for each recruit, an analogue journal will be provided
      that has their research subject number in the journal. Each recruit will be given their
      subject number to know which journal is theirs. At the end of BMT the journals will be mailed
      to be manually entered. If iPads are not available to use the RunDNA app, multiple iPads will
      be sent to the medical staff at BMT and participants will come in twice weekly to sync their
      GPS device with the iPad to load up training data from the GPS.

      There will be no change in training plans from standard BMT protocols for recruits doing
      through this research study. If at any point a recruit experiences injury or requests medical
      attention the BMT medical staff will alert the Principle Investigator.

      Statistical analysis will be done on all results to answer the primary research question,
      with the anticipation of identifying key modifiable variables related to running injuries in
      the control group and the intervention group's ability to reduce injury rates and boost
      performance.
    
  