
    
      Study Design and Procedure:

      The present study is a single arm, double blinded, prospective trial. Patients admitted to
      hospital with high-risk non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTE-ACS) and who accept to
      participate to the study will undergo a coronary compute tomography (CT) angiography within
      23 hours after diagnosis in order to have time to proceed to coronary angiography within the
      recommended window time of 24h. After realization of the CT, they will benefit from
      guidelines recommended treatment including a coronary angiography. According to internal and
      international guidelines, all efforts will be made to perform the coronary angiography within
      24h of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) diagnosis.

      The coronary CT angiography procedure takes approximately 1-2h (including logistical
      organization and patient transportation), and all efforts will be made not to delay the
      coronary angiography compared to patients who would not participate in the study. At the time
      of coronary angiography, patients will be blinded from the CT results as well as the direct
      treating physician and interventional cardiologist realizing the procedure, in order to avoid
      any influence in patients' management. The procedure will be done using a 256-slice
      multi-detector CT (GE Healthcare Revolution CT, Chicago, Illinois, USA). Just before the
      examination, as routinely done for this non-invasive test to allow for optimal coronary
      vasodilation and visualization, oral Metoprolol (25-50mg) will be administered if necessary
      to ensure a heart rate of 65 bpm or lower as well as one unique dose of sublingual
      nitroglycerine (400-800mg). Parameters used for CT acquisition will be as following: 100
      Kilovoltage peak (kVp)/550 milliamperes (mA) for body mass index (BMI) <25 (high definition
      mode), 100 kVp/550 mA for BMI included between 25 and 30, 120 kVp/600 mA for BMI>30 (standard
      definition mode). Off line, an FFR-CT will be calculated with the data of the coronary CT
      angiography by blinded investigators in a central FFR-CT core laboratory (HeartFlow ®,
      Redwood City, CA 94063, USA). Hemodynamically significant lesion will be defined as lesion
      with an FFR-CT value of ≤ 0.80.

      During the invasive coronary angiography, fractional flow reserve (FFR) will be measured in
      all lesions with a visual diameter stenosis ≥30% using the PressureWire™ X Guidewire (Abbott,
      Chicago, Illinois, USA) with the following protocol: first, equalization of the pressure wire
      and the aortic pressure will be performed at the tip of the guide catheter prior to all
      measurements. Second, the pressure wire will then be advanced distal to the stenosis. Third,
      hyperemia will be obtained using intracoronary adenosine (150mcg for the right coronary
      artery and 200mcg for the left descending or the circumflex coronary arteries). Fourth, at
      the end of the procedure, the absence of a drift will be confirmed after a pull-back of the
      pressure to the same location as the initial equalization. Hemodynamically significant lesion
      will be defined as lesion with an FFR value of ≤ 0.80.

      Of note, in case of coronary angiography showing no obstructive coronary disease, and thus
      not offering satisfactory explanation for the myocardial injury, patients will undergo
      cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMRI), to detect a potential alternative diagnosis
      (myocarditis, Takotsubo…).

      Both invasive FFR and FFR derived from FFR-CT will be compared with invasive FFR as gold
      standard.

      Follow-up:

      Follow-up will be organized 1 month (± 7 days), 6 months (± 14 days) and 12 months (± 14
      days) after the acute coronary syndrome. These visits will include a detailed history, as
      well as physical examination and ECG. During the second visit, a transthoracic
      echocardiography will be performed, and a treadmill exercise stress test will be performed
      during the third visit.

      Data and Statistical Analysis:

      Statistical analysis will be carried out using SPSS 24.0 software (SPSS Inc., Chicago,
      Illinois) and Stata 14.3. Comparisons of characteristics of patients will be performed using
      Chi-squared tests for qualitative variables and Student's t or Mann-Whitney tests as
      appropriate. Confidence intervals (CI) for proportions (sensitivity, specificity, accuracy)
      will be calculated using the Wilson Score method. With the last iteration of the FFR-CT
      software, the per-patient sensitivity and specificity were 86% (95% CI: 77% to 92%) and 79%
      (95% CI: 72% to 84%). In the recent VERDICT trial based on NSTEMI patients, 12 % had 3 vessel
      disease, 23 % 2 vessel disease (which included left main), 34%, 1 vessel disease, 30%
      nothing, Thus, out of 100 patients with 300 coronaries, we expect 106 (i.e. 36+46+34) vessels
      with a stenosis. Based on the FAMOUS NSTEMI trial, 60% of invasive FFR measurements of these
      stenoses were significant. Thus, with a standard error of 0,05, and for a power of 80%, 204
      patients will be required. However, some of the CT will not be suitable for analysis and some
      patients will have to be excluded. Therefore, we plan to include 250 patients. Of note, these
      number is also in line with the literature investigating the accuracy of FFR-CT versus FFR in
      patients with stable coronary artery disease.
    
  