
    
      Simultaneous acquisition PET-MRI is a new technology that has the potential to significantly
      impact diagnostic patient care. It combines high signal resolution MRI anatomic imaging and
      PET biological measurements, with the added benefit of radiation dose reduction in comparison
      to PET-CT. As the incidence of false positive SPECT-MPI studies secondary to attenuation
      artifact is relatively high and MRI coverage of the left ventricular myocardium is limited,
      it is likely that one of the immediate applications of PET-MRI technology is myocardial
      ischemia assessment.

      PET has long been considered the noninvasive reference standard for myocardial perfusion.
      However, delayed contrast enhanced (DCE) MRI is very sensitive for infarct detection. Indeed,
      both PET and MR imaging have the potential to provide comprehensive whole heart ischemia and
      infarct detection.

      PET-MR technology, with its ability to obtain simultaneous perfusion information via both PET
      and MRI, has the potential to obtain multiple, possibly redundant, data sets. On the other
      hand, it also has the potential to combine the best of both techniques to provide a highly
      robust examination that is both shorter and of lower radiation dose than the standard
      myocardial PET perfusion examination. Optimization of a protocol is necessary to develop a
      comprehensive protocol without redundancy. Because of its single injection capability,
      regadenoson is ideally suited to a protocol that will assess and employ dual-modality
      myocardial perfusion data collection.

      It is expected that the best candidates for PET-MR myocardial perfusion imaging will likely
      be a) patients whose body habitus suggests that their SPECT-MPI examination would be limited
      by attenuation artifact -- women with large breasts and patients (usually men) with abdominal
      obesity and/or b) patients who may have a smaller region of ischemia that might be missed on
      an MRI examinations with limited perfusion coverage.
    
  