
    
      Introduction/Purpose Fish oil (Omega-3 fatty acid) is commonly used by patients as a natural
      anti-inflammatory to decrease joint pain from arthritis. Furthermore, fish oil has been found
      to decrease the risk of coronary artery disease, decrease mild hypertension, prevent cardiac
      arrhythmias and decrease blood triglyceride levels. Supplements, including fish oil, are
      typically stopped 1-2 weeks prior to surgery as there is an increased risk of perioperative
      bleeding. With modern blood management techniques in joint replacement surgery, including the
      use of tranexamic acid, the risk of perioperative bleeding may be minimized. With the risk
      being minimized fish oil may not need to be stopped prior to surgery and could be continued
      immediately after surgery. The anti-inflammatory effect of fish oil in the perioperative
      period may aid in post-operative pain management. The purpose of this study is to determine
      if continuing fish oil supplementation leads to higher blood loss in patients undergoing
      unilateral total hip arthroplasty (THA). A secondary analysis is to determine if patients on
      fish oil have less pain after THA.

      Objectives

      Primary Outcome Measures:

      • Calculated total perioperative blood loss milliliters (mL) using Bourke's, Gross',
      Camarasa's, and Lopez-Picado's formula based on post-operative (PO) D5 Hemoglobin and
      Hematocrit

      Secondary Outcomes Measures:

        -  Incidence of blood transfusion

        -  Post-operative day 1 Hemoglobin and Hematocrit

        -  Post-operative pain scores

        -  Pain medication usage (morphine equivalents)

        -  Difference in wound complications (superficial and deep infection, drainage, hematoma)

      Study Design Open-label, adaptive randomized clinical trial with a 1:1 randomization

      Study arms:

      Control: No fish oil supplementation. Interventional: Fish oil supplementation started or
      continued Fish-Oil naïve subjects will be started on fish oil 4 weeks prior to surgery and
      continued until the 6 week follow up. Subjects already taking fish oil will be switched to
      the study fish-oil formulation of two capsules twice daily (3000 mg of EPA and DHA).

      All subjects will be asked to stop all non-Fish Oil supplements 2 weeks prior to and 2 weeks
      after surgery.

      Sample size: The primary outcome is blood loss, mean of 1200 mL with a reported standard
      deviation of 340 mL. A non-inferiority trial to determine if there is no difference in blood
      loss between subjects taking fish oil and subjects not taking fish-oil will require 50
      subjects in each arm with 80% power lower limit of a one-sided 90% confidence two-sided
      confidence interval that the difference between the two groups is one half the reported
      standard deviation of 340 mL (170 mL). To allow for drop-outs, 60 subjects will be enrolled
      in each arm.

      Randomization: As patients already taking fish-oil supplements will likely not be willing to
      discontinue their regimen, an adaptive randomization will be performed. Patients already on
      fish-oil will be assigned to the Interventional Arm and the subsequent randomization
      adjusted.

      Study Procedures After being deemed eligible, potential study participants will be approached
      about the study asked to sign an informed consent form that has been approved by the internal
      review board. Patients that meet the inclusion criteria will be randomized to either the
      control group or experimental group. Patients in the experimental group will started on 3000
      mg of EPA and DHA 4 weeks prior to surgery. The fish oil will be continued in the
      perioperative period and until their 6 week follow up appointment. Patients will be supplied
      the fish oil at no cost. Patients will stop all other supplements and herbal medicines 2
      weeks prior to surgery and will not restart the supplements until 2 weeks after surgery.

      Pre-operative hemoglobin and hematocrit will be obtained on all patients during preadmission
      testing. All patients must stay one night in the hospital after surgery. A post-day #1 and #5
      hemoglobin and hematocrit will be obtained on all patients. Amount of fluid collected in the
      wound drain will also be collected. Blood loss will be calculated using the Bourke's, Gross',
      Camarasa's, and Lopez-Picado's formula. Data will be collected on the rates of blood
      transfusions for each patient. Post-operative day 1 pain scores will be determined for each
      patient using the visual analog scale. Pain medication use through patient report will be
      collected and daily morphine equivalents starting on the day of surgery up until the patients
      6 week follow up will be calculated. Date and quantity of any narcotic refill will be
      recorded. Data will also be collected on the rate of wound complications in patients.
      Enrollment into the study is voluntary and participants can voluntarily withdraw at any time.
    
  