
    
      Patients between the ages of 5-17 with normal cognitive function presenting for Upper GI
      endoscopy will be considered for participation in this study. After consent is obtained from
      the parent/legal guardian, the patient will undergo a general anesthetic to facilitate the
      procedure. All patients in this study will receive a general anesthetic. Following routine
      inhalation induction with 8% sevoflurane in oxygen and nitrous oxide, 100% oxygen will be
      administered and intravenous access will be secured. Intravenous administration of Propofol
      3mg/kg and Fentanyl 1mcg/kg will be administered to facilitate endotracheal intubation with
      an age appropriate endotracheal tube for children randomized to receive endotracheal
      intubation. Following endotracheal intubation, the oropharynx will be auscultated for the
      presence of an audible air leak around the endotracheal tube. If an audible leak is
      appreciated below 20cm of H2O pressure, the cuff of the endotracheal tube will be gradually
      inflated with air until the audible leak is no longer appreciated. This is routine practice
      following endotracheal intubation. The endotracheal tube will not be lubricated prior to
      intubation. Those not receiving endotracheal intubation will undergo an inhalation induction,
      have intravenous access secured and intravenous propofol 3mg/kg with Fentanyl 1mcg/kg will be
      administered prior to placement of the nasal trumpet and connection to the anesthesia
      circuit. Both arms of patients will receive a general anesthetic consisting of sevoflurane in
      oxygen and air at routine concentrations for maintenance of anesthesia either via the
      endotracheal tube or via nasal trumpet for the Upper GI endoscopy procedure. Other
      medications that will be administered during the procedure to both arms of patients include
      Dexamethasone which will be administered at a dose of 0.15mg/kg up to 20 mg and Ondansetron
      0.15mg/kg up to 4mg for post operative nausea and vomiting prophylaxis. Additional maneuvers
      which may aggravate post operative dysphagia such as the use of a Yankauer suction catheters,
      placement of nasopharyngeal temperature probes and coughing during emergence prior to
      extubation of the patient will be avoided. Utilization of soft tip suction catheters and skin
      or axilla temperature probes will be employed and the trachea will be extubated under deep
      anesthesia. Data that will be collected will include: Pre-operative data: the recent need of
      breathing treatments, allergy history and smokers at home. Intraoperative data: the presence
      of bucking/coughing during intubation, experience level of the intubating practitioner,
      laryngoscopic view, endotracheal tube size, number of intubation attempts, experience of the
      endoscopist, size of the endoscope used and duration of the procedure. With both techniques
      (intubation and nasal trumpet use), the data that will be collected will include: Coughing or
      bucking prior to extubation or during emergence and removal of nasal trumpet, occurence of
      laryngospasm, bronchospasm or desaturation less than 95% requiring treatment , breath-holding
      and methods for resolution. PACU data: Incidence of laryngospasm, breath-holding, or apnea,
      presence or absence of nausea/vomiting and if treatment was required, requirement of
      additional pain medication, documentation of dysphagia prior to the first oral intake and
      grading of the sore throat as previously documented. Postoperatively, the presence of
      dysphagia will be sought at two different time points: Via face to face interview in the post
      operative anesthesia care unit (PACU) prior to the first per oral intake and 24 hours later
      at which point presence/absence of dysphagia will be ascertained via phone. Complaints will
      be graded according to a scoring system (Capon LM et al. Anesthesiology 1983) : Presence of
      sore throat (ST): Yes/No If No, ST will be graded as 0= no sore throat If Yes, ST will be
      graded 1-3 as follows: 1=mild sore throat (pain with swallowing) 2=moderate sore throat (pain
      present constantly and worsens with swallowing) 3=severe sore throat (pain interferes with
      eating and requires analgesic medication for relief). Pain will also be assessed with a VAS
      score immediately postoperatively and at 24 hours
    
  