
    
      1 BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

      1.1 Background

      Due to the high incidence of stroke, increased risk of developing secondary (e.g., pain,
      depression, urinary tract infections, pressure ulcers, falls, and seizures) and chronic
      conditions (e.g., second stroke, CVD), high medical costs 1, evolving healthcare system
      (e.g., reimbursement, length of stay, staffing productivity 2, healthcare professionals are
      challenged to explore and develop innovative strategies to continue to achieve the best
      clinical practice and outcomes for patients. Functional activity levels are typically low
      during inpatient rehabilitation post stroke 3-6, emphasized by King and colleagues 7 who
      reported that patients post stroke undergoing inpatient rehabilitation spent 76% of their day
      in their bedroom and 62% being inactive. Consequently, since dose of functional activity
      (amount of active time and/or quantity of repetitions) is posited to relate to outcomes 8-11,
      the optimal conditions for inpatient rehabilitation are being questioned. The literature is
      clear that low functional activity reflects low potential for neuroplasticity. Consequently,
      novel and feasible methods to provide higher doses of functional activity during inpatient
      rehabilitation, that realistically considers cost-effectiveness and resource allocation 12,
      are important to improve functional outcomes post stroke 13.

      1.2 Rationale for Protocol

      Early initiation of therapy post stroke has been associated with improved long-term outcomes
      14, and functional activity dose (e.g., activity time, number of repetitions) during the
      first week of inpatient rehabilitation predicts both gait velocity at discharge and length of
      time to independent walking 15. Specifically, patients who completed more than the median
      number of exercise repetitions (703) during the first week of inpatient rehabilitation
      experienced quicker recovery of unassisted walking 15. This lack of activity is a significant
      issue during inpatient rehabilitation and for overall recovery as repetitive task practice is
      argued to drive neural plasticity following stroke 16,17. Specifically, there is a growing
      body of evidence indicating that increased functional activity and large volume of practice
      during inpatient rehabilitation is required to induce improved stretch reflex modulation and
      increased neuromuscular activation 11, thus leading to meaningful neural adaptations and
      recovery following stroke 16. However, our current clinical practice of 3-hours of therapy
      during inpatient rehabilitation (which is standard of care for inpatient rehabilitation
      hospitals) may not be adequate to facilitate neuroplasticity and achieve optimal functional
      outcomes 10. This is emphasized by the fact that Medicare beneficiaries with stroke
      undergoing inpatient rehabilitation experienced shorter LOS, had worsening admission and
      discharge function, and had fewer community discharges 18. Therefore, our objective in this
      proposal is to evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of implementing a novel
      intervention to facilitate patient-directed activity for individuals undergoing inpatient
      rehabilitation. The goal of the intervention is to increase repetition, stimulation,
      attention, and therapeutic activity of the affected extremities and trunk to facilitate
      improved outcomes following stroke 17,19,20. This will be achieved by adding up to 1.5-hours
      of daily patient-directed activities into the individuals schedule beyond the 3-hours of
      therapy provided by clinicians, thus increasing daily therapeutic activity time by up to 50%.
      The activities will include physical (PT) and occupational therapy (OT) tasks (see table 1
      below for more details). The activities are therapeutic in nature, include typical activities
      that patients would complete during the 3-hours of therapy provided as standard of care, are
      low intensity, and include activities that involve being seated or prone on a gym mat.

      It is important to note that the clinical team at Baylor Institute for Rehabilitation has
      been implementing up to 1.5-hours of additional daily therapy into standard of care since
      January 2014. However, to date we have not collected any effectiveness data so the clinical
      and research team wanted to demonstrate through a research project that the addition of the
      extra 1.5-hours of daily therapy is beneficial beyond the 3-hours of therapy currently
      provided as standard of care. Since starting the additional therapy in January 2014 the
      clinical team has had 25 patients successfully move through rehabilitation and no patients
      have had any adverse events.

      2.1 Primary Objectives

      Pilot the feasibility of integrating the novel patient-directed activity program into
      inpatient rehabilitation following stroke. Based on guidelines for conducting an a priori
      pilot study we will assess aspects of the process (e.g., eligibility, randomization),
      resources (e.g., equipment, space), management (e.g., staff capacity for data entry and
      management), and scientific basis (e.g., sensitive outcome measures) of the intervention. Our
      working hypothesis is that that the patient-directed activity program will be successfully
      integrated into patient and clinical schedule.

      2.2 Secondary Objectives

      To identify if participation in the novel patient-directed activity program improves
      functional ability and health related quality of life (HRQOL) in patients post stroke. Our
      working hypothesis is that patients' post stroke that actively participate in the program
      will manifest significant increases in functional ability and HRQOL at discharge to inpatient
      rehabilitation and at the follow-up appointment within 6 months of discharge when compared to
      controls.

      3 INVESTIGATIONAL PLAN

      3.1 Study Design

      We will use a randomized controlled trial and include stroke patients who are undergoing
      inpatient rehabilitation at Baylor Institute for Rehabilitation (BIR). Participants will be
      randomized into an experimental (patient-directed station program) or control group (standard
      of care).
    
  