
    
      Park Nicollet Clinic and the Institute for Clinical Systems Integration have spent several
      million dollars developing evidence-based care guidelines and intervention strategies for a
      wide range of common illnesses. Included in the degenerative joint disease guideline are
      recommendations for the management of two inter-related risk factors for increased
      disability: obesity and lack of physical activity. This application seeks to integrate
      disability prevention programs into the post-acute management of rheumatoid and
      osteoarthritis.

      Our specific aims are to: (1) Modify well-established weight management techniques and
      physical activity promotion interventions according to Institute for Clinical Systems
      Integration recommendations for use by the broader community of individuals with potentially
      disabling rheumatoid and osteoarthritis; (2) Implement these interventions within a diverse
      patient population identified within an integrated health care system; (3) Demonstrate the
      short and long term impact of these interventions on patients suffering from debilitating
      joint disease; and (4) Facilitate incorporation of these interventions by other communities
      and clinical settings to enhance the longer-term well being of those with disabilities.

      To achieve our aims, we will modify existing weight management and physical activity
      promotion strategies across the continuum of care. Through patient focus groups, a clinical
      advisory board, a community advisory board, and pilot testing, key stakeholders will help
      assure effective program design and implementation strategies as well as development of
      sustainable interventions. Using pre- and post-intervention surveys and simple measures of
      physical ability and weight, we will demonstrate the effect of these interventions on
      physical activity levels and weight; assess the effect of the interventions on pain, quality
      of life, depression, and functional capacity in those diagnosed with rheumatoid or
      osteoarthritis; and document the implementation strategies for the community interventions.

      Our aims and hypotheses are consistent with the overarching goals of Healthy People 2010: (1)
      to increase quality and years of healthy life and (2) to eliminate health disparities. We
      address two focus areas, (2) arthritis and (6) disability and secondary conditions. Our
      intervention targets two of the leading health indicators: physical activity and overweight
      and obesity.
    
  