
    
      Significance. For the over 900,000 Americans experiencing a first cardiac event annually,
      stress, depression, and anxiety complicate recovery. Emotional distress, such as depression,
      anxiety, and rumination, detracts from a patient's ability to self-manage health behaviors
      such as diet and exercise. Those patients engaged in cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programs are
      in a unique position to enhance their recovery, yet do not regularly receive training to
      regulate their emotions. Effective emotion regulation can diminish symptoms of emotional
      distress. Developing an effective repertoire of emotion regulation strategies may be an
      important mechanism to strengthen self-management behaviors and quality of life. By
      understanding the neuroscience behind the mechanism of emotion regulation, targeted
      intervention strategies may aid in improving self-management behaviors. The newly developed
      RENEwS (Regulating Emotions to improve self-management of Nutrition, Exercise, and Stress)
      intervention is specifically designed to improve emotion regulation in CR patients and
      targets strengthening the recently discovered neural network task differentiation (analytic
      and emotional processing). RENEwS focuses on teaching emotion regulation strategies relevant
      to older adults following a first cardiac health event.

      Purpose. The goals of this pilot study are to assess the initial effects of the RENEwS
      program on 1) negative emotions, 2) self-management behaviors of diet and exercise, and 3)
      quality of life in CR patients following an acute cardiac event. A secondary goal of the
      proposed research is to explore the neurological (using fMRI) and psychological (emotion
      regulation) mechanisms through which the RENEwS intervention reduces negative emotions,
      increases healthy diet and exercise, and increases quality of life. Study aims are:

      Aim 1: Determine feasibility, acceptability, and effect size of the RENEwS intervention.

      Aim 2: Determine the effect of the RENEwS program on negative emotions (depressive symptoms,
      anxiety, and rumination), self-management behaviors (diet and exercise), and quality of life
      as compared to an attention control group.

      Aim 3a: Examine the relationships between emotion regulation and 1) selected psychological
      factors (patient activation, self-efficacy, decision-making, and attention), 2) neural
      processing (brain activation/function and task switching), and 3) perceived stress.

      Aim 3b: Examine the possible mediating effect of emotion regulation, psychological factors,
      neural processing, and stress on the effectiveness of the RENEwS intervention to reduce
      negative emotions, and to improve self-management behaviors and quality of life.
    
  