
    
      Patient education has become an integral part of any diabetes therapy in Germany. But elderly
      people are often not able to follow the variety of topics comprising standard treatment and
      training programmes for insulin-treated patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus due to
      geriatric syndromes and neuropsychological deficits. Therefore, treatment of elderly
      diabetics should focus on individual therapeutic goals, which reflect reduced life expectancy
      and quality of life.

      It was the aim of the study to develop and evaluate the effectiveness of a new structured
      teaching and training programme for elderly patients with diabetes mellitus (SGS) and insulin
      therapy.

      The high prevalence of cognitive impairment and affective disorders requires special
      pedagogical methods as well as adapted contents. For example the advantages of physical
      activity, the frequent existence of malnutrition, urinary incontinency or heart failure are
      taken into consideration. Contents are transmitted in a practical and daily-living oriented
      way.

      The programme comprises 7 education lessons of 45 minutes duration implying the education
      units: diabetes mellitus, nutrition, treatment strategies, self-monitoring and complications
      focussing the diabetic foot syndrome.

      The effectiveness of the new structured treatment and teaching programme SGS was evaluated in
      a multicenter prospective randomised controlled trial. Diabetic patients admitting one of 18
      study centres in Germany with at least one geriatric syndrome, comorbidity and older than 65
      years were randomised either to the new SGS programme or to the standard treatment programme
      for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Before and 6 month after participation in the
      structured treatment programmes the outcome quality was evaluated using structured
      questionnaires. We assessed HbA1c, skills of diabetes self-management, diabetes knowledge,
      treatment satisfaction, acute and late complications, neuropsychological status, diabetes
      mediation, activities of daily living and need of social service. The main treatment goal was
      maintenance of autonomy and quality of life in elderly people, as well as prevention of
      catabolism, frailty and acute complications.
    
  