
    
      The first-line drug treatment for mild-moderate AD are currently topical corticosteroids
      (TCS) with recognized efficacy. However, their prolonged or inappropriate use, can lead to
      local adverse effects. Side-effects of topical corticosteroids comprise a variety of skin
      changes in the sense of skin atrophy thinning of the skin and in some cases development of
      telangiectasia, spontaneous scars, folliculitis, striae distensae (stretch marks), contact
      dermatitis, acne or rosacea depending on potency, galenic formulation, patient age and body
      area to which the medication will be applied, exposure time.

      Assessing the safety (local adverse effects) of current or new treatments and new treatment
      approaches using existing treatments through noninvasively monitor on possible early skin
      (subclinical) changes associated with the local clinical adverse effects of treatment may be
      an effective step for an enhanced AD treatment management.

      Primary Aim: To further develop and validate two new non-invasive technologies for the
      assessment of early sub-clinical skin changes associated with adverse effects and to derive
      an optimum panel of safety biomarkers for use in future clinical trials of topical
      anti-inflammatory treatments.

      The safety of two topical anti-inflammatory treatments for AD will be compared in this
      clinical trial, with a focus on early sub-clinical signs: crisaborole 2% ointment and
      betamethasone valerate 0,1% cream. Step 1 involves the collection of data on the early
      sub-clinical skin changes using the non-invasive technologies: OCT and FTIR spectroscopy. The
      data from this study will then be used to identify and refine biophysical biomarkers of skin
      atrophy and skin barrier disruption in steps 2 and 3.

      Secondary Aim: To determine the relative local skin effects of crisaborole (2%) ointment
      compared to a potent and moderately potent TCS in participants with mild to moderate AD. The
      focus is on 'early biomarkers' of 'local skin changes'and not clinical efficacy, which has
      been established in previous trials.

      Rationale for selecting the two comparators are related to prescription behaviors in UK
      (Betamethasone valerate 0,1% cream) and with no reported TCS-like local adverse effects
      profile (crisaborole 2% ointment)
    
  