
    
      Consented subjects will be randomly assigned either to:(a) National Cancer Institute tobacco
      cessation pamphlet , to (b) Tailored relapse prevention pamphlet , or to (c) Tailored relapse
      prevention pamphlet + 1 proactive relapse prevention face-to-face meeting.

      To determine the long-term (12 month) efficacy of the abstinence maintenance intervention.
      Our primary outcome is abstinence from tobacco products at the 12 month follow-up. A
      secondary outcome will be to determine if these interventions delay relapse among those who
      relapse to smoking or other tobacco use.

      Significance: Cigarette smoking use is the number one preventable cause of morbidity and
      mortality in this nation (CDC, 1999; Mokdad et al., 2004). Preventing relapse is a high
      priority for those attempting to quit smoking as most people who attempt cessation relapse
      within a very short period of time (Fiore et al., 2000). Of smokers who receive a formal
      cessation program, at least 70% relapse (Fiore et al., 2000); among self quitters, the
      relapse rate is approximately 90% (Cohen et al., 1989). It is still the case, however, that
      the vast majority of smokers who try to stop smoking do so with no or with minimal assistance
      (Garvey et al., 1992).

      While the vast majority of smokers try to quit on their own, surprisingly little research has
      been conducted on reducing relapse among self-quitters. Brandon and colleagues (2000, 2003,
      2004) have demonstrated that a series of 8 self-help printed materials consistently produced
      higher point-prevalence abstinence rates in smokers that had quit on their own. Given the
      enormous public health implications of this approach, more research on promoting long-term
      self-quitting is clearly needed. In addition a number of never smokers actually start smoking
      shortly after accession into the Air Force (Klesges et. al., 1999; 2006). The goal of this
      research is to encourage all airmen to remain tobacco free. Because of this the investigators
      are encouraging all airmen to participate in the abstinence maintenance interventions.

      Military Relevance: Virtually all research to date on promoting self-quitting has been
      conducted in samples where participants have voluntarily stopped smoking prior to
      participating in the interventions (Brandon et al., 2000, 2004). However, nothing is known
      about methods of preventing and delaying initiation following involuntary abstinence (e.g.,
      military training, during hospital stays, in jails, prisons, & psychiatric facilities).
      Previous research (Klesges et al., 1999, 2006) has determined that protracted involuntary
      cessation in the military with no other intervention is associated with significant long-term
      cessation rates (15-20% at a one-year follow-up). To our knowledge, no study has successfully
      intervened to reduce relapse rates following a protracted involuntary abstinence (such as in
      Basic Military Training).
    
  