
    
      Background and Introduction Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) is the most common
      extra-pulmonary comorbidity in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). CFRD is also associated
      with an accelerated decline in pulmonary function, increased pulmonary exacerbations, and
      increased mortality. Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) involves the use of a small
      disposable sensor sited in the subcutaneous interstitial fluid that makes frequent glucose
      measurements. There is data suggesting that the Medtronic iPro continuous glucose monitors
      (CGM) can predict hemoglobin a1c levels in patients with CFRD.

      The aim of this study is to assess the utility of CGMs to determine the optimal method to
      dose meal-time insulin. The investigators will examine glucose excursions in patients with CF
      who will dose meal-time rapid-acting insulin by carbohydrate counting versus fixed-dose
      rapid-acting insulin. The carbohydrate ratio and fixed doses will be determined by existing
      doses, total daily insulin doses, body weight, and insulin sensitivity along with
      predisposition to hypoglycemia. Bolus insulin dosing is an important part of CFRD management
      due to the high nutritional demands of these patients. If dosed incorrectly, this could lead
      to marked hyperglycemia and could worsen nutritional status due to urinary glucose losses. In
      this project, the investigators will perform a within-subjects' comparison of the 2 standard
      methods of meal-time rapid-acting insulin dosing.

      Hypothesis:

        1. Postprandial interstitial fluid glucose levels in participants who utilize carbohydrate
           counting to dose mealtime rapid-acting insulin will have improved control as defined as
           the area under the curve and time in target compared to participants who used fixed-dose
           mealtime insulin

        2. Participants who utilize carbohydrate counting will have fewer hypoglycemia events
           compared to participants who use fixed-dose meal-time insulin

      Specific Aims:

        1. To compare within-subject glucose excursions defined as the percentage of time in target
           glucose level, percentage of glucose in target, and peak postprandial glucose with fixed
           insulin dosing versus carbohydrate count based insulin dosing.

        2. To compare the frequency and duration of hypoglycemia (defined as the daily, weekly, and
           average duration of the event) between insulin delivery methods described above.

        3. To test the use of 'rule of 500' for carb counting estimation in patients with CFRD

        4. To compare the effect of two methods of rapid-acting insulin delivery on fasting
           glycemia
    
  