
    
      Phase 1, obtaining the 3D printed biomodel and study of feasibility.

      Distribution of tasks: Conducted jointly by:

        -  Radiology team of the HUVR: Segmentation and 3D virtual reconstruction of the image
           tests. Compare measurements with image tests.

        -  IBIS / HUVR engineering team. Design and development of specific segmentation algorithm
           for the tissue selection of interest. Modeling of image and printing of the 3D model.

        -  Urology team of the HUVR. Identification of anatomical structures and taking
           measurements in the 3D model. Simulation of surgery following the surgical guide.

        -  Production center: It will be carried out entirely in the HUVR.

        -  Process: custom and manufacture 3D models to perform a surgical simulation using imaging
           tests of operated patients, with different characteristics until achieving an optimum
           prototype. Different anatomical structures will be measured and compared in the model
           and in the image (Collection sheet of data). Later, we will check if it is possible to
           perform a surgical simulation on the model reproducing in it each of the steps necessary
           to perform the surgery (surgical guide, annex 3).

      Phase 2, precision and predictability study:

      Distribution of tasks: Conducted jointly by:

        -  HUVR radiology team and HURC radiology team. Segmentation and 3D virtual reconstruction
           of the image tests. Taking measurements in image tests.

        -  IBIS / HUVR engineering team. 3D model printing.

        -  HUVR urology team and urology team HURC. Taking measurements in the 3D model. Surgical
           planning with imaging tests or with imaging tests and 3D model (simulation following the
           surgical guide).

      Real surgery and taking measurements in real surgery.

        -  Production center: 3D printing in the HUVR, precision and predictability study, HUVR and
           HURC.

        -  Process: all patients diagnosed with CaR and TTV in the HUVR and HURC will be recruited
           between the years 2018 and 2021 and will be randomized into two groups. In the control
           group the surgical planning will be based exclusively on image tests. In the
           intervention group we will carry out a surgical planning based on imaging tests and the
           3D model (on which we will perform a surgical simulation following the guide surgical).
           Subsequently, the surgery will be carried out, and in each of the groups it will be
           compared (Gold Standard) with the pre-surgical planning performed.

        -  precision study Anatomical measurements will be taken before the surgical intervention
           in the image models, in the 3D model and subsequently in vivo during surgery

        -  predictability study A prediction will be made of the type of surgery to be performed,
           the complications, and the necessary human and material resources.

      Phase 3, efficacy and efficiency study:

        -  HUVR urology team and urology team HURC. Data Collect.

        -  Process: We will check if a surgical planning with image tests and 3D model makes the
           surgery more effective and efficient than the one based exclusively on imaging tests.
           Efficacy, will be defined as the ability to achieve a good surgical result. Efficiency
           will be defined as the ability to obtain good results with the minimum possible costs
           and in the minimum possible time.

      Phase 4, study of satisfaction level with surgical planning based on 3D model and learning
      curve of urologists:

        -  HUVR Urology team and HURC urology team: Delivery of satisfaction surveys and data
           collection.

        -  HUVR urology team: Comparison of learning curves.

      Final phase, analysis of the results and dissemination plan.

      - All researchers: the results of the different tasks carried out in the project will be
      evaluated and scientific publications and communications in national and international
      congresses will be made.
    
  