
    
      Silymarin and green tea are the two most widely used botanical products used by patients with
      chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. A major limitation of prior clinical
      investigations that may account for lack of efficacy is their use of inadequate customary
      oral dose regimens. Ongoing Phase II studies utilizing higher than customary doses of
      silymarin are based on potential disease modifying effects resulting from the potent
      antioxidant properties of silymarin flavonolignans. Since patients often use more than one
      herbal product to self-treat their disease, the use of higher than customary doses of
      silymarin may change silymarin's potential for herbal-herbal interactions. Pharmacokinetic
      interactions between silymarin and green tea catechins may change their safety/tolerability
      profiles, and may increase their antioxidant effects through additive or synergistic
      pharmacodynamic interactions. The objective of this double blind, active placebo controlled,
      randomized clinical trial is to characterize the pharmacokinetics and to evaluate the safety,
      tolerability, and antioxidant effects of an herbal cocktail consisting of silymarin and
      epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) standardized green tea extract in treatment-naïve patients
      with chronic HCV infection. This investigation will include two treatment arms that will
      enroll 15 subjects per arm. Subjects will be randomized to receive in a fixed sequence
      either: 1) 196.5 mg EGCG followed by the coadministration of 700 mg silymarin; or 2) 700 mg
      silymarin followed by the coadministration of 196.5 mg EGCG. Each dosing regimen will be
      administered p.o. every 12 hrs for 12 days. No treatment arm uses high doses for both
      silymarin and EGCG in a sequence. Depending on the treatment arm, pharmacokinetic studies
      will be performed on plasma concentrations for six major silymarin flavonolignans and for the
      green tea catechin, EGCG at the end of 12 days of either silymarin or green tea extract
      monotherapy (Period 1), and then again after 12 days of silymarin and green tea extract given
      in combination (Period 2). For each treatment arm, plasma 8F2α-isoprostane concentrations, a
      measure of oxidative stress, will also be determined at baseline, during each period, and
      then at follow-up. The results from this investigation will be used to identify doses of
      silymarin and green tea that can be used together safely for future efficacy trials in
      patients with different chronic liver diseases.
    
  