
    
      The Medically Associated Science and Technology (MAST) program at Cedars-Sinai is dedicated
      to the development of novel drugs and devices to diagnose and treat patients. This study
      designed to examine the efficiency of the aspiration capillary catheter during an endoscopy
      procedure. The investigators want to know if this capillary catheter can suction faster than
      the current commercially available endoscopic aspiration catheter.

      You are being asked to take part in this research study because you are undergoing an
      endoscopy or esophagogastroduodenoscopy procedure as part of your clinical care.

      The study will enroll up to 46 people in total. This research study is designed to test the
      investigational use of a modified endoscopy aspiration catheter. The original, standard
      endoscopy aspiration catheter has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA), but the investigational catheter used in this study, which is similar in structure,
      makeup, and function to this approved device, has not been approved by the FDA. During
      regularly conducted endoscopy procedures, investigators will use either the standard catheter
      or a different kind of catheter to collect up to 2 ml fluid from the small intestine. The
      typical catheter used for this procedure is called an endoscopic aspiration catheter. The
      modified catheter is a capillary aspiration catheter, which is constructed and functions a
      bit differently. In the lab, this capillary aspiration catheter performs more efficiently,
      meaning it collects the fluid faster and more successfully than the usual endoscopic
      aspiration catheter. The investigators hope that using this different catheter will
      demonstrate the same improved results when used in real situations in humans. The
      investigators will record how long it takes to suction a sample of the intestinal contents (2
      ml, approximately two-fifths of a teaspoon). These samples will be collected solely for
      research purposes and will be discarded per standard after the procedure.
    
  