
    
      The purpose of this study is to provide medication for opioid use disorder (MOUD) with
      buprenorphine and naloxone, or bup/nx, and pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for HIV prevention
      for persons who inject opioids accessing syringe services programs (SSPs), as part of a
      comprehensive harm reduction program, and assess the acceptability and feasibility of using
      telemedicine to implement the program.

      The study objectives are the following:

        1. To assess uptake and persistence to bup/nx and PrEP as part of a comprehensive harm
           reduction program among people who inject drugs using SSPs.

        2. To assess feasibility and acceptability of implementing a telemedicine-based MOUD and
           PrEP program

      The study population is people who inject drugs, specifically opioids, and who access
      services at SSPs in Charlotte and Wilmington, NC. The study team will enroll 20 PWID
      accessing the participating SSPs in Charlotte and Wilmington, NC (10 from each site).
      Participants will be enrolled in the study for 6 months. At the end of the study, they will
      be referred to MOUD and PrEP providers identified in the community.

      Data collection

      Enrollment visit:

      The study coordinator will administer the SOCRATES 8D and a baseline survey to collect
      demographics, HIV risk behaviors, and substance use history. Participants will undergo
      laboratory testing at the SSP to determine eligibility and enrolled participants will be
      prescribed bup/nx and PrEP free of charge.

      Follow up visits:

      Follow-up visits will be conducted via telemedicine at the SSPs. For the first month (Month
      1), telemedicine visits will be weekly with each study participant to ensure that they are
      stable on the appropriate bup/nx dose. Starting at Month 2, the telemedicine visits will take
      place monthly. Participants will be asked to complete a questionnaire at Month 3 and Month 6
      which include questions on HIV risk and drug use, as well as adherence evaluation for both
      bup/nx and PrEP.

      By the end of the study, we hope to determine the following:

        -  The proportion of persons who demonstrate no or minimal opioid use

        -  The proportion of persons who remain HIV negative.

        -  Retention or persistence in care

      We will also examine whether participants are more apt to remain on paired/combined therapy
      compared to individual treatment.

      Under the secondary ID, IRB Pro00104148, we will conduct an ancillary study to contribute to
      the overall feasibility purpose of the primary study (Pro00104147) by collecting qualitative
      data from program users. The ancillary study will include conducting in-depth interviews
      (IDIs) with 10 to 20 participants in the primary study at the end of their month 1
      telemedicine visit and at the end of their month 6 telemedicine visit (completion of the
      primary study). We will use applied thematic analysis to analyze participants' narratives. We
      chose to position this assessment within an ancillary protocol rather that embed it within
      the primary study in order to reduce the potential for socially desirable responses.
    
  