
    
      The aim of this study is to assess the impact of different environmental factors on the
      ability for a thermistor-based epitympanic thermometer to accurately read the temperature of
      a normothermic individual and thereby estimate their feasibility and reliability in the
      austere pre-hospital setting.

      Healthy volunteers will be recruited. As reference value for core temperature we will use a
      standard rectal probe (Mon-a-Therm, General purpose Temperature Probe 12Fr/Ch, Covidien)
      attached to an external monitor. The study will be in a field setting in the mountains of
      Hemsedal, Norway.

      For measuring the epitympanic temperature we will use the Metraux Thermometer (Walpoth,
      Galdikas et al. 1994). The Metraux Thermometer is widely used in pre-hospital care in Norway
      and internationally. The ear-sensor will after induction of anaesthesia be inserted according
      to the manufacturers specifications in the auditory canal and activated. The sensor is two
      tiny and soft metal wires covered in a plastic wrapping integrated in a soft rubber earplug.
      The depth of the measuring point is pre-set from the manufacture to be approximately 10 mm
      from the tympanic membrane. The display will then show the epitympanic temperature in
      real-time.

      The volunteers will be exposed to four different scenarios. 1. Ambient air with no protection
      of head/measuring site. 2. Ambient air with local protection of measuring site. 3. Snow in
      the ear-canal before placing the thermometer (to resemble avalanche conditions). 4 Cold water
      in the ear canal (to resemble water immersion/submersion).

      The temperature will be measured in degrees Celsius. A baseline will be established before
      exposing the volunteers to the different environmental factors. After exposure the
      temperature will be recorded every 15 seconds for a total of 10minutes.
    
  