
    
      Recently a great interest in the role of the endothelium in the pathophysiology of sepsis has
      been introduced. The endothelium is coated by a "thick" endothelial glycocalyx protecting it
      from becoming activated and prevents capillary leakage. The glycocalyx binds approximately
      1-1.5 litres of the plasma portion of the circulating blood and regulates the dynamic
      exchange between the intra -and extravascular space, therefore, functioning both as a barrier
      and as a mechano transducer. Damage to the glycocalyx is caused by major trauma, major
      surgery, or ischemia and reperfusion injury, and resulting in vascular leakage. Damage to the
      endothelium is further augmented by resuscitation of crystalloids and colloids as well as
      related to bleeding. Thawed fresh frozen plasma may cause a further "inflammatory hit"
      towards the glycocalyx and endothelium. The degradation of the glycocalyx increases
      endothelial permeability with edema formation entitled 'the endothelial leakage syndrome',
      and resulting in the development of hypotension, pulmonary complications, abdominal
      compartment syndrome, multi-organ failure and death.

      The current strategy for maintaining the intravascular volume in patients with acute critical
      illness focuses on the administration of crystalloids, such as Ringer-Acetate, and natural
      colloids. Crystalloids, especially, are known to extravasate and cause edema, which is
      associated with hypoperfusion and compromised vital organ function by the increased tissue
      pressure that limits oxygen delivery, and ultimately leading to the complications described
      above. Until recently, synthetic colloids were the preferred choice of fluids for these
      patients, but a Scandinavian study in patients with severe sepsis and septic shock (6S trial)
      demonstrated an increased mortality in patients receiving synthetic colloids, thereby,
      establishing the adverse effect of such a strategy. Consequently, new resuscitation fluids
      are needed, preferably not only to support the intravascular volume, but also to support and
      restore the endothelial integrity.
    
  