
    
      Surgical resection is the main modality of treatment for many solid tumors. Despite
      successful tumor resection, some patients develop local recurrence or metastasis, causing
      morbidities and mortality. In recent years, there is growing interest in the pathophysiology
      of recurrence or metastasis. It is believed that the recurrence is caused by the liberation
      of circulating tumor cells during surgical manipulation of the tumors and the vascular
      invasive properties of the tumor cells. Perioperative events, such as surgical stress and
      anaesthesia may have immunomodulating effects, causing growth or inhibition of circulating
      tumor cells, which affect disease relapse. There is growing evidence that propofol is
      anti-inflammatory while sevoflurane is pro-inflammatory and their potential roles in cancer
      recurrence attract researchers' attention. In adults, there is increasing number of
      researches showing that propofol may improve patient outcomes in terms of disease survival,
      when compared to sevoflurane. However, such evidence in paediatric population is lacking.
      This study aims to compare the effects of propofol based intravenous anaesthesia with
      inhalation anaesthesia with sevoflurane on perioperative biomarkers of inflammation,
      circulating tumor cells and disease free survival in 3 years.

      100 patients will be recruited for this single blinded randomised controlled trial. They will
      receive general anaesthesia in Hong Kong Children's Hospital for their primary tumor excision
      surgery. 50 patients will be randomised to sevoflurane group and 50 patients will be
      randomised to propofol group. They will receive standardised anaesthetic management in terms
      of death or anaesthesia, pain management, fluid or thermoregulation management. Sevoflurane
      group subjects will receive inhalational sevoflurane as main anaesthetic, while propofol
      group subjects will receive intravenous propofol. These patients will have 4 blood tests
      collected for analysis for biomarkers of inflammation, DNA damage, oxidative stress and
      circulating tumor cells.

        -  baseline: once patients have intravenous access established

        -  intraoperative: when the tumor is deemed resected by surgeons

        -  immediately postop: after wound closure

        -  24 hours postop Early postoperative period follow up will look for wound recovery,
           sepsis, and time to start chemotherapy and need for second look operation for wound
           complication.

      Patients will also followed up for 3 years for tumor recurrence and disease survival.
    
  