
    
      There has been a shift in the therapeutic approach for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) from
      symptom-tailored towards inflammation-targeted treatments. Mucosal healing, although not
      well-defined in past literature, is an objective marker of improvement as well as of
      favorable prognosis, not only in trials but also in routine clinical practice. However,
      utilization of frequent endoscopic procedures to assess mucosal healing would be a burden to
      patients and the stretched endoscopic services in the national health services. A
      non-invasive marker would give the opportunity to patients and physicians to titrate
      treatment to inflammatory activity with the aspiration to change the course of the disease.

      Calprotectin (FCALP) is a calcium-binding protein abundant in the cytoplasm of neutrophils
      and macrophages that can be measured in feces reliably. Samples can be transported or stored
      at room temperature for at least 3 days. FCALP correlates well with histological and
      endoscopic disease activity in ulcerative colitis and radiology in Crohn's disease.

      More importantly calprotectin predicts clinical relapse, outperforming other common
      non-invasive markers of inflammation (CRP, ESR), and it may also outperform endoscopy in
      predicting short and long term relapse.

      Patients are currently required to provide a stool sample in a universal (non-specialized)
      container, which usually is processed in a central laboratory. The container is a small
      plastic cylinder secured with a screw top which has a longitudinal scoop attached to its
      inner surface. In order to collect the sample, the patients usually put some toilet paper in
      the toilet and after defecating use the scoop to collect the fecal sample. Then the container
      is brought to hospital in person and is processed by the laboratory staff. This is a
      laborious process, as a certain quantity of fecal material has to be manually extracted from
      each individual sample using a separate kit prior to the measurement, which is performed
      using an ELISA kit.

      In relation to e-Health telemedicine's increasing importance as an aid to therapeutic
      approaches for IBD patients, the need for an accurate and user-friendly home test for
      measuring fecal calprotectin concentration has emerged. New technology has improved the
      collection device, and simplified the collection process by providing a paper sampler device
      placed over the toilet bowel, making the sampling both easier and cleaner. A preferred system
      should easily been able to convert the sample into an extract, measure the calprotectin
      concentration with a rapid-test read by a smartphone application (platforms such as Android
      or Iphone), to produce an instant result for the patient at home which also concomitantly and
      securely should be sent via a portal to the treating clinician.

      The CalproSmart™ system is a Home test kit for measurement of calprotectin in fecal samples,
      and a new clinical tool for monitoring patients with inflammatory bowel disease. The system
      consists of five components and a Smartphone - application (platforms such as Android or
      Iphone); A) A sampler and nitrile gloves for collecting stool samples B) A prefilled
      extraction device to collect stool sample C) A lateral-flow rapid test D) A support frame
      with a design that enables measurement of calprotectin level of rapid test through a
      specially developed Smartphone application (platforms such as Android or Iphone).
    
  