
    
      Laryngeal mask airways (LMAs) are a group of airway devices, alternatively referred to as
      supraglottic airways (SGAs), used in anesthesia that are positioned in the back of the throat
      (pharynx) above (supra) the glottis (windpipe opening) and the vocal cords. This is in
      contradistinction to a tracheal tube, which is an airway device that is placed through the
      vocal cords and extends to a position below the glottis (infraglottic) and resides in the
      trachea (windpipe). Since their first approval for use in the United States by the US Food
      and Drug Administration in the early 1990s, the application of SGAs has become more
      widespread. Initially, they were only used in anesthetized patients who were breathing on
      their own (i.e., spontaneously ventilating). This was, in large part, due to a relatively low
      airway seal pressure, the pressure with which the device seals against the throat, thereby,
      keeping the air pushed in by a breathing machine (ventilator) from getting into the stomach
      or leaking out around the device and out through the mouth - in either case, not going into
      the patient's lungs. The relatively low airway seal pressure (18 - 20 cmH2O) did not allow
      for the use of muscle relaxant (paralyzing) drugs and positive pressure ventilation.
      Successive generations of SGAs by a variety of manufacturers have overcome and continue to
      attempt to overcome limitations of earlier devices. In addition, accumulated clinical
      experience has made anesthesia providers more comfortable with their use. No SGA, however, is
      yet ideal, and incremental changes continue to appear to improve airway management and reduce
      airway morbidity (e.g., sore throat, jaw pain, etc.).

      The air-Q® Intubating Laryngeal Airway (aILA, Mercury Medical, Clearwater, FL) is a newer,
      commercially-available, SGA designed for use as a primary airway and as an intubation
      conduit. It is available in polyvinyl chloride (PVC)-based, single use and silicone-based,
      reusable models. Information on its safety and effectiveness from a randomized, controlled
      trial in adults, undergoing general anesthesia, compared to that of the silicone-based,
      reusable aILA versus the LMA-Proseal™ (pLMA, North America, San Diego, CA), the current "gold
      standard" for SGA airway seal pressure, is available.

      The air-Q® Self-Pressurizing (SP) Intubating Laryngeal Airway (aILA-SP, Mercury Medical,
      Clearwater, FL) is a commercially-available, modification of the silicone-based, reusable
      aILA. Its overall design is identical to the aILA, but incorporates a communication orifice
      between the air tube and cuff, which regulates airflow into and from the cuff during periods
      of positive pressure and spontaneous ventilation. As such, it incorporates a
      self-pressurizing cuff that does not require manual inflation. Such a cuff may be
      advantageous insofar as it dynamically adjusts its intra-cuff pressure and fit with the
      patient's pharyngeal and periglottic anatomy, which may lead to a reduction in airway
      morbidity, while still providing the high seal pressure afforded by the aILA design.

      Lastly, the i-gel (Intersurgical Inc., Liverpool, NY) is a commercially-available SGA that
      uses a thermoplastic elastomer to create a non-inflating, anatomically-conforming,
      periglottic cuff. Studies have shown it to be an easily inserted, effective airway device
      with a lower incidence of sore throat and neck complaints. With exception to the aILA-SP, it
      is the only other commercially-available SGA that does not require cuff inflation.

      To date, no reports are available on the clinical performance of the aILA-SP in relation to
      other SGAs. Thus, the primary purpose of this study is to compare the airway seal pressure
      (ASP) of the aILA-SP against the aILA and i-gel in adults undergoing general anesthesia.
      Airway seal pressure is the most common surrogate for ventilatory capacity used in SGA
      studies.
    
  