
    
      Lidocaine has analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects. It has been shown to reduce early
      postoperative pain and nausea. Additionally, lidocaine has been shown to have positive
      effects in the recovery of bowel function, with a reduction in time to first flatus, first
      bowel sounds, first bowel movement, and is associated with a reduction of ileus. Because of
      these facts, lidocaine infusion has become part of enhanced recovery pathways after bowel
      surgery at our institution and others.

      There are few trials examining the use of lidocaine for orthopedic procedures and many of
      these studies have contradictory adults. An article by Martin et al. found no benefit in pain
      or recovery after total hip arthroplasty. By contrast, Farag and colleagues found that
      lidocaine significantly improves postoperative pain after major spine surgery. Additionally,
      quality of life scores at one and three months after surgery were significantly higher in the
      lidocaine group. When our Spine Surgery Analgesic Protocol for major spine surgery at
      University of Vermont Medical Center was revised in 2015, a lidocaine infusion was added to
      the protocol.

      Studies for lidocaine use in minor lumbar surgery are scant. In one study of 50 patients in
      Korea, patient pain scores and fentanyl consumption were significantly lower in the lidocaine
      infusion group (1.5 mg/kg bolus plus 2 mg/kg/hr infusion) at 2, 4, 8, 12 and 24 hours after
      surgery. Of note, the Cleveland Clinic Outcomes group is currently enrolling 440 patients in
      a study in which half will receive lidocaine and ketamine infusions.

      A reduction in opioid use may lead to the potential reduction of opioid-related side effects,
      such as nausea, constipation, and hyperalgesia, as well as more serious consequences such as
      respiratory depression and abuse. There is also the possibility of a length of stay reduction
      which has potential financial benefits.

      This is a randomized, controlled, double-blind study involving patients undergoing one- or
      two-level posterior lumbar instrumented spinal fusion with or without decompression.

      The University of Vermont Medical Center operating rooms will be utilized for this
      investigation. For the study group, we plan to prospectively recruit 140 patients 18-75 years
      of age. Recruitment will be done by the participating orthopedists and neurosurgeons, from
      their own patients. After an informed consent discussion, patients will be randomly assigned
      to receive 1 mg/kg lidocaine bolus and intraoperative infusion of 2 mg/min (intervention arm)
      or no lidocaine (control arm). All patients will receive adequate pain control medication
      according to their needs. Subjects will complete the 15-question Quality of Recovery
      assessment at baseline and at 36 and 60 hours after surgery. Using the electronic medical
      system, the following information with extracted: Total morphine equivalent used in house at
      36 hours, total morphine equivalents used at 60 hours, visual analog scale pain scores at 4,
      8, 12, 24, 36, and 60 hours, length of stay, incidence of nausea requiring medication, time
      to first flatus, and time to first bowel movement. Subjects will receive a patient-controlled
      analgesia pump for the first 36 hours after surgery.

      Randomization will be performed by the University of Vermont Medical Center Investigational
      Pharmacy Drug Service (IDS). IDS will generate a table of random numbers and assign those
      numbers in a 1:1 ratio of active drug to placebo, in blocks of 4. Following informed consent,
      a member of the study team will notify IDS, which will prepare syringes for the bolus dose
      and a bag for the infusion, both containing either active drug or placebo. The syringes and
      bag will be labeled with the subject's name, medical record number, and randomization number.
    
  