
    
      The World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that in 2017 there were 10 million new cases of
      TB, and 1.6 million people died as a result of TB. Among new TB cases, it is estimated that
      920,000 occurred in people who were HIV-coinfected, and 23% of TB deaths were among
      HIV-coinfected individuals. In Africa, TB is the leading AIDS-related opportunistic
      infection. Latent TB infection occurs when people are infected with the bacteria that cause
      TB, but they do not have any symptoms of TB infection. Latent TB can develop into active TB,
      and HIV-infected people have an increased risk of progressing from latent TB to active TB.
      INH is a medication that is prescribed for people with latent TB to help prevent active TB
      from developing. The standard INH treatment regimen is 6 to 9 months; a shorter treatment
      regimen of 3 months of once-weekly RPT plus INH has proven to be as effective and improved
      adherence. The purpose of this study was to compare the safety and effectiveness of a 4-week
      daily regimen of RPT plus INH to a standard 9-month daily INH regimen for TB prevention in
      HIV-infected individuals.

      This study enrolled HIV-infected people who did not have evidence of active TB but who were
      at high risk of developing active TB. Participants were randomly assigned to receive RPT and
      INH once a day for 4 weeks or INH once a day for 9 months. All participants received
      pyridoxine (vitamin B6) with each dose of INH to help prevent possible side effects. Study
      visits occurred at baseline and Weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, and 36. At select study
      visits, participants had a physical exam, clinical assessment, blood collection, and a chest
      radiograph or chest computed tomography (CT) scan (if needed). Some participants had their
      blood stored for future testing. Follow-up study visits occurred every 12 weeks starting at
      Week 48 and continued for 3 years after the last participant enrolled.
    
  