
    
      Rates of suicide among young Alaska Native males are over ten-fold higher than among a
      similar age cohort in the rest of the United States. A high proportion of these deaths are
      associated with firearms. Firearms are an important part of the subsistence lifestyle of this
      population, however restriction of access to guns by youth may be a promising strategy to
      reduce the risk of suicides in this population. Recent work by the HIPRC has shown that
      locked guns are associated with a 73% reduced risk of suicide, compared to unlocked guns.
      Similar protective associations were found for unloaded guns. A recent pilot project to
      improve the storage of guns conducted in southwest Alaska increased the proportion of
      households having all guns locked from 15% to 85%. The aims of this proposed study are to
      estimate the prevalence of firearm ownership and of specific firearm storage practices among
      residents living in the Bristol Bay and Yukon-Kuskokwim regions of southwest Alaska and to
      work with the Alaska Native health corporations to plan and execute a randomized trial of an
      intervention to improve firearm storage practices among residents of selected villages. This
      3-year study consists of two phases.

      The first phase is a regional survey of households within 20 randomly selected villages in
      southwest Alaska to estimate the extent of firearm ownership and existing storage practices
      in these communities. This weighted sample would be extrapolated to an overall estimate of
      these variables for each of the two Native corporations in the region. The second phase of
      the study will be a two-arm randomized controlled trial of an intervention to increase the
      proportion of households that store all of their firearms in a locked safe. A secondary
      outcome will be to reduce the proportion of home reporting the presence of a loaded gun.
      Households will be randomly assigned to either an early or late intervention group. The
      'early' intervention group will receive the intervention at baseline. The 'late' intervention
      group will receive the intervention 12 months after baseline. All eligible households within
      participating villages will be educated about the potential protective value of safe firearm
      storage practices, and then be offered a gun safe to store all of their firearms. Household
      adults will be trained to use the safe and to carefully restrict access to the guns by youth.
      Each household will complete a questionnaire about storage practices and important
      co-variates at baseline, 12 months, and 18 months. Data will be analyzed to detect
      differences, between groups, in the proportion of homes with unlocked guns, and loaded guns,
      at 12 and 18 months after baseline. We estimate that the enrollment of 350 homes at baseline
      should provide 90% power to detect differences of about 16-20 absolute percentage point
      difference between groups, depending on the baseline prevalence of these variables. This
      study has the potential to have an important effect on firearm storage patterns in a
      population at high risk for suicide. If proven successful, it could be disseminated
      throughout Alaska and other high risk communities.
    
  