
    
      Rationale: The standard treatment for pancreatic cancer is gemcitabine. This study combines
      gemcitabine with etanercept, a drug that binds with tumor necrosis factor (TNF) molecules and
      blocks their activity through inhibiting their interaction with cell surface TNF receptors.
      TNF is the name for a protein in the body that often helps fight foreign substances. However,
      research suggests that pancreatic tumors develop resistance to TNF and then use it to support
      cancer growth. Combining etanercept, a TNF inhibitor, with gemcitabine is a novel approach to
      advanced pancreatic cancer. Because etanercept has not been tested in combination with
      gemcitabine, a Phase I study will be conducted first to identify the safest dosage of
      etanercept, and then a Phase II study will evaluate the efficacy of this combination.

      Purpose: This study is evaluating the safety of etanercept and gemcitabine for advanced
      pancreatic cancer in Phase I, and the efficacy of etanercept and gemcitabine for this
      condition in Phase II. TNF and other inflammatory markers will also be measured in the study.

      Treatment: Patients in this study will receive gemcitabine and etanercept. Gemcitabine will
      be administered through an intravenous infusion weekly for seven weeks followed by one week
      of rest. Additional treatments with gemcitabine will be given for three weeks followed by one
      week of rest. Patients will administer etanercept to themselves through a small injection
      underneath the skin twice each week. Six patients will initially be enrolled in Phase I. If
      severe side effects appear in at least two patients in Phase I, then additional patients will
      be enrolled and treated with lower dosages of gemcitabine. When the treatments do not produce
      unacceptable side effects, the Phase I portion of the study will end and Phase II will begin
      enrolling patients. Patients in the Phase II portion of the study will also receive
      gemcitabine and etanercept at the safest dosages identified in Phase I. Several tests and
      exams will be given throughout both portions of the study to closely monitor patients.
      Treatments will be discontinued due to disease growth or unacceptable side effects.
    
  