
    
      General objective:

      To assess the effectiveness of 'MyPinkMom' educational intervention in terms of knowledge on
      anaemia in pregnancy, Theory of Planned Behaviour (TPB) construct to adherence of daily iron
      tablet intake, haemoglobin level, and dietary iron intake among pregnant women with anaemia
      in Petaling district.

      Specific objectives:

        1. To determine mean knowledge score on anaemia in pregnancy, Theory of Planned Behaviour
           (TPB) construct on adherence to daily iron intake, haemoglobin level and dietary iron
           intake of respondents from intervention and control group at baseline.

        2. To compare knowledge on anaemia in pregnancy between respondents in intervention and
           control groups at baseline, at 2 weeks and 6 weeks after educational intervention.

        3. To compare TPB construct on adherence to daily iron intake between respondents in
           intervention and control groups at baseline, 2 weeks and 6 weeks after educational
           intervention.

        4. To compare haemoglobin levels between respondents from intervention and control groups
           at baseline, 2 weeks and 6 weeks after educational intervention.

        5. To compare dietary iron, vitamin C and caffeine intake between respondents from
           intervention and control group at baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks after educational
           intervention.

      Design:

      The study design will be a cluster randomized controlled trial. This study design was chosen
      as to avoid contamination of information between respondents from intervention and control
      groups that possible to occur if randomization of study subjects from the same antenatal
      clinic is conducted. Therefore, clusters i.e. antenatal clinics will be randomly assigned as
      intervention group and control group using randomization generator.

      Setting:

      Two antenatal clinics in Petaling district will be randomly selected as the study sites for
      this intervention study. One antenatal clinic will be randomly selected as intervention and
      another clinic will be control. Total duration of respondents' participation will be 6 weeks.
      Study population will be pregnant women who attend the selected antenatal clinics in Petaling
      district and have been diagnosed as anaemia. Sampling method will be multistage cluster
      sampling.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Age 20-40 years old

        2. Women with pregnancy at 13-28 weeks gestation

        3. Women diagnosed with anaemia with haemoglobin 7.0-10.9g/dl

        4. Able to read and write in Malay and/or English

        5. Participants have a smartphone installed with WhatsApp application

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Symptomatic anaemia (breathlessness, chest pain, syncope, signs of heart failure)

        2. Anemia due to thalassemia or other hematological disease

        3. Anemia due to other diseases such as renal failure or cancer

        4. Planned for termination of pregnancy

      Respondents from intervention and control groups are matched for age (20 - 40 years old),
      gestational week (13 - 28 weeks of gestation) and haemoglobin level (7.0-10.9g/dL).

      Intervention:

      The intervention group will receive the "MyPinkMom" educational intervention which will be
      delivered through WhatsApp application as well as the routine antenatal care including iron
      supplement such as zincofer, maltofer, ferrous, iberet, or obimin. On the other hand, the
      control group will receive information on anaemia in pregnancy in antenatal card and same
      routine antenatal care as what intervention group received. The control group only received
      information on anaemia in pregnancy which is placed in the antenatal card.

      The intervention will be carried out for 6 weeks. "MyPinkMom" educational intervention will
      be held at week 1. In each session, a respective "MyPinkMom" video with audio explanation
      will be delivered to respondents in intervention group through WhatsApp application. It will
      be delivered to respondents daily for 6 days and each video will take about 3-5 minutes
      duration. Sessions of "MyPinkMom" will cover general information on anaemia, pathophysiology
      of anaemia in pregnancy, proper nutrition, iron supplement therapy, possible side effect and
      how to overcome it as well as complications of anaemia on mothers and offspring.

      Weekly reminder on proper dietary and iron supplement intake will be given trough WhatsApp at
      week 2 till week 5. Post-intervention assessment will be held at week 6.

      Blinding:

      Respondents and investigators will aware the intervention received by respondents. The data
      analysers will be blinded as they would not know respondents belongs to intervention or
      control group as each respondent will be labelled as numbers.

      Evaluation of intervention Baseline test will be done before the intervention. Haemoglobin
      level at recruitment, sociodemographic, obstetric profile, dietary iron intake, knowledge
      score on anaemia in pregnancy, TPB construct on adherence to daily iron tablet intake will be
      determined at baseline.

      Post-intervention test will be conducted at week 6. Haemoglobin level, knowledge score on
      anaemia in pregnancy, TPB construct on adherence to daily iron tablet intake, dietary iron,
      vitamin C and caffeine intake will be reassessed as post-intervention test. The haemoglobin
      level will be traced from the antenatal cards or from laboratory of respective clinics.

      Outcomes of study

      Primary outcomes:

      Changes of haemoglobin level

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. Changes of knowledge score on anaemia in pregnancy score

        2. Changes of Theory of Planned Behavior construct on adherence to daily iron tablet score
           changes

        3. Changes of dietary iron, vitamin C and caffeine intake changes

      Sample size calculation:

      The sample size is calculated using the following formula for clinical trial:

      n = 2(Zα+Z1-β)2σ2/Δ2 This gives the sample size per arm in a controlled clinical trial (n).
      In the formula, σ is estimated standard deviation and Δ is estimated effect size i.e.
      difference in effect noted between intervention and control group. For this study, the
      accepted p-value is less than 0.05 and study power is 80%. In this case, two-tailed test will
      be used as the results could be bidirectional. Therefore, value of Zα is 1.96 and Z1-β is
      0.8416.

      From previous study, the standard deviation would be approximately 0.8. From the same study,
      haemoglobin level increment in intervention group was 62.7% and in control group was 16.8%.
      The difference of haemoglobin level increment between intervention and control group were
      used to calculate the effect size (Δ). Thus, the effect size would be 45.9% (i.e., 0.459).
      The sample size for this study will be:

      n = [2(1.96+0.8416)2(0.8)2] / (0.459)2 n=48 per arm Total sample size is 120 including 20%
      drop out (60 in intervention and 60 in control group).

      Data analysis plan:

      All categorical data will be analysed descriptively as frequency and percentage. All
      numerical data will be analysed as mean and standard deviation if normally distributed or as
      median and interquartile range if not normally distributed.

      For baseline test, haemoglobin level, knowledge score on anaemia in pregnancy, TPB construct
      on adherence to daily iron tablet intake, dietary iron, Vitamin C and caffeine intake among
      participants from intervention and control group will be compared using Student t-test.

      Comparison of haemoglobin level, knowledge score on anaemia in pregnancy, TPB construct on
      adherence to daily iron tablet, dietary iron, vitamin C and caffeine intake between
      intervention and control group at baseline and at week 6 will using paired t-test. Possible
      confounder will be controlled by conducting Multivariate ANOVA (MANOVA). Analysis will follow
      Intention to Treat analysis. Level of significance is at p-value less than 0.05.
    
  