
    
      Background:

        -  Metastatic urothelial carcinoma is lethal and incurable with a median overall survival
           of 14 months from diagnosis.

        -  Immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway have greatly changed
           clinical management of metastatic urothelial carcinoma (mUC) improving survival by 3
           months in the second-line setting.

        -  Five PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors are FDA-approved for for second-line mUC, two agents for
           first-line cisplatin-ineligible mUC. However, response rates are modest, ranging from15-
           20% in the second-line and 24% in the first-line cisplatin-ineligible.

        -  Therefore, novel strategies are needed to extend benefit of immunotherapy to the
           remaining approximately 75% of non-responders.

        -  Higher levels of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) are associated with immune
           escape, therapy resistance and poor outcomes in advanced malignancies. Non-responders to
           anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies have also been found to have increased TGF-beta in the tumor
           microenvironment.

        -  Bintrafusp alfa (M7824) is a novel first-in-class bifunctional fusion protein composed
           of a monoclonal antibody against PD-L1 fused to the extracellular domain of human
           TGF-beta receptor II (TGFbetaRII), which effectively functions to sequester or "trap"
           all three TGF-beta isoforms. A phase I study of M7824 (NCT02517398) demonstrated a
           manageable safety profile and clinical efficacy among patients with heavily pre-treated
           advanced solid tumors.

        -  We hypothesize that M7824 is safe and improves outcomes in patients with checkpoint
           naive or refractory urothelial carcinoma.

      Objectives:

      -To evaluate the activity of M7824 as determined by objective response rate (ORR) in two
      metastatic urothelial carcinoma cohorts:

        -  Cohort 1: Checkpoint inhibitor naive

             -  Cohort 1A: cisplatin ineligible

             -  Cohort 1B: refractory post-platinum therapy

        -  Cohort 2: Checkpoint inhibitor previously treated patients

             -  Cohort 2A: previously achieved a CR/PR

             -  Cohort 2B: previously had SD/PD

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must have a histologically confirmed diagnosis of metastatic urothelial cancer.

        -  Patients may have been previously treated with prior cytotoxic chemotherapy regimen or
           targeted agent. Patients may have received any number of prior cytotoxic agents.

        -  18 years of age or older

      Design:

        -  This is an open label, non-randomized, single arm phase II trial of M7824 in checkpoint
           inhibitor naive and previously treated patients with urothelial carcinoma of the
           bladder.

        -  M7824 (intravenous 1200 mg fixed dose) will be delivered every 2 weeks

        -  Patients will receive treatment in cycles consisting of 4 weeks.

        -  A maximum of 75 subjects will be enrolled in this trial.
    
  