
    
      About 20 dyskinetic asymptomatic people will be involved in the study. The objective will be
      to compare two different kinesiotaping techniques in normalizing scapular kinematics.

      Tridimensional-movement of the scapula and EMG activity of periscapular muscles will be
      evaluated doing flexion (sagittal plane) and abduction (frontal plane) movements.

      EMG acquisitions :

      The electromyographic (EMG) signals are collected with Trigno Standard and Trigno Mini
      wireless sensors (Delsys, Boston, MA, USA) using silver-contact bipolar bar electrodes with
      ﬁxed 10 mm inter-electrode spacing [49]. Three of the main scapular stabilizing muscles of
      the shoulder are investigated: upper trapezius, lower trapezius and serratus anterior.
      Electrodes are placed on the dyskinetic side. In case of bilateral scapular dyskinesis,
      electrodes are placed on the side where the most important dysfunction was observed. Data are
      acquired at a sample frequency of 1000 Hz.

      Tridimensionnal assessment:

      Scapular kinematics is assessed using a three-dimensional motion analysis system, an
      optoelectronic system based on active markers (Codamotion, Charnwood Dynamic, UK). For that
      purpose, four Codamotion CX1 units are used, at a sampling of 100 Hz. Fifteen active markers
      were placed on the skin of the subject on the same side as EMG electrodes: 4 on the thorax, 6
      on the scapula, 4 on the arm and 1 on the acromio-clavicular joint.

      Procedure :

        -  Warm up : 2x10 shoulder internal and external rotations

        -  Maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC)

        -  10 mouvements of abduction (frontal plane) + 10 mouvements of flexion (sagittal plane),
           with and without load in each condition (without kinesiotaping, with a first
           kinesiotaping technique and with a second kinesiotaping technique). The order of the
           different conditions will be randomised.
    
  