
    
      Our overarching goal is to prove the benefit of a behavior change intervention designed to
      help older people overcome barriers associated with risk for inadequate nutrition, so that
      they can improve their nutritional intake of fruits and vegetables, low fat dairy, whole
      grains, nuts, lean meats, poultry and fish. In this proposal, as a first step, we will build
      on the Beneficial Bites health promotion nutrition program (developed by Dietitians in
      northwestern Wisconsin), to produce "Beneficial Bites for a Healthy Life" (BBHL), which uses
      Social Cognitive Theory to change older adults' eating behaviors to minimize risks for
      inadequate nutrition for older adults. We will use a pre-post design to evaluate changes in
      dietary behavior 1 week and 6 months after the BBHL program. Our goal is to create a program
      that incorporates senior-specific nutrition information and recommendations as well as
      behavior change principles. There currently is no proven program that includes both of these
      components. This project is designed to provide data for a randomized trial for later testing
      so that it will eventually become eligible for future federal health promotion program
      funding (through Older Americans Act Title IIID funding) and thus be self-sustainable across
      Wisconsin and the rest of the nation.

      Significance: Inadequate nutrition in older adults has been described as a crisis in America,
      which leads to increased illness and disability. This crisis is rapidly increasing as baby
      boomers age. A recent study looking at nutritional intake of older adults living in
      Pennsylvania found that 56% were at risk of inadequate nutrition2. Barriers to good nutrition
      include restricted finances leading to diets dominated by sugars, refined starches, and fatty
      meats; poor dental health, or problems chewing or swallowing food limiting healthy food
      choices; limited mobility making it difficult to shop for healthy foods; and lack of
      education on which foods are more nutrient dense leading to poor food choices. We propose to
      create a theory-based behavior change program that will not only provide nutrition education,
      but also will help older adults learn and incorporate into daily life strategies to minimize
      or overcome these common barriers to good nutrition. Current nutrition education programs
      tend to target a specific disease such as diabetes, heart disease, or osteoporosis, which may
      not be suitable for a general audience. Alternatively, a number of programs combine diet and
      exercise, but many older adults may be uninterested or unable to participate in exercise.
      Existing programs tend to focus more on providing education than on behavior change. Finally,
      no existing programs contain a maintenance component after the initial program is delivered.

      Given the prevalence of inadequate nutrition, older adults should have access to proven
      nutrition behavior-change programs. The federal government recognizes this need, and through
      the Older Americans Act (OAA), provides funding to the states for programs that support
      healthy lifestyles and promote healthy behaviors. Beginning October 1, 2016, all health
      promotion programs using OAA Title IIID funds have to meet the following criteria: "Proven
      effective with an older adult population, using Experimental or Quasi-Experimental Design".
      Currently, there are no health promotion nutrition programs for older adults that meet these
      criteria. This creates a critical need for a behavior change nutrition program with proven
      effectiveness, which can be implemented in Wisconsin and nationally under OAA Title IIID
      funding.

      Design and Aims:

      Aim 1 To modify the BBHL program, based on Social Cognitive Theory to: 1) change older
      adults' eating behaviors to improve nutritional intake of fruits and vegetables, low fat
      dairy, whole grains, nuts, lean meats, poultry and fish, and 2) help older adults to
      successfully and sustainably utilize strategies to overcome barriers associated with risk of
      inadequate nutrition.

      To address Aim 1, the Beneficial Bites program will be modified to produce a program entitled
      Beneficial Bites for a Healthy Life (BBHL). Overview of BBHL: This program will include 8
      weekly 1.5 hour sessions designed to address common risks for inadequate nutrition faced by
      older adults, and help participants succeed in following a healthier diet building on
      behavior change techniques. The 8 sessions will promote fruits and vegetables, low or no fat
      dairy, whole grains, healthy fats, legumes and nuts, and lean meats, fish, and poultry. Each
      session will include: 1) group discussions with brain-storming to identify barriers and
      strategies to overcome barriers to eating a healthy diet; 2) an activity such as tasting
      different foods or playing nutrition related games; 3) homework, such as keeping a food diary
      (self-monitoring), or selecting nutritional foods when shopping (self-efficacy); and 4)
      feedback on performance of outside activities. When the 8 week program ends, a 6 month home
      program will begin. The dietitian will continue to monitor the participants with monthly
      coaching telephone calls designed to enhance maintenance of BBHL behavior change principles.

      Dietitians from the Aging and Disability Resource Center of Barron, Rusk & Washburn Counties,
      Darby Simpson, Jennifer Jako, and Leslie Fijalkiewicz, will prepare content for the 8
      sessions. They are experienced in delivering evidence based health promotion programing for
      older adults and understand their target audience. The investigators in Madison will develop
      theory-driven behavior change programing to integrate into the sessions. Co-investigator
      Kimberlee Gretebeck previously developed behavior change lessons incorporating Social
      Cognitive Theory for a proven program, Physical Activity for Seniors for Life (PALS), which
      is being disseminated through ADRCs in 8 counties in Wisconsin, in preparation for statewide
      dissemination. The behavior change techniques and strategies used successfully in PALS (goal
      setting, barrier identification/problem solving, self-monitoring, relapse prevention, etc.)
      will be modified to relate to following a healthy diet. The nutrition content will then be
      merged with the behavior change component. The merged sessions will then be sent back to the
      dietitians for review and comment. It is anticipated that 2-3 revisions will be needed. BBHL
      will then be offered with 10 participants at the Senior Center in Cameron Wisconsin. After
      participating in BBHL, we will conduct a focus group with participants and interviews with
      BBHL leaders to determine what content to keep or omit. Responses will be used to revise
      BBHL. BBHL will be revised prior to starting Aim 2.

      Aim 2 Evaluate the modified BBHL for effectiveness of change in nutrient intake and nutrition
      behavior by subjective and objective measurement 1 week and 6 months after program
      completion. We hypothesize that participants will show improvements in the intake of fruits
      and vegetables, low or no fat dairy, whole grains, healthy fats, legumes and nuts, and lean
      meats, fish, and poultry one week and 6 months after the program compared to baseline (before
      beginning BBHL).

      To address Aim 2, BBHL will be offered once at the Cumberland Senior Center and twice at the
      Rice Lake Senior Center. A total of 30 participants (10 per group times 3 groups) will be
      recruited by the dietitians and support staff from the ADRC of Barron, Rusk & Washburn
      Counties using the recruiting methods they use for other evidence based health promotion
      programs they provide. Eligibility criteria to participate includes no severe dietary
      restrictions (kidney disease), and the ability to make independent food choices and prepare
      meals (individuals being provided with meals will be excluded). Moderate dietary restrictions
      associated with chronic diseases such as diabetes can be accommodated within the program.
      Before BBHL begins, after completing the 8 sessions, and after completing the 6 month
      maintenance period with coaching phone calls, participants will complete validated
      standardized questionnaires on food intake and nutrition behavior.

      The knowledge we gain from this pilot work will benefit not only the ADRC of Barron, Rusk,
      and Washburn counties with whom we are collaborating but the entire Aging Network of
      Wisconsin. If this program is shown to be beneficial based on pre-post data, then we will
      apply for Federal funding to conduct a randomized, controlled trial to prove effectiveness.
      Ultimately, we hope to create a proven program to improve nutritional intake by older adults.
      Once proven, we will work with Wisconsin's Aging Network and the Wisconsin Institute for
      Healthy Aging, to disseminate the program across the state of Wisconsin and nationally.
    
  