
    
      The investigators primary hypothesis is that IC/PBS is a member of a larger family of
      disorders sharing aberrant central autonomic and sensory response to stress, pain or threat.
      These disorders appear to share a common vulnerability that seems to be conferred during
      development, and symptoms of these disorders usually are first manifested in response to an
      environmental trigger. This proposal aims to compare the neural, psychological, and endocrine
      phenotypes that characterize patients with IC/PBS with those of patients suffering myofascial
      pelvic pain (MPP) syndrome, an chronic pelvic pain distinct from IC/PBS, age-matched, healthy
      controls, and first degree relatives. These studies are designed to identify which levels of
      the neuraxis are impaired, both in the basal state, and in response to a well-characterized
      psychosocial stressor.

      Aim 1: To differentiate the specific baseline neurophysiological abnormalities that occur in
      IC/PBS from those present in patients with MPP and healthy subjects, specifically:

      1a: Bladder and pelvic floor afferent and efferent urogynecological function: (1) voiding
      diaries (efferent) modified to include void-state related numeric rating scales for pain
      (afferent); Uroflow measurements (efferent), and a double-blind placebo-controlled evaluation
      of the diagnostic lidocaine instillation test (afferent) with impact on voiding function
      (efferent); (2) semi-quantitative evaluation of pelvic floor function and identification of
      myofascial trigger points (efferent), including inter-observer validation of a standardized
      semi-quantitative examination (afferent); (3) quantitative Q-tip test for vulvodynia
      (afferent) (4) evaluation of dysmenorrhea (afferent) and menstrual function (efferent).

      1b: somatic afferent and autonomic efferent neural function, specifically: (1) global screen
      for autonomic and neurological abnormalities through the established Small Fiber Score
      Instrument (SFIBS) questionnaire and structured neurological examination (afferent and
      efferent); (2) specific evaluation of sacral and lumbar nerve root function through a focused
      neurological examination (afferent and efferent); (3) parasympathetic cardiac function
      through the cardiac response to deep breathing (efferent); (4) sympathetic cardiac and
      vasomotor functions through the cardiovascular responses to the Valsalva maneuver and to an
      upright tilt table test (efferent); (5) sudomotor sympathetic function through the
      quantitative sudomotor axon reflex test (QSART) that evaluates post-ganglionic function
      (specifically abnormal in autonomic neuropathies) and through a thermoregulatory sweat test
      (efferent).

        1. c: gastrointestinal afferent and efferent function, specifically upper bowel motility
           with established methods: (1) early satiety & gastric compliance by water load test
           (afferent). (2) gastric electrical activity through electrogastrography (efferent).

           Aim 2: To determine the specific developmental, psychiatric, pain, autonomic, and stress
           response characteristics common to IC/PBS and their family members, that differ from MPP
           and healthy subjects through:

        2. a: Stress and trauma history in early childhood and adulthood.

      2b: Psychiatric screening and psychometric quantitation of psychological symptoms, pain and
      function.

      2c: Quantitation of associated co-morbid autonomic disorders through the ODYSA questionnaire.

      2d: Salivary cortisol levels immediately prior to autonomic testing (anticipatory stress) and
      after a period of relaxation once the test is finished, in conjunction with a stress
      self-assessment inventory.

      2e: Performance of the Trier test on a subset of patients and controls, with measurement of
      autonomic cardiovascular parameters, body temperature, catecholamine concentrations
      (norepinephrine, epinephrine, dopamine) and endocrine parameters: ACTH and adrenocortical
      hormones.
    
  