
    
      This is a 10 week, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, multicenter study to
      evaluate the efficacy of GASTRUS® on the frequency of adverse events and eradication rate of
      H. pylori infection in children.

      Subjects: Children aged 5 (>15 kg) -18 years, diagnosed with H. pylori infection during upper
      endoscopy with at least two validated tests, who meet all inclusion and exclusion criteria
      listed below. Subjects who are RUT (Rapid Urease Test) positive on the day of endoscopy will
      be offered to participate in the study, which includes 3 visits. They will be given
      information about the study and a 1-week diary to be filled out before visit 1. The properly
      filled diary will be considered as the screening tool to include the patients into the study
      and will be also considered as part of the study. At visit 1 written informed consent must be
      obtained from the caregivers and also from participants above 10 years of age. At each visit,
      physical examination will be performed as well as symptom assessment and diary evaluation.
      Only patients who have a positive culture for H. pylori and antibiotic susceptibility testing
      with no double resistance, and have filled in the diary will be enrolled. Patients will
      receive a prescription for triple therapy: omeprazole, amoxicillin and metronidazole /
      clarithromycin for 14 days depending on the antibiotic susceptibility. The dose regimens will
      be determined according to the weight of the child. The children will be randomized to
      receive chewable tablets containing 4x108 CFU of GASTRUS® or placebo of similar appearance
      and taste. Active and placebo tablets will be supplied. Subjects will take 1 tablet twice a
      day for 21 days. Diary 2 - will be dispensed (with instructions) and filled for 21 days until
      visit 2. Visit 2 will take place 21+/- 3 days after visit 1. At this visit a physical exam
      will be performed and diary 2 will be collected. Diary 3 will be reminded to be filled out
      one week before visit 3 which will be planned 8 weeks after visit 2 +/- 5 days. At visit 3,
      diary 3 will be collected. 13C-urea breath test or monoclonal stool antigen test will be
      performed to assess the H. pylori status after eradication treatment. In order to ensure that
      the children will fill their diaries, the parents will be phoned one week before visit 2 and
      3.

      Our study population will be children from all over Europe and Israel diagnosed with H.
      pylori infection with at least two recommended diagnostic methods. The investigators will
      complete documents considered for enrolment.

      The sample size was calculated assuming that adverse effects will develop in 30% of treated
      children, aiming to detect difference of 20% based on a 0.80 power to detect statistically
      significant difference; therefore the recruitment will continue until 118 subjects are
      randomized into the 2 groups (test and placebo) of at least 59 children each. The estimated
      time to finish the study is 2-3 years.
    
  