
    
      The participating "MatriStem" patients (N=35) will be matched to "control" patients who were
      treated surgically by Dr. Vic Velanovich or Dr. Michael Albrink for paraesophageal hernia
      with a biological mesh other than MatriStem Surgical Matrix (N=35) during the study timeframe
      at Tampa General Hospital. Patients will be matched by age (+ 5 years), gender, and operative
      approach (laparoscopic, laparotomy, or thoracic approach).

      Study participation will require only one visit. Once the patient signs the consent form,
      operative details and the postoperative course will be reviewed retrospectively.

      Visit 1 (≥ 12 months post-PEHR)

        1. Review the study with the subject and/or subject's legal representative, and obtain
           written informed consent and HIPAA authorization.

        2. Assign the subject a unique screening/enrollment number (assigned sequentially starting
           from 001).

        3. Pregnancy test if subject is of childbearing potential

        4. Confirm subject eligibility.

        5. Record demographics data, which includes date of birth, race, ethnicity, and gender.

        6. Record current clinical symptoms in relation to the HH.

        7. Record medications, including over-the-counter and herbal medications, taken
           postoperatively in relation to the HH.

        8. Record medical history with respect to the paraesophageal hernia prior to the surgical
           repair. If available, the following information will be recorded: hernia type, hernia
           size, organo-axial, or meso-axial rotation, and operative approach (laparoscopic,
           laparotomy, or thoracic approach).

        9. Record medical history with respect to the paraesophageal hernia after the surgical
           repair (size of mesh implant, length of surgery [calculated as the time from incision to
           wound closure], postoperative complications to include need for reoperation, mesh
           migration, reherniation, etc [from date of hospital discharge to study visit], and
           symptom frequency).

       10. Perform esophagogram at TGH.

       11. Administer GERD-HRQL symptom severity questionnaire.

       12. Administer SF-36 generic quality of life instrument.
    
  