
    
      As part of a wider study we are interested in how patients with a failing heart breathe
      during sleep. It is known that patients with heart failure and central sleep apnoea (a form
      of breathing difficulty during sleep) have a poorer prognosis. It is likely that this is
      because this condition places an extra strain on the heart. We want to investigate whether or
      not treating these breathing problems is of benefit to this group of patients. The proposed
      study will investigate why a significant proportion of patients with heart failure have
      central sleep apnoea and how they respond to treatment. We will do this by measuring some of
      the factors which contribute to how they breathe:

      (i) How the brain changes the breathing rate and depth in response to a change in carbon
      dioxide levels (Chemosensitivity); (ii) How the blood vessels in the brain change in response
      to a change in carbon dioxide levels (Cerebral Vascular Reactivity); (iii) An overall measure
      of breathing control called "Loop Gain" (this protocol will only be undertaken in a subgroup
      of patients who will give specific consent).

      These measurements will be carried out in the laboratory in patients taking part in SERVE-HF;
      a multicentre randomised controlled study of adaptive servoventilation (ASV). ASV is a form
      of non-invasive ventilation (delivered by a mask worn on the face) shown in previous smaller
      studies to adequately suppress sleep disordered breathing. The proposed study will allow us
      to take measurements from patients assigned to both the treatment and control groups; and
      compare measurements made in both groups at the start of treatment and at three months.

      In addition measurements looking at activity levels will be made using an actiwatch device
      worn by patients for 14 consecutive days and nights. Previously it has been demonstrated that
      heart failure patients with sleep disordered breathing have lower levels of daytime activity
      when compared to heart failure patients without sleep disordered breathing. We will
      investigate the effect of ASV on activity measurements on this patients with sleep disordered
      breathing.

      Healthy controls will be recruited to all parts of this protocol (ie measurements at baseline
      and 3 months) to allow comparison of data between patients and controls.
    
  