
    
      Tissue blocks from the primary tumor site and an uninvolved margin of resection (normal
      tissue) from consenting patients will be submitted and stored at the NSABP Division of
      Pathology, in the NSABP Biospecimen Profiling Repository. Tissue specimens will be used to
      profile molecular characteristics, including actionable mutations most commonly identified in
      colorectal cancer. Specimens may be further interrogated by other methods to discover
      additional mechanisms and targetable genetic alterations that may predict sensitivity or
      resistance to drug therapies.

      The repository will be populated, maintained, and analyzed through continuous patient
      recruitment. Patient tumor specimens will be interrogated to characterize an individual's
      molecular profile. At a future date for discovery purposes, the normal tissue may be profiled
      for comparison with the profile of the tumor tissue. NSABP will hold a database with
      molecular profiles and relevant patient information. As agents become available for clinical
      study, particularly those matching specified profiles, the treating physician will be
      contacted so that the patient may be offered participation in that trial via a separate
      consent process. Each NSABP trial will have a defined molecular profile for entry which will
      be specific to the agent(s) under study. The MPR-1 patient registry and tissue repository and
      all treatment protocols associated with MPR-1 are being developed as part of the NSABP
      Oncology-Genome Assessment Guided Medicine (N-GAMe) Program.

      This registry and repository platform uses a translational science approach for more
      personalized therapy for patients with mCRC. This analysis provides an individual molecular
      profile in an attempt to direct each patient's treatment based on the pattern of genetic
      alterations. These efforts also may aid in the discovery of with or without new gene targets
      for future drug development.

      Approximately 1000-2000 tumor (with or without) normal tissue specimens from living mCRC
      patients will be collected, stored, and analyzed as part of this biospecimen repository. It
      is anticipated that 200-400 participants will be registered within the first year.
    
  