
    
      This is an open-label pilot study, comparing intravascular thrombectomy patients treated
      using either general anesthetic (prospective arm) or local anesthetic with sedation
      (retrospective arm), with blinded outcome evaluation.

      New evidence has established that the addition of endovascular thrombectomy for large, and/or
      proximal occlusions improves outcome in addition to, and/or in place of tPA therapy. There
      have been no randomized prospective trials assessing the relationship of anesthesia on
      outcomes for this procedure. This procedure is routinely performed under either local
      anesthetic with sedation and under general anesthesia (GA). The choice between these two
      techniques is largely institution based. Currently in the Saskatoon Health Region (SHR)
      endovascular thrombectomies are performed under general anesthesia due to operator preference
      and the optimization of surgical conditions. In the United States and other Canadian centers,
      this procedure is performed safely with local anesthesia with or without sedation.

      Several retrospective trials have suggested that general anesthetics are associated with
      poorer outcomes. It has been suggested that general anesthesia can result in a delay in the
      time to procedural start since it requires the presence of an anesthesiologist and the
      procedure can be performed under sedation without extra personnel. It is also proposed that
      the induction of general anesthesia can cause a decrease in blood pressure and a decrease in
      collateral perfusion which can result in further cellular hypoxia. Anesthesiologists ,
      however, are able to expertly manipulate hemodynamic parameters during general anesthesia to
      the specific requirements of the operators potentially creating optimal tissue oxygenation
      conditions.

      There is a need for a prospective trial to assess the effect of general anesthetic on patient
      outcome during endovascular thrombectomy. At this time, it is premature to conduct a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT). Therefore in this pilot study, adult acute ischemic stroke
      participants who undergo intravascular thrombectomy in Saskatchewan will receive a general
      anesthetic as per their current practice, and their data will be collected prospectively.
      This cohort of participants will then be compared to participants that underwent the same
      procedure in another study, who received local anesthesia with sedation. Approximately 77
      prospective participants will be recruited for the prospective arm of this study.
    
  