
    
      Stroke is estimated to affect 24-54% of the global population and is one of the leading
      causes of death. According to World Health Organization over one billion people worldwide are
      overweight, and approximately 300 million people are obese. The main factors contributing to
      this situation include insufficient physical activity and unhealthy diet. Among the major
      consequences of obesity in adults one can distinguish metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular
      diseases.

      Therefore, measurements were performed to identify changes in body mass composition (body
      fat, visceral fat level, muscle mass, total body water, metabolic syndrome, lipid profile) in
      subjects after stroke following rehabilitation at hospital.

      The study was carried at the Clinical Rehabilitation Ward with Early Neurological
      Rehabilitation Unit, at the Clinical Hospital in Rzeszów, Poland. The measurements were
      performed from June 2015 to March 2017. During that time the total of 1,143 patients received
      treatment and rehabilitation at the clinic. These included 403 patients after stroke. The
      subjects were examined three times. In accordance with inclusion and exclusion criteria 128
      subjects were qualified for the first exam. The second exam took into account 114 subjects
      and finally 100 patients with stroke participated in the third exam. The analyses took into
      account the data obtained from the 100 subjects who took part in all the exams. Body mass
      composition was assessed in all the subjects with Tanita MC 780 MA analyzer, whose operation
      is based on Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA). The subjects' height was measured with
      the stadiometer PORTSTAND 210. Rehabilitation outcome was assessed with Barthel index, Berg
      scale, Ashworth scale, Brunnström scale, Rankin scale and symmetry index for lower limb
      weight distribution (Ws).

      In addition, waist and hip circumference were measured and WHR was calculated. The above
      parameters were assessed three times:

      Exam I took place upon admission to hospital Exam II on the day the patient was discharged
      from hospital Exam III was performed 12 weeks after discharge from hospital during a
      follow-up visit.

      The follow-up visit, 12 weeks after discharge from hospital, was meant to determine whether
      the effects of rehabilitation persisted for 12 weeks after discharge from hospital.

      Other parameters examined included: LDL, HDL, total cholesterol, TG, atherogenic index, CRP,
      and serum glucose level. Blood for the tests was drawn from basilic vein by medical personnel
      at the Rehabilitation Clinic. The test was performed twice: upon admission to the Clinic and
      following 5-week rehabilitation at the hospital.
    
  