
    
      The long-term consequences of critical illness and intensive care unit (ICU) hospitalization
      in ICU survivors are profound and include cognitive, physical, and functional impairments.
      The purpose of this study is to pilot test a 12-week, home-based rehabilitation program
      targeting both cognitive functioning and physical functioning, to determine the feasibility
      of such a rehabilitation program, and to determine whether participation in a rehabilitation
      program will result in improved outcomes among ICU survivors. The study will rely on a
      randomized controlled clinical trial design, with patients assigned to either a "usual care"
      control group vs. the treatment group. Individuals in the treatment group will receive a
      protocolized cognitive rehabilitation intervention, as well as individualized physical and
      functional rehabilitation targeted at abilities such as strength, endurance, balance, and
      functionality in basic tasks of daily living. Cognitive, physical, and functional
      rehabilitation interventions will be delivered in patient homes and will take place on
      alternating weeks over a 12 week period. Televideo technology will be employed in the context
      of these interventions, with experts from Vanderbilt University and Duke University medical
      centers providing assistance via a video monitor in conjunction with a rehabilitation
      specialist who will implement interventions in patient homes. The study has 3 primary
      outcomes including: (1). Executive functioning (e.g. ability to plan, organize, multi-task)
      over time as measured by the Tower Test, a psychometric tool evaluating executive abilities;
      (2) Physical Impairment, as measured by the Timed Up and Go (TUG) test; (3) Physical
      Functioning, as measured by the Step Activity Monitor (SAM). These three primary outcomes
      have been selected as areas of primary focus due to the fact that available research points
      to the presence of significant deficits in these areas among ICU survivors. Secondary
      outcomes include activities of daily living (Katz ADL) and instrumental activities of daily
      living (Pfeffers FAQ), activity specific balance and confidence(ABC Scale), health related
      quality of life (SF-36), 12-month mortality, and both rehospitalization rates and number of
      rehospitalization days. We will measure change in the outcome measures of interest at 3 and
      12-month follow up to determine short term efficacy, along with evaluating overall
      feasibility. The study duration will include 1 year of protocol development for the complex
      intervention and 1.5 to 2 years of enrollment.
    
  