
    
      Perianal Crohn's disease (pCD) affects around one-third of patients with Crohn's disease (CD)
      during their disease course. It represents a distinct disease phenotype and causes
      significant morbidity, often requiring multiple surgical interventions. The presence of pCD
      causes significant burden to patients. The risk of developing perianal fistulae depends on
      disease location and is most commonly seen in colonic disease with rectal involvement.
      Perianal fistulae have been reported in 12% of subjects with small intestinal CD, 15% with
      ileocolonic CD, 41% with colonic CD without rectal involvement and 92% of those with colonic
      CD with rectal involvement. Persistently high CRP level > 31 was recently found to be
      independently associated with subsequent development of perianal fistula in CD patients.
      Besides, male gender, those who have a younger age of onset of CD, non-Caucasians and
      Sephardic (as opposed to Ashkenazi) Jews are all at higher risk of developing pCD.

      However, treatment of pCD is still challenging and unsatisfactory. Antibiotics including
      metronidazole and ciprofloxacin, thiopurines and other immunomodulators failed to show
      radiological healing of anal fistulas. Approximately one-third of pCD patients responded to
      biologic treatment. The ACCENT II trial is the first double blind RCT that demonstrates the
      benefit of infliximab maintenance in fistulising Crohn's disease. At week 54, complete
      absence of draining fistulae was noted in 36% of patients in the infliximab maintenance
      group, compared to 19% in the placebo group. (p=0.009) There are also evidence that
      maintenance infliximab therapy could reduce hospitalisation, surgeries and procedures in
      fistulising Crohn's disease. In the CHARM study, 30% of patients with fistulae treated with
      adalimumab had complete fistulae closure, and this increased to 33% at 56 weeks compared with
      13% in the placebo group. However, the risk of recurrence is high. Only 34% of patients
      remained free of relapse after one year of cessation.

      Up till now, there are still no clear predictors, which can predict the response to anti-TNF
      therapy except the presence of proctitis. Presence of proctitis has been shown to be a poor
      predictor of response to anti-TNF therapy. Recently, A.J. Yarur et al. reported that patients
      with pCD who achieved remission had higher infliximab trough level compared to those with
      active fistulae [15.8 vs. 4.4 lg/mL, respectively (P < 0.0001)], and those who developed
      anti-infliximab antibodies had a lower chance of achieving fistula healing (OR: 0.04 [95%CI:
      0.005-0.3], P < 0.001). An infliximab level of ≥10.1 µg/mL is associated with fistula healing
      [OR: 3.9 (95%CI: 1.34-11.8) P = 0.012]. Another, retrospective study by Davidov et. al,
      showed that infliximab levels at week 2 and 6 were significantly associated with fistula
      response at week 14 and 30. Infliximab levels of 9.25µg/mL at week 2 and 7.25 µg/mL at week 6
      could best predict response to treatment.

      Overall, medical therapy with anti-TNF could only achieve prolonged remission in 30-40% of
      pCD cases. At the same time, surgical treatment could only lead to a favourable outcome in
      around 50% of patients with a higher recurrence rate in patients with complex than in simple
      fistulae. Recently, combination of optimal medical therapy with surgical therapy (drainage of
      sepsis and insertion of seton), with radiological guidance, has been suggested as the
      standard management so as to improve the outcomes of complex pCD. An earlier study in 2003
      revealed that the combination of seton placement and infliximab results in an earlier initial
      response (100% vs. 82.6%, p=0.014), lower recurrence rates (44% vs. 79%, p=0.001) and longer
      time to relapse (13.5 months vs. 3.6 months, p=0.0001) than infliximab alone. Further studies
      in Japan and France evaluating the efficacy of combination of seton insertion and infliximab
      also yielded positive results with higher chance of fistulae closure. A recent systemic
      review and meta-analysis of 24 studies by Yassin et al. revealed that combination therapy led
      to higher complete remission rate compared with single therapy (52% vs. 43%).33 Overall,
      long-term infliximab therapy with combined medical and surgical management produced clinical
      remission in 36-58%.

      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is considered to be the gold standard imaging technique for
      perianal CD. It can visualise the anal sphincter and the pelvic floor muscles, as well as the
      fistula tracts and abscesses. Previous studies using MRI to monitor treatment response to
      anti-TNF revealed that radiological healing lagged behind clinical remission by a median of
      12 months and that long-term maintenance therapy is probably required to prevent recurrence
      despite a clinically healed external opening. Therefore, investigators hypothesize that
      serial monitoring with MRI is important.

      Recently, there has been some advance in the surgical treatment of perianal Crohn's disease.
      FiLaCTM uses a radial-emitting disposable laser fibre for endofistular therapy. Recent
      systemic review and meta-analysis showed that the primary success rate was 73.3% (11/15) in
      patients with perianal Crohn's fistula.

      There has been breakthrough in the management of luminal Crohn's disease. The CALM study has
      showed that timely escalation of anti-TNF on the basis of clinical symptoms combined with
      biomarkers in patients with luminal Crohn's disease resulted in better clinical and
      endoscopic outcomes than symptom-driven decision alone. It is unsure whether this approach is
      also applicable to patients with perianal Crohn's disease.

      Therefore, investigators hypothesize that more proactive treatment with treating to target
      "Radiological healing on MRI" is associated with better outcome and the combination of
      examination under anesthesia with drainage of perianal abscess and together with FiLaCTM of
      the fistula will lead to better outcome.
    
  