
    
      Primary Objective

      To provide fundamental information to better understand the mechanisms involved and to detect
      and treat or ameliorate adverse effects during pregnancy.

      Secondary Objectives

      The secondary objectives of this study are aimed at better understanding of normal processes
      during development and how maternal lifestyle and environment can affect it. The
      investigators' research will involve a wide range of laboratory, cell and tissue culture and
      xenografting as well as microscopic techniques to study chemicals, hormones, proteins, genes
      and DNA in the fetal tissues. The investigators have developed sophisticated approaches to
      minimise how much tissue is required to carry out as many different measurements as possible
      in the same sample. It should be noted that the proposed studies are collaborative with
      different research groups since no single research group could carry out all the studies in
      isolation. Furthermore, the proposed studies will inform back to animal and cell studies,
      enabling more accurate interpretation of their own findings in light of mechanisms and
      specific conditions actually at play in the human fetus.

        1. Human fetal endocrine system

           The investigators aim to investigate how the different hormone systems in the fetus
           develop and are affected by adverse maternal factors such as cigarette smoking and
           obesity. These include the testis, ovary, adrenal gland, thyroid gland, kidney and the
           hypothalamus, pineal gland and pituitary gland in the brain. In addition, the
           investigators also aim to study the placenta, including its endocrine function, and how
           it is affected by maternal environment, since it is a key organ of pregnancy. Changes in
           programming that establishes the endocrine system can have lifelong consequences for
           health and wellbeing.

        2. Human fetal reproductive and urogenital system

           The investigators aim to investigate how the ovary, testis, urogenital tract (including
           prostate gland, breast buds and uterus), genitalia and kidney develop in the human
           fetus. There is considerable evidence that maternal smoking and over the counter
           medicine use can have negative impacts on this system and we will investigate when such
           impacts begin and what mechanisms are involved. In addition, common cancers, such as
           testis cancer, may have fetal origins and certainly events in fetal life may predispose
           the resulting adult to develop cancers. In the case of testis, ovary, breast buds and
           prostate gland, an additional aim is to determine whether and how events between 7 and
           20 weeks of gestation increase the likelihood of cancers in these organs in adulthood.

        3. Mechanistic studies, Epilepsy and other brain disorders

           The investigators aim to investigate development of the fetal central nervous system,
           including the brain. The first study planned is to investigate changes in genes and the
           structure of DNA in the brain related to epilepsy and other neurodevelopmental disorders
           linked with maternal cigarette smoking during pregnancy. A second aim is to use the
           smoke-exposed fetuses to better understand the role vitamin A plays in normal fetal
           development, including development of the central nervous system. Similar concerns are
           expressed in the literature with respect to maternal alcohol consumption and by
           accessing data from the Fast Alcohol Screening Test alcohol questionnaire that is
           already collected at clinic, the investigators will be able to address this issue
           systematically with respect to all the studies, including fetal brain development.

        4. Metabolism and liver disease

           The investigators aim to continue their studies (funded by the Medical Research Council)
           of the human fetal liver and other organs important for metabolism, including pancreas
           and fat cells and cells that will become fat cells (precursor cells). Programming of
           metabolism during life in the womb is important for adult health and better
           understanding of the development of the metabolic systems and how they are perturbed by
           factors such as maternal smoking and deprivation is an important basis of developing
           strategies for wellbeing post-natally. A critical disease of growing importance in these
           studies is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, which is increasing in incidence,
           especially in obese individuals. Given that the human fetal liver is active and
           responding to maternal environment, some of the basis of this disease may be established
           in fetal life. In addition, the development of thyroid and adrenal glands is also
           essential in establishing normal metabolic processes. Cutting edge techniques, such as
           large-scale metabolomic and lipidomic studies, including analysis of a wide range of
           dietary metabolites, will also be used.

        5. Heart and cardiovascular system

           The development of the heart and the major artery, the aorta, between 7 and 20 weeks of
           gestation will be characterised. The effects of adverse in-utero environment of the
           developmental processes will then be investigated.

        6. Immune system development

           The thymus is critical and large organ in fetal development that is important to
           establish the immune system. The spleen manufactures antibodies and, in fetal life, red
           blood cells (as does the fetal liver) and recycles red blood cells. Both organs have
           important role in maintaining the immune system. The investigators aim to investigate
           whether adverse maternal lifestyle and/or environment can alter thymus and spleen
           development and function.

        7. Bone, cartilage and joints

           Very little is known about normal bone and cartilage development in the human fetus.
           Importantly, it is not even know when the cells involved in bone, cartilage and joint
           development begin to alter their behaviour into a more "adult" format. The reason this
           is important is that in musculoskeletal disease in the elderly, especially
           osteoarthritis, early stages of disease is usually characterised by renewed tissue
           growth - i.e. a return to a more "fetal" pattern of cell behaviour. The role of cell
           programming during fetal life and better understanding of the correct development and
           maintenance of bone, cartilage and joints, and how programming is affected by the fetal
           environment, is therefore one of the investigators' aims.

        8. The development of the placenta between 7 and 20 weeks of gestation

           A great deal is known about the term placenta because it is so easy to obtain and to
           relate directly to the accompanying new-born and its parents. However, the placenta is a
           dynamically developing organ that is vital for normal pregnancy and that is affected by
           maternal lifestyle (e.g. placental growth is reduced if the mother continues to smoke
           while pregnant). The investigators aim therefore to better understand how the placenta
           develops during this window in gestation and how it is affected by maternal environment.

        9. Nerve repair

           Spinal cord injury is a massive health problem globally. Recently it has been shown that
           human fetal central nervous system cells or embryonic nerve stem cells have the
           potential to assist in novel treatment strategies to repair spinal cord injury. This
           final secondary objective is focussed on a proof of concept study to determine whether
           culturing severed nerves in the presence of human fetal nerve cells assists in correct
           and functional nerve regrowth and re-joining across the induced gap. Any further
           studies, if the proof of concept aim is realised in a satisfactory manner would require
           a separate ethic application.

       10. Maternal emotional health and wellbeing effects on the fetus

           Maternal stress is a well-known negative influence on fetal development. The
           investigators' aim is to perform a pilot study relating indices of fetal development,
           such as morphology, endocrine status, to maternal records of emotional health and
           wellbeing and abuse. The principal outcome will be an indication as to whether maternal
           stress is affecting fetal development at a general level between 7 and 20 weeks of
           gestation. Placental biomarkers identified in other studies listed above will also be
           related to measures of maternal stress in order to establish whether there may be
           placental biomarkers of early fetal response to maternal stress.

       11. Fetal lung

           While it is well known that the adverse effects of maternal smoking include increased
           incidences of respiratory problems, such as asthma. However, there are also data
           suggesting that the offspring exposed to cigarette smoke may be more likely to develop
           lung cancer. The investigators' aim is to determine whether maternal smoking disturbs
           fetal lung development early in pregnancy and if this includes signs of increased
           likelihood of cancer development, such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon-DNA adducts in
           the fetal lungs.

       12. Quantifying human fetal exposure to pollutants, drugs, pharmaceuticals and other
           chemicals

           It is simple to measure chemicals in the blood or urine of the mother, or in amniotic
           fluid collected during amniocentesis. However, amniocentesis is not performed for
           research purposes because of not inconsiderable risk to the fetus. This means reliance
           on animal studies of such chemicals getting to the fetus but this is rather inadequate
           due to major species differences. Therefore the investigators aim to measure chemicals
           and drugs of potential health concern (such as bisphenol A which is in plastics and over
           the counter drugs taken by mothers which may affect the fetus, such as paracetamol) in
           the fetal tissues, including blood and urine where available. This is the only way to
           accurately assess how much of these compounds actually get into the fetus itself. This
           is important since the fetus is considered much more vulnerable than the adult to toxic
           chemicals. In addition, the investigators aim to also measure these compounds in the
           placentas (and cord blood where available) from the same fetuses. Because the placenta
           is readily available at term, placental biomarkers of fetal exposure to adverse
           compounds (e.g. alcohol) that are detected in the second trimester fetal liver will be
           investigated in the term placenta.

       13. Non-genetic programming of the fetus for adult life

      Epigenetic changes are changes that involve marks being put onto DNA that affects how genes
      are activated. Therefore, an epigenetic change can change, sometimes greatly, the link
      between the amount of a gene present in cell and its effect. This linkage can be quite large
      with a gene being practically silenced in terms of its effect, even though there may be
      plenty of the gene present in the cell. Conditions within the womb, such a maternal smoking,
      can have epigenetic effects. The investigators aim therefore to better understand how the
      environment experience by the fetus can affect development and programming of adult health
      and disease by epigenetic mechanisms.
    
  