
    
      Breast reduction is one of the most common procedures performed by plastic surgeons. Because
      it is common and in most jurisdictions requires at least one day of hospital stay, it
      consumes considerable health care resources. Although multiple techniques have been reported,
      the two top competing techniques used in North America are the inferior pedicle technique and
      the vertical scar technique. There is on-going controversy as to the superiority of one
      technique over the other in terms of patient satisfaction and health care resource
      utilization. In the last few years, third party payers have been concerned with the
      unnecessary consumption of scarce health care resources due to the variation of practice
      mostly influenced by surgeon preferences rather than valid evidence.

      The purpose of this study is to test the hypothesis that Vertical Scar Reduction Mammoplasty
      (VSR) is superior to the Inferior Pedicle Reduction Mammoplasty (IPR) in terms of patient
      health-related quality of life (HRQL). Health related quality of life will be measured by the
      Health Utilities Index Mark 2/3 (HUI) providing the outcome, quality adjusted life years
      (QALYs) and the Breast Reduction Assessment Value and Outcomes (BRAVO) instruments. The BRAVO
      instruments consist of a set of separate instruments including the Short Form 36 (SF-36), the
      Multidimensional Body Self Relations Questionnaire Appearance Assessment (MBSRQ-AS), and the
      Breast Related Symptoms Questionnaire (BRSQ). The MBSRQ-AS provides a measure of
      self-evaluation of appearance, and the BRSQ measures the breast symptom score. Secondly, we
      will test whether the VSR is a more cost-effective procedure. If the hypothesis is confirmed
      that the VSR technique is more cost-effective, then there will be compelling evidence to
      adopt it. Regardless of whether VSR is found to be cost-effective, the plastic surgery
      community, third party payers, and patients will be informed about the results.
    
  