
    
      Specifically, it is expected that range of motion and functional mobility in the hip, knee,
      and ankle joints will increase, involuntary spasticity in the musculature of the mid and
      lower body will be reduced, and independent daily function will be enhanced in children with
      CP. The success of these conditions will greatly influence the child's interaction with the
      surrounding environment, maintaining neuromuscular function and providing enhanced mobility
      for coordinated development through childhood.

      This research will bring great benefits for children with CP, however children with other
      neuromuscular conditions should also benefit from the findings of this initial study.
      Specifically, the direct health benefits will include increased joint range of motion,
      reduction of spasticity, enhanced cognitive development and muscle coordination. The concept
      of this novel wheelchair design could be applied domestically within one year of project
      completion. If funded, this initial study will lead to a subsequent project of two years,
      which would focus on the feasibility of broadening the target population to include children
      in under-represented areas within the United States and in developing countries.

      Twenty children (4-12 years) with CP will be recruited for this study from the surrounding
      community and greater Rocky Mountain region. The study volunteers will be randomly assigned
      to either an experimental group (using new dynamic seating system), or a control group (using
      standard, state of the art non-dynamic chair systems). Consent will be obtained from each
      child and their parents/guardians. The study will consist of a pre-chair laboratory session,
      a supervised chair adaptation period (including a mid-way laboratory session) and a follow-up
      laboratory session. The pre-chair, mid-way and follow up laboratory sessions will consist of
      a series of cognitive/communicative, fine motor, and functional skill tests. Evaluation of
      these tests will be conducted by physical, occupational, and speech therapists. The
      wheelchair effect will be tested for significant improvement in joint range of motion, muscle
      spasticity and tone, and independent functionality.
    
  