
    
      Incisional Hernia (IH) is one of the most frequent postoperative complications in abdominal
      surgery causing significant morbidity and even mortality. The risk of developing an IH
      following primary elective midline laparotomy is reported to be between 5 and 20 percent.
      Risk factors for developing IH are both patient and surgery related. Patient factors include
      diabetes, smoking, obesity, chronic corticosteroids use and connective tissue disorders,
      comprised the presence of an Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (AAA). Surgery related factors include
      type of laparotomy, type of surgery, wounds classification, suture material used to close the
      laparotomy and the suture length to wound length ratio (SL/WL).

      In patients carrying AAA and/or obesity and/or contaminated wounds, incidence rises to 39%
      (6,7). Besides the negative impact of incisional hernia regarding the patients' quality of
      life, the direct costs of hernia repair and indirect cost of IH (sick leave) are an important
      burden for the health care system.

      Several groups investigated the role of prophylactic mesh placement in the prevention of IH
      occurrence. A positive conclusion was reached by two systemic reviews. On the other side,
      surgeons are mostly reluctant to implant permanent material in patients undergoing a
      contaminated ventral hernia repair for the increased risk of postoperative infections, bowel
      adhesions, mesh extrusion and/or erosion, fistula formation, seroma development and pain.

      Recently, a retrospective study by Carbonell et al. investigated the feasibility and outcomes
      of open ventral hernia repairs performed with a polypropylene mesh in the retro-rectus
      position in clean-contaminated and contaminated fields, reporting a 30-day surgical site
      infection rate of 7.1 and 19.0% respectively. The most appropriate mesh for hernia repair in
      clean-contaminated and contaminated fields is not as clear .

      Some other authors proposed the implant of Biological Meshes (BM) in contaminated and dirty
      wounds, but their high costs limited their use. Moreover, data about long-term durability of
      biologic grafts used in case of complex abdominal wall reconstruction are not clearly
      defined. The so-called biosynthetic meshes (BSM) may, actually, offer advantages when
      challenging with bacterial colonization during complex abdominal wall reconstruction.

      The GORE BIO-A Tissue Reinforcement is a BSM composed of a bio-absorbable
      polyglycolide-trimethylene carbonate copolymer, which is gradually absorbed by the body.

      The aim of the present study is to analyse the feasibility, safety and IH rate using a
      prophylactic sublay biosynthetic BIO-A (GORE) mesh in order to prevent incisional hernia
      following midline laparotomy in clean-contaminated and contaminated wounds. The study was
      designed as a double-blind randomized controlled trial comparing the running suture alone to
      the running suture reinforced with biosynthetic mesh (BIOA) in sub lay position.
    
  