
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine, in a randomized trial, the effectiveness of high-dose methotrexate
      when added to a multiagent chemotherapy backbone (the Dana Farber Cancer Institute regimen,
      protocol DFCI-87001) proven effective in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) and
      advanced lymphoblastic non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). II. Determine the role of dexrazoxane in
      preventing cardiotoxicity in children with T-ALL and advanced lymphoblastic NHL treated with
      an anthracycline-based regimen. III. Study the biology of T-cell lymphoid malignancies by
      accumulating data on the concurrent ALL classification study (POG-9400) and analyzing the
      data relative to outcome. IV. Evaluate the correlation of minimal residual disease (using the
      TAL 1 proto-oncogene) with event-free survival. V. Determine the role of p53 and p16 tumor
      suppressor genes in T-ALL. VI. Determine whether drug sensitivity profiles of blast cells to
      doxorubicin, methotrexate, and cytarabine correlate with initial response and subsequent
      relapse.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      disease category (acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with no CNS disease vs. ALL with CNS
      disease vs. non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) with no CNS disease vs. NHL with CNS disease),
      gender, race (Caucasian vs. African American vs. Hispanic). Patients are randomized to one of
      four treatment arms. ARM I: During induction therapy, patients receive vincristine IV once
      daily on days 1, 8, 15, and 22, oral prednisone three times a day on days 1-21, doxorubicin
      IV daily on days 1, 2, and 22, methotrexate IV once, at least 8 hours after doxorubicin on
      day 2, and oral mercaptopurine daily on days 22-35. Patients receive triple intrathecal
      therapy (TIT) consisting of methotrexate, cytarabine, and hydrocortisone on weeks 1, 3, 4, 5,
      and 6. Patients with CNS 2 or 3 disease receive TIT on week 2. During weeks 7-33, patients
      receive consolidation therapy consisting of vincristine IV once every 3 weeks, oral
      prednisone three times a day over 5 days, every 3 weeks, doxorubicin IV once every 3 weeks,
      oral mercaptopurine daily for 14 days, every 3 weeks, and asparaginase intramuscularly (IM)
      weekly on weeks 7-26. Patients receive TIT on week 10 and 22 (on week 16 for patients with
      CNS 2 or 3 disease). Patients receive radiotherapy beginning on week 22. During weeks 34-108,
      patients receive continuation therapy consisting of vincristine IV once every 3 weeks, oral
      prednisone three times a day over 5 days, every 3 weeks, methotrexate IV or IM weekly
      (omitted during TIT) and oral mercaptopurine daily for 14 days, every 3 weeks. Patients
      receive TIT on weeks 40, 58, 76, and 94. Arm II: Patients receive induction therapy as in Arm
      I with an addition of dexrazoxane IV given prior to doxorubicin on days 1, 2, and 22.
      Patients receive consolidation therapy as in Arm I with an addition of dexrazoxane IV given
      prior to doxorubicin once every 3 weeks. Patients receive continuation therapy as in Arm I.
      Arm III: Patients receive induction therapy as in Arm I in addition to high dose methotrexate
      IV on week 4 and leucovorin calcium IV or orally every 6 hours for 7 doses beginning 36 hours
      after high dose methotrexate. Patients receive consolidation therapy as in Arm I in addition
      to high dose methotrexate IV on weeks 7, 10, and 13 followed by leucovorin calcium as in
      induction therapy. Patients receive continuation therapy as in Arm I. Arm IV: Patients
      receive induction therapy and consolidation therapy as in Arms I, II, and III. Patients
      receive continuation therapy as in Arm I. Treatment continues for up to 108 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients are followed every 2 months
      for 1 year, every 4 months for 3 years, then every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 494 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  