
    
      Background Adults with severe allergy often experience distress but research exploring
      psychological interventions for this group has not been carried out. Cognitive Behaviour
      Therapy has previously been found to reduce distress in mothers of children with severe
      allergy. Indeed, there are two allergy specialist clinics in the UK which offer interventions
      to children and families with severe allergy. Initial investigations have shown these clinics
      to be beneficial. It is clear that a study is needed to explore the feasibility of a CBT
      intervention for adults with severe allergy in order for further research to be conducted and
      to improve outcomes for this group.

      The feasibility study will involve recruiting adults with severe allergy and inviting them to
      screening interview phone call. If suitable for the study, participants will be randomly
      allocated to an intervention or control group. Those in the intervention group will be
      invited to attend a single session 6 hour workshop focusing on adapted CBT for allergy. There
      is evidence that single session workshops can be beneficial in managing anxiety. The workshop
      in the current study will either be face to face groups or due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the
      workshops may be delivered on online platforms, such as Zoom. If delivered online, the
      workshop will likely to be split over two three hour sessions. Online delivery of the
      intervention may be more beneficial for those with disabilities, who may be at a higher risk
      of experiencing complications due to the Coronavirus i.e. those with allergy and asthma.
      Indeed, delivery online would lead to flexibility for participants who may be located across
      the UK without needing to travel long distances. Those who have long term health problems may
      prefer the flexibility of online delivery as this limits their need to travel. This may also
      suit parents who would not necessarily need childcare arrangements for an online workshop.

      Those in the control group will be sent self-help information. Questionnaire measures will
      explore quality of life, coping style, anxiety, worry, stress and depression. Questionnaires
      will also explore personal goals for therapy and self-care behaviours. With questionnaire
      measures, reliable change and the proportion meeting 'clinical caseness' pre and post
      intervention will be explored to provide a signal of efficacy of the intervention. Changes
      between the groups will also be assessed. As the study is assessing feasibility, retention
      and uptake will be assessed. Feedback questionnaires at the end of the study, including free
      text responses and Likert Scale questionnaires, will also be collected to assess
      acceptability and to explore participant experiences of the study. Additionally, qualitative
      interviews with a small subsample of participants being followed up after three months will
      also be conducted to assess acceptability. The interviews will focus on participants
      experiences of living with an allergy and the experience of the workshop and research.

      Aims of the study

      The study's objective is to assess the feasibility and acceptability of a short term CBT
      group intervention for reducing anxiety and distress in those with severe allergy. The
      research questions are:

        -  Can appropriate participants be recruited and retained to the group intervention?

        -  How appropriate are the data collection procedures and outcome measures for the
           participants and purposes of the study?

        -  Are study procedures and workshop intervention suitable for and acceptable to
           participants?

        -  What is it like to attend a group intervention for people with severe allergy and
           anxiety/distress?

        -  Does the intervention provide a signal of efficacy to warrant a definitive trial?

      Method Participants with allergy will be recruited through support groups and social media.
      Those who are interested in the study will be asked to complete a screening interview. If
      they meet inclusion criteria and consent to take part they will be randomly allocated into
      either an intervention or a control group. The intervention group will attend a single
      session day workshop based on CBT. The control group will be sent self-help materials. Due to
      the Covid-19 pandemic, the workshop may need to be delivered online. If delivered online, the
      workshop may be delivered over two sessions. Participants will be asked to complete feedback
      forms about their experiences in the group. At three month follow up, a small subsample of
      participants will be interviewed. The interviews will focus on participants experiences of
      living with an allergy and the experience of the workshop and research.

      Results A possible outcome is that people with allergy and emotional distress either do or do
      not find the workshops an acceptable and feasible intervention. It will identify dropout
      rates and participant retention. It will also identify the potential for this intervention to
      reduce distress and anxiety and to improve coping skills in adults with severe allergy.

      Implications If the outcome of the study is that CBT is an acceptable intervention for those
      with severe allergy and emotional distress, it adds weight to the argument that more research
      is needed to explore this on a larger scale. If the outcome measures are acceptable for this
      client group, they could be used in a future definitive trial.
    
  