
    
      This is a Quasi experimental study. Participants will be patients with radiculopathy
      receiving treatment at the Usman Danfodio University Teaching Hospital Sokoto Nigeria.
      Ethical approval will be obtained from Institute of Public Health of the Obafemi Awolowo
      University Ile-Ife, Nigeria, and a copy will be taken to the site of the study. The purpose
      and protocol for the study will be explained to the participants, after their informed
      consent have been obtained. The sample size will be determined using N= 4σ2 (Zcrit+Zpwr)2/ D2
      where N is the total sample size, σ is the assumed SD of each group (assumed to be equal for
      the groups), which is assumed to be 16.63 from previous study; Zcrit is the standard normal
      deviate corresponding to the selected significance criterion, i.e 0.05(95% = 1,960), Zpwr is
      the standard normal deviate corresponding to the selected statistical power (i.e. 0.80 =
      0.842), and D is the minimum expected difference among the three means, and D =18 from a
      previous study. Therefore, N obtained will be 41.22. Fifty two participants are proposed for
      this study (making 26 participants for each group) in order to give room for attrition. The
      52 participants will be allocated to two groups (Groups A and B) using permuted block
      randomization. Subjects in group A will receive (i) Sustained Natural Apophyzeal Glides: Each
      subject in this group will be in sitting position facing the wall bar. The therapist will
      place on thumb reinforced over the spinous process of the implicated cervical vertebra. The
      therapist will then push upon the implicated spinous process. The pressure will be sustained
      for 60 seconds. Six repetitions will be carried out and maintained on each visit twice in a
      week for 6 weeks. Subjects in group B will receive over -the -door mechanical cervical
      traction in sitting position using position 10% of each patient's body weight for 15 minutes
      on each visit, twice in a week for 6 weeks. Pain intensity will be measured using visual
      analogue scale, cervical range of motions will be measured using inclinometer, functional
      disabilities will be measured using neck disabilities index questionnaires. The out come
      measures will be applied three times: pre-treatment, 3rd week and 6th week within the
      treatment period. The data obtained will be analysed using descriptive and inferential
      statistics.
    
  