
    
      Study design:

      ACE-IPF was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of an oral warfarin dose
      adjusted to an international normalized ratio (INR) response of 2.0 to 3.0, compared with a
      sham dose-adjusted placebo. The trial was originally designed as an event-driven study with a
      treatment period of up to 144 weeks. Given the slow rate of recruitment and higher than
      anticipated event rates seen in another Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Clinical Research
      Network (IPFnet) trial, the protocol was modified to have a maximum treatment period of 48
      weeks after eleven patients were enrolled in the study. Participants were to be seen at
      screening, baseline, and at 16, 32, and 48 weeks after enrollment.

      Outcome measures:

      The primary outcome was a composite endpoint based on the time to all-cause mortality;
      non-elective, non-bleeding hospitalization; or a decrease in the absolute FVC ≥10% from
      baseline value. Secondary outcome measures included rates of mortality, hospitalization,
      respiratory-related hospitalization, acute exacerbation, bleeding, cardiovascular events, and
      changes over time in FVC, six-minute walk test distance, diffusing capacity of lung for
      carbon monoxide (DLCO), plasma fibrin D-dimer levels, and quality of life (QOL) assessments.

      Data Analysis Continuous variables at baseline were expressed as means (standard deviations)
      and medians (25th and 75th percentiles). Categorical variables at baseline were expressed as
      counts and percentages. Unadjusted estimates of event rates for time-to-event variables were
      computed using the Kaplan-Meier estimator with comparisons based on the log-rank test
      statistic. The primary hypothesis was tested using a Cox proportional hazards regression
      model, comparing the treatment effect on the primary composite endpoint. Pre-specified
      covariates in this model included an indicator variable for the treatment group and the DLCO
      measurement from the baseline assessment.

      Randomization:

      Subjects were randomly assigned to study arms in a 1:1 ratio, using a permuted-block design
      with varying block sizes, to receive either warfarin or matched placebo. Subjects were
      stratified by clinical center and a DLCO threshold of 35% of predicted. Randomization lists
      were generated by the study data coordinating center (DCC) and provided to a phone- and
      web-enabled registration system (Almac Clinical Services, Inc.) that allowed sites to enroll
      subjects and receive study kits while keeping the study team and subjects blinded to
      treatment assignment.

      INR testing and monitoring:

      Study subjects were provided two strengths of warfarin tablets (1 mg and 2.5 mg) or matching
      placebos. Subjects measured their INR with encrypted meters (INRatio®, Alere, San Diego, CA)
      at least weekly. Home monitoring was validated by plasma INR measurement at the week 1 and 16
      visits. Individual INR meters and test strips were replaced and subjects were reinstructed if
      meter INR readings varied by more than 30% from the laboratory INR. Efficacy of home INR
      measures were determined by time-in-target INR range of all patients, calculated on the basis
      of linear interpolation, 12 after excluding readings taken at baseline, during initial
      warfarin titration (until INR ≥ 2.0), study drug interruption, or following the
      discontinuation of study drug.
    
  