
    
      The study design is a two arm randomized clinical trial comparing a one year treatment
      program of Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT) + suboxone for heroin addicted individuals
      meeting criteria for borderline personality disorder (BPD) to a one year program of standard
      drug counseling (I/GDC) + suboxone. Drug counseling will consist of manualized individual
      sessions + group therapy. Participants in both conditions will be prescribed psychotropic
      medications following a standardized medication protocol developed specifically for BPD
      individuals. Each site will enroll 86 clients with both treatment conditions being conducted
      at each site. Assessments measuring drug use, suicidal behaviors, retention and other
      treatment-related behaviors, general psychopathology and functioning, and increases in
      behavioral skills will be given at four month intervals for two years

      There are five outcome domains of principal interest in this study:

        1. Drug use: The primary outcome measure here is proportions of urinalysis (UA) coded
           positive for opiates;

        2. Suicidal behaviors: The primary outcome measure here is number of suicides + suicide
           attempts. The domain of suicidal behaviors also includes (a) the number, medical risk,
           risk/rescue score and suicide intent of all parasuicide, (b) the number of suicide
           threats and suicide crises, and (c) the level of suicidal ideation and suicide intent;

        3. Therapy-interfering behaviors: The primary outcome measure here is maintenance in
           therapy;

        4. Quality of life interfering behaviors: The primary outcome measure here is combined
           number of days on a psychiatric inpatient unit + days in jail (THI, SHI);

        5. Behavioral skills: The primary outcome measure here is the DBT Skills scale score from
           the Revised Ways of Coping Checklist (RWCCL);

        6. Risky sexual behavior: the primary outcome measure here is the number of risky sexual
           behaviors in the time period [Casual Partners questionnaire revised [CPQ-R] and diary
           card].
    
  