
    
      Patients under 12 months of age requiring cardiopulmonary bypass surgery will be approached
      for the study. Patients with a pre- existing coagulopathy, including unexplained bleeding or
      history of clotting, will be excluded. Prior to the study beginning, patients will be
      randomized to our standard transfusion algorithm with cryoprecipitate or fibrinogen
      concentrate. As is standard of care, laboratory tests will be sent at standard times points

        1. after the induction of anesthesia,

        2. after initiation of bypass,

        3. after separation from bypass and administration of protamine, and transfusion of either
           fibrinogen concentrate or cryoprecipitate

        4. on arrival to the ICU. These laboratory tests include hematocrit, arterial blood gas,
           chemistry, thromboelastogram (TEG) and fibrinogen. Additional laboratory tests will be
           sent as indicated by the clinical scenario to determine transfusion requirements. For
           patients enrolled in the study, we will standardize the anesthetic management,
           cardiopulmonary bypass protocol, and transfusion thresholds in the operating room and
           ICU. We will collect demographic data, intraop and post-op laboratory values, bypass
           times, intraop and post op transfusion data, chest tube output, adverse events, and
           length of ventilation, ICU stay and hospital stay.

      For patients randomized to the study arm (fibrinogen concentrate), the fibrinogen level
      measured on bypass will be used to calculate the appropriate dose of fibrinogen concentrate
      to achieve a level of 300mg/dL after separation from bypass. Fibrinogen concentrate will
      replace cryoprecipitate in our post-operative transfusion algorithm. If the patient has
      continued bleeding based on laboratory values and clinical situation, the patient will be
      given cryoprecipitate as a rescue measure. Patients not on the study protocol will receive
      our normal transfusion algorithm.
    
  