
    
      The Comprehensive Control Task (CCT) was designed to examine hierarchical control in a
      single, well-controlled factorial task. On each trial, participants view a letter surrounded
      by a colored shape at a particular screen location. Color cues the relevant feature, letter
      or location, for a block of trials. The first trial of a block requires a decision of whether
      the stimulus is the first position of a circular sequence (sequence start). Subsequent trials
      require a decision of whether the viewed stimulus follows the previous stimulus in a circular
      sequence (sequence 1-back). The letter sequence (C-O-M-I-C) and spatial sequence (Top
      Left-Top Right-Bottom Left-Bottom Right-Top Left) are difficulty-matched.

      Shape cues the task to perform. Squares indicate the standard baseline task, and each block
      begins and ends with baseline trials. Different shapes indicate sub-tasks. In Switching
      blocks, shape-switches (e.g. from square to circle or circle to square) cue the sequence
      start task. Shape-repeats cue the sequence 1-back task. In Planning blocks, triangle shapes
      indicate that the stimulus can be ignored (automatic "no" response). All the while, the last
      square-shaped stimulus must be retained as a reference for the next square-shaped stimulus.
      Finally, in Dual blocks, diamond shapes indicate switching (sequence start) and also
      planning. The reversion back to square shapes requires sequence matching to the distal,
      previous square.

      The design is factorial with stimulus-domain x contextual control x temporal control
      orthogonally manipulated. Full details of the CCT have been previous described in Nee &
      D'Esposito, 2016; 2017.

      The focus in this study will be comparison of FPl-TMS, MFG-TMS, and S1-TMS in an interleaved
      fMRI-TMS-fMRI design. The logic is to test the apical status of the FPl/MFG through the
      extent to which TMS impacts other PFC areas and behavior.

      Each experiment will begin with 1 session of the CCT with fMRI to localize PFC targets. Each
      participant will then perform 3 counter-balanced sessions wherein a different site will be
      targeted by TMS followed immediately by fMRI on the CCT.
    
  