
    
      This study is a prospective, non-blinded randomized clinical trial. The study protocol and
      the consent form were approved by the IRB at the study institution. Consecutive adult
      patients admitted to the hospital with Braden Scale scores of 16 or less who did not meet
      exclusion criteria were consented and enrolled in the study. All in-patients were either
      scheduled admissions or were admitted through the emergency department. Upon admission, risk
      assessments for pressure ulcers and total body surveys were performed by the hospital staff.
      A Braden Scale score was determined for each patient by the hospital staff according to
      standard hospital protocol. Both the control group and the treatment group patients received
      standard care for pressure ulcer prevention according to hospital protocols, policies and
      guidelines. Standard pressure ulcer prevention measures for this facility include a
      methodology referred to as a "S.K.I.N." Bundle (S-surface selection, K-keep turning,
      I-incontinence management, N-nutrition.) This successful pressure ulcer prevention initiative
      was developed within the parent health organization and standardized throughout its 131
      hospitals. In accordance with the S.K.I.N. Bundle, all patients admitted to the study
      hospital were repositioned every two hours, provided incontinence care, and given aggressive
      nutritional management as indicated. All care measures were documented in the hospital's
      electronic medical record (EMR) system. After obtaining informed consents, patients in the
      treatment group had the Q2 System placed on their beds and chairs. Perfusion enhancement
      surfaces were placed directly on hospital beds under the fitted bed sheets and were secured
      to bed frames with disposable Velcro straps. A disposable "chux" pad and lifter sheet were
      placed on top of the fitted sheets as is standard in most hospital settings. Adaptive
      pressure controllers were secured to bed footboards or attached to bases of IV poles.
      Specific settings for each patient were entered into the controllers. The controller settings
      entered included patient body weight and bed position (degrees of incline). The bed position
      included a bed setting (30 degrees incline) and a chair setting (90 degrees incline). When
      applicable, a second perfusion enhancement surface was placed on a hospital chair so that the
      Q2 solution could be utilized in a "sitting mode" while patients were sitting in hospital
      chairs. The Q2 Systems remained in continuous operation during the trial period. Patient skin
      did not contact any part of the Q2 system directly at any time.
    
  