
    
      Introduction:

      Food allergy has reached epidemic levels in Canada and peanut allergy is the most prevalent
      and one of the more persistent food allergies among Canadian children and adults. Avoidance
      or later introduction of peanut has been proposed as a possible cause of the increased rates
      of peanut sensitization and allergy. Although delaying the introduction of peanut into
      children's diets is no longer recommended, many parents continue to worry about introducing
      peanut and some will not introduce peanut into their child's diet without a negative skin
      prick test to peanut. However, some children who have never had a reaction to peanut can eat
      and tolerate peanut despite being sensitized (having a positive skin prick test) to peanut.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if avoidance of peanut by children with positive
      skin prick testing to peanut in the first 5 years of life increases the likelihood of
      developing a persistent peanut allergy by age 5 years. To answer this question, the
      investigators need to determine which children with positive skin prick testing to peanut
      have reactions after eating peanut (allergic to peanut) and which are able to tolerate eating
      peanut (not allergic).

      Specific Objectives:

        1. To conduct double-blind placebo-controlled peanut challenges among 5-year-old children
           who are sensitized to and avoiding peanut, to determine if they are allergic to peanut
           (and need to continue avoiding peanut) or clinically tolerant to peanut (and may
           continue to eat peanut after passing the challenge)

        2. To determine the relative risk of developing peanut allergy among peanut-sensitized
           children who have been eating versus avoiding peanut.

      Challenge Procedure:

      Double-blind placebo-controlled food challenges are the gold standard clinical practice for
      diagnosis of food allergies, and involve the child undergoing separate challenges to the food
      and to a placebo so that the child, parents, and physicians and nurses administering the
      challenge are masked regarding which challenge is to the food and which is to the placebo.
      All children will undergo challenges to both peanut and placebo, in a randomized order. These
      challenges will not change a child's ability to tolerate peanut, but will determine if
      children who are avoiding peanut are allergic to peanut (and need to continue avoiding
      peanut) or clinically tolerant to peanut (and may continue to eat peanut after passing the
      challenge).

      The challenges will be conducted in clinical units set up for food challenges, by a research
      nurse and a pediatric allergist with expertise and experience in managing food allergies and
      oral food challenges. Each child will undergo a challenge to peanut on one day and a
      challenge to placebo on another day. The peanut will be concealed in a vehicle, such as a
      shake or smoothie. One of the challenges will contain peanut and the concealing vehicle and
      the other challenge will contain only the vehicle. The challenge foods will be prepared by a
      team member who is not otherwise involved in the challenges. A study worker not involved in
      the challenges will also be in charge of randomizing the two challenges to peanut or placebo
      and of decoding the challenge food identity after both challenges are completed. The
      children, their families, the research nurse and the pediatric allergist will not know
      whether the challenge food contains the peanut or the placebo until both challenges have been
      completed. This procedure helps to distinguish symptoms that occur due to anxiety (equally
      likely to occur in both the peanut and placebo challenges) and those that are a reaction to
      peanut (occur only during the peanut challenge).

      Children who do not develop any symptoms of anaphylaxis (e.g. hives, swelling, trouble
      breathing, vomiting, abdominal pain or changes in their level of consciousness) during the
      challenge or the 2-hour observation period after the challenge will have passed the challenge
      and will be considered clinically tolerant; they will be encouraged to continue eating peanut
      at home at least once per week. Children who develop any of these symptoms during the
      challenge containing peanut will be considered allergic, especially if symptoms did not occur
      during the challenge containing only the vehicle.
    
  