
    
      For elderly patients, a hip fracture is a life-altering event associated with poor overall
      outcomes despite early surgical treatment. The elderly population and those with significant
      osteopenia is growing exponentially and thus the optimal treatment and rehabilitation of hip
      fractures warrants increased investigation. Despite numerous interventions, falls plague the
      elderly population and hip fractures remain a very common problem for this population that
      needs to be addressed. Rapid deconditioning plays a significant role in patient morbidity
      following hip surgery. Recently, blood flow restriction (BFR) treatment has been shown to be
      effective in improving muscle strength when combined with low load resistance training
      physical therapy programs in elderly patients. Few studies have examined BFR in
      post-operative orthopedic trauma patients. The investigators aim to study the use of BFR to
      augment post-operative physical therapy in elderly patients (age >= 65) in the first 2-weeks
      after recovering from surgical treatment of hip fractures. Due to the profound muscle atrophy
      that occurs in the immediate postoperative period because of immobility and disuse, the
      investigators hypothesize that BFR may provide an anabolic effect and conserve muscle
      strength. The investigators hypothesis was inspired by the findings of the Nobel Prize in
      Physiology 2019 which describes how varying levels of oxygen shape both physiology and
      pathology. This is a prospective, randomized blinded 2-week study of elderly patients
      recovering from surgical treatment of hip fractures with two arms: 1) routine post-op
      physical therapy 2) routine physical therapy + BFR and neuromuscular electrical stimulation
      (NMES) beginning on postoperative day 1 and occurring 5 days per week for 2 weeks. To
      optimize safety, the study will be in an inpatient-only setting and supervised by team
      members certified in the application of BFR. The investigators plan to apply lessons learned
      to a larger 8-week intervention upon completion of this short-term pilot study. To our
      knowledge, this is the first study to use BFR in postoperative geriatric patients. Main
      outcomes will include thigh leg circumference on postoperative day 1 and at the end of week
      2, adverse event log for complications, knee extension strength via handheld dynamometry
      (HHD) at post-op day 1 and week 2, gait speed, functional tests including timed up and go,
      opioid MME (morphine milligram equivalent) consumption and patient perceived pain and quality
      of life measures. The investigators anticipate BFR therapy will be tolerated well, improve
      global patient health and satisfaction, lead to lower extremity muscle hypertrophy, and
      enhance functional recovery after geriatric hip fracture carrying tremendous potential for
      extramural funding and scientific advancement.
    
  