
    
      In this prospective, randomized, single-blinded clinical trial, eligible subjects will be
      identified based on scheduled elective hysterectomy. Subjects with documented beta-lactam
      allergy in their chart will be evaluated to differentiate true allergy and allergy-like
      events. Subjects with history of allergy-like event to beta-lactam antibiotics will be
      randomized to either receive first tier antibiotic or second tier antibiotics before
      anesthesia induction.

      Preoperative Screening of Allergy The potential subjects' history of allergy will be reviewed
      according to described criteria of allergy like events. Subjects with documented anaphylaxis
      to first tier and second tier antibiotics will be excluded. Only subjects with a history of
      previous allergic-like event after beta-lactam antibiotic will be enrolled to the study.

      An allergy self-screening questionnaires will be reviewed before the surgery to identify true
      allergy or allergy-like event to beta-lactam (penicillin). Allergic-like events include
      nausea, vomiting, feeling dizziness, dermatitis seen after beta-lactam antibiotic, or any
      other description of hypersensitivity reactions other than anaphylactic shock, angioedema,
      laryngeal spasm, and shock. Administration of the potential confounding drugs such as
      antihistamines, systemic and topical corticosteroids and potential confounding diagnosis such
      as autoimmune disease will be also reviewed together with allergy history of the subjects to
      differentiate true hypersensitivity and allergy-like events to penicillin and other
      beta-lactam antibiotics.

      Postoperative Follow-up for SSI:

      Subjects will be followed postoperatively for post-discharge SSIs or clostridium infection by
      reviewing medical records and contacting via phone and survey. If the subject received care
      outside the clinic, their provider will be contacted to obtain outside clinic record with
      subject permission.

      The post-discharge SSIs will be followed according to the SSI surveillance survey protocol
      (Harrington et al. 2013). A combination of methods listed below will be used to detect
      post-discharge SSI.

        1. Identification of subject readmitted with SSI (medical record review)

        2. Detection of SSI at outpatient clinic, other return visit to hospital or review by
           healthcare staff (direct observation of the wound by health professional)

        3. Telephone interviews or questionnaire (self-reported SSI)

             -  Early post-operative follow-up (30-days) Subjects will be contacted via phone at 30
                days (±3 days) post-operatively to determine if they have been told by a physician
                they have a wound infection or if their post-operative antibiotics will extend due
                to concern for wound infection.

             -  Late post-operative follow-up (90-days) A redcap survey will be sent at
                postoperative 90 days to review any possible wound infection.

      Surgical Site infection (Wound) Classification Based on standard definitions from the US
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for SSI, the wound infections will be classified
      as

        1. superficial incisional (infection occurred within 30 days after any operative procedure
           and involved only skin and subcutaneous tissue of the incision),

        2. deep incisional primary/secondary (infection occurred within 31-90 days after the
           operative procedure and involved deep soft tissues of the incision), or organ/space
           (infection occurred within 31-90 days after the operative procedure and involved any
           part of the body deeper than the fascia/muscle layers that was opened or manipulated
           during the operative procedure.

      Criteria of the SSI decision for the female reproductive tract infection (excluding
      endometritis or vaginal cuff infections) must meet at least one of the following criteria:

        -  Criterion 1: Organisms are cultured from tissue or fluid from affected site.

        -  Criterion 2: There is an abscess or other evidence of infection of affected site seen
           during a surgical operation or histopathological examination.

        -  Criterion 3: The subjects have two of the following signs or symptoms with no other
           recognized cause: fever (>38°C), nausea, vomiting, pain, tenderness, or dysuria, and at
           least one of the following: (a) organisms cultured from blood (b) diagnosis by
           physician.

      The SSI criteria listed above will be applied to the self-reported SSI. Type of SSI will not
      be recorded in self-reported SSI. Wound type will be decided according to documentation of
      clinician who evaluates the wound. If a superficial SSI progresses into a deep SSI, it will
      be reported as the deep SSI only. It may be possible for a subject to have an organ/space SSI
      in addition to a SSI affecting the incision (superficial or deep) but if more than one SSI is
      reported each must meet the case definition.
    
  