
    
      The patient will have surgery to remove a portion of the tumor. This tumor is then brought to
      a special, certified laboratory where it is broken up into single cells and then washed.

      Specially trained laboratory technicians then use a method known as adenoviral mediated gene
      transfer, which adds a new gene to the cancer calls. This gene causes the cells to make
      GM-CSF, a powerful hormone that stimulates the immune system. The cells are then given enough
      radiation so that they will never grow, but not enough to completely destroy them, developing
      a vaccine.

      The patient is then injected with the vaccine on days 0, 7, 14, 28, and then every two weeks
      until the supply of vaccine has run out. The amount of vaccine that can be made depends upon
      the total amount of cells taken from the tumor. The actual injections are like childhood
      vaccinations that go under the skin or into muscle and a different place will be used for
      each injection.

      It is hoped that the cancer cells that have been made to secrete the hormone GM-CSF will
      cause the patient's immune system to attack the cancer in other parts of the body.

      If the tumor yields enough cells, the patient will also be given an injection of
      non-transduced irradiated tumor cells. Non-transduced means that the gene for GM-CSF has not
      been added to these cells as it has for the vaccines. This is done to measure the amount of
      reaction of the immune system caused by the vaccine. This injection is measuring delayed type
      hypersensitivity, or DTH.

      The patient will be asked to undergo optional skin biopsies of the vaccine and DTH sites to
      see if an immune reaction is occuring at the injection sites 2 days after vaccine 1 and
      vaccine 5.

      The following tests and procedures will be performed through out the study: physical exam,
      blood samples, immune studies, vital signs and physical exam.

      At week 10 in the patient's treatment, or earlier if the doctor feels it is necessary, the
      patient will undergo a chest, abdomen and pelvic XT scan. A brain MRI will be performed if
      there were any abnormalities on the first brain MRI or if any new central nervous system
      symptoms have developed.

      If the patient's disease has not disappeared or if new lesions have been found after the
      patient receives at least six vaccines, they may have the opportunity to undergo a second
      course of study treatment.

      Patients may participate in this study until one of the following happens: All vaccine
      created from the tumor has been given to the patient; the patient's disease worsens; the
      patient experiences an unacceptable and/or harmful side effect; the patient becomes pregnant;
      the patient is unable to follow the study plan; or the patient's doctor feels it is no longer
      in the best interest of the patient to continue.
    
  