
    
      PGD is a frequent and severe outcome that impacts both short- and long-term outcomes after
      lung transplantation. Major pathophysiologic contributors include ischemia and reperfusion
      injury, mitochondrial dysfunction and endothelial failure. No directed therapy exists.
      Vitamin C is a first-line antioxidant that also acts at the endothelium and mitochondria to
      decrease permeability and leak, inhibit mitochondrial dysfunction and improve ischemia and
      reperfusion. When combined with steroids, part of standard care for lung transplant
      recipients, these effects may be enhanced and synergistically inhibit instigators of patient
      injury. A pilot trial will ensure safety of this potential intervention and guide future
      research into this important outcome measure. It will be readily received in the literature.

      For the present study, vitamin C will be administered parenterally at a dose of 1,500 mg
      every 6 hours, a dose that is widely accepted and used in other clinical contexts where the
      drug is studied, such as sepsis. This will predictably reconstitute levels and achieve
      supratherapeutic benefit towards oxidant scavenging, while avoiding the potential pro-oxidant
      effects seen at exceedingly high doses. To this end, the investigators will exclude patients
      where the standard dosing of vitamin C will exceed 100 mg/kg/day (excluding patients <60 kg).
      Dosing will continue through post-operative day (POD) 3 to effectively assess for the impact
      of vitamin C on PGD.

      Primary Objectives

        -  To assess whether parenterally administered ascorbic acid (vitamin C) is safe in the
           lung transplant population

        -  To estimate adherence to ascorbic acid administration protocol in this study population
           and to identify obstacles to feasibility of future trials using this protocol

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To assess whether parenterally administered ascorbic acid (vitamin C) may decrease the
           rate and severity of PGD after lung transplant

        -  To establish the incidence of vitamin C and vitamin B1 (thiamine) deficiencies in the
           lung transplant population, and the responsiveness of vitamin C levels to our selected
           parenteral therapy

        -  To identify interventions that will optimize the post-operative wellbeing of patients
           receiving lung transplants by decreasing primary graft dysfunction (short and
           intermediate-to-long term

      Stop Criteria

        -  Anuria x 3-hours

        -  Moderate, Grade 2 AKI (doubling of baseline creatinine)

        -  An acute, unexplained hemoglobin drop of >2 mg/dL
    
  