
    
      Attention will be paid to Theory of Triadic Influence intrapersonal, social/ situational, and
      cultural/ environmental risk and protective factors that impact outcomes. The central
      hypothesis is that compared to enhanced treatment as usual, through targeting Theory of
      Triadic Influence-risk and protective factors the culturally-informed, Theory of Triadic
      Influence-driven, empowerment based psychosocial group intervention will more positively
      alter trajectories in suicidal behaviors and its correlates. The rationale is that upon study
      completion, if data support the psychosocial group intervention value, they will facilitate
      our long-term goal of disseminating evidence-based culturally-relevant interventions.

      In order to test the hypothesis that at post-intervention and 6 and 12-month follow-up,
      compared to individuals in ETAU, those in the PGI will endorse less I, SS, and CE risk
      factors, reduced suicidal ideation, depressive symptoms, and hopelessness, and greater levels
      of I, SS, and CE protective factors as well as increased quality of life, the study
      procedures will be as follows: Male and female participants between the ages of 18-64 will be
      recruited in the medical and psychiatric emergency rooms at GHS. Once the individual has been
      medically cleared and has provided informed consent, he/she will be screened for study
      appropriateness by trained project team members (10-20 minutes). If he/she meets inclusion
      criteria, study participation will include a 3-hour interview. All study measures will be
      read to each participant. Measures will assess background variables, suicidal behavior,
      depressive symptoms, hopelessness, quality of life, and I, SS, and CE risk and protective
      factors. All measures are psychometrically sound and appropriate for use with an African
      American population. Once the interview is over, the participant will be randomly assigned to
      either the PGI (10 group therapy sessions) or the ETAU condition (participation in a support
      group focused on suicidal behaviors plus suicidal behavior monitoring and help with accessing
      resources). The PGI, conducted in accord with the culturally informed, TTI-guided, and
      empowerment based group protocol, and the support group will be unstructured; both groups
      will last 120 minutes. Following the completion of the PGI or ETAU condition, the individuals
      will be assessed at post-intervention (3 hours), and at 6 month and 12 month follow-ups (3
      hours each). To increase retention and reduce suicide risk, reminder phone calls will be made
      and texts sent on Relieflink, a suicide prevention app that received 1st prize in an App
      Challenge sponsored by Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
    
  