
    
      INTRODUCTION Fabry disease is an X-linked error of glycosphingolipid catabolism caused by the
      deficient activity of the lysosomal hydrolase α-galactosidase A (α-gal A) in tissues and
      fluids of affected hemizygous males; most heterozygous females have an intermediate level of
      enzymatic activity. The enzymatic defect leads to a systemic deposition of
      glycosphingolipids, predominantly globotriaosylceramide (Gb3), in body fluids and in the
      lysosomes of endothelial, perithelial, and smooth-muscle cells of blood vessels. Deposition
      also occurs in ganglion cells.

      Clinical manifestations in classically affected hemizygotes (with absent α-gal A activity),
      include pain and paresthesias in the extremities, vessel ectasia (angiokeratoma) in skin and
      mucous membranes, and hypohidrosis during childhood or adolescence. Corneal and lenticular
      opacities are early findings. With increasing age, proteinuria and renal impairment lead to
      hypertension and uremia. Renal failure typically occurs in the third-fifth decades of life,
      and these patients need chronic hemodialysis and/or renal transplantation.

      Atypical hemizygotes with residual α-gal A activity may be asymptomatic or have late-onset,
      mild disease manifestations primarily limited to the heart (the "cardiac variant"). Recently
      a renal variant has been identified too. Heterozygous females may have an attenuated form of
      the disease.The most frequent clinical finding in females is the characteristic whorl-like
      corneal epithelial dystrophy. They usually are asymptomatic, although rarely can be severely
      affected as hemizygous males.

      In the kidney accumulation of glycosphingolipids appear in the sequence in endothelial and
      epithelial cells of the glomerulus and of Bowman's space, epithelium of the loops of Henle
      and in distal tubules till proximal tubules, interstitial histiocytes and fibrocytes.
      Lipid-laden distal tubular epithelial cells desquamate and may be detected in the urinary
      sediment.

      Renal blood vessels may be involved progressively and extensively. An early finding is
      arterial fibrinoid deposits. Other histologic renal findings are severe arteriolar sclerosis,
      glomerular atrophy and fibrosis, pseudotubular proliferation of residual glomerular
      epithelium, tubular atrophy and diffuse interstitial fibrosis. Preliminary studies of enzyme
      replacement therapy demonstrate that periodic infusions of recombinant human α-galactosidase
      A are safe and effective in patients with Fabry disease.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long term efficacy of enzyme replacement therapy
      in patients with Fabry disease and renal involvement.

      AIM Primary

        -  To evaluate the effect of enzyme replacement therapy on the rate of decline in the
           glomerular filtration rate (GFR, measured by inulin clearance) in Fabry patients with
           renal involvement

        -  To evaluate the biological activity of recombinant human galactosidase in terms of
           clearance of plasma Gb3 (that is directly correlated with renal endothelial
           glycosphingolipid clearance) Secondary

      To evaluate the effect of enzyme replacement therapy on:

        -  24-hour urinary protein excretion

        -  renal plasma flow (PAH renal clearance)

        -  glomerular perm-selectivity (fractional dextran clearances)

        -  end stage renal failure, kidney transplantation or death

        -  systolic and diastolic blood pressure

        -  cardiac anomalies (left ventricular hypertrophy, arrhythmias, conduction anomalies)

        -  cutaneous anomalies

        -  ocular anomalies DESIGN Twenty patients (males and females) with Fabry disease, and
           renal involvement, referred to the SMIMAF - Studio Multicentrico Italiano sulla Malattia
           di Anderson-Fabry - will be enrolled in the study.
    
  