
    
      Background: The requirement for mechanical ventilation is a defining feature of critical
      illness. Weaning is the process during which the work of breathing is transferred from the
      ventilator back to the patient. Approximately 40% of the total time spent on mechanical
      ventilation is dedicated to weaning. The extent and predictors of practice variation in how
      this complicated and expensive technology is discontinued from critically ill patients
      remains unknown. Meanwhile, practice pattern variability has been shown to adversely impact
      upon patient safety and important clinical outcomes.

      Primary Objectives:

        1. To describe weaning practice variation with regard to the (i) use of daily screening,
           (ii) preferred methods of support used before initial discontinuation attempts, (iii)
           use of written weaning and spontaneous breathing trial (SBT) protocols, (iv) preferred
           methods used to conduct SBTs and (v) sedation and mobilization practices among
           geographic regions.

        2. To describe the association between variation in weaning practices (direct extubation,
           tracheostomy, SBT conduct) and important clinical outcomes.

           Secondary Objectives:

        3. To identify baseline and time-dependent factors associated with use of selected
           strategies.

        4. Among critically ill adults who undergo an initial SBT, the investigators will: a)
           investigate associations between SBT outcome (success/failure) and clinical outcomes, b)
           explore differences between critically ill patients who undergo an SBT early versus
           later in their intensive care unit (ICU) stay, and c) investigate the impact of
           different SBT techniques and humidification strategies on outcomes.

        5. To identify important predictors (patient, clinician, SBT, institutional and regional)
           of SBT outcome.

      Study Design and Population: The investigators propose to conduct an international
      prospective observational study of mechanical ventilation discontinuation practices in 150
      ICUs involving all newly admitted critically ill adults requiring invasive ventilation for at
      least 24 hours.

      Study Centres: Interested centres have been identified through completion of an information
      card enclosed in a previously administered International Weaning Survey. The investigators
      will use a multimodal approach to identify participating centers in each of the 6 geographic
      regions (Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Europe, India and Australia/New
      Zealand).

      Study Outcomes: The investigators will classify each new admission over the study week
      according to the initial strategy that precipitated or facilitated mechanical ventilation
      discontinuation into one of five categories: direct extubation, tracheostomy, SBT success,
      SBT failure or death. The investigator will describe the association between the use of
      alternative discontinuation strategies and important clinical outcomes (e.g., mortality, ICU
      and hospital stay, ICU readmission and reintubation rates).

      Relevance: Through collaborations with industry partners and international colleagues we will
      implement this large scale observational study to quantify the existence and extent of
      practice variation in weaning. Information obtained from this study will inform the design of
      future studies aimed at reducing weaning practice variation and improving outcomes in
      critically ill patients receiving invasive mechanical ventilation
    
  