
    
      The Amish and Mennonite communities of western Pennsylvania are unique because they are
      isolated both geographically and socially. These groups originally migrated as a small group
      from Europe. Since this first settlement there have been additional migration events within
      North America that have resulted in many distinct communities. These events lead to genetic
      founder effects, genetic bottleneck effects and virtually zero genetic inflow. The result has
      been an increased burden of genetic disease on these vulnerable communities. Specific founder
      genes explain the prevalence of different genetic conditions within each community and family
      group. This means that families and communities will have a clustering of certain genetic
      conditions, while the prevalence among the Plain people as a whole remains low. Understanding
      the specific needs of each family and community group is important in order to deliver
      comprehensive and specialized care. This requires research studies and needs assessments
      within these communities. Currently this need is being addressed in eastern Pennsylvania by
      the Clinic for Special Children in Strasburg. This organization has conducted research to
      improve access and quality of care for these Plain Communities. There is an apparent need for
      a similar understanding and relationship with the Plain Communities of western Pennsylvania.

      Currently, a barrier exists for identifying and ascertaining appropriate individuals within
      the Plain Community for new research studies. This is largely due to their social and
      geographical isolation related to religious and cultural practices. Improving research and
      understanding within Plain Communities has the potential to improve early diagnosis,
      interventions, and clinical outcomes. Creating an ongoing registry will moderate these
      barriers and provide a platform for contacting willing members of the Plain Community for
      participation in future research projects that may positively impact their medical care, as
      well as the general care in their communities.

      This is not a study but a registry. Potential participants will be educated about the intent
      of the registry, and written informed consent will be obtained to allow for collection and
      storage of information in the registry for an indefinite period of time. At the time of
      consent, potential participants will be informed about what it means to be a part of the
      registry and the potential for contact and recruitment to future research studies.

      One-on-one interviews with a clinician, or with primary and co-investigators, will be
      conducted. This interview may take place in a clinic setting or the participants home or
      regional environment. The primary goal of the interview will be to collect a detailed family
      and medical history of each participant. This will be used to build a detailed pedigree of
      members of this community. Medical information obtained through released medical records will
      be included in the registry. Basic demographic and contact information will also be included
      in the registry.

      Subjects information will be stored in the host PhenoTips database and data will be regularly
      undated and reviewed. Participants may be contacted for future research studies.
    
  