
    
      Indication: Cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy

      Study Objectives: To evaluate the safety and tolerability of fecal transplant in patients
      with cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy

      Rationale and Supporting Evidence:

      Hepatic encephalopathy affects 30-45% of patients with cirrhosis and adversely affects
      survival in these patients. The mainstay of treatment for hepatic encephalopathy (HE) has
      long been the manipulation of the gut flora through antibiotics, prebiotics or probiotics.
      The current first and second line therapies for HE in the US are lactulose and rifaximin
      respectively that uniquely act within the confines of the gut lumen with encouraging clinical
      results. However, there is a subset of patients with HE that continues to recur despite being
      on both treatments. This patient group is at a higher risk of poor outcomes because HE has
      now been removed from liver transplant priority and multiple episodes of HE can result in
      cumulative brain injury which may be irreversible. Therefore, the prevention of recurrent HE
      is an important therapeutic goal.

      The investigators' group and other reports have shown that patients with HE and cirrhosis are
      more likely to have overgrowth of potentially pathogenic bacterial taxa such as
      Enterobacteriaceae and reduction of autochthonous species such as Lachnospiraceae and
      Ruminococcaceae in the stool and the colonic mucosa. This has been linked to poor performance
      on cognitive tests that are a hallmark of HE and with increased systemic inflammation in
      these patients.

      Therefore, a gut-based therapeutic option that can potentially improve the recurrence rate
      and the overall prognosis is needed. Fecal transplant has been shown to be effective in
      conditions with predominant gut-bacterial overgrowth or alteration such as recurrent
      Clostridium difficile and inflammatory bowel disease. Safe protocols have been developed
      across the world and studies are being performed in the US under FDA-monitored INDs.
      Limitations to performing fecal transplant include identifying and screening appropriate
      donors, which is time consuming and costly, with the cost typically falling to the patient or
      donor as the required screening is generally not covered by insurance.

      The investigators' preliminary data suggest that a one-time administration of an FMT-enema
      using a rationally-selected donor is safe in patients with cirrhosis and recurrent HE.
      However, given the small bowel overgrowth and the predominantly small bowel location for
      bacterial translocation in cirrhosis, which is out of the reach of an enema, an upper GI
      route for FMT needs to be explored. In the investigators' published experience, a single
      enema from a rationally-derived donor was associated with significantly lower total and
      HE-related hospitalizations compared to patients who were randomized to standard of care,
      with a stable long-term course over >1 year. The investigators' data show that FMT was
      associated with favorable changes in fecal bile acid (BA) profile with a decrease in
      proportions of fecal secondary BAs, conjugated BAs and increase in sulfated BAs, indicating a
      healthier milieu. The investigators also have preliminary data defining the safety of oral
      FMT capsules in patients with cirrhosis and HE in a current trial led by us. The use of
      combined oral and rectal routes of FMT, which can potentially alleviate both small bowel and
      colonic translocation are likely to be better than either alone.

      Overall aim: To determine the effect of dual oral and rectal administration of FMT from a
      rational donor on clinical outcomes (hospitalizations, brain function, quality of life) and
      host-microbiota interactions (microbial composition and bile acid composition with systemic
      and intestinal inflammation), compared to single route of administration and placebo, along
      with a second oral capsular FMT vs placebo administration in cirrhotic patients with HE using
      a randomized, phase II clinical trial.

      Design overview: Four groups of outpatients with cirrhosis will be randomized using random
      sequence generator into placebo and FMT groups and followed for 6 months under an FDA IND
      double-blind clinical trial.
    
  