
    
      The phrase, "it's not what you say, but how you say it" neatly sums up prosody - the changes
      to one's tone of voice that transmit meaning. Changes to speech rate, rhythm, volume, and
      pitch to convey emotion fall into the category of affective, or emotional, prosody. That is,
      the changes made to the voice to express feelings, such as happy or sad.

      Following damage to the right side of the brain, such as in stroke and in some types of
      dementia, difficulties in affective prosody understanding and use have been observed. These
      findings have led researchers to view the right hemisphere as playing a critical role for
      emotional prosody. Affective prosody difficulties do not always spontaneously improve after
      acute right hemisphere stroke, and only a few evidenced-based treatments are available for
      these individuals as well as individuals living with dementia. It is also understood that
      affective prosody difficulties can negatively impact social interactions and relationships,
      including those who care for individuals with emotional prosody difficulties. With
      miscommunication frequently occurring between those living with affective prosody disorders
      and those with whom these people interact, the risk of reduced quality of life and social
      isolation is possible and could be related to poorer health outcomes. Not only might there be
      personal burdens associated with poor management of communication difficulties in right
      hemisphere stroke and dementia, but there might also be economic burdens as well. In addition
      to counseling caregivers, family, and friends about the communication changes of loved ones,
      more evidenced-based speech and language treatment options are needed for those living with
      affective prosody disorders.

      The current study aims to investigate a new treatment for individuals with emotional prosody
      impairments due to right hemisphere stroke or dementia. After informed consent is received,
      multiple screening assessments will be completed to determine if the study is a good fit for
      the participant. If the participant qualifies for the study, additional assessments will be
      completed to gather baseline cognitive-linguistic performance. Pre-treatment assessments will
      occur for about 1-2 weeks (Visits 1-4). Emotional prosody treatment will occur for 4 weeks
      (Visits 5-16) and will focus on production (2 weeks) and recognition (2 weeks) of emotional
      prosody. Participants will be randomly assigned to treatment order (production-recognition,
      recognition-production), and all participants will complete all components of the treatment.
      After completion of treatment, participants will be asked to come in for follow-up visits one
      week (Visit 17) and one month (Visit 18) after completion of treatment to assess changes in
      cognitive-linguistic performance. Emotional prosody recognition and production will also be
      tracked during treatment. Participation in all study-related activities lasts about 2.5
      months (10 weeks).
    
  