
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive tremelimumab and
      durvalumab by vein, over about 1 hour each, every 4 weeks for up to 16 weeks (4 doses). After
      Week 16, you may continue to receive durvalumab alone by vein over about 1 hour for an
      additional 32 weeks (8 doses).

      If you have a side effect related to the combination of durvalumab and tremelimumab during
      the first 16 weeks of the study, you may be able to switch over to receive durvalumab alone
      sooner than expected. This will be discussed with you.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of Week 0:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have 3 EKGs in a row.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) and urine will be collected for routine tests. If you can
           become pregnant, part of this routine blood and urine sample will be used for a
           pregnancy test.

        -  Blood (about 2½ tablespoons) will be drawn for biomarker and genetic testing. Biomarkers
           are found in the blood and may be related to your reaction to the study drug. The type
           of genetic testing in this study will be performed to learn how your DNA (genetic
           material) may change how you respond to the study drugs.

      On Day 1 of Weeks 2 and 6, blood (about 3½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine, genetic,
      and biomarker testing.

      On Day 1 of Week 4 and then every 4 weeks after that (Weeks 8, 12, 16, and so on) until Week
      44:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have imaging scans. You will not have these scans at Weeks 16 and 24.

      On Day 1 of Weeks 10 and 14, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Length of Study:

      You may receive up to 4 doses of durvalumab in combination with tremelimumab and up to an
      additional 8 doses of durvalumab alone. You will no longer be able to take the study drug(s)
      if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow
      study directions.

      If you complete 12 months of therapy but the disease appears to get worse, you may be able to
      re-start treatment. The study doctor will discuss this with you.

      It is expected that your participation in this study may last up to 15 months. Your
      participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      As soon as possible after your last dose of study drug(s):

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have an MRI, CT, or PET/CT scan.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for biomarker and genetic testing.

      Follow-Up Visit:

      About 30 days after your last dose of study drug(s):

      You will have a physical exam. Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Long-Term Follow-Up

      Every 3 months:

        -  You will have an MRI, CT, or PET/CT scan.

        -  You may be called to learn how you are doing and if you have started any anti-cancer
           treatments. If you are called, it should take about 5-10 minutes.
    
  