
    
      There are 3 groups to which you might be assigned. Assignment to these groups is random (ie.
      by flip of a coin).

      If you are assigned to…

        -  Group 1 - you will receive no treatments.

        -  Group 2 - you will be given an injection of leuprolide acetate (Lupron) which will
           temporarily lower sex hormones. This injection will be given two times during the 7 week
           treatment period.

        -  Group 3 - you will be given the injections of Lupron but after the second injection, you
           will also be required to apply a testosterone gel that will result in maintenance of
           your testosterone levels. The testosterone gel is rubbed on the upper shoulders, similar
           to putting on suntan lotion. You will be shown how to put this on.

      If you are in group 2 or 3 you will be given testosterone gel, a male hormone, at the end of
      the study to help prevent symptoms such as hot flashes, until your body has time to return to
      its pre-study hormone levels. This can take up to 4 weeks.

      In addition to the treatment period, you will also:

        -  If you are in group 1, have 4 fat biopsies that are like a miniature liposuction. The
           investigators numb the skin before doing the biopsies. If you are in group 2 or 3, you
           will also have 1 muscle biopsy at the end of the treatment period. In addition, if you
           are in group 2 or 3, you will also have a fat and muscle biopsy before you start the
           hormone treatment.

        -  All groups will need to spend two days and nights in the Clinical Research Unit of the
           Mayo Clinic and your meals will be provided by the for 5 days beforehand. You will also
           need to spend one morning undergoing some initial tests.

        -  You will have your body fat measured before and after the hormone treatment using x-ray
           like equipment that will expose you to some radiation.

        -  Our measures of fat metabolism use molecules that have a small amount of radioactivity.

      Remuneration is provided.
    
  