
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational drug combination to learn whether the combination
      works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug combination is
      being studied.

      This study has two parts. Each part tests a different combination of drugs.

        -  In Part 1 participants will be given elotuzumab and nivolumab.

        -  In Part 2 participants will be given elotuzumab, nivolumab, pomalidomide, and
           dexamethasone.

      Each of these drugs works in a different way to help the body fight multiple myeloma. The
      drugs are being tested in different combinations to see if they are more effective when taken
      together.

      Elotuzumab is an antibody, that stimulates the immune system to fight your disease. The FDA
      (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved elotuzumab in combination with
      lenalidomide as a treatment option for this disease.

      In this research study, the participant will receive pomalidomide which is an
      immunomodulatory drug. This means that pomalidomide modulates the immune system to help fight
      the disease. The FDA has approved pomalidomide as a treatment option for this disease after
      receiving two other therapies.

      Dexamethasone, also FDA approved, is a type of steroid and is usually combined with other
      chemotherapy for the treatment of blood cancers, such as myeloma and leukemias.

      The FDA has not approved nivolumab for this specific disease but it has been approved for
      other uses, specifically lung cancer. Nivolumab works by blocking an inhibitory signal within
      immune cells, potentially allowing the immune system to fight the cancer.

      In this research study the investigators are looking to see if the combination of elotuzumab,
      nivolumab, pomalidomide, and dexamethasone is effective in fighting the cancer.
    
  