
    
      1. Introduction: Global cerebral ischaemic-reperfusion brain injury following cardiac
           arrest (CA) can lead to intracranial hypertension and, occasionally, acute brain
           swelling. Even small increases in brain volume due to edema can result in harmful
           increases in intracranial pressure due to the brain's rigid encasement. The previous
           studies demonstrated a higher intracranial pressure (ICP) was strongly associated with
           and seemed predictive of a poor outcome, and higher ICP following global cerebral
           ischaemia immediately after return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC), and severe
           blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption began at 24 h after ROSC in the poor neurologic
           outcome group treated with target temperature management (TTM).

           Several therapeutic approaches have been established for the treatment of increased ICP
           in traumatic brain injury, including TTM, elevation of the head, sedation, volume
           resuscitation, maintenance of adequate arterial oxygenation, cerebrospinal fluid
           drainage via a ventriculostomy, moderate hyperventilation, and mannitol administration.
           However, despite these various therapies, a considerable number of patients remain
           nonresponsive to aggressive management strategies. During the last decades, controlled
           lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) drainage has been considered to be contraindicated in
           the setting of increased ICP because of the possibility of transtentorial or tonsillar
           herniation. In contrast, a recent report on the use of lumbar CSF drainage to treat
           refractory increased ICP suggested that this controversial therapeutic strategy might be
           efficient and a valuable treatment when applied to carefully selected patients had
           discernible basal cisterns and controlled release of CSF under monitoring of ICP and
           vital signs. Plus, much of the CSF volume is present in the subarachnoid spaces and
           cisterns around the brain. This CSF is not accessible for drainage by ventriculostomies
           but is accessible by lumbar drainage.

           However, to the best of our knowledge, there is no study on the effect of lumbar CSF
           drainage to improve neurologic outcome in CA patients treated with TTM. The
           investigators aim to evaluate the effect of lumbar CSF drainage on neurologic outcome in
           post-CA patients treated with TTM.

        2. Methods: This study was approved by the Institutional Review Board of the Chungnam
           National University Medical Centre (CNUH IRB 2019-07-033-003). The investigators will
           obtain approval and consent from the next of kin before enrolment.

      2.1. Study design and patients: This is a prospective single-center study conducted from May
      2020 to November 2021 on patients who have been treated with TTM following OHCA. The primary
      endpoint is to measure the effect of the lumbar CSF drainage on the neurologic outcome using
      the Glasgow-Pittsburgh cerebral performance categories (CPC) scale in post-CA patients
      treated with TTM. The secondary endpoint is to measure the effect of the lumbar CSF drainage
      on attenuation of brain edema using MRI in post-CA patients treated with TTM. The data are
      collected from the electrical medical record. The investigators name the patients are treated
      with our standard protocol as the non-lumbar CSF drainage group, whereas the patients treated
      with the protocol and the lumbar CSF drainage are called as the lumbar CSF drainage group.
      The investigators measure neurological out-comes 6 months after ROSC using CPC scale, either
      through face-to-face interviews or structured telephone interviews. Phone interviews will be
      undertaken by an emergency physician who is fully informed of the protocol and blinded to the
      patient's prognosis. The CPC score classifies patients into 5 categories: CPC 1 (good
      performance), CPC 2 (moderate disability), CPC 3 (severe disability), CPC 4 (vegetative
      state), or CPC 5 (brain death or death). The good outcome group is defined as a CPC 1 or 2,
      and the poor outcome group as a CPC between 3 and 5. Resuscitated cardiac arrest patients
      whose GCS is 8 or less after ROSC, and who undergo TTM are included in the study. The
      exclusion criteria for this study are as follows: (1) < 18 y of age, (2) traumatic CA or
      interrupted TTM (due to haemodynamic instability), (3) not eligible for TTM (i.e.,
      intracranial haemorrhage, active bleeding, known terminal illness, or poor pre-arrest
      neurological status), (4) ineligible for LP (i.e., brain computed tomography showed severe
      cerebral oedema, obliteration of the basal cisterns, occult intracranial mass lesion,
      antiplatelet therapy, anticoagulation therapy, or coagulopathy: platelet count < 40 x 103/mL
      or international normalized ratio (INR) > 1.5) (5) on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation,
      (6) there are no next of kin to consent to LP, and (7) refusal of further treatment by the
      next of kin.

      2.2. TTM protocol: TTM is applied using cooling devices (Arctic Sun ® Energy Transfer Pads
      TM, Medivance Corp., Louisville, USA). The target temperature of 33°C is maintained for 24 h
      with subsequent rewarming to 37°C at a rate of 0.25°C /h. Temperature is monitored using an
      esophageal and bladder temperature probe. ADMS™ (Anaesthetic Depth Monitor for Sedation,
      Unimedics CO., LTD., Seoul, Korea) is used to monitor the anaesthesia depth. Midazolam (0.05
      mg/kg intravenous bolus, followed by a titrated intravenous continuous infusion at a dose
      between 0.05 and 0.2 mg/kg/h) and cisatracurium (0.15 mg/kg intravenous bolus, followed with
      an infusion of up to 0.3 mg/kg/h) are administered for sedation and control of shivering.
      Electroencephalography is performed if there is a persistent deterioration of the patient's
      level of consciousness, involuntary movements, or seizures. If there is evidence of
      electrographic seizure or a clinical diagnosis of seizure, anti-epileptic drugs are
      administered; levetiracetam (loading dose 2 g bolus intravenously and maintenance dose, 1 g
      bolus twice daily, intravenously). Fluid resuscitation or vasopressors are administered when
      necessary to maintain mean arterial pressure between 85- and 100-mm Hg.

      2.3. Data collection: The following data are collected from the database: age, sex, presence
      of a witness at the time of the collapse, bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR),
      first monitored rhythm, etiology of cardiac arrest, time from collapse to CPR (no flow time),
      time from CPR to ROSC (low flow time), sequential organ failure assessment (SOF) score, ICP
      measured on immediate after ROSC, time from ROSC to inserting a lumbar drainage catheter
      placed through the lumbar vertebral interspace into the subarachnoid space (ICP time), and
      CPC at 6 months after ROSC.

      2.4. ICP control via lumbar CSF drainage: The investigators have performed the lumbar CSF
      drainage on the level of the lumbar spine between L3 and L4 with the patient lying in the
      lateral decubitus position with hips and knees flexed. A lumbar drainage catheter is inserted
      using a HermeticTM lumbar accessory kit (Integra Neurosciences, Plainsboro, NJ, USA) in the
      patients. ICP monitoring via lumbar drainage catheter is practiced using the LiquoGuard®
      (Möller Medical GmbH & Co KG, Fulda, Germany). ICP control strategies is initiated when ICP
      exceed 15 mmHg in the absence of noxious stimuli at the rate of 10~20 ml/h via a lumbar
      drainage catheter until ICP is less than 15 mmHg.

      2.5. MRI protocol and analysis: The investigators have a standardised magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) protocol for non-traumatic OHCAs. MRI imaging includes diffusion weighted image
      (DWI), and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) map. The MRI is obtained between 72-96 h
      after ROSC. Forty contiguous DWI sections per patient are acquired using a 3T scanner
      (Achieva 3 T; Philips Medical System, The Netherlands). The standard of b=1000 s/mm2 is used
      for all DWIs. ADC maps are created from the mono-exponential calculation of DWI with a
      commercial software and workstation system (Leonardo MR Workplace; Siemens Medical Solutions,
      Erlangen, Germany). For quantitative analysis of ADC, images are processed and analysed using
      software (FMRIB Software Library, Release 5.0 (c) 2012, The University of Oxford) that can
      extract brain tissue by eliminating cranium, optic structure, and extra-cranial soft tissues.
      Images are retrieved in Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine format from picture
      archiving and communication system servers at the hospital and are converted to NITFI format
      using MRIcron (http://www.nitrc.org/projects/mricron). ADC thresholds range from 0 to 2200 X
      10-6 mm2/s to exclude artefacts or pure CSF. The percentage of voxels (PV) meant voxel number
      of brain edema is divided by total voxel number.

      The % voxels of ADC values (PV):

      PV of cytotoxic edema = (Voxel numbers of ADC value ( from 0 to 600 X 10-6 mm2/s))/(Voxel
      numbers of ADC value (from 0 to 2200 X 10-6 mm2/s))

      PV of vasogenic edema = (Voxel numbers of ADC value ( from 1050 to 2200 X 10-6 mm2/s))/(Voxel
      numbers of ADC value (from 0 to 2200 X 10-6 mm2/s))

      2.6. Statistical analysis: The investigators report continuous variables as median with
      interquartile range or as mean and standard deviation depending on the normal distribution.
      Categorical variables are reported as frequencies and percentages. The investigators perform
      the propensity score matching with age, sex, presence of a witness at the time of the
      collapse, bystander CPR, first monitored rhythm, causes of CA, no flow time, low flow time,
      sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) score, and ICP on immediate after ROSC between
      both groups. Comparisons between the two groups are made using the chi-square test, Fisher's
      exact test, the Mann-Whitney U test, or two-tailed t-test. Multivariate logistic regression
      models are built to identify the effect of the lumbar CSF drainage on the neurologic outcome.
      Kaplan-Meier analysis is performed to evaluate the effect of the lumbar CSF drainage on the
      neurologic outcome at 6 months after ROSC. The estimated odds ratio is considered to assess
      risk. All statistical analyses are performed using the PASW/SPSSTM software, version 18 (IBM
      Inc., Chicago, USA). Results are considered significant at P < 0.05.
    
  