
    
      Research Question 3.1.1 Chimerism and post transplant outcome During the past 3 decades, SCT
      has become a well established treatment procedure for many malignant and hematopoietic
      disorders in children and adults.1-8 After transplantation, it has been of central interest
      whether the newly developed hematopoietic system is of recipient or donor origin. The
      investigations of the genotypic origin of post transplant hematopoiesis are called chimerism
      analysis. Originally, it was believed that complete donor hematopoiesis is essential to
      maintain engraftment after allogeneic SCT in humans.9 In the last decades, however, it became
      evident that donor and recipient hematopoiesis could coexist after allo-SCT in the recipient.
      This state of coexistence of hematopoietic cells is called mixed chimerism which might end in
      an "autologous recovery". In patients with refractory cytopenia SCT after myeloablative
      conditioning regimen allowed prompt and sustained engraftment in virtually all patients. In
      this disease relapse has become a very rare event. Consequently, transplant related mortality
      and long term squeals have become major obstacles yet to be overcome to improve the
      children's well being and the prognosis of the disease. In SCT with RIC, the reduction of
      early and late toxicity may be counterbalanced by delayed engraftment, graft rejection, mixed
      chimerism and GVHD.

      Graft rejection It is well known that less myeloablative conditioning regimens predispose for
      a higher rate of mixed chimerism. Consequently, graft rejection or non engraftment is a major
      cause of treatment failure.

      Sensitization to minor histocompatibility antigens by prior transfusions of blood products
      can increase this risk. The rapid development of complete chimerism in NK-cells and T-cells
      seems to play an important role to achieve sustained engraftment specifically in patients
      transplanted with a dose reduced preparative regimen. Therefore, it is important to elucidate
      the development of post transplant chimerism in different cell subpopulations. This will
      allow following and documenting proper engraftment, and will detect early hints of ongoing
      graft rejection.

      Graft versus host disease The occurrence of GVHD is influenced by many well known factors.
      Although the use of nonmyeloablative SCT can reduce the severity of GVHD, GVHD remains a
      major complication. In our pilot study using the reduced intensity preparative regimen in RC,
      the probability for developing GVHD grade IIIV was 0.48. It is accepted that in comparison to
      myeloablative SCT, in reduced intensity preparative regimens higher proportions of host
      immune hematopoietic cells may persist. While donor-derived alloreactive lymphocytes are
      being infused, these autologous cells might possibly serve as host antigen presentation for
      continuous stimulation of donor T-cells. Consequently, it was speculated by the group Shapira
      and Slavin10 that GVHD may be similarly amplified by reduced conditioning followed by
      intentional administration of host cells. This hypothesis was tested in a preclinical animal
      model. Increased incidence of GVHD, higher mortality and increased levels of chimerism were
      observed in recipients reconstituted with additional host cells, particularly with
      non-irradiated spleen cells. Graft-versus-Leukaemia (GVL) effect was not impaired by post
      transplant cell administration. These results suggested that GVHD may be amplified by
      recipient cell infusion using either irradiated or viable stimulatory host cells. This could
      possibly explain the higher than anticipated incidence of GVHD and consequently the rapid
      displacement of host cells with conversion to 100% donor type cells in reduced intensity SCT.
      The present study will therefore investigate whether autologous antigen presenting cells
      (Auto-APC) do survive the conditioning regimen and favour to occurrence of GVHD.
    
  