
    
      Knowledge of patients' serum haemoglobin (Hb) levels is of great importance in many areas of
      medical practice. Standard methods of measurement require direct blood sampling; they are
      therefore relatively invasive, costly, and time-consuming.

      Non-invasive Hb measurement techniques utilizing a finger probe (SpHb) have attracted a lot
      of attention over the last five years. Numerous studies have compared the accuracy of these
      devices with central laboratory Hb data in a wide range of clinical settings: operating
      rooms, critical care units, emergency departments, and blood donor clinics.

      A meta-analysis of previous studies regarding SpHb measurements in perioperative and
      intensive care settings has revealed a mean difference between non-invasive and central
      laboratory Hb results of 0.10±1.37 g/dl (n=4425) (2) . To date, however, few studies have
      assessed the use of these devices in a pre-operative setting.

      Such a study could be of great value, as Hb measurement plays an important role in the
      implementation of PBM programmes (Patient Blood Management), which in turn are associated
      with improved patient outcomes, fewer transfusions and lower costs.

      Various guidelines with the aim of reducing unnecessary testing have been proposed. Such
      guidelines prioritize the tests to be applied during preparation for minor, intermediate and
      major surgery, considering specific comorbidities.

      This study's goal is to establish SpHb threshold values that can help health care provider
      sort out which patients would potentially benefit from central laboratory Hb testing
      pre-operatively and who would likely not. It also aims to compare the mean difference between
      these two methods in a pre-operative setting.

      With reliable cut-off values, SpHb levels could serve as a pre-test for patients with a low
      ASA (American Society of Anesthesiologists) score undergoing minor to intermediate
      surgery-i.e., those who would normally not receive a complete lab-test before an operation.
      This adaptation of clinical routine could help to detect anemia where it might otherwise be
      missed.

      To achieve this goal, SpHb values will be observed and recorded from patients meeting the
      inclusion criteria undergoing pre-operative evaluation for plastic, trauma, orthopaedic,
      urological, general and gynaecological surgery over one year by the Department of
      Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine at the University Medical Centre Graz.

      All patients will be evaluated pre-operatively by an anaesthesiologist, utilizing both
      central laboratory measurements as clinical routine and non-invasive Hb measurements. Both
      measurements (SpHb and central laboratory Hb) will be documented, along with the normally
      collected patient data, using the electronic system currently in use. Median values from the
      two methods will be compared, and possible cut-off values calculated.
    
  