
    
      Objectives and Hypotheses: The goal of the proposed study is to determine under randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) conditions whether nattokinase reduces subclinical atherosclerosis and
      cognitive decline in healthy women and men. The investigators' hypotheses are: 1) Compared to
      placebo, nattokinase will show less subclinical atherosclerosis progression and cognitive
      decline in healthy women and men; 2) The reduction in subclinical atherosclerosis progression
      and cognitive decline with nattokinase will be correlated; and, 3) The reduction in
      progression of subclinical atherosclerosis and cognitive decline with nattokinase will be
      mediated through hemostatic, fibrinolytic and hemorheological factors as well as attenuation
      of inflammation, monocyte activation, vascular endothelium injury and activation of vascular
      endothelium by circulating monocytes.

      Specific Aims: To conduct a RCT to determine the effect of nattokinase on the progression of
      subclinical atherosclerosis (primary trial end point) and cognitive decline (secondary trial
      end point). Healthy non-demented women and men >55 years old without pre-existing symptomatic
      CVD and diabetes mellitus will be randomized over a 2 year period to oral nattokinase (2,000
      fibrinolysis units) daily versus placebo in this double-blind, placebo-controlled trial;
      randomized treatment will be 3-years. The following 5 major specific aims will be completed:

        1. To determine the effect of nattokinase on the progression of subclinical carotid artery
           atherosclerosis determined as the rate of change of the common carotid artery
           intima-media thickness (CIMT) and arterial stiffness in computer image processed B-mode
           ultrasonograms.

        2. To determine the effect of nattokinase on cognitive decline determined with a
           neuropsychological battery designed to evaluate 7 cognitive domains including:
           attention, concentration, working memory, executive function;
           visuospatial/visuoconstructive skills; naming/semantic memory; and verbal and nonverbal
           episodic memory.

      2a. To determine the effect of nattokinase on cognitive decline according to apolipoprotein
      (Apo) E e4 genotype.

      3. To determine the association of subclinical atherosclerosis progression with cognitive
      decline.

      4. To determine whether the effects of nattokinase on subclinical atherosclerosis and
      cognitive decline are mediated through hemostatic (fibrinogen, factor VIII, platelet
      activity), fibrinolytic (tPA, PAI-1, D-dimer), hemorheological (plasma and blood viscosity,
      red blood cell aggregation) and inflammatory (MCP-1, IL-8, TNFα, IL-1β, IL-10, monocyte cell
      surface markers CD11b/CD11c and VLA-4, expression of adhesion molecules VCAM-1 and ICAM-1 in
      cultured human aortic endothelial cells) factors as well as blood pressure.
    
  