
    
      Anal HPV infection can be a risk factor for anal cancer, which is a common non-AIDS-defining
      cancer among HIV-infected MSM. Screening for anal cancer is not widely available and can be
      difficult to implement. People who receive the FDA-approved quadrivalent HPV vaccine,
      Gardasil, may have a reduced risk of developing anal HPV infection, which may in turn reduce
      the risk of developing anal cancer. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of the quadrivalent HPV vaccine, Gardasil, at reducing the incidence of anal
      HPV infections in HIV-infected MSM and HIV-infected women.

      This study enrolled HIV-infected MSM and HIV-infected women. Participants were randomly
      assigned to receive the HPV vaccine or a placebo vaccine. At the screening study visit,
      participants underwent a physical examination, blood collection, anal swab procedure, oral
      examination, questionnaires, a high-resolution anoscopy (HRA), and if female, a pregnancy
      test, vaginal swab, and gynecologic exam. At the entry study visit, participants underwent
      most of the procedures performed at screening (with the exception of an HRA and a gynecologic
      exam if female) plus a saliva test. Participants received the HPV vaccine or placebo as an
      injection into their upper arm or thigh on Day 0 and Weeks 8 and 24. Study staff called
      participants 2 to 3 days after each vaccination for follow-up monitoring. Additional study
      visits and procedures occurred at Week 28, Week 52, and every 26 weeks thereafter for at
      least 3 years and for a maximum of 4 years after the last participant was enrolled in the
      study. Female participants also had a gynecologic exam at screening, Week 52, and every 52
      weeks thereafter; a pregnancy test at screening, baseline, Week 8, Week 24, and as indicated;
      and self-collected vaginal swabs at screening, entry, Week 28, Week 52, and every 26 weeks
      thereafter. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were collected from some participants
      at entry, Week 28, and study exit.

      The DSMB held a total of four reviews for the study. After careful review of the outcome data
      in the 4th review held on September 2, 2015, the DSMB commended the study team for a well-run
      study that provided important results and recommended stopping the study early due to
      futility. The recommendation was based on meeting the pre-specified criteria for inadequate
      conditional power to detect a treatment difference at 50% information.

      The study was prematurely discontinued on December 31, 2015, which was around eight months
      earlier than originally planned. With approval from SASC, the study team managed to offer
      high resolution anoscopy (HRA) procedures to participants whose most recent anal Pap tests
      showed abnormal results, unless the HRA took place on or after 09/01/14.
    
  