
    
      Current surgical treatment for rectal cancer includes total mesorectal excision (TME) which
      involves excision of the rectum in its encompassing fat including the lymph nodes. Rectal
      cancer can spread to lymph nodes locally inside the TME 'package' and the lateral pelvic
      lymph nodes. The TME must be fully excised to ensure that the circumferential resection
      margin (CRM) is disease free or negative. Despite advancing surgical techniques, a positive
      margin can occur in around 9% of patients with accurate pre-operative magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI), increasing the risk of local recurrence.

      Incidence of lateral pelvic lymph node involvement has been reported between 10-25%. It is
      thought that lower rectal tumours are more likely to spread to the lateral pelvic nodes. In
      the far East, LPLN dissection is often added to the TME procedure. Formal LPLND is not
      utilised in Europe due to operative risks including damage to pelvic nerves, greater blood
      loss and prolonged operating time. Instead, neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (CRT) is utilised
      to 'sterilise' the lymph nodes. Although a retrospective analysis suggested that LPLN
      dissection is equivalent to preoperative CRT for preventing local recurrence, there has been
      evidence to suggest that positive LPLNs after CRT decrease cancer specific survival and
      relapse free survival. This would suggest that there may be a cohort of patients that would
      benefit from some form of LPLN dissection, although it is not certain what characteristics of
      tumours are more likely to metastasise to the LPLNs.

      In prostatectomies, where pelvic lymph node dissection is a standard part of the procedure,
      there has been investigation into fluorescence guided lymph node mapping. Yuen et al utilised
      ICG guided node mapping in open prostatectomy. In their study, all lymph nodes identified by
      fluorescence were found to have metastases on pathology whereas non-fluorescent nodes were
      free from disease. A smaller, retrospective study comparing fluorescence guided lymph node
      dissection with standard lymph node dissection showed higher sensitivity and specificity in
      the fluorescence guided technique. Similar results were seen in an early, robotic
      prostatectomy study.

      ICG has been used to map pelvic lymph nodes in colorectal cancer, with the first reported
      cases being published in 2010. ICG was injected to the tumour base in 25 open rectal
      resections. A wide field camera is useful for fluorescence in open surgery, however, as most
      rectal cancer cases are performed using a minimally invasive approach a laparoscopic method
      is needed. Ishizuka et al used a similar method in low rectal cancers to identify drainage in
      three different sets of lymph nodes. In 2015, a study of 5 patients using ICG node mapping
      with the same laparoscopic equipment to be used in this study demonstrated fluorescence in
      all 5 patients. Both studies 'berry picked' the fluorescing lymph nodes. In the 2010 study,
      23 out of 25 patients had fluorescing lymph nodes. In the 2 non-fluorescing nodes LPLD was
      performed and no diseased nodes were identified. In these studies, they did not observe what
      types of tumours drain to the LPLDs.

      ICG, when injected intravenously, rapidly binds to plasma proteins and is exclusively
      excreted into bile by the liver. It is known to be well tolerated but there have been
      reported cases of urticaria and anaphylaxis. Risk of anaphylaxis is 1 in 10,000 and if occurs
      can be treated using a standard protocol. ICG contains sodium iodide and therefore should be
      avoided in patients with known allergy to iodides.

      This study aims to assess the lymphatic drainage of rectal tumours by using ICG as a
      fluorescent non-specific marker. As a feasibility study, it will also assess its technique
      and timing along with its ability to assist in removing lymph nodes when it is clinically
      indicated.
    
  