
    
      This study aims to investigate the acute hemodynamic and pharmacological effects of a single
      inhalation of Iloprost (2.5μg) during right heart catheterization (RHC) using the Breelib
      nebulizer. Patients with confirmed diagnosis of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH = WHO
      group 1), NYHA functional class III and with stable background pulmonary vasoactive treatment
      or treatment naïve PAH patients will be challenged with the iloprost inhalation dosage during
      RHC. As a proof-of concept design, the study will include consecutive PAH patients only
      challenged with a single administration of inhaled iloprost 2.5 μg delivered via Breelib
      nebulizer during right heart catheterization (day 2).

      The acute hemodynamic response will be followed over 30 minutes. Change of pulmonary
      hemodynamics, systemic blood pressure, right ventricular echocardiographic parameters and
      adverse events will be assessed at baseline and 5, 10, 15, 30 minutes after the end of
      inhalation.

      Recently, the Breelib nebulizer has been evaluated within a multicenter, randomized,
      unblinded, study. This safety and feasibility study compared inhalation time,
      pharmacokinetics, and acute tolerability of inhaled iloprost delivered via Breelib versus the
      standard I-Neb nebulizer. The primary safety endpoints (AEs) were reported with a low
      frequency and were consistent with the known safety profile of iloprost. Median inhalation
      times were considerably shorter while maximum iloprost plasma concentration and systemic
      exposure were significantly higher, with Breelib versus I-Neb. Previously, it was shown that
      the acute hemodynamic response of iloprost inhalation via the previous used I-Neb nebulizer
      resulted in a relevant and significant reduction of PVR and increase in CI. Moreover,
      previous generation of nebulizers also resulted in a significant reduction of PVR and
      increase in CI 5-15min after iloprost inhalation.

      Therefore, the aim of the current study is to determine the acute hemodynamic effects on the
      pulmonary and the systemic circulation as well as on the gas exchange of 2.5 μg iloprost
      delivered via the Breelib device. The investigators aim to characterize the hemodynamic
      profile of the inhalation with Breelib as the investigators speculate that the shortened
      inhalation time will result in an enhanced hemodynamic response with substantial reduction of
      pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR). Moreover, as a secondary outcome measurement the
      investigators aim to assess the response of mean pulmonary arterial pressure, cardiac
      index/cardiac output, systemic blood pressure, right ventricular echocardiographic parameters
      and oxygen saturation after inhalation of 2.5μg iloprost and analyze adverse events.
    
  