
    
      The research objectives of this study: i) to find the best counseling methods for improving
      eating behavior (group counseling, tailored web-based counseling), ii) to find the predictors
      of successful lifestyle changes and weight loss, iii) to find the associations with
      biological and psychological eating behavior regulation system. The study hypothesis is that
      new theoretically valid cognitive-behavioral-therapy -based counseling methods in combination
      with ICT support based on persuasive design improve eating behavior, weight loss and
      self-efficacy and reduce risk factors for the metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, coronary
      heart disease and musculoskeletal factors.

      The study population consists of subjects with overweight or obesity and at least one risk
      factor of metabolic syndrome (MetSyn). A population-based sample of 600 subjects living in
      the Oulu area (approx. 200 000 habitants) is collected with the help of the Finnish
      Population Register Centre.

      Inclusion criteria include also the ability to use basic ICT technology (email etc.).
      Exclusion criteria are certain uncontrolled health factors, such as abnormal laboratory
      values (thyroid, kidney and liver function tests) or clinically significant illness with
      contraindication for weight loss or physical activity.

      At the screening visit blood samples are drawn at the research laboratory of the Oulu
      University Hospital. Along with the timeline of the visits the eating behaviour factors
      (emotional eating, uncontrolled eating and cognitive restraint), health information literacy
      (HIL), nutrition habits, smoking, alcohol consumption, medication and previous diseases are
      recorded by a detailed questionnaires sent to study persons by e-mail. The blood pressure,
      waist diameter, height and weight are also measured during the visit. All the operations have
      been described in detail and accepted by the regional Ethics Committee of the Northern
      Ostrobothnia.

      The randomization process is two-phased. First the subjects who are included in the study are
      randomized into 2 different kinds of lifestyle face-to-face counselling groups and one
      control group. After that they are randomized into users or non-users of the web-based
      ICT-program "Onnikka". As a summary, there are six different counselling groups: 1) Intensive
      group counselling, 2) Intensive group counselling with Onnikka, 3) Short term group
      counselling, 4) Short term counselling with Onnikka, 5) Control group (no intervention at
      all), and 6) Only Onnikka.
    
  