
    
      This is a multicentre, nationwide and cross-sectional study carried out in China, covering 30
      sites and 3000 patients totally. As for the ratio of tertiary to secondary general hospitals
      is approximately 1:4 in China, 6 tertiary and 24 secondary hospitals will be randomly
      selected in this study.To adapt the representativeness of the data with the operational
      feasibility, 30 tertiary and 120 secondary hospitals will be randomly selected over the 6
      geographic regions (north, northeast, east, south central, southwest and northwest). Among
      those, 1 tertiary and 4 secondary hospitals in each region will be further selected based on
      GI department setup, willingness to participate in the study, capability and primary
      investigator's consideration. Within participated hospitals, subjects will be enrolled
      consecutively from all the outpatients of GI department to minimize selection bias. 3000
      subjects will be allocated to tertiary and secondary hospitals with a ratio of 1:1. In
      general, 250 subjects will be enrolled from tertiary hospitals and 250 subjects will be
      enrolled from secondary hospitals for each region. During the subject enrolment, the
      investigator will firstly explain the purpose of the study to consecutive GI patients and
      written informed consents will be obtained. Then qualified patients will be given a
      questionnaire and finish it during waiting time. After receiving questionnaires, IBS
      diagnosis will be made by investigators based on Rome III or Rome IV IBS diagnostic criteria.
      Subjects will be identified as medically diagnosed with IBS if they have been diagnosed by
      their clinicians. And subjects will be classified as IBS sufferers without medical diagnosis
      if they satisfy Rome III or Rome IV diagnostic criteria and have not received IBS diagnosis
      from physicians. For IBS patients, either medically diagnosed or diagnosed with IBS criteria,
      investigators will collect all the information on demographic features, disease
      characteristics and current treatment status. For non-IBS patients, only demographic
      information will be collected.
    
  