
    
      Patients undergoing head and neck cancer surgery frequently experience significant post
      surgical pain, which often necessitates the use of narcotic pain medication. However, opioids
      can have multiple side effects that can complicate the head and neck cancer surgery patients
      postoperative care including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, sedation, pruritis, urinary
      retention, delirium, constipation, and time to ambulation. This, in turn, may affect patient
      length and cost of hospital stay. Consequently, a multimodal approach to analgesia is often
      employed with a focus on use of scheduled acetaminophen +/- NSAIDs supplemented with
      narcotics.

      The use of gabapentin in the head and neck surgery literature has largely been limited to
      outpatient surgeries, including tonsillectomy in children and adults, functional endoscopic
      sinus surgery, and thyroidectomy. Indeed, a recent systematic review examined RCT comparing
      multimodal analgesia with gabapentin to analgesia without gabapentin in the otolaryngology
      literature. The majority of these studies employed preoperative dosing only, with only 1
      study providing a single postoperative dose as well. The control group pain regimen among
      these studies did vary and included a combination of acetaminophen, NSAIDs, dexmedetomidine,
      or clonidine supplemented with opioids. The studies focused on the impact of gabapentin on
      acute postoperative pain determined by subjective measurement of reduction in visual analog
      pain scale. Of note, these patients were not hospitalized for longer than 24 hours. The
      thyroid and sinus studies consistently demonstrated improved pain control with use of
      gabapentin compared to control. The data was slightly more variable across the tonsillectomy
      studies. Moreover, 7 studies also measured the need for breakthrough pain medication and
      supplemental analgesia; each of these studies demonstrated significantly less supplemental
      analgesia consumption in the gabapentin group.

      The only study examining the utility of gabapentin in pain management in head and neck cancer
      patients (glossectomy with anterolateral thigh free flap) examined the utility of a single
      preoperative dose. The authors concluded that this led to a significant reduction in
      subjective postoperative pain scores, morphine requirement, and nausea and vomiting compared
      to controls. This study did not employ postoperative gabapentin.

      Furthermore, a recent meta analysis (133 RCT) examining literature across multiple surgical
      specialties pertaining to the efficacy of perioperative gabapentin supplementation vs
      placebo. The meta analysis indicated both the efficacy of gabapentin supplementation in
      decreasing opioid requirement (measured via morphine equivalent units) in the experimental
      group during the first 24 hours (P<0.001), as well as a good safety profile across a wide
      range of loading and maintenance doses (200 to 1200 mg) of gabapentin. The significant
      reduction in opioid requirement was independent of surgery type. Moreover, the gabapentin
      group demonstrated a significant decrease in VAS postoperative pain scores, nausea, vomiting
      and itching; however, sedation scores were increased. Only 8 of these 133 RCT examined the
      effect of gabapentin outside the immediate 24 hour period, and all 8 trials demonstrated
      improvement in chronic pain scores at 3 months post-operatively. Finally, patient
      satisfaction scores and preoperative anxiety were also significantly improved with the use of
      gabapentin compared to controls.

      Here, the investigators propose, for the first time, a superiority double blind randomized
      controlled placebo trial examining the effect of perioperative supplementation with
      gabapentin in head and neck cancer patients undergoing surgery. The primary purpose of this
      study is to determine the difference in morphine equivalent units between the experimental
      (i.e. perioperative gabapentin) and control group (i.e. no perioperative gabapentin). The
      secondary purpose of this study is to determine differences across the two groups in relation
      to the following: visual analog pain scores, cost and length of stay, medication side
      effects, and incidence of postoperative complications. Of note, in order to maximize
      reliability of the visual analog scale (VAS), prior studies have employed the Jadad scoring
      system, which the investigators will also implement in the study.
    
  