
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the response rate, in terms of hematologic improvement and complete and
           partial remission, in patients with primary or secondary (therapy-related)
           myelodysplastic syndromes treated with vatalanib.

        -  Determine the time to transformation to acute myeloid leukemia (at least 20% blasts) or
           death in patients treated with this drug.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the safety of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the duration of response in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the cytogenetic response rate in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the overall and progression-free survival of patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the incidence of infections requiring antibiotics or hospitalization or
           bleeding requiring red blood cell transfusions in patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified* according to risk group (low
      grade [refractory anemia with or without ringed sideroblasts, refractory anemia with excess
      blasts-1, refractory cytopenia with multilineage dysplasia with or without ringed
      sideroblasts, myelodysplastic syndromes-unclassified, or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia-1]
      vs high grade [refractory anemia with excess blasts-2 or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia-2]).

      NOTE: *Stratification according to risk (low vs high) does not occur after 11/30/06.

      Patients receive oral vatalanib once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with a complete response
      (CR) receive 6 additional courses after documentation of a CR.

      Patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years from study entry.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 144 patients will be accrued for this study within 2.5
      years.
    
  