
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the rate of complete remission (CR) with polatuzumab vedotin plus rituximab,
      cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and prednisone (R-CHP) in patients with newly
      diagnosed previously untreated double or triple hit lymphoma as measured by positron emission
      tomography (PET)-defined CR rate using the modified Lugano response criteria at the time of
      primary response assessment (6-8 weeks after cycle 6 day 1 or last dose of study medication).

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the rate of complete remission (CR) with polatuzumab vedotin plus rituximab,
      cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and prednisone (R-CHP) in patients with newly
      diagnosed previously untreated double or triple hit lymphoma as measured by positron emission
      tomography (PET)-defined CR rate using the modified Lugano response criteria at the time of
      primary response assessment (6-8 weeks after cycle 6 day 1 or last dose of study medication).

      SECONDARY SAFETY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of polatuzumab vedotin (PoV)
      plus R-CHP as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 5.0.

      SECONDARY EFFICACY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the progression free survival (PFS) with PoV plus R-CHP in the above-mentioned
      patient population.

      II. To assess the overall survival (OS) with PoV plus R-CHP in the above-mentioned patient
      population.

      III. To assess the overall response rate (ORR; complete response [CR] or partial response
      [PR]) at the time of primary response assessment, based on modified Lugano PET-computed
      tomography (CT) criteria, as determined by the investigator.

      IV. To assess the duration of response (DOR) to PoV plus R-CHP based on PET-CT, as determined
      by the investigators in the above-mentioned patient population.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the relationship between CD79b expression and response to treatment with PoV
      plus R-CHP.

      II. To explore the relationship between MYC expression and response to treatment with PoV
      plus R-CHP.

      III. To explore polatuzumab vedotin treatment on Myc protein expression.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive prednisone orally (PO), prednisolone intravenously (IV), or
      methylprednisolone IV on days 1-5. Patients also receive rituximab IV, polatuzumab vedotin IV
      over 30-90 minutes, cyclophosphamide IV, and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 12 months.
    
  