
    
      With the development of cost effective and rapid technology of genome sequencing, precision
      medicine becomes a new way to think oncology. Current targets involve mainly tyrosine kinase,
      but DNA repair machinery could also be targetable. Some of DNA repair aberrations have been
      associated with sensitivity to platinum and poly (adenosine diphosphate [ADP]-ribose)
      polymerase (PARP) inhibitors like Olaparib, suggesting that treatment with a PARP inhibitor
      may exploit a synthetic lethal interaction when the presence of alteration of the homologous
      repair pathway was observed. PARP is involved in multiple aspects of DNA repair, and the PARP
      inhibitor Olaparib has recently been approved for treating ovarian cancers with BRCA1/2
      mutations. In addition, it showed that using a high-throughput, next-generation sequencing
      assay in prostate cancer, detection of genomic alteration in genes involved in homologous
      repair pathway BRCA2, ATM, BRCA1, PALB2, CHEK2, FANCA, and HDAC2, is associated with response
      to olaparib. Thus demonstrating the clinical validation of the usage of precision medicine to
      position PARP inhibitor like olaparib in different cancer types based on molecular analysis.

      Preclinical studies showed DNA damage promotes neoantigen expression. It is possible that
      increased DNA damage by PARPi would yield greater mutational burden and expand neoantigen
      expression, leading to greater immune recognition of the tumor. PARPi is also associated with
      immunomodulation. The PARPi talazoparib increases the number of peritoneal CD8+ T cells and
      natural killer cells and increases production of interferon (IFN)-γ and tumor necrosis
      factor-α in a BRCA1-mutated ovarian cancer xenograft model. Hence, addition of PARPi to
      immune checkpoint blockade could complement the clinical benefit of immune checkpoint
      inhibition.

      Such high level of mutation results in high number of neoantigen and antitumor immune
      response thus given the rational to use immunotherapy to target such type. A recent paper
      validate this strategy using the anti PD-1 pembrolizumab Some case reports suggest also that
      other mutations that induce hypermutated tumor (POLD, POLE, or MYH) could gain benefit from
      anti PD-1 therapy. Additional DNA repair machinery dysfunction may lead to accumulation of
      mutations. And such level of mutations could induce better response to immunotherapy. In the
      lung non-small cell setting high mutation rate were associated with better efficacy of both
      nivolumab and pembrolizumab.
    
  