
    
      General Study Design: Following screening, participants complete four behavioral assessments
      and four brain scans (magnetic resonance imaging; MRI). Two behavioral assessments and two
      brain scans occur in the month before tDCS and therapy (about 3 weeks apart). One behavioral
      assessment and one brain scan occur in the week following therapy. The last behavioral
      assessment and brain scan occur approximately 8 weeks after therapy. Participants cannot
      receive any other speech therapy while enrolled in this study (about 20 weeks or 5 months).

      Screening: Participants are screened twice, once by phone or email and once in-person at
      Louisiana State University (LSU). Screenings address eligibility, including adequate hearing
      and vision, ability to perform all required tasks, and safety for tDCS and MRI (brain scans).
      The investigators also collect medical and demographic information to ensure study
      eligibility.

      Behavioral Assessment: Language samples are elicited on 11 discourse tasks, including picture
      descriptions, general questions, and telling a story. The Western Aphasia Battery-Revised and
      Boston Naming Test are also administered. These procedures are video recorded for later
      review and transcription. Participants also complete a pre-tDCS safety screening
      questionnaire. Our primary outcome measure is performance on the discourse tasks, for which
      the investigators measure the number of correct information units (CIUs) produced. Words are
      counted as correct information units if they are novel, intelligible, informative, and
      appropriate to the task.

      Brain Scans: Brain scans (MRI) are collected at Pennington Biomedical Research Center. Each
      brain scan lasts about 45 minutes. There is one task of approximately 7 minutes that will
      require decision-making and responses by pressing a button with the left hand. For the rest
      of the time, the participant simply lies still while the MRI acquires images of the brain.

      Therapy: Therapy is provided for two 1-hour sessions per week for 8 weeks at the LSU
      Department of Communication Sciences & Disorders. This is a typical behavioral aphasia
      therapy intended to improve language skills. The investigators use a therapy called Verb
      Network Strengthening Treatment (VNeST) that has demonstrated effectiveness in a small number
      of research studies. tDCS (see below) is administered for the first 20 minutes of each
      aphasia therapy session.

      tDCS: Participants undergo placement of two tDCS electrodes encased in damp sponges (saline
      solution). For all subjects, one electrode (anodal) is placed at the following location (EEG
      10-20 system): (i) over the left inferior frontal gyrus (crossing point between T3-Fz and
      F7-Cz)

      The other electrode (cathodal) is placed at the second site:

      (ii) over right frontal pole (Fp2) Stimulation is delivered by a Neuroconn tDCS device for 20
      minutes at an intensity of 2 milliamps (mA).

      Participants are randomly assigned on an individual basis to receive either active or sham
      tDCS. In the sham condition, stimulation is ramped up over the first 30 seconds (as in the
      active condition), but then discontinued. This gives the physical perception of stimulation
      without the modulatory effects.

      The investigators will recruit 30 total participants with aphasia for this study. There will
      be two parallel groups; fifteen participants will receive active tDCS and fifteen will
      receive sham tDCS. The investigators chose these numbers based on a preliminary trial with
      four participants who received aphasia treatment on the same schedule and tDCS using the same
      parameters. These four participants both had active and sham stimulation (crossover design)
      and performed much better on our primary outcome measure when they had active stimulation
      (i.e., produced more CIUs after active stimulation compared to before). The investigators
      performed a power analysis using the effect size for those four participants and determined
      that 30 participants will be adequate to show significant effects with two different groups.
    
  