
    
      Study Design: The study is a convenience population study and 6-month randomised control
      trial (RCT) of men and women age 55 to 70 years.

      The study groups (n=60 per group) for the RCT are:

        1. CON - a control group receiving a placebo nutrient support (per kg of body mass: 0.25g
           maltodextrin; energy ~ 160 kcal per day)

        2. PRO - a nutrient group receiving a nutrient support (per kg of body mass: 0.33g milk
           protein + 0.25ug vitamin D + 10mg calcium; energy ~ 160 kcal per day)

        3. PRO+PA - a nutrient group receiving a nutrient support (per kg of body mass: 0.33g milk
           protein + 0.25ug vitamin D + 10mg calcium; energy ~ 160 kcal per day) and engaging in a
           prescribed physical activity (PA).

      Subject recruitment: Men and women, age 50 to 70 years, will be recruited through the UL Body
      Composition Study, by email advertisement, GP-exercise referral scheme, feature article(s) in
      the local media and word of mouth.

      Requirement of the participants.

      On entry each subject will undertake a preliminary assessment as follows:

      i. medical history and examination by a qualified medical doctor ; ii. provide a blood and
      urine sample to be evaluated by a qualified medical doctor; iii. food intake evaluated by a
      qualified dietician; iv. whole body and segmental body composition analysis (DXA); v.
      habitual physical activity level (PAL) vi. measurement of muscle function and performance in
      simulated activities of daily living.

      One month following the preliminary assessment subjects will be invited to participate in a 6
      month intervention programme of nutrient or nutrient plus physical activity. Consenting
      subjects will be randomly assigned to one of the three study groups stated above.

      Upon completion (6 months), subjects will be re-assessed as follows; i. provide a blood and
      urine sample; ii. whole body and segmental body composition analysis (DXA); iii. measurement
      of muscle function and performance in simulated activities of daily living.
    
  