
    
      Severe preeclampsia (PE) is a progressive multisystem pregnancy disorder. It is considered
      the second leading cause of maternal death worldwide. Usually, it is diagnosed by the
      new-onset hypertension and either proteinuria or end-organ dysfunction in the second half of
      pregnancy.

      Acute Pulmonary edema is potentially lethal and is the most common cardiopulmonary
      complication of preeclampsia. thus, meticulous fluid management of these patients is crucial
      but it is often difficult because the underlying endothelial damage leads to water,
      electrolytes, and plasma leakage from the intravascular space which produce significant fluid
      shifts into the interstitial space resulting in peripheral and/or central (pulmonary and
      central nervous system) edema. Also, there is a potential for hypovolemia due to the
      depletion of intravascular volume. Under-resuscitation of preeclampsia patients impairs organ
      perfusion; while on the other hand fluid overload leads to tissue edema and aggravates
      pulmonary edema. Therefore, fluid administration must be assessed to preserve organ
      perfusion, while preventing lung congestion and pulmonary edema.

      Early detection of lung congestion would allow early and optimal management of these
      patients. Lung ultrasound was reported as a useful diagnostic tool which could identify
      increased levels of extravascular lung water (EVLW) in severe PE before clinical signs of
      pulmonary edema appear. Consequently, lung ultrasound could guide fluid management and
      identify those in need for diuretic therapy among severe PE patients. Though it is considered
      accurate, safe, and non-invasive valuable tool, its use could be limited by the need to
      several measurements that could be time consuming.

      Changes in the Optic Nerve Sheath Diameter (ONSD) detected by ultrasound are considered an
      important clinical and radiographic demonstration of increased intracranial pressure (ICP)
      which is one of the consequences of preeclampsia. Therefore, Increased ONSD can indirectly
      reflect the state of intracranial edema that could be a part of generalized edema.

      On ultrasound the ONSD is measured 3 mm posterior to the globe for both eyes. A position of 3
      mm behind the globe is recommended because the ultrasound contrast is greatest; the results
      are more reproducible and the normal optic nerve sheath measures up to 5.0 mm in diameter. An
      average ONSD greater than 5 mm is considered abnormal and elevated intracranial pressure
      should be suspected.

      Chen et al., studied ONSD and the intravascular volume status of patients after cardiac
      surgery and found that changes in ONSD can dynamically reflect changes in volume status in
      patients with postoperative cardiac surgery.
    
  