
    
      Mild traumatic brain injuries (mTBIs) in youth are a major public health issue. The vast
      majority of adolescents who sustain a mTBI will recover within a few months. Epidemiological
      studies of youth with mTBI who present to the emergency department suggest that roughly
      80-85% of school-aged children and adolescents will recover symptomatically by 3 months
      post-mTBI. These recovery rates suggest that only a small proportion of children with mTBI
      will show a protracted recovery. Unfortunately, these children require considerable health
      care resources, miss a large amount of academic time, and suffer declines in quality of life.
      There is a paucity of evidence-based treatment for the constellation of problems displayed by
      those with protracted recovery from mTBI, with most current practices focusing on
      amelioration of specific symptoms using pharmacological agents.

      Following a mTBI, sleep disruption is a commonly reported symptom. Blinman and colleagues
      reported symptom characteristics in adolescents who were admitted to the hospital following a
      mTBI. When rating symptoms during the initial hospitalization, 55% reported having trouble
      falling asleep and 54% reported sleeping less than usual. When asked again 2-3 weeks
      follow-up, 38% reported having trouble falling asleep and 22% reported sleeping less than
      usual. Of the 22 symptoms being rated at the 2-3 week follow-up, sleep issues had some of the
      highest mean symptom severity ratings. Although sleep problems are often endorsed acutely
      after the injury, true sleep disturbance likely has a slightly delayed onset compared to
      physical symptoms (e.g., headaches, dizziness). Eisenberg and colleagues suggested that sleep
      problems resolved gradually over time, but evidence suggests that they can persist in a
      sub-sample of children with mTBI, particularly if the sleep difficulties arise early in
      recovery.

      Cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) represents a promising therapeutic option
      for sleep disruption following mTBI in youth. Although sleep disturbance is a common
      post-concussive problem, few treatment options are available. CBT-I has been shown to
      successfully treat insomnia in multiple populations and has been recommended as a first-line
      treatment for insomnia, because it shows superior long-term symptom reduction in comparison
      to both benzodiazepine and non-benzodiazepine drugs. Furthermore, meta-analyses support the
      effectiveness of CBT-I, with medium to large effect sizes for CBT-I on measures of subjective
      sleep both at the end of treatment and on follow-up. CBT-I is theorized to work similarly in
      adult and adolescent populations. Evidence suggests that the gains made from CBT-I persist
      over time and include shorter latency to fall asleep, fewer times of waking after sleep
      onset, and better sleep efficiency, as well as secondary improvements in child-reported
      depression and anxiety.

      Objective:

      To determine if CBT-I (in-person) improves sleep in adolescents with protracted recovery
      following a mTBI.

      Hypotheses:

      Primarily, the investigators hypothesize that in-person CBT-I will result in significant
      improvements in subjectively reported insomnia for adolescents with mTBI, over and above
      treatment as usual.

      Secondarily, the investigators hypothesize that in-person CBT-I will result in significant
      improvements in subjective sleep quality, dysfunctional beliefs about sleep, and sleep diary
      measures for adolescents with mTBI, over and above treatment as usual.

      Method:

      Participants: Participants 12-18 years of age who are slow to recover from a mTBI will be
      recruited from the ACH Brain Injury Clinic (Dr. Barlow, Lisette Lockyer, Lisa Bodell) and
      from the ACH Neuropsychology Service (Dr.Brooks).

      Procedure: This will be a single-blind parallel-group RCT that will block sex (1:1 ratio).
      Those in the control group who have insomnia at week 13 can be entered into the treatment at
      that time. Participants will be randomized and will complete pre-treatment measures at week
      1. The questionnaires are expected to take 30 minutes to complete (ISI, PSQI, DBAS, HBI, and
      PROMIS). Those randomized to the treatment arm (in-person CBT-I) will partake in a 6-week
      CBT-I program adapted for adolescents, with each session taking 1 hour. A breakdown of what
      each CBT-I session comprises is found in the study protocol. Sessions will be led by a
      postdoctoral fellow or graduate student overseen by Drs. Tomfohr-Madsen or Madsen (registered
      psychologists). Following treatment, participants will complete the same measures again. The
      same measures will be completed once more at one month post-treatment to measure maintenance
      of sleep improvement. The control group will participate in all assessment points, and may
      choose to partake in the CBT-I protocol after the final assessment if sleep problems persist.

      This will be a randomized clinical trial - participants randomized to the treatment condition
      will partake in the CBT-I intervention. There is one treatment arm - in-person CBT-I.
      Participants randomized to the control condition may elect to partake in the CBT-I
      intervention following completion of all follow-up measures if their sleep problems persist.

      Participants will complete pre-treatment measures at baseline (week 1). The questionnaires
      are expected to take 30 minutes for adolescents to complete (ISI, PSQI, DBAS-16, HBI, PROMIS
      depression and anxiety scales), plus 5 minutes daily for the sleep diary to be completed.
      Parents will provide demographic information (5-10 minutes). Those randomized to the
      treatment condition will partake in a 6-week CBT-I program (in-person) adapted for
      adolescents, with each session taking 1 hour. Corroboration of engagement in the treatment
      will be based on sleep diary entries. Sessions will be led by a postdoctoral fellow or
      graduate student overseen by Drs. Madsen and Tomfohr-Madsen (registered psychologists).
      Following the intervention, participants in both conditions will complete the same measures
      again at week 8 (assessors will be blinded to the study condition). The same measures will be
      completed one more time at one month post-treatment to measure maintenance of sleep
      improvement (assessors again blinded to study condition).
    
  