
    
      The approach to recurrent or primary refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma has been to treat
      patients with second-line chemotherapy (usually 2-3 courses) for the purposes of
      cytoreduction and to establish sensitivity to chemotherapy. Thereafter, peripheral blood
      progenitor cells have been mobilized with cyclophosphamide and granulocyte colony stimulating
      factor, apheresed and cryopreserved. Unfortunately, there are subgroups of patients with poor
      outcomes using autologous transplantation including those with transformed lymphoma as well
      as patients who do not attain a minimal disease state due to chemoresistant disease.

      In a group of 17 patients with transformed lymphoma who received autologous transplants at
      Stanford University, the median EFS and OS were 1.48 and 2.7 years respectively with a 7-year
      survival of only 20%. In comparison, patients with chemosensitive follicular lymphoma who
      received the same regimen also had a poor median EFS of 1.3 years, but the median survival
      was 6.7 years. The outcomes for patients with chemotherapy-resistant relapsed NHL is also
      poor with EFS in the range of 20% in many studies of autologous transplantation.

      These groups of patients have limited disease control and survival with standard chemotherapy
      regimens, and although they often have excellent cytoreduction with the high-dose
      chemotherapy regimen, relapse remains the primary cause of treatment failure. The current
      trial utilizes a similar approach that we have taken with patients with multiple myeloma, who
      appear to benefit from an allogeneic graft-versus-tumor effect, using a combined autologous
      and non-myeloablative allogeneic transplant regimen to reduce transplant-related
      complications. In addition, there are limited reports of using an autologous/allogeneic
      approach for lymphoma patients using non-myeloablative allogeneic transplants. Eligible
      patients will be treated with high-dose chemotherapy using BCNU, etoposide, cytarabine and
      melphalan with autologous hematopoietic cell support as a method of cytoreduction.
      Approximately 60-120 days after the autologous transplant, patients will receive an
      allogeneic transplant using a preparative regimen of total lymphoid irradiation and
      anti-thymocyte globulin in an attempt to develop a graft-versus-lymphoma effect.
    
  