
    
      Pancreatic islet transplantation offers a minimally invasive approach to restore
      normoglycemia in type 1 diabetics while avoiding the hypoglycemic complications observed with
      intensive insulin therapy and the surgical complications associated with pancreas
      transplantation. Although significant progress has been made in clinical islet
      transplantation, overall outcomes remain suboptimal since many patients lose insulin
      independence a few years after transplantation and multiple donors are usually needed to
      achieve independence. The cause of this progressive loss of function is multifactorial, but
      mounting evidence suggests that much of the islet loss after transplant is directly related
      to the intraportal transplant site that is used in clinical islet transplantation.
      Intravascular infusion of the islets triggers a severe,non-specific inflammatory response
      (immediate blood-mediated inflammatory reaction, IBMIR) which destroys at least 50% of the
      islet mass. The engraftment of the surviving islets is further compromised by the relatively
      hypoxic portal venous environment, and the infused islets are exposed to potentially toxic
      levels of immunosuppressive agents being absorbed from the gut into the portal circulation.
      Together, these characteristics contribute to early as well as late loss of islet function
      after transplantation. The gastrointestinal submucosa is a newly described transplant site
      that can support islet engraftment while avoiding many of the drawbacks associated with
      intraportal infusion. In addition, this site is easily accessible via upper endoscopy and the
      submucosal injection procedure is safe and technically straightforward.

      The aim of this prospective, single-center trial is to provide initial clinical experience
      regarding the safety and efficacy of endoscopic gastric and duodenal submucosal islet
      transplantation in type I diabetic patients with kidney allografts. A total of 6 patients
      will be recruited into the trial. The investigators will follow the standardized islet
      manufacturing protocols and the thymoglobulin-based induction immunosuppressive regimen
      developed by the Clinical Islet Transplant consortium (CIT). Outcomes will include safety
      measures, glycemic control and insulin use, metabolic assessments of graft function,
      allo/auto-immune responses, and protocol biopsies to assess graft rejection/inflammation. The
      investigators believe that this novel approach to islet transplantation has the potential to
      significantly improve current islet transplantation outcomes by enhancing islet engraftment
      and long-term function.
    
  