
    
      Purpose: This pilot RCT will help to address challenges related to patient recruitment,
      protocol adherence, safety, and data collection in the hemodialysis population. The primary
      outcome for this pilot RCT is feasibility, which will be measured by patient recruitment and
      protocol adherence. The secondary outcomes include feasibility-related outcomes, safety
      (which will include expected procedure-related outcomes and causes for hospital admissions),
      and other protocol violations.

      Hypothesis: Results obtained from the pilot RCT will provide feasibility and safety data for
      conducting a large RCT, which will establish a better understanding of the clinical outcomes
      associated with the use of fistula versus catheter for vascular access in the hemodialysis
      population.

      Research Method: This is a multicenter, open-label, RCT, and is expected to be conducted over
      36 months. All screened people who meet the eligibility criteria will have the following data
      collected in a minimal dataset: eligibility, age, sex, program/center, height, weight,
      comorbid conditions, and details of any prior treatment for acute or chronic kidney failure
      (e.g., previous peritoneal dialysis, kidney transplant, or hemodialysis). Every consented
      participant will have the following additional data collected at baseline: baseline
      laboratory values, baseline hemodialysis initiation, history of access procedures,
      patient-reported outcome measures (includes data on quality of life and a vascular access
      questionnaire), and grip strength. The pilot RCT will consist of 6 months of site
      preparation, approximately 24 months of participant accrual, and 6 months of additional
      follow-up time for the last randomized participant. An additional 6 months will be used to
      assess the preliminary data, prepare the report of this pilot RCT, and to prepare and submit
      funding applications for the large RCT. Participants in the pilot RCT will be rolled into the
      large RCT, and will therefore be followed for a total of 36 months (3 years) after
      randomization to assess adherence to the trial protocol, assess safety outcomes, and collect
      qualitative data.

      Statistical Analysis Plan: The primary analysis of the pilot RCT will be descriptive. The
      proportion of people meeting each of the feasibility endpoints with accompanying 95%
      confidence intervals will be calculated. Investigators will describe participant
      characteristics and evaluate reasons for protocol violation, as well as calculate rates of
      drop-ins and other events. Interim or subgroup analyses will not be conducted in this pilot
      RCT.

      Expected Procedure-Related Outcomes (Safety Data): As both catheter and fistula treatment
      strategies are standard of care, the procedure-related outcomes are well known. Investigators
      will collect only expected procedure-related outcomes (i.e., events that have a potentially
      causal relationship to the strategy) that occur within 7 days of the execution of any access
      related intervention. These will include hospital admissions and prolongation of
      hospitalization, status changes, bacterial infections, catheter or exit site infections,
      cannulation injury events. In addition, sites will report all incidents of participant death
      that occur during the trial period. Cause of death will be determined by trial site
      investigators, based on a trial-specific list of classifications, and will be adjudicated for
      accuracy by appropriate members of the trial steering committee, who will be blinded to
      treatment arm.
    
  