
    
      Overactive Bladder Syndrome The International Continence Society (ICS) has defined Overactive
      Bladder syndrome (OAB) as a medical condition with symptoms of urgency, with or without
      incontinence, usually with frequency and nocturia, with no proven infection of obvious
      pathology.

      OAB has an overall prevalence in Western Europe and the United States of 16% to 17%.
      Epidemiological evidence indicates that symptoms of OAB are common and likely to affect up to
      50-100 million persons worldwide. In the EPIC study which was conducted in 5 countries in >
      19000 men and women aged > 18 years, using the ICS definitions for OAB, the prevalence of OAB
      was 10.8% in men and 12.8% in women, and its prevalence increased with age. The prevalence in
      women for storage was 59.2%, in voiding 19.5% and in post micturition symptoms 14.2%.

      The fundamental symptom is urgency, which is widely considered to be the driver of other
      urological symptoms. Urgency is a sudden compelling desire to pass urine, which is difficult
      to defer. The urological symptoms can have a considerable negative impact on quality of life,
      typically resulting in embarrassment and loss of dignity, which might affect relationships,
      intimacy and self-image.

      Conventional urodynamic test Diagnostic testing of lower urinary tract function by performing
      urodynamic investigations is currently widely accepted. The aim of the clinical urodynamics
      is to produce symptoms whilst making precise measurements in order to identify underlying
      causes for the symptoms and to quantify the related pathophysiological processes. Urodynamics
      allows direct assessment of lower urinary tract function by the measurement of physiological
      parameters (e.g. voiding pressure parameters; minimal urethral opening detrusor pressure and
      urethral resistance factor), micturitions volume and leakage volume).

      Urodynamics cannot be performed as an automated protocol due to current limitations of
      urodynamic equipment and the lack of consensus on the precise method of measurement, signal
      processing, quantification, documentation and interpretation. The Good Urodynamic Practices
      developed by ICS provides guidelines regarding the strategy for urodynamic measurement,
      equipment set up and configuration, signal testing, plausibility controls, pattern
      recognition, and artefact correction.

      During cystometry, involuntary detrusor contractions can only be found in 40% to 60% of
      patients with OAB symptoms. Detrusor overactivity contractions can occur either during
      filling or at the end. Conventional urodynamic remains the gold standard for investigating
      lower urinary tract dysfunction.

      Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging fMRI is an imaging modality that has recently been
      further developed to study the different parts of the human body through blood flow changes.
      In close collaboration with Maastricht University, Scannexus has made multiple 7 Tesla MRI
      scans available for our study in order to gain further insight into brain functioning areas.

      Bladder Sensations Most of the understanding on the experience of bladder sensation during
      filling in normal individuals is based upon the work of Wyndaele and De Wachter. The
      sensation scoring system developed seek to determine the underlying reasons an individual
      patient usually void and is not meant to serve as an index of urgency or severity. The
      4-point scoring scale ranges from voiding out of convenience (no urgency=0) to desperate
      urgency score=3) to capture perception of urgency on a continuum rather per se. The condition
      is recognised clinically as the 'Overactive Bladder (OAB) Symptom Complex'. It is associated
      with increased sensations to void which result in an increased voiding frequency, as
      determined from voiding diaries. OAB is further characterised during cystometric
      investigation by the occurrence of involuntary contractions of the bladder during the filling
      phase and, typically in the 'full bladder' by a strong sensation described as 'urgency' (a
      strong compelling desire to void that cannot be deferred which is more intense than a normal
      urge to void).

      Overactive bladder syndrome (OAB) is associated with episodic increased bladder sensations to
      void, which result in increased in voiding frequency. During cystometric investigations, OAB
      is also characterised by the occurrence of involuntary bladder contractions during the
      filling phase and typically in the full bladder, a strong sensation described as urgency
      (described as a strong compelling desire to void that cannot be deferred and is more intense
      than the normal urge to void). It is during these urgency episodes that leakages (urgency
      incontinence) sometimes occur. In 46% of patients with the sensation of urgency, it is
      associated with bladder contractions.

      Many studies investigated the link between patient reported sensations and bladder properties
      using standard rapid fill cystometry. This leads to the concept that bladder sensation is
      episodic. These episodic sensations are supposedly greater in patients with OAB and occur in
      lower bladder volumes, thus generating the sensation of urgency and more frequent voiding.

      As described in literature sensations associated with bladder filling were different from
      those of imminent voiding. The sensations during filling were associated with a generalised
      feeling in the lower abdomen while the more intense sensations of imminent pre-void were
      located deeper down in the urethra. This anatomical variation may reflect different
      sensations and different underlying mechanisms. This supports that there are two systems
      generating sensation: 'continuous sensation' associated with the early filling phase and
      intense phasic sensations associated with the urethra.

      An alternative view of bladder sensation was formulated many years ago. It proposes that the
      information from the bladder is generated continuously and that an awareness of bladder
      volumes is available through the entire filling phase. This is supported by
      neuro-physiological data demonstrating an almost continuous afferent outflow from the bladder
      receptors as the bladder fills. As a conclusion the physiological bases of the sensation or
      "urge" or "urgency" is still unknown.

      Moreover, patients with OAB with or without detrusor overactivity (DO) on urodynamics all
      have in common that they have a sense of urgency. This sense is described as a sudden,
      compelling desire to void, which cannot be postponed. Affected individuals have the fear to
      loose urine (incontinence) and some even actually do. It is still not known if the same brain
      areas are involved in a normal desire to void in controls, as in OAB patients both with and
      without DO when they feel urgency. In our study we would like to answer this question by
      conducting simple urodynamics during an fMRI scan while the patient's bladder is filled
      through normal diuresis and their sense of urgency is registered through a push button.

      In the past a few studies have been conducted with the fMRI of the central nervouse system in
      relation to bladder control. Poor bladder control has been reported to be specifically
      associated with inadequate activation of orbitofrontal cortex. Clinically, frontal cortical
      lesions are known to cause bladder control problems.. In addition, urinary urgency in
      patients with OAB was shown to be associated with increased activation of the limbic cortex
      through fMRI studies in women with OAB. A more recent study with fMRI showed that there were
      significant and vast changes in the brain's functional connectivity when bladder is filled,
      suggesting that the central process responsible for the increased control during the full
      bladder state appears to largely rely on the how distributed brain systems. In all these
      studies, a 3 Tesla fMRI has been used. The 7 Tesla fMRI which is intended to be used in our
      study will enable us to study brain areas that are more difficult to assess with 1,5 and 3
      Tesla.

      Moreover, none of the previous studies have included a protocol to measure bladder pressure,
      bladder sensation and fMRI scans of the brain simultaneously.
    
  