
    
      Anorectal fistula is a common proctological disease with prevalence between 8.6 and 10 per
      100,000 population. Surgical treatment of complex anorectal fistulas has two main objectives:
      preventing the recurrence of the disease and preserving the anal continence. The optimal
      principle of management of patients with anorectal fistulas includes a comprehensive
      preoperative examination with the definition of the architectonics of the fistulous tract,
      the identification of the internal fistulous opening, the elimination of additional tracts
      and cavities.

      Many methods are used for high anorectal fistula's treatment, but the optimal strategy has
      not been found yet.

      Nowadays, the conventional sphincter-preserving operation for the treatment of complex
      anorectal fistulas is advancement rectal flap. In addition, plastic with a full-thickness
      flap in comparison with a mucosal flap was associated with less reccurence rate (10% and 40%
      respectively), and was accompanied by manifestation of incontinence symptoms, increased with
      the thickness of the flap.

      About 20 years ago, in an attempt to reduce high level of incontinence, the primary
      reconstruction of sphincters after fistulotomy was proposed; however, this technique is still
      debated.

      According to reports, dissection of more than 1/3 of the sphincter increases the incidence of
      postoperative incontinence. However, fistulectomy with primary suturing of the sphincter
      defect allows to improve the function of anal continence and is recommended for patients with
      initial incontinence after previous surgical interventions.

      The studie's aim is comparison between two techniques in treatment of high anorectal
      fistulas. This study purpose to demonstrate that the fistulectomy with dissection from 1/3 to
      2/3 of the height of the sphincter complex with primary suturing is technically simpler,
      equally effective and safe in comparison with muco-muscular endorectal advancement flap.
    
  