
    
      1. Overview This multi-center, Phase II trial is designed to determine if Tranexamic Acid
           (TXA) initiated in the prehospital setting improves long-term neurologic outcome
           compared to placebo in patients with moderate to severe TBI who are not in shock. This
           study protocol will be conducted as part of the Resuscitation Outcomes Consortium (ROC)
           at trauma centers in the United States and Canada. ROC is funded by the National Heart
           Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI) in partnership with the US Army Medical Research and
           Materiel Command (USAMRMC), Canadian Institutes of Health Research, the Heart & Stroke
           Foundation of Canada, the American Heart Association (AHA), and the Defense Research and
           Development Canada. ROC is a clinical trials network focusing on research primarily in
           the area of prehospital cardiopulmonary arrest and severe traumatic injury. The mission
           of ROC is to provide infrastructure and project support for clinical trials and other
           outcome-oriented research in the areas of cardiopulmonary arrest and severe traumatic
           injury that lead to evidence-based change in clinical practice.

        2. Specific Aims/Hypothesis Statement

           2.1 Clinical Hypotheses and Aims

           Specific aim 1: To compare 6-month neurologic outcome between subjects who are randomly
           assigned to TXA to subjects who are randomly assigned to placebo by evaluating the
           Glasgow Outcome Scale Extended score (GOS-E) at 6 months post-injury.

           Primary Hypotheses: We will perform a one-sided test of the following null hypothesis:
           The proportion of subjects who have a favorable neurologic outcome (GOS-E > 4) at six
           months post injury who are randomly assigned to TXA is not different from the proportion
           of subjects who have a favorable neurologic outcome (GOS-E > 4) who are randomly
           assigned to placebo. This hypothesis will be tested versus the alternative that the
           proportion of subjects with a favorable neurologic outcome who are randomly assigned to
           TXA is higher than in subjects who are randomly assigned to placebo at the .1 level and
           versus the alternative that the proportion of subjects with a favorable neurologic
           outcome who are randomly assigned to TXA is lower than it is in the placebo group at the
           .025 level

           Specific aim 2: To assess differences in morbidity and mortality measured from
           randomization through 28 days or initial hospital discharge and differences in
           neurologic outcomes at 6 months between subjects in the bolus/maintenance arm, bolus
           only arm, and placebo arm.

           Secondary Hypotheses: The null hypotheses are that there will be no difference between
           subjects who are randomly assigned to TXA and subjects who are randomly assigned to
           placebo in the following: both absolute and relative volume of intracranial hemorrhage
           (ICH) progression, proportion of subjects with ICH progression, frequency of
           neurosurgical interventions, GOS-E measured at discharge and 6 months, Disability Rating
           Scale score (DRS) measured at discharge and 6 months, 28-day survival, and
           ventilator-free, intensive care unit (ICU)-free, and hospital-free days.

           Specific aim 3: To assess differences in adverse events measured from randomization to
           initial hospital discharge between subjects in the bolus/maintenance arm, bolus only
           arm, and placebo arm.

           Tertiary Hypotheses: The null hypotheses are that there will be no difference between
           subjects who are randomly assigned to TXA and subjects who are randomly assigned to
           placebo in the following: proportion of subjects experiencing seizures, cerebral
           ischemic events, myocardial infarction (MI), deep venous thrombosis (DVT), or pulmonary
           thromboembolism (PE) post randomization through 28 days or discharge, whichever occurs
           first.

           2.2 Laboratory Hypotheses and Aims

           Specific aim 1: To compare coagulation profiles over time using kaolin activated
           thrombelastography (TEG) results between subjects who are randomly assigned to TXA and
           subjects who are randomly assigned to placebo.

           Primary hypothesis: The null hypothesis is that there will be no difference in the
           degree of fibrinolysis as assessed by percentage of clot lysis determined 30 minutes
           after the maximum amplitude is reached (LY30) between subjects who are randomly assigned
           to TXA and subjects who are randomly assigned to placebo.

           Specific aim 2: To explore the underlying mechanism of TXA by comparing fibrinolytic
           pathway mediator activity between subjects who are randomly assigned to TXA and subjects
           who are randomly assigned to placebo.

           Secondary hypothesis: The null hypothesis is that there will be no change in
           fibrinolytic pathway mediators between subjects who are randomly assigned to TXA and
           subjects who are randomly assigned to placebo.

           Specific aim 3: To estimate the association between the degree of fibrinolysis based on
           kaolin activated TEG results and fibrinolytic pathway mediators on primary and secondary
           clinical outcomes.

           Tertiary hypothesis: The null hypothesis is that no association will exist between the
           degree of fibrinolysis and fibrinolytic pathway mediators and primary and secondary
           clinical outcomes.

        3. Study Enrollment

           EMS agencies will carry blinded sealed study drug kits. Once the seal is broken in the
           presence of the patient, the patient is randomized. The EMS study drug kit will contain
           a vial of either 1 gram TXA, 2 grams TXA, or placebo. EMS will mix the study drug in a
           250 mL bag of 0.9% sodium chloride and administer the bolus infusion as soon as
           life-saving interventions are performed. After randomization, EMS will provide the study
           drug kit ID# to the receiving pharmacy. The hospital pharmacist will obtain the
           randomization assignment from the coordinating center and prepare the appropriate drug
           to be administered in the hospital.

        4. Sample Size and Statistical Analysis

           The total sample size is 963 (321 per group) starting treatment, which will allow for
           80% power to detect a 7.1% absolute difference in favorable long-term neurological
           outcome as determined by the GOS-E 6 months after injury comparing the combined TXA
           treatment groups to placebo, using a one-sided, level 0.1 test.

           Statistical analysis of primary hypothesis: Modified intention-to-treat analysis using
           logistic regression to test for association and estimate the strength of the association
           of treatment group with a favorable 6-month outcome (defined as a GOS-E > 4), after
           adjustment for study site.

        5. Human subjects protection

      This study qualifies for the exception from informed consent (EFIC) required for emergency
      research outlined in FDA regulation 21CFR50.24. EFIC applies because of life-threatening
      situation, intervention must be administered before consent is feasible, no reasonable way to
      identify prospectively individuals at risk, patients have the prospect of benefit from the
      treatment, and the research could not practically be carried out without the waiver of
      consent.
    
  