
    
      In sub-Saharan Africa, HIV is predominantly transmitted via discordant sexual relationships.
      With the availability of antiretroviral (ARV) medications, individuals infected with HIV can
      live relatively normal productive lives. Societal and cultural expectations as well as
      personal reproductive intentions drive HIV positive women in discordant relationships to
      conceive. Approximately 50% of HIV infected couples desire children. However, a safe and
      effective method of conception that minimizes the risk of sexual HIV transmission in HIV
      discordant couples with a positive woman and negative man has yet to be examined. To date,
      published studies have evaluated assisted reproductive methods in HIV discordant couples with
      a positive man to decrease the risk of HIV transmission. The investigators intend to evaluate
      the acceptability, feasibility and efficacy of vaginal insemination with semen for conception
      in HIV discordant (female positive, male negative) relationships in Kenya. In this pilot
      study, HIV discordant couples (female positive, male negative) desiring pregnancy will
      receive targeted reproductive counseling through the Safer and Healthy Conception Program for
      6 months. This program will emphasize the consistent use of male condoms and teach couples
      assisted vaginal insemination for conception to minimize the risk of sexual HIV
      transmission.The investigators will compare the frequency of male condom use before and after
      intervention with an audio computer-assisted self-interview validated by random measurement
      of prostate specific antigen of vaginal secretions. The incidence of pregnancy following
      vaginal insemination will also be measured. The investigators hypothesize that our findings
      will provide evidence to support the routine use of vaginal insemination as a safe method of
      conception in HIV discordant couples (female positive, male negative). This pilot study is of
      significant public health importance because the use of vaginal insemination for conception
      in HIV discordant couples (female positive, male negative) is expected to reduce the
      likelihood of riskier sexual practices for childbearing and decrease the incidence of HIV in
      Sub-Saharan Africa.
    
  