
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis is a common problem for which there is no clear
      consensus on diagnosis or therapy. There likely exists a progression in which renal ischemia
      leads to neuroendocrine activation, hypertension, and renal insufficiency resulting in
      acceleration of atherosclerosis, further renal dysfunction, and development of left
      ventricular hypertrophy. These events in turn lead to adverse clinical events.

      Renal artery stenosis is one of the two major known causes of hypertension and occurs in 1-5%
      of hypertensive patients. In patients with accelerated hypertension, the prevalence of renal
      artery stenosis is much higher, ranging from 10-40%. Renal artery stenosis, when occurring
      bilaterally, or in a solitary kidney, is a significant cause for end-stage renal disease,
      accounting for several percent of patients with end-stage renal disease. Clinically,
      atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis is a major problem primarily in older patients, and is
      often seen in long-standing hypertensives whose blood pressure becomes very difficult to
      control. Of major significance is the progressive nature of atherosclerotic renal artery
      stenosis, progressing at the rate of about 10% per year (45-60% progression rate in 4-7 year
      follow-ups). Over this time period, 10-15% of patients develop total renal artery occlusion.
      If the renal artery stenosis is greater than 75% when detected, 40% of patients develop total
      occlusion. Due to the progressive nature of atherosclerotic lesions, the decline in renal
      function in some individuals, and difficult-to-control hypertension, the medical community
      has sought to detect those patients in whom intervention would be beneficial. This has been
      extremely difficult to achieve and tests to date have not been uniformly predictive,
      including peripheral vein plasma renin activity, renal vein renin activity,
      captopril-stimulated nuclear medicine renal scans, etc.

      Since approximately 50% of patients with unilateral renal artery stenosis of significant
      degree (definitions vary) benefit from surgical intervention, enthusiasm has continued with
      the advent of renal artery angioplasty. The entire field is moving very quickly. However,
      there are neither current data nor prospective studies indicating the benefit of renal artery
      angioplasty plus stents. Studies over the last decade have shown that balloon angioplasty
      alone is associated with a high rate of recurrence in patients with atherosclerotic renal
      artery stenosis. In the present climate, there is great enthusiasm to perform angioplasty
      plus stent placement in atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis, without supporting data for
      efficacy compared to medical management alone. Angioplasty and stent placement in the renal
      arteries had been the domain of interventional radiologists, but recently, interventional
      cardiologists are also performing these procedures. The questions as to who will benefit from
      intervention and which intervention to use have not been answered. Renal artery angioplasty
      and stent placement subjects the patient to procedural risks, as well as increased cost, when
      compared to aggressive antihypertensive medication and risk factor medication and therapy.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This randomized, multicenter clinical trial will contrast the effect of optimal medical
      therapy alone to stenting with optimal medical therapy, on a composite of cardiovascular and
      renal endpoints: cardiovascular or renal death, myocardial infarction, hospitalization for
      congestive heart failure, stroke, doubling of serum creatinine level, and need for renal
      replacement therapy. These endpoints will be evaluated by a clinical events committee masked
      to treatment assignment. The secondary endpoints will 1) evaluate the mechanisms linked to
      clinical events; 2) describe differential effectiveness in critical end-organs; 3) determine
      the value of stenting from the patient and the health policy perspectives, measured as
      quality of life and cost-effectiveness; and 4) evaluate for clinically relevant differences
      in treatment effectiveness within the primary endpoint.

      Patients will undergo a baseline evaluation to determine eligibility. Approximately 1,080
      patients will be randomized to optimal medical therapy alone or to stenting with optimal
      medical therapy at an estimated 100 clinical sites. Initially, patients will be followed at
      2-week intervals, until blood pressure is at target or up to 2 months. Follow-up visits will
      be mandated at 2 weeks, every 3 months for the first year and annually thereafter.
      Coordinator visits will also occur semi-annually.

      The CORAL Study Chair is Lance Dworkin, MD, Brown University, Providence, RI. The CORAL Study
      Co-Chair is William Henrich, MD, University of Texas, San Antonio, TX. The Principal
      Investigators of the CORAL Clinical Coordinating Center are Christopher Cooper, MD,
      University of Toledo Health Science Campus, Toledo OH, and Timothy Murphy, MD, Brown
      University, Providence, RI.

      The Principal Investigator of the Angiographic Core Laboratory is Alan Matsumoto, MD,
      University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA. The Principal Investigator of the GFR and
      Biochemistry Core Laboratory is Michael Steffes, MD, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
      MN. The Principal Investigator of the Economics and Quality of Life Core Laboratory is David
      Cohen, MD, Mid-America Heart Institute, St. Luke's Hospital, Kansas City, MO. The Principal
      Investigator of the Data Coordinating Center is Donald Cutlip, MD, Beth Israel Deaconess
      Medical Center, Boston, MA. For additional information about the CORAL trial, please refer to
      the CORAL website (link given below).
    
  