
    
      Study 1 - Acute to first year after SCI:

      The investigators wish to recruit 4 types of SCI participants (~8 tetraplegic motor complete
      SCI participants, ~8 tetraplegic motor incomplete SCI, ~8 paraplegic motor complete SCI and
      ~8 paraplegic motor incomplete SCI). This totals 32 participants.

      The investigators will non-invasively collect small (<1 gram) stool and urine (<1 ml) samples
      from people who have suffered an acute SCI and have been admitted to their hospital for care
      and treatment of their injury.

      The investigators will track changes in the microbiota, microbiome and metabolome within the
      gastrointestinal (GI) tract of people after acute spinal cord injury (SCI) through the
      non-invasive collection of a small stool sample during normal bowel routines at baseline
      (within the first week after SCI). Subsequent samples would be obtained in the same
      non-invasive nature at approximately 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after SCI, as part of any daily
      (in-patient or at home, outpatient) bowel routine. The stool samples will be processed for
      genomic analysis to identify GI bacterial species and any changes in an individual's GI
      microbiota and/or dysbiosis during the first year after SCI. As SCI increases the incidence
      and prevalence of urinary tract infections (UTIs), the investigators will track alteration
      within the microbiota of the urinary tract to ascertain whether there are links in the
      bacterial taxa between the GI system and urinary tract.

      ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Study 2 - Chronic:

      This study will attempt to recruit ~ 20 chronic SCI participants with or without recurrent
      infections (e.g. UTI, skin or systemic) to ascertain whether there is a correlation between a
      dysbiotic microbiota presentation and recurrent infections.

      A small stool or urine sample will be obtained at home by participants and subsequently
      collected for genomic analysis during a person's routine outpatient clinic visit.

      All replicate data (3 samples per individual at 3 different time points - 1, 6 and 12 months
      post baseline visit) from chronic participants would be matched as much as possible for age,
      gender, diet, type of SCI, time since SCI, activity, and should only differ in terms of
      recurrent infections and antibiotic prescriptions. The goal here would be to characterize any
      gut microbiota differences between the two disparate groups. The data may guide the
      development of future studies to investigate treatment options. During chronic SCI, many
      recurrent infections are UTIs; thus, the investigators will also monitor differences between
      the two group in the microbiota and metabolomics of the urinary tract.
    
  