
    
      Asthma and Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) results in over a million
      hospitalizations in the United States annually and COPD is the third leading cause of 30-day
      re-hospitalizations. Clinical trials have established the efficacy of treatments primarily
      dispensed via respiratory inhaler devices that reduce morbidity and health care utilization
      if they are used correctly. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of these medications in
      real-world settings is limited by the fact that patients often do not use inhalers correctly.
      Current guidelines recommend assessing and teaching inhaler technique at all health care
      encounters, including hospitalization. My work has found that over 75% of hospitalized
      patients in an urban, predominantly underserved population misuse their respiratory inhalers,
      highlighting a missed opportunity to educate these patients with high potential to benefit.
      Hospitalization, therefore, provides a potential 'teachable moment' to correct this misuse.
      My preliminary data indicate that one strategy, in-person teach-to-goal (TTG), is effective
      in teaching hospitalized patients proper inhaler technique and is more effective than simple
      verbal instruction.

      While TTG is a promising method to improve care for patients who use inhalers, several
      limitations prevent widespread adoption. First, TTG relies on in-person assessment and
      education, as well as training and monitoring instructors to ensure fidelity, making it
      time-consuming and costly. Also, because a single educational session does not ensure
      long-term retention, post-discharge reinforcement may be needed, which may be impractical
      with in-person TTG. One potential method to surmount TTG's limitations is use of interactive
      video module education (VME), a method that has been used for health education in other
      clinical contexts. Through iterative self-assessments and video-demonstrations on a tablet
      computer, VME has the potential to be less costly, maintain fidelity, and be more easily
      extended into the post-discharge setting than in-person TTG. However, certain questions
      remain about VME. It is unclear whether VME will yield similar results when compared to TTG,
      or whether patients will have the ability to, and be willing to use, VME in the
      post-discharge setting. Therefore, before widespread implementation of VME, it is critical to
      rigorously develop and test VME for inhaler education in the hospital setting. Ultimately, it
      will also be important to understand patients' ability and willingness to use post-discharge
      VME for educational reinforcement to allow for this strategy to transition patients across
      care settings from hospital to home.
    
  