
    
      The purpose of the study is to evaluate the accuracy of kidney biopsies indications in
      patients with type 2 diabetes to diagnose non-diabetic renal disease based on canonical
      atypical features (Absence of diabetic retinopathy, Low or rapidly decreasing GFR, Rapidly
      increasing proteinuria or nephrotic syndrome and Presence of active urinary sediment. This
      study is a retrospective observational case only study, recruiting patients over 18 years old
      with type 2 diabetes who underwent kidney biopsy in five French nephrology centers between
      2006 and 2015.

      Will be collected demographical, clinical and biological data at the time of the renal biopsy
      and at the last follow-up from the patients' medical charts.

      Indications for renal biopsy will be categorized as

        1. Atypical feature of etiological significance in the presence of any atypical feature not
           listed below (including acute kidney injury as defined by the stage 1 of KDIG
           guidelines)

        2. Brutal nephrotic syndrome in the absence of the above criterion

        3. Rapid decline of GFR (defined as 50 % eGFR decline over >1 week but < 1 year) in the
           absence of criteria 1-2

        4. Absence of proteinuria in the absence of criteria 1-3

        5. Rapid increase of proteinuria in the absence of criteria 1-4

        6. Presence of hematuria in the absence of criteria 1-5

        7. Absence of diabetic retinopathy in the absence of criteria 1-6 Will be evaluate the
           actual probability to reach a non-diabetic renal disease for each of these indications.

      Will be also perform a classical analysis by assessing the association of clinical and
      biological feature such as HbA1c, diabetes duration, absence of diabetic retinopathy,… with
      the presence of a non-diabetic renal disease.

      In addition, the biopsy samples will be scored according to the RPS diabetic nephropathy
      classification to evaluate the prognostic value of this classification.
    
  