
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Erlotinib hydrochloride and bortezomib are both designed to block proteins that are thought
      to cause cancer cells to grow. These drugs may help slow the growth of tumors.

      Study Drug Dose Level:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of erlotinib hydrochloride and bortezomib based on when you join the study. Up to 4
      dose levels of this study drug combination will be tested. There will be 3-6 participants
      enrolled at each dose level of the study drug combination.

      The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level of erlotinib hydrochloride
      (Group 1). If all of Group 1 tolerate that dose level, the next group (Group 2) will receive
      a higher dose. Each new group will receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no
      intolerable side effects were seen (Groups 2-4). This will continue until the highest
      tolerable dose of the study drug combination is found. However, if Group 1 did not tolerate
      the first dose level, the next group will receive a lower dose (called Dose Level -1). If
      that dose level is still intolerable, the third group will receive an even lower dose (called
      Dose Level -2).

      The dose of bortezomib will be based in which group you in. Groups 1 and 2 will receive the
      same dose, Group 3 will receive a higher dose, and Group 4 will receive an even higher dose.

      After the highest tolerable dose is found, up to an additional 10 participants, called the
      "expansion group," will receive the study drug combination at that dose.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Erlotinib hydrochloride will be taken by mouth 1 time every day for 21-days, called a study
      "cycle." You should take erlotinib hydrochloride on an empty stomach either 1 hour before
      eating or 2 hours after eating.

      Depending on which dose level you are assigned to, you will receive bortezomib by vein over
      about 1-5 minutes on Days 1 and 8, or on Days 1, 4, 8, and 11 of each 21-day cycle.

      Study Visits:

      You will have a single study visit just before each cycle. At these visits, the following
      tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked to list any drugs you may be taking, including over-the-counter drugs.

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms you may have.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be collected for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be collected for pharmacodynamic (PD) testing. PD testing
           is used to look at how the level of study drug in your body may affect the disease.

      After every 2 cycles (Cycles 2, 4, 6, and so on), you will have a CT or MRI scan to check the
      status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as you are benefitting. You will be taken
      off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      Follow-up Visit:

      About 30 days after the last dose of study drugs, you will have a follow-up visit. You will
      be asked to return any unused study drug. At this visit, the following tests and procedures
      will be performed:

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked to list any drugs you may be taking, including over-the-counter drugs.

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms you may have.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

      This is an investigational study. Bortezomib and erlotinib hydrochloride are both FDA
      approved and commercially available. Bortezomib is FDA approved for the treatment of multiple
      myeloma. Erlotinib hydrochloride is FDA approved for the treatment of lung cancer and
      pancreatic cancer. The use of these drugs together is investigational and authorized for use
      in research only.

      Up to 48 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  