
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine three-month fasting F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission
      tomography (PET/CT) imaging complete metabolic response as defined by the European
      Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) PET study group.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine 6-month progression-free survival rate as calculated from the date of first
      treatment until date of disease progression, relapse, or death.

      II. To quantitate change in pre-treatment standard uptake value (SUV) on PET/CT and
      post-treatment PET/CT or disease progression PET/CT.

      III. To quantitate pre-treatment, during treatment and 3-mo post-treatment grade 2 or higher
      gastrointestinal, genitourinary, and sexual function toxicity resulting from Triapine®,
      cisplatin, and radiation therapy as measured by CTCAE v3.0, which will be utilized until
      December 31, 2010; CTCAE v4.0 will be utilized beginning January 1, 2011.

      IV. To associate smoking habit (non-smoker, smoker who quit during therapy, smoker) with 3-mo
      post-treatment PET/CT metabolic response and 3-mo best overall clinical response as measured
      by RECIST criteria after Triapine®, cisplatin, and radiation therapy.

      V. To associate HPV or non-HPV sub-type cervical cancer with 3-mo post-treatment PET/CT
      metabolic response and 3-mo best overall clinical response as measured by RECIST criteria
      after Triapine®, cisplatin, and radiation therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to brachytherapy
      treatment (planned intracavitary brachytherapy vs none).

      Patients receive cisplatin IV over 90 minutes on days 2, 9, 16, 23, and 30 and triapine IV on
      days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, 12, 15, 17, 19, 22, 24, 26, 29, 31, and 33. Patients also undergo pelvic
      external beam radiotherapy 5 days a week during weeks 1-5. Patients may undergo parametrial
      boost radiation and intracavitary low-dose or high-dose rate brachytherapy as clinically
      indicated.

      Patients undergo whole-body F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose-PET/CT imaging at baseline, at 3 months
      after completion of study treatment, and at disease progression. Patients complete Sexual
      Function-Vaginal Changes Questionnaire and a smoking behavior questionnaire at baseline, at 3
      months after completion of study treatment, and at disease progression.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.
    
  