
    
      Previous studies indicate that childhood sexual abuse has long term implications to women's
      psychological and physical well-being; among them, depression, a plethora of gynecological
      symptoms and labor dystocia. Literature in the field also suggests that childhood sexual
      abuse may be a contributing factor to total and/or partial vaginismus: psycho-sexual
      disorders associated with significant difficulty and pain during attempted penetration,
      pelvic examinations and/or sexual relations.

      The proposed quantitative longitudinal study aims to develop a theoretical model explicating
      the relationships between: childhood sexual abuse, prenatal and postpartum partial
      vaginismus, and childbirth (labor dystocia versus no labor dystocia); including their
      associations with depression as a mediating variable. Questionnaire responses of pregnant
      women (Hebrew/Arabic speakers) from the Hillel-Yaffe medical center in Israel will be
      included in the study.

      Data collection will be extended across three time periods: prenatal (third trimester of
      pregnancy), within one month postpartum, and approximately six months postpartum. Study
      questionnaires will probe participant's socio-demographic and gynecological history,
      traumatic life events, sexual experiences, level of depression, partial vaginismus and sexual
      distress and the objective and subjective severity of their childbirth experience.

      Simulations for this project were carried out to help set statistical significance goals and
      to determine the sample size needed to achieve these goals. From these simulations, a sample
      size of N=2000 was determined to be adequate and cost effective, to determine standard
      deviations SD (defining confidence interval ±SD) of about 0.022 for the correlations.

      The potential significance of the study is twofold: Theoretically, the study represents a
      first of its kind effort to explore the relationships between child sexual abuse, prenatal
      and postpartum partial vaginismus, childbirth and depression, in a single comprehensive
      longitudinal research study. Practically, the study may potentially assist a wide range of
      health care professionals by:

        1. providing a developing theory for evidence-based practice.

        2. showing the need for integration of women's past history into prenatal and postnatal
           care as a means of lowering the risk for a traumatic birth experience and later
           psychological distress.

        3. aiding in the development of intervention models for the treatment of women with a
           history of child sexual abuse and/or vaginismus during pregnancy and childbirth.
    
  