
    
      Because of the rapid aging of the global population, dementia has become a serious problem,
      and Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. Population studies have
      shown that dietary fats influence risk and progression of age-related diseases including AD,
      diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Consumption of saturated fat, trans-fatty acids and
      cholesterol are positively associated with increased risk. These findings support the
      hypothesis that dietary saturated-fats (SFA) and cholesterol, or dietary induced dyslipidemia
      are causally associated with AD risk. AD is pathologically characterized by substantial
      neuronal loss and chronic inflammation that is associated with cerebrovascular and
      parenchymal accumulation of proteinaceous deposits enriched in amyloid-beta (Aβ). More recent
      evidence shows it is due to an increased blood-to-brain delivery of circulating Aβ, and
      significant peripheral Aβ metabolism occurs in association with post-prandial
      triglyceride-rich lipoproteins.

      In the prodromal stage of AD, patients usually suffer mild cognition impairment (MCI). The
      annual conversion rate of MCI to AD is around 10%, and within 3 years, around 30%-50% of
      these develop dementia. Brain atrophy is an irreversible brain disease that causes problems
      with cognitive and memory functions in many diseases, such as MCI and AD, etc. In order to
      allow preventive intervention for AD, MCI must be diagnosed as early as possible, using
      biomarker assays or simple imaging modality. From 2009-2013, the investigators have
      registered 4,492 patients with atherosclerotic vascular diseases (AVD). In addition, the
      investigators have also registered 8,209 cases with no evidence of AVD, but with at least 1
      cardiovascular risk factor. In this 5-year project, 300 male or female patients with stable
      symptomatic AVD over 20 years of age, and the other 600 patients with no evidence of AVD but
      with at least 1 CV risk factor, will be enrolled from our previous registry program. The
      baseline and yearly follow-up study will include clinical examination, neurocognitive
      function evaluation, and laboratory tests (TC, HDL-C, LDL-C, TG, hs-CRP, and Aβ-40, Aβ-42,
      tau protein, and other biological signatures: adiponectin, MMP-3, MMP-9, IL-6, Fibrinogen,
      Lp-PLA2, 8-Isoprostane, hFABP, sVCAM-1, sICAM-1, CA-125, MCP-1, TNF-α, cTnI, NT-proBNP, CNP,
      NGAL).
    
  