
    
      The investigators plan to use a participatory approach to systematically identify and adapt
      key elements of evidence-based models of perinatal depression care delivery to the cultural
      and health services context of Can Tho, Vietnam. Over the two-year study period the
      investigators will first develop a model, adapted from evidence-based approaches, for
      screening and treatment for women receiving perinatal care in community health centers as
      well as obstetric hospitals. Simultaneous exploration of potential implementation strategies
      to support and sustain this model in context will be identified along with the creation of a
      training and implementation toolkit for this setting. Using these strategies and tools the
      investigators will then carry out a pilot perinatal collaborative care study in a public
      health center and the prenatal care practice of the Can Tho Obstetric and Gynecologic
      Hospital. The results of this pilot will be used to revise and enhance the treatment model
      and related implementation tools. These will be used in subsequent trials of effectiveness
      and/or implementation broadly in the health care system of Can Tho. The investigators propose
      a mixed methods and participatory action research (PAR) developmental approach to tailor the
      standard collaborative care approach for the Can Tho city region of southern Vietnam. A
      linked capacity development program will work to develop the research skills of the Can Tho
      University of Medicine and Pharmacy (CTUMP) team through structured activities and
      interactions with investigators from the University of Washington.

      Specific Aims: The specific aims of this proposed work, to be carried out over 2 years in
      health centers delivering perinatal care, are:

      Aim 1 (Phase 1, months 1-12) Develop a tailored form of the collaborative care model of
      perinatal depression for the Can Tho health system context and an associated implementation
      plan and toolkit:

        1. Carry out a participatory development effort to inform a collaborative care model for
           depression care and suicide prevention tailored to the existing health system
           infrastructure;

        2. Identify potential strategies to support large scale implementation of this adapted
           model;

        3. Develop an implementation toolkit to support this implementation.

      Aim 2 (Phase 2 and Phase 3, months 13-24) Carry out a prospective pilot implementation study
      of the tailored collaborative care model and implementation approach:

        1. Implement this model in perinatal care settings to assess the acceptability,
           feasibility, and costs of the model implementation toolkit via process and clinical
           outcome measures;

        2. Revise and re-assess the model and implementation toolkit.

      Aim 3 (Phase 1-3, months 1-24) Develop capacity in the Can Tho investigator team related to
      implementation science strategies to improve mental health care delivery:

        1. Provide ongoing remote training of junior faculty at the CTUMP through ongoing feedback
           and involvement in the research efforts, completion of remote implementation research
           training, a monthly publication development meeting, and a journal club;

        2. Conduct an annual in-person/virtual training addressing behavioral health integration
           and implementation science in Can Tho, Vietnam.
    
  