
    
      Marked alterations in the gut microbiome take place in patients with chronic kidney disease
      (CKD) that show an overgrowth of aerobic bacteria such as Enterobacteriaceae, Halomonadaceae,
      Moraxellaceae, and Pseudomonadaceae and a decrease of anaerobic bacteria such as
      Lactobacillaceae and Prevotellaceae. These changes also occur after kidney transplantation.
      The dysbiotic microflora produces toxic compounds such as phenols, indoles, and amines that
      are absorbed through the intestinal mucosa and cause systemic toxicity. Compelling evidence
      showed the association of one of these compounds, p-cresol and of its main metabolite
      p-cresylsulfate, to cardiovascular risk and mortality in CKD. Therefore, new therapeutic
      strategies decreasing the generation or absorption of this uremic toxin are expected to have
      a favorable impact on the clinical course of the disease. In the present study, the effect of
      the synbiotic Probinul neutro® on p-cresol concentration in patients bearing a kidney
      allograft will be evaluated. Synbiotics are associations of prebiotics and probiotics.
      Probiotics are living microorganisms such as Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus species that
      are administered to repopulate the gut with a "normal" microflora. Prebiotics are
      non-digestible food adjuncts that can be selectively fermented by probiotics or by normal
      intestinal microflora. In synbiotics the prebiotic and probiotic components synergize to
      restore the normal gut microflora. Indeed, the probiotic and prebiotic components of the
      synbiotic may both affect the gut microbiome through with different mechanisms. Probiotics
      contain bacteria that are part of the normal microbiome and are lowered in CKD such as
      anaerobes of Bifidobacterium sp. and facultative anaerobes of Lactobacillus sp. These
      bacterial species, unable to convert aromatic aminoacids into p-cresol, may replace by
      competition the p-cresol-producing bacteria of the dysbiotic microflora because of their
      ability to release substances toxic for the dysbiotic microflora such as the bacteriocins,
      and to activate innate and adaptive immunity. Prebiotics, instead, promote the growth of
      non-p-cresol producing commensal flora, including lactobacilli and bifidobacteria that
      selectively metabolize the oligosaccharides contained in prebiotic. The combined activity of
      pre- and probiotic is expected to reduce the production of p-cresol in the gut by decreasing
      the bacterial species generationg this compound. We recently showed that a short term
      treatment with Probinul neutro® causes, indeed, a decrease in p-cresol plasma levels in
      patients with satge III/IV CKD.
    
  