
    
      Tobacco smokers with schizophrenia (SWS) represent a subset of smokers with high smoking
      prevalence compared to the general population, and reduced ability to quit smoking and to
      resist smoking relapse. There is some evidence that first-line treatments for tobacco use
      disorder are safe and effective for smoking cessation and smoking relapse-prevention in SWS,
      but these treatments do not appear to be as effective in smokers with a mental illness as
      compared to non-psychiatric tobacco smokers. Novel approaches to identify safe and effective
      treatments using human laboratory models may be an efficient strategy towards this important
      clinical goal.

      The proposed human laboratory study will test the effects of standard pharmacotherapy for
      tobacco use disorder, the nicotinic partial agonist varenicline, in combination with an
      established brain stimulation method (repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation;; rTMS) in
      SWS. This will allow for the determination of the benefits of combining rTMS with varenciline
      in SWS using a validated smoking lapse paradigm developed by the collaborator Sherry McKee,
      Ph.D. at Yale University. The present study represents a novel neuroscience-based strategy
      for targeting dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) dysfunction in schizophrenia, and is
      consistent with a target engagement and validation approach as endorsed by NIDA/NIH.
      Moreover, the subject population the investigators are targeting (SWS) are prone to quit
      attempt failures and rapid relapse to tobacco smoking, and are in need of novel and effective
      anti-smoking lapse interventions. The investigators' preliminary data support the use of the
      combination of varenicline and high-frequency (20 Hz) rTMS to target smoking lapse and
      craving outcomes in SWS. Accordingly, the investigators believe that the proposed goals,
      approach and implications for treatment development are substantial and likely to impact
      positively on clinical treatment research outcomes in this marginalized population of tobacco
      smokers. Specifically, using a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel groups
      experimental design, the investigators will determine whether the combination of varenicline
      (2 mg/day) and high-frequency (20 Hz) rTMS versus varenicline and sham rTMS directed to the
      DLPFC will be superior for the prevention of tobacco smoking lapse behaviors in cigarette
      smokers with schizophrenia (N=80).

      Hypothesis 1 (H1): Active (20 Hz) versus Sham rTMS will increase the time to smoking lapse in
      combination with varenicline in SWS.

      Hypothesis 2 (H2): Active (20 Hz) versus Sham rTMS will improve prefrontal cognition in SWS,
      and this will be associated with increased ability to resist smoking lapse.
    
  