
    
      Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a disease of disordered eating that is characterized by
      self-starvation, often leading to extreme weight loss and difficulty maintaining a normal
      weight. Symptoms and behaviors of AN may include distorted body image, obsessive exercise,
      lack of menstruation among women, binge and purge eating behaviors, and intense fear of
      weight gain. Furthermore, people with AN are at a high risk of other mental disorders, such
      as depression and anxiety, and medical complications, such as organ damage, heart failure,
      and osteoporosis. Current treatments for AN include nutrition counseling, psychotherapy, and
      medication. Previous studies have suggested that certain medications usually used to treat
      schizophrenia, also known as atypical antipsychotic drugs, may be helpful in treating people
      with AN. Specifically, the atypical antipsychotic medications olanzapine and aripiprazole may
      be effective in improving overall symptoms of AN and in restoring weight to normal levels.
      This study will compare the effectiveness of olanzapine and aripiprazole in treating people
      with AN.

      Participation in this study will last 12 weeks. All participants will first undergo baseline
      assessments that will include questionnaires and interviews about AN symptoms, a physical
      exam, vital sign measurements, an electrocardiograph (EKG), and a blood draw. Participants
      will then be assigned randomly to 12 weeks of treatment with daily olanzapine or
      aripiprazole. Participants will meet with a study doctor weekly over the 12 weeks of
      treatment. During these visits, the study doctor will monitor participants' progress,
      medication dosage, vital signs, and side effects. In addition, participants will undergo
      repeat blood draws every 4 weeks and repeat questionnaires every month of the treatment
      period. Upon completing the 12 weeks of treatment, participants will repeat most baseline
      assessments.
    
  