
    
      Is there greater clinical improvement in long term pain and function when patients receive
      two PRP injections instead of one? This is a double-blinded randomized controlled study to
      determine the ideal treatment regimen for treatment of chronic lateral epicondylitis (tennis
      elbow). The investigators will compare pain visual analog scale (VAS) scores and functional
      Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) Questionnaire scores of patients receiving a
      single PRP injection and two PRP injections.

      The study will be conducted at Kaiser Modesto Sports Medicine involving 532 patients who meet
      strict criteria for chronic lateral epicondylitis (including greater than 2 months of chronic
      lateral epicondylitis and failing at least one other treatment modality). Patients are
      randomly divided between three groups: 234 patients will receive one PRP injection, 234 will
      receive two, and 64 in the control group will receive a saline injection. All participants
      will receive concurrent home based stretching and strengthening exercises. Results are to be
      measured using the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder, and Hand
      (DASH) Questionnaire on the initial and follow-up visits of 2, 6, and 12 months. Both
      measures have been validated by prior studies. Successful treatment of lateral epicondylitis
      will be defined as a 25% reduction in visual analog score VAS and DASH scores between initial
      and 6 month visits. Average control and experimental groups VAS scores are expected to be 8
      out of 10 with an improvement to 7 and 6 respectively in 6 months. Average control and
      experimental group DASH scores are expected to be 49 with an improvement to 44 and 28
      respectively in 6 months.

      PRP is an effective treatment in reducing pain of chronic lateral epicondylitis. This study
      aims to prove there is greater clinical improvement in long term pain and function when
      patients receive two PRP injections instead of one.
    
  