
    
      Cetuximab is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking proteins
      on the cancer cell, called the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR).

      OSI-906 is designed to prevent or slow the growth of cancer cells.

      A placebo is not a drug. It looks like the study drug but is not designed to treat any
      disease or illness. It is designed to be compared with a study drug to learn if the study
      drug has any real effect.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups.

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will receive cetuximab and OSI-906.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will receive cetuximab and a placebo.

      Neither you nor the study doctor will know if you are receiving OSI-906 or the placebo.
      However, if needed for your safety, the study doctor will be able to find out which group you
      are in.

      If the disease gets worse, the study doctor will find out which group you were in and you
      will be offered the chance to take OSI-906 alone if you were not already receiving it.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Each cycle is 21 days.

      On Days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle, you will receive cetuximab by vein. The first dose of
      cetuximab will be given over about 120 minutes. If it is well tolerated, each additional
      infusion will be given over about 60 minutes.

      You will take OSI-906 or placebo by mouth 2 times every day about 12 hours apart (in the
      morning and evening).

      You should take OSI-906 or placebo with food and a glass (up to 6 ½ ounces) of water. If you
      forget to take a dose, you can take it any time up to 6 hours before the next dose. You must
      not take the missed dose with the next dose on that same day or with a dose the next day. If
      you vomit after taking the tablet(s), the dose should be replaced only if the tablet(s) can
      actually be seen and counted. You should store the study drug/placebo at room temperature
      below 77°F.

      In order to help decrease the risk of infusion reaction, you will receive Benadryl
      (diphenhydramine) by vein before the first dose of cetuximab. If the doctor thinks it is
      needed, you will receive diphenhydramine before every dose of cetuximab.

      On Day 1 of each cycle, you will need to return all unused OSI-906 or placebo and the empty
      bottles.

      Study Visits:

      At every visit, you will be asked if you have had any side effects and to list any drugs you
      may be taking.

      On Day 1 of each cycle (+/- 7 days):

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. You should not eat or drink
           anything (fast) for 8 hours before this blood draw.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed and you are able to become pregnant, you will have a
           blood (less than 1 teaspoon) or urine pregnancy test.

      On Days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle, your vital signs will be measured before and after you
      receive cetuximab.

      Every 6 weeks (+/- 14 days):

        -  You will have an ECG.

        -  You will have a CT scan and/or MRI scan to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue to receive treatment as long as you are benefitting. You will be taken off
      study early if you experience any intolerable side effects, the disease get worse, the doctor
      thinks it is your best interest, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the end-of-treatment and
      follow-up visits.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      Within 30 days after the last dose of study drugs/placebo, you will have an end-of-treatment
      visit:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight

        -  You will be asked if you have had any side effects and to list any drugs you may be
           taking.

        -  Blood (about 3-4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a CT scan or MRI scan to check the
           status of the disease.

      Long Term Follow-Up:

      About every 6 months from then on, you (or your family members or designees) will be asked
      about how you are doing and what treatments you may be receiving. This may be by phone,
      letter, email, or during clinic visits.

      This is an investigational study. OSI-906 is not FDA approved or commercially available. At
      this time, OSI-906 is only being used in research. Cetuximab is FDA approved and commercially
      available for the treatment of colorectal and head/ neck cancer. The combination of OSI-906
      and cetuximab is investigational.

      Up to 66 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  