
    
      - Patients of both groups will be subjected to:

        1. Case history including personal data, medical, surgical history and family history.

        2. Clinical Examination.

      After local infiltration of anesthesia, an adequate size of supraperiosteal recipient bed was
      prepared to receive the palatal graft of 15 mm mesio-distal width with 8 mm apico-coronal
      extension.. The free gingival graft extended from the mesial line angle upper 5 and distal
      line angle of upper 6 .

      The coronal horizontal incision, will be 15 mm long, at least 2 mm apical from the gingival
      margin. A second horizontal incision will be drawn 8 mm apico coronal . Care will be taken to
      obtain a graft thickness of 1.5 mm. Thickness will be measured at the central point of the
      graft during the surgery by using an endodontic file then the grafts will be positioned, and
      firmly adapted to the bed, and stabilized with simple periosteal sutures.

      Preparation of platelet rich fibrin:( intervention group) The classic PRF protocol was
      introduced by Choukroun & coworkers. PRF requires around 10 ml of blood to be collected from
      the forearm of patient without anticoagulant in a glass coated plastic tubes. After
      collection, the blood will be quickly subjected to centrifugation at 2700-3000 rpm for 12
      minutes. After the completion of cycle, the blood become separated into three distinct
      layers; platelet poor plasma at the top, PRF in the middle and a red blood corpuscular base
      in the bottom. Pliers will be inserted into the tube to gently grab the fibrin clot with
      attached RBC's. The clot thus obtained will be compressed to form plugs to be placed in the
      palatal donor site and stabilized by criss cross resorbable suture then covered by
      periodontal pack

      control group Control group: As the intervention group but the palatal wound will receive a
      .2% hyaluronic acid gel then covered by periodontal dressing

      ..
    
  