
    
      Stroke is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among patients with cardiovascular disease
      and the major cause of long-term disability in the United States. Current imaging modalities
      can determine the severity of luminal stenosis resulting from plaque, as in the carotid
      arteries. However, cerebrovascular accidents (CVAs) are often associated with the rupture of
      unstable plaques located in regions with a non-significant degree of luminal stenosis. Thus
      up to 50% of high-risk atherosclerotic plaques may go undetected and untreated. Plaque
      composition is an additional and perhaps, more important risk factor for CVA rather than
      stenosis severity alone. Accurate identification of these high-risk, rupture-prone plaques
      may potentially prevent CVAs in a significant number of patients.

      The data collected during this study (ultrasonic backscatter and histologically processed
      carotid plaque) will provide the basis for a novel algorithm to add plaque composition
      information to the plaque size and location information that is currently provided by
      standard ultrasound imaging. The input parameters for the algorithm are derived from two
      types of non-invasive ultrasound data: spectral parameters and acoustic radiation force
      impulse (ARFI) data. Spectral parameters are extracted from the frequency content of the
      backscattered diagnostic ultrasound signals. These are the same signals currently used for
      imaging, however, imaging relies solely on the strength of the signal to form the image and
      ignores the spectral information. Thus spectral analysis is an approach to use the
      information which is sensitive to the number and nature of the scatterers. In contrast ARFI
      techniques provide information on the stiffness of the tissue. ARFI is based on using a
      ultrasonic push pulse to slightly move the tissue (displacement on the order of microns) and
      an image of the relative displacements of the tissue (ARFI image) is created. The ARFI
      derived data and the spectral parameters will be combined with clinically available measures
      currently used for diagnosis of carotid stenosis to form the input parameters for the
      algorithm. In order to train and test the algorithm the plaque removed during surgery will be
      collected and the histology slides prepared from these plaques. This histology review
      provides the 'gold' standard for training and testing the algorithm. The majority of these
      matched sets (67%) will be used for training the algorithm. While the remainder (33%) will
      provide a test of the accuracy of the algorithm for these types of matched data. The
      sensitivity and specificity for each tissue type defined during the histology review will be
      reported.
    
  